{"id": "23793175", "title": "Progression of diabetic maculopathy in patients on the Wellington Diabetic Screening Programme initially graded M3.", "content": "Progression of diabetic maculopathy in patients on the Wellington Diabetic Screening Programme initially graded M3. To determine the likelihood of progression from M3 grade maculopathy, and therefore the safety of these patients remaining under the care of a primary screener. Patients graded M3 at diabetic screening were selected from the Wellington screening database. Photographs for this visit and the subsequent visit were obtained, and graded by a consultant ophthalmologist. Photographs graded M3 were included and progression of maculopathy between visits, number of patients with a reduction in vision and duration between visits were determined. Mean duration between visits for all patients was 255 (plus or minus 59.5) days. Of the 54 eyes studied, 15 or 33.3% progressed to M4 maculopathy at the subsequent visit. Despite progressing from M3 to M4, none had a reduction of vision by more than one line of Snellen acuity at follow up due to diabetic maculopathy. Rates of progression of maculopathy from M3 to M4 were of clinical significance. Despite this none had worsening visual acuity due to diabetic eye disease. This suggests patients with M3 maculopathy could be maintained under a primary screening programme, as is the case in the United Kingdom."}
{"id": "23768471", "title": "[Use of retinal photography in the diagnosis of diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Use of retinal photography in the diagnosis of diabetic macular edema]. To determine the validity of retinal photography in the diagnosis of diabetic macular edema. Determine the number and size of the photographs for its correct diagnosis. Cross-sectional observational study consisting of 420 eyes of patients with diabetic retinopathy, using a combination of retinography (simple, stereoscopic, red-free light), after expansion, to determine its validity in the diagnosis of diabetic macular edema. Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values and the correlation with the gold standard test (optical coherence tomography) were calculated. The retinographs were evaluated by three experts and their results analyzed by the statistical program SPSS 15.0 Windows. Sensitivities were below 80% in simple photographs and above 80% in the stereoscopic retinography, whereas those associated with red-free filters, reaching the 30\u00b0 green stereoscopic photography, showed a sensitivity of 94.3%. The specificity was 95% in color and red-free stereoscopic retinography of 45\u00b0 and 30\u00b0. The positive predictive value was greater than 95% and the negative value greater than 90% with a coefficient of agreement of 80%, and a degree of consistency with the benchmark of over 80%. The results of the stereoscopic retinographs are sufficient to enable them to be used in screening for diabetic macular edema. The use of a green filter and its combination with visual acuity improves results in the diagnosis of this disease."}
{"id": "23767192", "title": "[Association between pioglitazone and diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Association between pioglitazone and diabetic macular edema]. To assess the early association between pioglitazone and diabetic macular edema (DME). 570 eyes of 285 patients who began taking pioglitazone (ACTOS) between 23 July 2003 and 31 December 2010 at St. Luke's International Hospital participated. Of the 570 eyes seen during the study period, the study included 304 eyes in which the macula was evaluated by slit-lamp biomicroscopy or optical coherence tomography within 3 months of the start of pioglitazone therapy. The participants were divided into two groups, one without DME and one with DME before taking pioglitazone, and the proportion of DME appearance in the first group and DME increase in the latter group were assessed. There were 297 eyes without DME before taking pioglitazone. DME appeared in one eye out of 297 eyes (0.34%) after taking pioglitazone. There were 7 eyes with DME before taking pioglitazone. DME increased in 2 eyes out of these 7 eyes (28.6%). For the patients without DME, the occurrence of DME was extremely low after taking pioglitazone. However, for patients with DME, caution is needed, as there were some cases in which DME increased after taking pioglitazone. The ophthalmologist should monitor macular edema in cooperation with a physician after giving pioglitazone."}
{"id": "23719310", "title": "Optical coherence tomography in retinopathy of prematurity: looking beyond the vessels.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography in retinopathy of prematurity: looking beyond the vessels. Retinopathy of Prematurity (ROP) is a leading cause of childhood blindness in the United States. Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) is a relatively new imaging technology capable of imaging ocular structures in cross section at high resolution. We present an age-customized approach to perform Spectral Domain OCT in neonates and infants, and from SDOCT, the in-vivo development of the human fovea during the premature period up through term birth along with retinal changes unique to premature infants with ROP. Finally, we explore how this novel information may affect our understanding of ROP and the possible implications in vision and retinal development."}
{"id": "23713193", "title": "[Progression of diabetic retinopathy in pregnancy].", "content": "[Progression of diabetic retinopathy in pregnancy]. Pregnancy is a risk factor for the development of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema. Ideally, it is appropriate to perform laser treatment of advanced forms diabetic retinopathy before pregnancy, but in case of progression of diabetic retinopathy during pregnancy is laser treatment also indicated. The authors present a case of a young diabetic, who unexpectedly became pregnant. During pregnancy were accelerated changes of diabetic retinopathy. The visual acuity improved in both eye after repeated retinal laser treatment and pars plana vitrectomy in the left eye. The course of disease was documented with digital color fundus pictures, fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography."}
{"id": "23713187", "title": "[Treatment of diabetic macular oedema].", "content": "[Treatment of diabetic macular oedema]. Diabetic macular oedema (DMO) is currently the main complication associated with diabetes. The percentage of patients with DMO grows alongside the increasing number of diabetes occurrences. The DMO treatment has seen major developments in the past few years. A number of new treatment technologies have emerged, which enable not only a stabilisation of macular oedema but in the case of an early detection also a decrease of retina oedema accompanied by a visual functions improvement. Laser coagulation has remained the standard DMO treatment for many years; when applying modern diagnostic testing technologies (FAG and OCT), the newest trend in DMO treatment is the use of anti-VEGF preparations, depot intravitreal corticoids and in some cases also surgical intervention in the form of pars plana vitrectomy (PPV). The DMO treatment algorithm is presented in this paper."}
{"id": "23696607", "title": "Reproducibility of diabetic macular edema estimates from SD-OCT is affected by the choice of image analysis algorithm.", "content": "Reproducibility of diabetic macular edema estimates from SD-OCT is affected by the choice of image analysis algorithm. To evaluate the intersession repeatability of retinal thickness measurements in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME) using the Heidelberg Spectralis optical coherence tomography (OCT) algorithm and a publicly available, three-dimensional graph search-based multilayer OCT segmentation algorithm, the Iowa Reference Algorithm. Thirty eyes from 21 patients diagnosed with clinically significant DME were included and underwent consecutive, registered macula-centered spectral-domain optical coherence scans (Heidelberg Spectralis). The OCT scans were segmented into separate surfaces, and the average thickness between internal limiting membrane and outer retinal pigment epithelium complex surfaces was determined using the Iowa Reference Algorithm. Variability between paired scans was analyzed and compared with the retinal thickness obtained from the manufacturer-supplied Spectralis software. The coefficient of repeatability (variation) for central macular thickness using the Iowa Reference Algorithm was 5.26 \u03bcm (0.62% [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.43-0.71]), while for the Spectralis algorithm this was 6.84 \u03bcm (0.81% [95% CI, 0.55-0.92]). When the central 3 mm was analyzed, the coefficient of repeatability (variation) was 2.46 \u03bcm (0.31% [95% CI, 0.23-0.38]) for the Iowa Reference Algorithm and 4.23 \u03bcm (0.53% [95% CI, 0.39-0.65]) for the Spectralis software. The Iowa Reference Algorithm and the Spectralis software provide excellent reproducibility between serial scans in patients with clinically significant DME. The publicly available Iowa Reference Algorithm may have lower between-measurement variation than the manufacturer-supplied Spectralis software for the central 3 mm subfield. These findings have significant implications for the management of patients with DME."}
{"id": "23686001", "title": "Contrast sensitivity evaluation in high risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy treated with panretinal photocoagulation associated or not with intravitreal bevacizumab injections: a randomised clinical trial.", "content": "Contrast sensitivity evaluation in high risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy treated with panretinal photocoagulation associated or not with intravitreal bevacizumab injections: a randomised clinical trial. To compare the effect on contrast sensitivity (CS) measurements of panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) associated with intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) injections versus PRP alone in high risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy (HR-PDR). Prospective, randomised, masked, controlled trial. 42 patients with HR-PDR with visual acuity \u226520/200. Eyes were randomised to one of two groups: one underwent PRP and IVB injections (study group) and the other PRP alone (control group). PRP was performed three times during the study and IVB injection was administered twice. Mean change in CS threshold scores between and within groups, from baseline to 6 months. Seven patients presented with vitreous haemorrhage and were removed from the study. Mean results for CS threshold (at 1.5, 3, 6, 12 and 18 cycles per degree (cpd) frequencies) for patients with and without diabetic macular oedema showed no significant differences (p>0.05 for all comparisons) between the two groups. In 35 eyes in the control group, compared with baseline values, there was significant worsening (p<0.05) of CS at 1.5, 12 and 18 cpd after 1 month, at 12 cpd after 3 months, and at 6 and 12 cpd after 6 months. In the study group, there was significant improvement in CS at 3 cpd, 3 months after treatment. In eyes with HR-PDR, PRP treatment is associated with deterioration of CS while adjuvant use of bevacizumab prevents such deterioration. CS evaluation seems to support the adjuvant use of bevacizumab when using PRP for the treatment of HR-PDR. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT 01389505."}
{"id": "23685493", "title": "Peristence of triamcinolone crystals after intra-vitreal injection: benign crystalline hyaloidopathy.", "content": "Peristence of triamcinolone crystals after intra-vitreal injection: benign crystalline hyaloidopathy. We report a case of unusually long persistence of triamcinolone crystals after intra-vitreal injection. Crystals were noted on fundus examination predominantly confined to the posterior pole. Optical coherence tomography localized the crystals to the posterior hyaloidal surface. Over 6 years of follow-up the patient has retained good visual acuity and no observable changes in the retina. As the condition clinically resembles both crystalline maculopathy and asteroid hyalosis, we suggest the term 'drug-induced benign crystalline hyaloidopathy'."}
{"id": "23676224", "title": "The role of ILM peeling in vitreous surgery for proliferative diabetic retinopathy complications.", "content": "The role of ILM peeling in vitreous surgery for proliferative diabetic retinopathy complications. To evaluate the influence of pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) with or without internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling on spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) in vitreous hemorrhage and tractional retinal detachment as a complication of diabetic retinopathy. Retrospective study of PPV in patients with diabetic retinopathy complications. Group A (53 patients) had PPV with ILM peeling, and group B (59 patients) had PPV without ILM peeling. SD-OCT imaging and fluorescein angiography were performed postoperatively. Preoperative visual acuity was 0.04 and final postoperative visual acuity was 0.27 in both groups (23.4 months in group A, 60 months in group B). Postoperative central retinal thickness was 193 \u03bcm (group A) and 258.6 \u03bcm (group B). Epiretinal membranes were observed less frequently in group A than in group B (24% vs 49%). Repeated surgeries were performed in 38 cases in group A and in 51 cases in group B. Fewer cases of epiretinal membranes and macular edema are observed postoperatively with ILM peeling. Visual acuity is similar in both groups, but additional surgeries are fewer with ILM peeling."}
{"id": "23660322", "title": "[Relationship between macular morphology and visual function in diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Relationship between macular morphology and visual function in diabetic macular edema]. To investigate the changes and relation between macular morphology and macular visual function in different degrees of diabetic macular edema. Seventy-eight eyes of 41 diabetic retinopathy patients were included and graded for diabetic macular edema as follows:31 were graded as no macular edema (NE), 26 as non-clinically significant macular edema (NCSME), and 21 as clinically significant macular edema (CSME). Best corrected visual acuity, macular sensitivity, and macular thickness of all included eyes were examed and quantified. Macular sensitivity and retinal fixation were investigated with MP-1 microperimetry. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) was used to quantify macular thickness. Macular thickness significantly increased and macular sensitivity markedly decreased from the NE to the CSME group (P < 0.01), Visual acuity obviously decreased in the CSME group (P < 0.01) compared to the NE and NCSME group, but there was no statistical difference between the NE group and NCSME group. Retinal fixation type was not significantly different among three groups. Visual acuity and macular sensitivity correlated significantly in these three groups (r = -0.751, P < 0.01; r = -0.583, P < 0.01; r = -0.679, P < 0.01). The correlations were noted between retinal sensitivity and macular thickness as well as between visual acuity and macular thickness in the CSME group (r = -0.465, P < 0.05; r = 0.599, P < 0.01), but not in the NE group or in the NCSME group. Patients will have retinal morphologic and functional changes in early stage of DME, both of which are significantly related as the disease develops. MP-1 microperimetry proved to be consistent with VA in the evaluation of visual function, and may be more sensitive to investigate the changes of macular visual function in the early stage of macular edema."}
{"id": "23614970", "title": "Macular thickness measured by stratus optical coherence tomography in patients with diabetes type 2 and mild nonproliferative retinopathy without clinical evidence of macular edema.", "content": "Macular thickness measured by stratus optical coherence tomography in patients with diabetes type 2 and mild nonproliferative retinopathy without clinical evidence of macular edema. To evaluate macular thickness in eyes with mild nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR), patients with diabetes type 2, NPDR level 20 or 35, and without evidence of clinical macular edema underwent best-corrected visual acuity assessment, color fundus photography and Stratus optical coherence tomography. Mean center point thickness (CPT) and mean central subfield (CSF) thickness were compared with those of a healthy control population. 410 eyes/patients aged 61.2 \u00b1 8.3 years, and with glycosylated hemoglobin of 7.9 \u00b1 1.5% were included. Mean CPT and CSF were 186.6 \u00b1 28.4 and 215.2 \u00b1 25 \u00b5m, respectively, significantly increased compared to healthy subjects (p < 0.001). CSF thickness was abnormally increased in 17.6% of the patients, with values within the normal range in 79.5%, and abnormally decreased in 2.9%. CPT and CSF thickness were significantly thicker in men. No systemic factors showed a significant association. A significant increase in the macular thickness was found in eyes/patients with mild NPDR without clinical macular edema; however, only 17.6% of the eyes/patients had abnormally increased values and less than 3% abnormally decreased values."}
{"id": "23611988", "title": "Changes in choroidal thickness in relation to the severity of retinopathy and macular edema in type 2 diabetic patients.", "content": "Changes in choroidal thickness in relation to the severity of retinopathy and macular edema in type 2 diabetic patients. To assess changes in choroidal thickness in type 2 diabetic patients with diabetic retinopathy (DR) and diabetic macular edema (DME) using enhanced-depth imaging spectral domain optical coherence tomography (EDI-OCT). Among 235 eyes from 145 patients, 195 treatment-na\u00efve eyes were divided into no DR, mild/moderate nonproliferative DR (NPDR), severe NPDR, proliferative DR (PDR), and 40 eyes having a history of laser panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) were classified as PRP-treated DR. Eyes with no ocular treatment (195 eyes) were divided according to the presence of and to the subtypes of DME. Subfoveal choroidal thickness (SFChT) and parafoveal choroidal thickness (PFChT) at 1500 \u03bcm were measured using EDI-OCT. Mean age was 62.6 \u00b1 12.4 years, and mean duration of DM was 15.1 \u00b1 7.2 years. Mean SFChT in groups with no DR (40 eyes), mild/moderate NPDR (47 eyes), severe NPDR (72 eyes), PDR (36 eyes), and PRP-treated DR (40 eyes) was 262.3 \u00b1 68.4 \u03bcm, 244.6 \u00b1 77.0 \u03bcm, 291.1 \u00b1 107.7 \u03bcm, 363.5 \u00b1 74.9 \u03bcm, and 239.9 \u00b1 57.4 \u03bcm, respectively. Mean SFChT was significantly greater in eyes with PDR than in those with no DR (P < 0.01), mild/moderate NPDR (P < 0.01), or severe NPDR (P < 0.05). Mean SFChT decreased significantly in PRP-treated DR compared with PDR (P < 0.01). Eyes with DME (67 eyes) had a thicker subfoveal choroid than eyes without DME (128 eyes; P < 0.05) and, compared with cystoid or diffuse types, SFChT was thickest in subretinal detachment (SRD)-type DME (P < 0.05). Choroidal thickness increased significantly as the severity worsened from mild/moderate/NPDR to PDR, and decreased in PRP-treated eyes. The subfoveal choroid was thicker in eyes with DME than in those without, and was thickest in eyes with SRD-type DME."}
{"id": "23609064", "title": "Branch retinal vein occlusion: epidemiology, pathogenesis, risk factors, clinical features, diagnosis, and complications. An update of the literature.", "content": "Branch retinal vein occlusion: epidemiology, pathogenesis, risk factors, clinical features, diagnosis, and complications. An update of the literature. Retinal vein occlusion is the second most common retinal vascular disorder after diabetic retinopathy and is considered to be an important cause of visual loss. In this review, the purpose is to make an update of the literature about the classification, epidemiology, pathogenesis, risk factors, clinical features, and complications of branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). Eligible articles were identified using a comprehensive literature search of MEDLINE, using the terms \"branch retinal vein occlusion,\" \"pathogenesis,\" \"epidemiology,\" \"risk factors,\" \"clinical features,\" \"diagnosis,\" and \"complications.\" Additional articles were also selected from reference lists of articles identified by the electronic database search. Classification, epidemiology, pathogenesis, risk factors, clinical features, and complications are analyzed. Branch retinal vein occlusion has an incidence of 0.5% to 1.2%. Several risk factors, such as hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, thrombophilia and hypercoagulation, systemic and inflammatory diseases, medications, and ocular conditions, have found to be associated with BRVO. The symptoms depended on the site and severity of the occlusion. The average reduction in visual acuity for ischemic BRVO is 20/50 and for nonischemic BRVO is 20/60. Acute BRVO can be detected by fundoscopy, where flame hemorrhages, dot and blot hemorrhages, cotton wool spots, hard exudates, retinal edema, and dilated tortuous veins can be observed. Chronic BRVO would be more subtle and characterized by the appearance of venous collateral formation and vascular sheathing, in addition to complications previously mentioned. Areas of ischemia can be evaluated using fluorescein angiography. The extent of macular edema and the presence of retinal detachment can be detected by fundoscopic examination or fluorescein angiography, although optical coherence tomography is considered to be the best method. As far as complications, the most common is macular edema, followed by retinal neovascularization, vitreous hemorrhage, or retinal detachment."}
{"id": "23584650", "title": "Retinopathy in type 2 diabetic patients with microalbuminuria.", "content": "Retinopathy in type 2 diabetic patients with microalbuminuria. To determine the prevalence of retinopathy in type 2 diabetic patients with micoalbuminuria and to evaluate the association of risk factors with prevalence of retinopathy in these patients. A fundus examination of 137 patients suffering from type 2 diabetes mellitus with microalbuminuria was done, with direct ophthalmoscope/ binocular indirect ophthalmoscope after dilating the pupils with 1 % tropicamide eye drops. Retinal changes were graded as no retinopathy, non-proliferative retinopathy, proliferative retinopathy and maculopathy. The association of the duration of diabetes, control of diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, smoking, obesity and peripheral neuropathy was assessed with the prevalence of retinopathy in these patents. The mean age of the patients was 58 years (range 35 - 79 years); 62 % were females, and 49.6 % were Chinese. Diabetic retinopathy was seen in 36.5 % of the patients - non proliferative in 29.2 %, proliferative in 7.3 % and maculopathy in 5.1 % of patients. A longer duration of diabetes (p = 0.002), poor control of diabetes (p = 0.002), presence of hypertension (p = 0.03), and presence of peripheral neuropathy (p = 0.001) were significantly associated with the prevalence of retinopathy; while hyperlipidemia (p = 0.29), smoking (p = 0.43) and obesity (p = 0.43) were not associated with retinopathy. Retinopathy was seen in 36.5 % of type 2 diabetic patients with microalbuminuria; 7.3 % had proliferative retinopathy and 5.1 % maculopathy (both sight threatening changes). All diabetic patients with microalbuminuria should be screened for retinopathy so that treatment can be instituted in the required patients to prevent ocular morbidity/ blindness."}
{"id": "23571245", "title": "Prevalence and determinants of age-related macular degeneration in the 50 years and older population: a hospital based study in Maharashtra, India.", "content": "Prevalence and determinants of age-related macular degeneration in the 50 years and older population: a hospital based study in Maharashtra, India. We present the magnitude and determinants of age-related macular degeneration (ARMD) among the 50 year and older population that visited our hospital. This was a cohort of eye patients with ARMD, seen from 2006 to 2009. Optometrist noted the best-corrected vision. Ophthalmologists examined eyes using a slit-lamp bio-microscope. The ARMD was confirmed by fluoresceine angiography and optical coherent tomography. The age, sex, history of smoking, sun exposure, family history of ARMD, diet, body mass index (BMI), hypertension, and diabetes were associated with ARMD. Of the 19,140 persons of \u2265 50 years of age-attending eye clinic in our hospital, 302 persons had ARMD in at least one eye. The proportion of overall ARMD was 1.38% (95% CI 1.21--1.55). The proportion of age-related maculopathy (ARM) and late ARMD was 1.14% (95% CI 0.99--1.29) and 0.24% (95% CI 0.21-0.24) respectively. ARM was unilateral and bilateral in 64 (29.2%) and 155 (70.8%) persons respectively. Dry ARMD was found in 47.8%. On regression analysis, old age (OR = 1.05), male (OR = 0.54), and history of smoking (OR = 2.32) were significant risk factors of ARMD. A total of 4.2% of persons with ARMD were blind (vision <3/60). Only 43% of persons with ARMD had J6 grade of the best-corrected near vision. ARMD does not seem to be of public health magnitude in the study area. Early stages of ARMD were common among patients. Older age, being male, and history of smoking were significant risk factors for ARMD."}
{"id": "23571234", "title": "Sensitivity and specificity of time-domain versus spectral-domain optical coherence tomography in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Sensitivity and specificity of time-domain versus spectral-domain optical coherence tomography in diabetic macular edema. The purpose was to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of measurements of central macular thickness (CMT) in diabetic macular edema using stratus time-domain and cirrus spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA). A total of 36 eyes from 19 patients with clinically significant diabetic macular edema (DME) were included. All participants underwent automated scanning patterns using cirrus HD-OCT and stratus OCT examinations on the same day. The sensitivity/specificity of retinal thickness measurements was calculated from published normative data. Agreement was calculated using Bland--Altman method. The receiver operating characteristic curves (ROC) and areas under the ROC were plotted. The mean difference between the cirrus HD-OCT and stratus OCT in the central foveal zone was 49.89 \u03bcm. Bland--Altman analysis confirmed that the retinal thickness measurements had poor agreement in patients with DME. The areas under the ROC for retinal thickness measurements were 0.88 using cirrus HD-OCT and 0.94 with stratus. In patients with DME, the cirrus HD-OCT gives a higher reading than stratus OCT with poor agreement between the devices in most regions within the nine subfield zones. The sensitivity and specificity of the stratus OCT was comparable to the cirrus."}
{"id": "23548318", "title": "Is there a correlation between structural alterations and retinal sensitivity in morphological patterns of diabetic macular edema?", "content": "Is there a correlation between structural alterations and retinal sensitivity in morphological patterns of diabetic macular edema? Spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SDOCT) enables enhanced visualization of retinal layers and delineation of structural alterations in diabetic macular edema (DME). Microperimetry (MP) is a new technique that allows fundus-related testing of local retinal sensitivity. Combination of these two techniques would enable a structure-function correlation with insights into pathomechanism of vision loss in DME. To correlate retinal structural derangement with retinal sensitivity alterations in cases with diabetic macular edema, using SDOCT and MP. Prospective study of 34 eyes of 30 patients with DME. All patients underwent comprehensive ophthalmic examination, fluorescein angiography, microperimetry and SDOCT. Four distinct morphological patterns of DME were identified- diffuse retinal thickening (DRT), cystoid macular edema (CME), schitic retinal thickening (SRT) and neurosensory detachment (NSD) of fovea. Some retinal loci presented with a mixture of above patterns There was significant difference in retinal thickness between groups (P<0.001). Focal retinal sensitivity measurement revealed relatively preserved retinal sensitivity in areas with DRT (13.8 dB), moderately reduced sensitivity (7.9 dB) in areas with CME, and gross retinal sensitivity loss in areas with SRT (1.2 dB) and NSD (4.7 dB) (P<0.001). Analysis of regional scotoma depth demonstrated similar pattern. Retinal sensitivity showed better correlation to OCT pattern (r=-0.68, P<0.001) than retinal thickness (r=-0.44, P<0.001). Structure-function correlation allows better understanding of the pathophysiology of visual loss in different morphological types of DME. Classification of macular edema into these categories has implications on the prognosis and predictive value of treatment."}
{"id": "23544200", "title": "Ranibizumab for edema of the macula in diabetes study: 3-year outcomes and the need for prolonged frequent treatment.", "content": "Ranibizumab for edema of the macula in diabetes study: 3-year outcomes and the need for prolonged frequent treatment. To assess the benefit of increased follow-up and treatment with ranibizumab between months 24 and 36 in the Ranibizumab for Edema of the Macula in Diabetes (READ-2) Study. Prospective, interventional, multicenter follow-up of a randomized clinical trial. Patients who agreed to participate between months 24 and 36 (ranibizumab, 28 patients; laser, 22; and ranibizumab + laser, 24) returned monthly and received ranibizumab, 0.5 mg, if foveal thickness (FTH, center subfield thickness) was 250 \u03bcm or greater. Main outcome measures were improvement in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and reduction in FTH between months 24 and 36. Mean improvement from the baseline BCVA in the ranibizumab group was 10.3 letters at month 36 vs 7.2 letters at month 24 (\u0394BCVA letters = 3.1, P = .009), and FTH at month 36 was 282 \u03bcm vs 352 \u03bcm at month 24 (\u0394FTH = 70 \u03bcm, P = .006). Changes in BCVA and FTH in the laser group (-1.6 letters and -36 \u03bcm, respectively) and the ranibizumab + laser group (+2.0 letters and -24 \u03bcm) were not statistically significant. The mean number of ranibizumab injections was significantly greater in the ranibizumab group compared with the laser group (5.4 vs 2.3 injections, P = .008) but not compared with the ranibizumab + laser group (3.3, P = .11). More aggressive treatment with ranibizumab during year 3 resulted in a reduction in mean FTH and improvement in BCVA in the ranibizumab group. More extensive focal/grid laser therapy in the other 2 groups may have reduced the need for more frequent ranibizumab injections to control edema. Long-term visual outcomes for treatment of diabetic macular edema with ranibizumab are excellent, but many patients require frequent injections to optimally control edema and maximize vision. clinicaltrials.gov Identifier:NCT00407381"}
{"id": "23543856", "title": "Relationship between the morphology of diabetic macular edema and renal dysfunction in diabetes.", "content": "Relationship between the morphology of diabetic macular edema and renal dysfunction in diabetes. To determine the correlation between renal dysfunction and the morphologic changes of macular edema in diabetes. The current study included 93 patients with diabetic macular edema based on optical coherence tomography (OCT) who completed systemic condition testing one month before or after the OCT. Based on the OCT findings, patients were divided into the following five groups: group A (diffuse), group B (cystoid), group C (serous), group D (vitreomacular tractional), and group E (a mixed presence of cystoid and serous types). In each group, we performed a retrospective analysis of serum albumin, urine albumin, and serum creatinine. We also analyzed the patients in whom serum albumin was <3.0 mg/dL and serum creatinine was >1.6 mg/dL. Urine albumin was measured in all five groups. In each group, a comparative analysis was performed using Fisher's exact test. The number of patients who were assigned to groups A to E was 15, 46, 6, 3, and 23, respectively. According to a comparison of the patients in whom the serum albumin and serum creatinine were abnormal, there was no significant difference among the five groups. The proportion of patients in whom the urine albumin was abnormal was significantly greater in group C (67%) than in groups A (7%), B (20%), or E (22%). Serous-type macular edema occurred more frequently than other types of macular edema in patients with albuminuria."}
{"id": "23528703", "title": "Retinal architecture recovery after grid photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema observed in vivo by spectral domain optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Retinal architecture recovery after grid photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema observed in vivo by spectral domain optical coherence tomography. To identify the morphologic changes secondary to macular grid photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema in vivo using spectral domain optical coherence tomography. In this prospective cohort study, 13 consecutive patients with vision loss because of clinically significant macular edema associated with diabetes mellitus Type 2 underwent grid laser treatment (PASCAL). Best-corrected visual acuity, Spectralis optical coherence tomography, infrared fundus imaging, and biomicroscopy were performed at baseline, Day 1, Week 1, and Months 1, 2, and 3 after treatment. Fluorescein angiography was performed at baseline and at 3 months. Mean central 1-mm thickness decreased significantly from 438 \u00b1 123 \u03bcm (mean \u00b1 SD) at baseline to 391 \u00b1 111 \u03bcm (P < 0.05) at 3 months with a nonsignificant trend of best-corrected visual acuity improvement. A wipeout of the photoreceptor layer and the inner segment/outer segment line together with an alteration of the overlaying outer nuclear layer and external limiting membrane was seen at Day 1. The lesion was reduced to a focal hyperreflective deposit on the retinal pigment epithelium boundary. In 55% of lesions, the external limiting membrane as well as the previously interrupted inner segment/outer segment line revealed intact continuity at Month 3. In some areas, repair was incomplete indicated by a focal condensation interrupting the inner segment/outer segment line in the lesion center. In vivo imaging of morphologic lesion repair in human eyes after PASCAL grid laser of diabetic macular edema demonstrates progressive restoration of the external limiting membrane and inner segment/outer segment integrity as previously described in animal models."}
{"id": "23520977", "title": "Repeatability and reproducibility of retinal thickness measurements in diabetic patients with spectral domain optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Repeatability and reproducibility of retinal thickness measurements in diabetic patients with spectral domain optical coherence tomography. To determine the repeatability and reproducibility of optical coherence tomography (OCT) Spectralis retinal thickness measurements in diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema (CSME). Twelve eyes of 12 volunteers (without macular pathology - control group) and 21 eyes of 21 diabetic patients with CSME were included in the study. Reproducibility, repeatability, intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) and intrasession correlation coefficients were tested with 20 \u00d7 15 degree raster scans consisting of 19 high-resolution line scans that were repeated three times by two experienced examiners. In the control group, examining all regions, coefficient of repeatability was less than 1.1%, while coefficient of reproducibility was less than 2.2%. In diabetic patients, examining all regions, coefficient of repeatability was less than 2.6%, while coefficient of reproducibility was less than 2.4%. ICCs were, respectively, greater than or equal to 0.98 in the control group and 0.99 in diabetic patients. Intrasession coefficients of variation were less than 0.4% in the control group and less than 0.5% in diabetic patients. Retinal thickness measurements are repeatable and reproducible with OCT Spectralis in both the control group and diabetic patients. The results indicate that a change in central subfield thickness exceeding 12 \u00b5m and 3% in the diabetic patients is likely to be real."}
{"id": "23510043", "title": "Vitreous pillow for sustained-release intravitreous drug delivery implants.", "content": "Vitreous pillow for sustained-release intravitreous drug delivery implants. Intravitreous drug delivery systems are injected or surgically implanted for sustained release of drugs to the posterior segment for conditions such as vein occlusions and diabetic macular edema. Since these devices rely upon the vitreous body for support, concerns regarding their migration and prolonged direct retinal contact have limited their use in vitrectomized eyes. Three patients with persistent macular edema received dexamethasone intravitreal implantation following vitrectomy employing the authors' novel technique for embedding the system in a residual inferior vitreous skirt that serves as a pillow on which the implant rests after pars plana vitrectomy. At minimum 6-month follow-up, all patients had improved visual acuity and improved central retinal thickness on optical coherence tomography, were without complaints of floaters or migration of the implant, and were without complications. The implant consistently remained embedded in the inferior vitreous skirt. The technique may mitigate concerns regarding implant migration and direct retina contact."}
{"id": "23499060", "title": "Association of retinal sensitivity to integrity of photoreceptor inner/outer segment junction in patients with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Association of retinal sensitivity to integrity of photoreceptor inner/outer segment junction in patients with diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the relationship between retinal sensitivity and the photoreceptor inner segment/outer segment (IS/OS) layer status in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). Cross-sectional study. Twenty-five adult patients (37 eyes) diagnosed with DME and managed at the Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University (Baltimore, MD). We obtained simultaneous fundus microperimetry (MP) and optical coherence tomography (OCT) of patients with DME using a combined MP/OCT system. The device recorded retinal sensitivity and retinal thickness on a 3-dimensional tomography map, and we performed a point-by-point analysis of the IS/OS layer integrity at every MP point. We also reviewed OCT scans to determine the type of DME, cystoid macular edema, or diffuse macular edema (absence of any cysts). In addition, fixation stability and fixation location were analyzed. Retinal point sensitivity measured by MP. Twenty-five patients (37 eyes: 29 male and 8 female; mean age, 64.16 years) with DME were enrolled. Fixation was centric in 30 eyes (81%), paracentric in 3 eyes (8%), and eccentric in 4 eyes (11%). Twenty-seven eyes had cystoid macular edema, and 10 eyes had diffuse macular edema. Mean central subfield thickness was 325 \u03bcm. We analyzed a total of 1036 individual MP points. Mean point sensitivity was 10.51 dB. A total of 793 points (76.5%) had IS/OS layer present, and 243 points (23.5%) had IS/OS layer disrupted. A mixed linear model, constructed to adjust for potential confounders and account for dependence between retinal points, revealed that the absence of the IS/OS junction was significantly associated with a 3.28-dB decrease in retinal point sensitivity (P<0.001). This novel index study demonstrates that disruption of the IS/OS junction is correlated with a significant decrease in point sensitivity in eyes with DME. Further studies are indicated to confirm and validate this relationship. Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references."}
{"id": "23498853", "title": "Imaging retinal pigment epithelial proliferation secondary to PASCAL photocoagulation in vivo by polarization-sensitive optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Imaging retinal pigment epithelial proliferation secondary to PASCAL photocoagulation in vivo by polarization-sensitive optical coherence tomography. To image the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) after macular laser and to monitor healing responses over time in\u00a0vivo in patients with diabetic maculopathy using polarization-sensitive optical coherence tomography (OCT). Prospective, nonrandomized clinical trial. In this single-center trial (Department of Ophthalmology and Optometry, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria), 13 patients (13 eyes) underwent grid photocoagulation for diabetic maculopathy. Retinal healing processes were continuously followed over the course of 3\u00a0months. A polarization-sensitive OCT prototype was used, allowing detection and measurement of the RPE changes based on their specific polarization-scrambling qualities. After 1\u00a0day, the intraretinal photocoagulation lesions were sharply demarcated, whereas RPE changes were rather subtle. At 1\u00a0week, all lesions exhibited traction of the inner retinal layers toward the RPE and loss of photoreceptor cells. In tissue-sensitive polarization-sensitive OCT imaging, polarization-scrambling columns were found at the level of the RPE. During follow-up, different healing responses were seen in the polarization-scrambling RPE layer, ranging from hyperproliferation to focal atrophy. Because of the properties of the polarization state of backscattered light, polarization-sensitive OCT revealed specific morphologic changes in the RPE and outer retinal layers secondary to retinal laser treatment undetectable with intensity-based spectral-domain OCT. The increase in polarization-scrambling tissue over the course of 3\u00a0months indicates a more intense healing reaction and proliferation of RPE cells than previously characterized in rodent studies."}
{"id": "23492944", "title": "Reply: To PMID 22481473.", "content": "Reply: To PMID 22481473."}
{"id": "23481453", "title": "New insights into the pathoanatomy of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "New insights into the pathoanatomy of diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "23478291", "title": "Imaging of laser-photocoagulated diabetic microaneurysm with spectral domain optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Imaging of laser-photocoagulated diabetic microaneurysm with spectral domain optical coherence tomography. To analyze the morphology of microaneurysms before and after direct photocoagulation using spectral domain optical coherence tomography. In 13 eyes of diabetic patients who underwent focal photocoagulation for clinically significant macular edema, microaneurysms were evaluated before, immediately after, 1 month after, and 2 months after photocoagulation with spectral domain optical coherence tomography. The microaneurysms were also evaluated by fluorescein angiography and color fundus photography. The patients underwent focal photocoagulation for microaneurysm. The microaneurysms before photocoagulation in spectral domain optical coherence tomography were observed as circular or elliptical structures with hyperreflective foci within vessel walls. Immediately after photocoagulation, the microaneurysms were changed to indistinct lesions with hyperreflectivity around the microaneurysms. Acoustic shadows developed on the choroidal side of the microaneurysms. If photocoagulation for microaneurysms was appropriately done, retinal changes were limited to within the inner retina around the microaneurysms and no changes were observed in retinal pigment epithelium. Within 2 months after photocoagulation, the microaneurysms changed into fine scars and the retinal structure normalized. Average retinal thickness of the fovea was 432 \u00b1 70 \u03bcm before the procedure but reduced to 373 \u00b1 84 \u03bcm at 2 months post surgery. Focal photocoagulation may be a less invasive method for treating microaneurysms, and spectral domain optical coherence tomography is useful for evaluating the efficacy of photocoagulation."}
{"id": "23470789", "title": "Effect of a single intravitreal bevacizumab injection on different optical coherence tomographic patterns of diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Effect of a single intravitreal bevacizumab injection on different optical coherence tomographic patterns of diabetic macular oedema. The aim of this study is to compare the therapeutic effect of a single intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) injection in eyes with diabetic macular oedema (DMO) of different patterns determined by optical coherence tomography (OCT). Medical records of patients who had a single IVB injection for DMO were analysed retrospectively. Eyes with a clinically significant DMO and a central foveal thickness (CFT) of 250 \u03bcm or more determined by OCT were included in the analysis. Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), CFT and total macular volume values before and after the injection were recorded. Eyes were divided into sponge-like diffuse retinal thickening (DRT), cystoid macular oedema (CMO) and serous retinal detachment (SRD) groups according to the morphology on OCT. A total of 92 eyes (42 with DRT, 31 with CMO and 19 with SRD) were included in the study. There was no statistically significant variation between three groups regarding the change in BCVA (P=0.695). CMO and SRD groups had greater reductions in their mean CFT, and the amount of reduction showed statistically significant variation between three groups (P=0.048). However, no statistically significant difference was found between groups in terms of percentage of change in CFT (P=0.278). CMO and SRD subtypes are associated with a greater reduction in the CFT than the DRT subtype. Although the change in BCVA was not significantly different between groups, the DRT group showed markedly better visual improvement in proportion to the decrease in CFT."}
{"id": "23453693", "title": "Characterization of ischemic index using ultra-widefield fluorescein angiography in patients with focal and diffuse recalcitrant diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Characterization of ischemic index using ultra-widefield fluorescein angiography in patients with focal and diffuse recalcitrant diabetic macular edema. To explore the association of angiographic nonperfusion in focal and diffuse recalcitrant diabetic macular edema (DME) in diabetic retinopathy (DR). A retrospective, observational case series of patients with the diagnosis of recalcitrant DME for at least 2 years placed into 1 of 4 cohorts based on the degree of DR. A total of 148 eyes of 76 patients met the\u00a0inclusion criteria at 1 academic institution. Ultra-widefield fluorescein angiography (FA) images and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD\u00a0OCT) images were obtained on all patients. Ultra-widefield FA images were graded for quantity of nonperfusion, which was used to calculate ischemic index. Main outcome measures were mean ischemic index, mean change in central macular thickness (CMT), and mean number of macular photocoagulation treatments over the 2-year study period. The mean ischemic index was 47% (SD 25%; range 0%-99%). The mean ischemic index of eyes within Cohorts 1, 2, 3, and 4 was 0%, 34% (range 16%-51%), 53% (range 32%-89%), and 65% (range 47%-99%), respectively. The mean percentage decrease in CMT in Cohorts 1, 2, 3, and 4 were 25.2%, 19.1%, 11.6%, and 7.2%, respectively. The mean number of macular photocoagulation treatments in Cohorts 1, 2, 3, and 4 was 2.3, 4.8, 5.3, and 5.7, respectively. Eyes with larger areas of retinal nonperfusion and greater severity of DR were found to have the most recalcitrant DME, as evidenced by a greater number of macular photocoagulation treatments and less reduction in SD OCT CMT compared with eyes without retinal nonperfusion. Areas of untreated retinal nonperfusion may generate biochemical mediators that promote ischemia and recalcitrant DME."}
{"id": "23440840", "title": "Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor for macular oedema secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor for macular oedema secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion. Branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO) is one of the most common occurring retinal vascular abnormalities. The pathogenesis of BRVO is thought to involve both retinal vein compression and damage to the vessel wall, possibly leading to thrombus formation at sites where retinal arterioles cross retinal veins. The most common cause of visual loss in patients with BRVO is macular oedema (MO). Grid or focal laser photocoagulation has been shown to reduce the risk of visual loss and improve visual acuity (VA) in up to two thirds of individuals with MO secondary to BRVO, however, limitations to this treatment exist and newer modalities have suggested equal or improved efficacy. Recently, antiangiogenic therapy with anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) has been used successfully to treat MO resulting from a variety of causes. As elevated intraocular levels of VEGF have been demonstrated in patients with retinal vein occlusions there is a strong basis for the hypothesis that anti-VEGF agents may be beneficial in the treatment of vascular leakage and MO. To investigate the efficacy and safety of intravitreal anti-VEGF agents for preserving or improving vision in the treatment of MO secondary to BRVO. We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group Trials Register) (The Cochrane Library 2012, Issue 7), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid MEDLINE In-Process and Other Non-Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily, Ovid OLDMEDLINE (January 1946 to August 2012), EMBASE (January 1980 to August 2012), Latin American and Caribbean Literature on Health Sciences (LILACS) (January 1982 to August 2012, the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT) (www.controlled-trials.com), ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov) and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or language restrictions in the electronic searches for trials. We last searched the electronic databases on 7 August 2012 and the clinical trials registers on 10 September 2012. We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi-RCTS of at least six months duration where anti-VEGF treatment was compared with another treatment, no treatment, or placebo. We excluded trials where combination treatments (anti-VEGF plus other treatments) were used and trials that investigated the dose and duration of treatment without a comparison group (other treatment/no treatment/sham). Two review authors independently extracted the data. The primary outcome was the proportion of participants with an improvement from baseline in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) of greater than or equal to 15 letters (3 lines) on the Early Treatment in Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) Chart at six months and at 12 months of follow-up. The secondary outcomes we report are the proportion of participants who lost greater than or equal to 15 ETDRS letters (3 lines) and the mean VA change at six months and any additional follow-up intervals as well as the change in central retinal thickness on optical coherence tomography (OCT) from baseline and final reported follow-up, the number and type of complications, the number of additional interventions administered and any adverse outcomes. Where available, the cost benefit and quality of life data reported in the primary studies is presented. We found one RCT and one quasi-RCT that met the inclusion criteria after independent and duplicate review of the search results. The studies used different anti-VEGF agents and different study groups which were not directly comparable.One multi-centre RCT (BRAVO) conducted in the USA randomised 397 individuals and compared monthly intravitreal ranibizumab (0.3 mg and 0.5 mg) injections with sham injection. The study only included individuals with non-ischaemic BRVO. Although repeated injections of ranibizumab appeared to have a favourable effect on the primary outcome, approximately 50% of the ranibizumab 0.3 mg group and 45% of the ranibizumab 0.5 mg group received rescue laser treatment which may have an important effect on the primary outcome. In addition, during the six-month observation period 93.5% of individuals in the sham group received intravitreal ranibizumab (0.5 mg). This cross-over design limits the ability to compare the long-term impact of ranibizumab versus a pure control group.The second trial was a small study (n = 30) from Italy with limitations in study design that reported a benefit of as-required intravitreal bevacizumab (1.25 mg) over laser photocoagulation in MO secondary to BRVO. We present the evidence from these trials and other interventional case series. The available RCT evidence suggests that repeated treatment of non-ischaemic MO secondary to BRVO with the anti-VEGF agent ranibizumab may improve clinical and visual outcomes at six and 12 months. However, the frequency of re-treatment has not yet been determined and the impact of prior or combined treatment with laser photocoagulation on the primary outcome is unclear. Results from ongoing studies should assess not only treatment efficacy but also, the number of injections needed for maintenance and long-term safety and the effect of any prior treatment."}
{"id": "23404115", "title": "The effect of the oral PKC \u03b2 inhibitor ruboxistaurin on vision loss in two phase 3 studies.", "content": "The effect of the oral PKC \u03b2 inhibitor ruboxistaurin on vision loss in two phase 3 studies. To assess the effect of ruboxistaurin (RBX) on vision loss through a prospectively defined combined analysis of two phase 3 trials (MBDL and MBCU). Patients in both of these 3-year randomized, placebo-controlled, double-masked trials had best-corrected Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) visual acuity (VA) \u2265 75 letters (\u223c20/32 Snellen), ETDRS retinopathy level 20 to 47D (MBDL) or 35B to 53E (MBCU), and no prior panretinal or focal photocoagulation in at least one eye at baseline. Patients received oral placebo (N = 508 total from both studies) or RBX 32 mg/d (N = 520 total). Best-corrected ETDRS VA was measured at 6-month intervals for 3 years (MBDL) or for 18 to 48 months (MBCU). Sustained moderate visual loss (SMVL) was defined as a 15-letter or more reduction from baseline in VA sustained for a patient's last 6 months of study participation. In the combined studies (N = 1028 total), SMVL occurred in 4.4% of placebo- versus 2.3% of RBX-treated patients (P = 0.069). In patients with a minimum of 2 years of follow-up (N = 825 total), there was less SMVL in the RBX group (4.4% placebo versus 2.1% RBX, P = 0.045). Other VA-related measures (mean VA, contrast sensitivity, Visual Functioning Questionnaire 25 [VFQ-25]) either trended toward a benefit for RBX or were also statistically significant in favor of RBX. In contrast, diabetic macular edema (DME) morphology-related measures (occurrence of significant center of macula involvement, optical coherence tomography [OCT]-determined center of macula thickness, application of focal photocoagulation) did not show a consistent trend in favor of or against RBX. SMVL data in a prospectively defined combined analysis from these two phase 3 trials suggest a magnitude of effect of RBX on vision loss similar to that seen in two prior studies (approximately 50% reduction above standard care). However, event rates were low and statistical significance was not achieved. (ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT00133952, NCT00090519.)."}
{"id": "23394906", "title": "Characterization of microaneurysm closure after focal laser photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Characterization of microaneurysm closure after focal laser photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema. To characterize microaneurysm closure following focal laser photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema (DME) using simultaneous fluorescein angiography (FA) and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). Retrospective observational case series. Leaking microaneurysms (n = 123) were analyzed in eyes (n = 29) with nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) that underwent navigated focal laser photocoagulation in DME and were followed at 3, 6, and 12 months. Closure of diabetic microaneurysms was characterized in detail following focal laser using SD-OCT. Closure rate of microaneurysms by both FA and SD-OCT was 69.9% (84/123), 79.7% (98/123), and 82.9% (102/123) at 3, 6, and 12 months, respectively. Microaneurysm closure rate increased at 6 and 12 months compared to 3 months (P < .003, P < .001). Over half of closed microaneurysms (45/86, 52.3%) left hyperreflective spots while the remaining half (41/86, 47.7%) disappeared without any hyperreflectivity by SD-OCT at 3 months. Hyperreflective spots decreased at 6 (36/99, 36.4%) and 12 months (17/102, 16.7%) with a concomitant increase in complete loss of reflectivity at 6 (63/99, 63.6%) and 12 months (85/102, 83.3%). Smaller outer and inner diameters and heterogeneous lumen reflectivity were positively associated with microaneurysm closure at 12 months (P < .0001, P < .001, P < .03). Characterization of microaneurysms following focal laser photocoagulation resulted in hyperreflective spots and complete resolution of all reflectivity using SD-OCT. Smaller microaneurysms and those with heterogeneous lumen were positively associated with microaneurysm closure. These findings provide greater understanding of localized retinal changes following focal laser photocoagulation in DME treatment."}
{"id": "23391744", "title": "Improvement of diabetic retinopathy with intravitreal Ranibizumab.", "content": "Improvement of diabetic retinopathy with intravitreal Ranibizumab. This study indicates that in addition to the significant improvement in visual acuity and reduction of central retinal thickness in patients with center-involving diabetic macular edema, intravitreal anti-VEGF treatment with Ranibizumab may also lead to a significant stabilization or even improvement of diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "23372430", "title": "Comparison of natural course, intravitreal triamcinolone and macular laser photocoagulation for treatment of mild diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Comparison of natural course, intravitreal triamcinolone and macular laser photocoagulation for treatment of mild diabetic macular edema. To assess the natural course of the mild diabetic macular edema(DME) and to compare the visual outcomes with the patients with receiving either macular laser photocoagulation or intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide(IVTA). 28 eyes with central macular thickness (CMT) of between 250 to 300\u00b5m were followed without treatment and 48 eyes with CMT between 300 to 500\u00b5m had been divided into 3 subgroups according to treatment. We evaluated the best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and CMT of natural course group and compared the BCVA and CMT of the patients who had been treated with IVTA or macular laser treatment. The eyes with DME between 250 to 300\u00b5m showed no significant change in BCVA and CMT at 6 month. Among the eyes with DME between 300 to 500\u00b5m, all 3 subgroups showed no statistically significant change of BCVA at any follow up period and no significant difference was revealed among the subgroups. All subgroups showed significant reduction of CMT after 1 month and maintained until final follow-up and there was no significant difference among subgroups. Mild DME between 250 to 500\u00b5m did not show significant worsening of BCVA or macular edema without any specific treatment."}
{"id": "23363297", "title": "Identifying risk factors for clinically significant diabetic macula edema in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.", "content": "Identifying risk factors for clinically significant diabetic macula edema in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. It is known that clinic blood pressure (BP), gender, cigarette smoking, dyslipidemia, anemia and thiazolidenediones (TZD) treatment are predictors for clinically significant diabetic macula edema (CSDME). We examined a most risky factor for CSDME in Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and diabetic retinopathy (DR) confirmed using optical coherence tomography by multiple regression analysis (MRA). As the risk factors, wakening-up BP was added to such factors. Seven diabetic Japanese patients with CSDME (group 1) and 124 subjects without CSDME (group 2) assonated with DR using optical coherence tomography were studied. The durations of T2DM in groups 1 and 2 were 15\u00b110 years and 20\u00b115 years, respectively. There was no statistically difference in means of gender, duration, age, body mass index (BMI), HbA1c, TC, LDL and TC/HDL, serum creatinine, urinary albumin excretion rate, and clinic BP between two groups. Morning systolic home BP (MSHBP), cigarette smoking and foveal thickness were significantly (p<0.001) higher in group 1 than group 2, whereas visual acuity was significantly (p<0.00?) lower in group 1 than in group 2. The patients in both groups had received various kinds of drugs for hyperglycemia, hypertension and others. There were no significant differences in the variables in both groups. MRA revealed that MSHBP, cigarette smoking and pioglitazone as TZD treatment were significantly positive predictors for CSDME, while BMI had a significantly negative predictor. Other variables were not significantly correlated to CSDME. The review summarizes a multiple regression analysis revealed that MSHBP makes an addition to predictive factors for CSDME among risk factors reported previously in patient with T2DM."}
{"id": "23337517", "title": "Hypoglycaemia is associated with the absence of a decrease in diurnal macular thickness in patients with diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Hypoglycaemia is associated with the absence of a decrease in diurnal macular thickness in patients with diabetic macular oedema. Spontaneous diurnal variations measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) have been reported in diabetic macular oedema (DME) together with a daytime decrease in central macular thickness (CMT). For this reason, this study aimed to investigate the influence of acute glucose and blood pressure changes on daytime variations in CMT in patients with DME. In this prospective observational study of type 1 (n=4) and type 2 (n=18) diabetic patients with DME, OCT scans, capillary blood glucose, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements were performed at 9 a.m., 12 a.m., 3 p.m., 6 p.m. and again at 9 a.m. the day after. At the same time, the study protocol included simultaneous ambulatory blood pressure and glucose monitoring over a 24-h period. Hypoglycaemic episodes, defined as glucose values<60mg/dL, were also recorded. CMT decreased consistently between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. in 10 patients (from 374\u00b182\u03bcm to 337\u00b172\u03bcm; P=0.01) and increased or remained steady in 12 others (from 383\u00b1136\u03bcm to 390\u00b1149\u03bcm; P=0.58), with a significant difference in CMT absolute change between the two groups (P<0.001). In the study population as a whole, the lower the mean diurnal blood glucose, the smaller the decrease in CMT during the day (P=0.027). Also, eight (67%) of the 12 patients with a flat CMT profile experienced a diurnal hypoglycaemic event whereas none of those with a CMT decrease had hypoglycaemia (P=0.002). Hypoglycaemic events may explain the lack of diurnal CMT decrease in diabetic patients with DME. However, further studies need to be conducted to evaluate whether having no diurnal CMT decrease is associated with a poorer visual prognosis and whether it can be modified by better glucose control."}
{"id": "23329668", "title": "The relationship between foveal ischemia and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography findings in ischemic diabetic macular edema.", "content": "The relationship between foveal ischemia and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography findings in ischemic diabetic macular edema. To investigate the relationship between enlargement of the foveal avascular zone (FAZ) and structural changes on spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) in patients with ischemic diabetic macular edema (DME). This was a retrospective, cross-sectional study including 35 eyes of 33 patients with ischemic DME as determined by irregular margins of the FAZ in fluorescein angiography. We measured the best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central subfield thickness (CST), subfield volume, subfoveal choroidal thickness, length of the photoreceptor outer segment (PR-OS), and the lateral extent of inner segment-outer segment (IS-OS) disruption on SD-OCT images, as well as the FAZ to optic nerve head (FAZ/ONH) area ratio by using the ImageJ program. The mean FAZ/ONH area ratio was 0.28 \u00b1 0.15. The FAZ/ONH area ratio was positively correlated with the logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (LogMAR) BCVA (P = 0.001, r = 0.529). The mean CST was 391 \u00b1 110 \u03bcm, and the subfield volume was 0.31 \u00b1 0.09 mm(3). The mean length of the PR-OS and the horizontal and vertical extent of IS-OS disruption were 40 \u00b1 8 \u03bcm, 169 \u00b1 294 \u03bcm, and 114 \u00b1 170 \u03bcm, respectively. The mean length of the PR-OS and the horizontal and vertical extent of IS-OS disruption were significantly correlated with FAZ/ONH area ratio (P = 0.020, P = 0.001, and P = 0.049, respectively). The horizontal and vertical extent of IS-OS disruption showed a positive correlation with LogMAR BCVA (P = 0.027 and P = 0.049, respectively). Foveal ischemia in DME appears to cause PR-OS shortening and IS-OS disruption resulting in outer retinal layer atrophic changes and subsequent visual loss."}
{"id": "23303431", "title": "Evaluation of mean retinal sensitivity using MP-1 microperimeter in patients with diabetic macular edema before and after laser photocoagulation treatment.", "content": "Evaluation of mean retinal sensitivity using MP-1 microperimeter in patients with diabetic macular edema before and after laser photocoagulation treatment. Diabetic macular edema (DME) is a common cause of visual acuity deterioration among patients with diabetes. Laser photocoagulation still remains the most common treatment of DME and diabetic retinopathy. The aim of the study was to assess mean central retinal sensitivity among patients with DME before and after laser photocoagulation treatment. Additionally, we estimated the best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and retinal macular thickness before and after treatment. The study included 30 patients (35 eyes with DME). The mean age was 61.9 \u00b14.8 years. Insulin was administered in 22 patients and oral antidiabetics in 8. Laser photocoagulation in the macular area was performed in all patients using the Pascal laser. We measured the BCVA, mean central retinal sensitivity, and retinal thickness in the macula (divided into 9 segments). The measurements were performed before and at 1, 3, and 6 months after laser treatment. Central retinal sensitivity was assessed with the MP-1 microperimeter and macular thickness with optical coherence tomography (Stratus OCT). The statistical analysis did not reveal significant differences between BCVA and central retinal sensitivity in the study group before and after laser treatment. The analysis of the mean central retinal thickness showed a significant decrease in macular edema in the individual segments at 1, 3, and 6 months after photocoagulation. Photocoagulation of DME with the Pascal laser did not cause significant changes either in the BCVA or central retinal sensitivity. Laser treatment in patients with DME significantly reduced central retinal edema in most segments."}
{"id": "23299482", "title": "Macular migration toward the optic disc after inner limiting membrane peeling for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Macular migration toward the optic disc after inner limiting membrane peeling for diabetic macular edema. To investigate the papillofoveal distance and its association with retinal thickness on optical coherence tomography (OCT) images after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema (DME). In this retrospective case series, 72 eyes of 57 consecutive patients who underwent vitrectomy for DME were included. Retinal images dissecting the fovea horizontally were obtained using OCT before and after vitrectomy. After identification of the disc margin and the presumed foveal center, the papillofoveal distance was measured on the OCT images. The association of the distance with retinal thickness and peeling of the inner limiting membrane (ILM) was evaluated. The papillofoveal distance was significantly shorter after vitrectomy (3956.1 \u00b1 299.0 \u03bcm vs. 3759.6 \u00b1 331.3 \u03bcm; P < 0.001), and the shortening was correlated negatively with the total and inner retinal thickness in the temporal subfield (r = -0.29, P = 0.012 and r = -0.34, P = 0.004, respectively). Shortening of the papillofoveal distance was greater in 54 eyes in which ILM peeling was performed compared with 18 eyes in which ILM peeling was not performed (234.7 \u00b1 159.3 \u03bcm vs. -9.7 \u00b1 83.5 \u03bcm; P < 0.001). No differences were seen in the papillofoveal distance and retinal thickness before and after surgery between eyes with and without preoperative epiretinal membrane or posterior vitreous detachment. The total and inner thicknesses in the temporal subfield were thinner postoperatively in eyes that underwent ILM peeling than those without ILM peeling (P < 0.001 and P < 0.001). The papillofoveal distance on OCT images was shortened and the retina in the temporal subfield was thinner in eyes that underwent ILM peeling to treat DME."}
{"id": "23298885", "title": "VEGF Trap-Eye for macular oedema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion: 6-month results of the phase III GALILEO study.", "content": "VEGF Trap-Eye for macular oedema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion: 6-month results of the phase III GALILEO study. To evaluate intravitreal VEGF Trap-Eye (VTE) in patients with macular oedema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). In this double-masked study, 177 patients were randomised (3:2 ratio) to intravitreal injections of VTE 2 mg or sham procedure every 4 weeks for 24 weeks. Best-corrected visual acuity was evaluated using the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study chart. Central retinal thickness (CRT) was measured with optical coherence tomography. From baseline until week 24, more patients receiving VTE (60.2%) gained \u2265 15 letters compared with those receiving sham injections (22.1%) (p<0.0001). VTE patients gained a mean of 18.0 letters compared with 3.3 letters with sham injections (p<0.0001). Mean CRT decreased by 448.6 and 169.3 \u00b5m in the VTE and sham groups (p<0.0001). The most frequent ocular adverse events in the VTE arm were typically associated with the injection procedure or the underlying disease, and included eye pain (11.5%), increased intraocular pressure (9.6%) and conjunctival haemorrhage (8.7%). VTE 2 mg every 4 weeks was efficacious in CRVO with an acceptable safety profile. Vision gains with VTE were significantly higher than with observation/panretinal photocoagulation if needed. Based on these data, VTE may provide a new treatment option for CRVO."}
{"id": "23283186", "title": "Dexamethasone intravitreal implant during phacoemulsification.", "content": "Dexamethasone intravitreal implant during phacoemulsification."}
{"id": "23242589", "title": "Prospective microperimetry and OCT evaluation of efficacy of repeated intravitreal bevacizumab injections for persistent clinically significant diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Prospective microperimetry and OCT evaluation of efficacy of repeated intravitreal bevacizumab injections for persistent clinically significant diabetic macular edema. To prospectively investigate morphologic and functional changes after intravitreal bevacizumab for persistent diffuse and clinically significant diabetic macular edema. In total, 26 eyes in 26 patients were treated with three intravitreal injections of bevacizumab (Avastin\u2122) given at 4-week intervals. Study parameters included: visual acuity (VA), perceived visual improvement, central macular thickness as measured by Spectralis OCT, macular sensitivity and fixation pattern as measured by MP-1 microperimetry, and the incidence of ocular and systemic side-effects. At the time of follow-up, 76.9 % of eyes showed a significant improvement in VA (p = 0.012), 38.4 % showed a one-line improvement on the ETDRS chart compared with VA at day 0, 30.7 % showed a two-line improvement, and 7.6 % showed at least a three-line improvement. The mean central macular thickness was 447 microns at day 0 and 311.1 microns at follow-up (p = 0.003). The mean baseline macular sensitivity, by MP-1 microperimetry, was 8.29 dB; at follow -up, macular sensitivity had improved to 14.26 dB (p = 0.025). These results support further controlled trials on the efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab in treating diabetic macular edema. Microperimetry and OCT are important tools in managing diabetic patients, providing a detailed study of the macular region, particularly when it is necessary to monitor the morphological and functional outcome after various interventions. A good correlation between retinal sensitivity and perceived visual performance was found."}
{"id": "23229224", "title": "[Improvement of fixation in diabetic macular oedema patients under intravitreal ranibizumab treatment].", "content": "[Improvement of fixation in diabetic macular oedema patients under intravitreal ranibizumab treatment]. The aim of this study was to evaluate the fixation and other functional and morphological alterations in patients with diabetic macular oedema (DMO) under intravitreal ranibizumab therapy. Thirty patients (39 eyes) with DMO with central involvement were included in this prospective study. Morphological (fluorescein angiography, OCT) as well as functional (visual acuity, microperimetry including fixation) parameters were analysed before and after three monthly intravitreal applications of ranibizumab. Best-corrected mean visual acuity (BCVA) increased significantly by 6.85 + 6.45 letters from 26.15 \u00b1 13.83 to 33.03 \u00b1 13.31 letters. Mean central retinal thickness and mean central retinal volume decreased significantly from 503.72 \u00b1 143.78 \u00b5m, respectively (p < 0.001) before treatment to 387.05 \u00b1 122.02 \u00b5m after the third intravitreal injection with ranibizumab. Mean retinal sensitivity obtained with microperimetry did not change significantly over the course of treatment. Mean fixation within 2\u00b0 (4\u00b0) improved from 64.15 % (85.7 %) before treatment significantly to 70.15 % (91.5 %) after three intravitreal injections with ranibizumab. Mean fixation stability within 2\u00b0 improved from 43.9 % before treatment significantly to 58.5 % after three intravitreal injections. DMO improved both morphologically with a significant reduction of central retinal thickness and volume and a significantly improved BCVA as well as fixation and fixation stability over the course of three monthly intravitreal injections with ranibizumab. Retinal sensitivity obtained in microperimetry did not change significantly over the course. Based on our observations we interpret and suggest fixation and fixation stability as an early functional parameter and prior to microperimetrically detectable changes of retinal sensitivity additional to BCVA during treatment of diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "23222461", "title": "Reply: To PMID 22481473.", "content": "Reply: To PMID 22481473."}
{"id": "23222460", "title": "New insights into the pathoanatomy of diabetic macular edema: angiographic patterns and optical coherence tomography.", "content": "New insights into the pathoanatomy of diabetic macular edema: angiographic patterns and optical coherence tomography."}
{"id": "23222391", "title": "Visual outcome after intravitreal bevacizumab depends on the optical coherence tomographic patterns of patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Visual outcome after intravitreal bevacizumab depends on the optical coherence tomographic patterns of patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) on the reduction of diffuse diabetic macular edema in patients with different optical coherence tomography patterns. Prospective interventional case series. One hundred and forty-three eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema, without a history of any previous treatment, were classified according to their optical coherence tomography patterns: sponge-like diffuse retinal thickening (SDRT) (n = 50), cystoid macular edema (CME) (n = 38), serous retinal detachment (SRD) (n = 25), and the combination of all patterns (FULL: n = 30). All the participants received a single dose (1.25 mg in 0.05 mL) of IVB. The foveal thickness obtained with optical coherence tomography images and logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution visual acuity were assessed before receiving IVB and subsequently every 2 weeks for 12 weeks. After IVB, the foveal thickness in all the groups was reduced but the reduction ratio in the SDRT (29.6 \u00b1 15.6%) and CME (27.1 \u00b1 20.5%) groups was significantly greater than in the SRD group (16.4 \u00b1 17.7%) (P < 0.001). Similarly, improvement of visual acuity in the SDRT (-0.21 \u00b1 0.16) and CME (-0.17 \u00b1 0.24) groups was significantly greater than in the SRD (-0.12 \u00b1 0.15) and FULL (-0.11 \u00b1 0.13) (P = 0.047) groups. Interestingly, the efficacy of IVB for regression of diffuse diabetic macular edema was dependent on the duration of diabetes in the SDRT and CME groups but not in the SRD or FULL groups. The effectiveness of IVB on diffuse diabetic macular edema was dependent on the optical coherence tomography pattern (SDRT \u2265 CME > SRD), indicating that vascular endothelial growth factor plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of SDRT and CME, and was greater in patients having diabetes for a shorter duration of time."}
{"id": "23222389", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab plus grid laser photocoagulation or intravitreal bevacizumab or grid laser photocoagulation for diffuse diabetic macular edema: results of the Pan-american Collaborative Retina Study Group at 24 months.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab plus grid laser photocoagulation or intravitreal bevacizumab or grid laser photocoagulation for diffuse diabetic macular edema: results of the Pan-american Collaborative Retina Study Group at 24 months. To evaluate the anatomical and functional outcomes at 24 months in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema treated with primary intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) plus grid laser photocoagulation (GLP) or primary IVB alone or GLP alone. Retrospective, interventional, comparative, multicenter study. We included in this analysis 141 eyes of 120 patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema treated with primary IVB alone (Group A), 120 eyes of 94 patients with GLP therapy (Group B), and 157 eyes of 104 patients treated with IVB plus GLP (Group C). In all 3 groups, the authors observed improvement of Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study best-corrected visual acuity from baseline to 24-month follow-up (P < 0.0001). The improvement rate in Group A was statistically significantly better than in Group B (analysis of variance, P = 0.013). The authors also found a decrease in central macular thickness in all groups from baseline to the 24-month follow-up (P < 0.0001). The comparison among 3 groups showed higher central macular thickness decrease in Group A than in Groups B and C (analysis of variance, P < 0.001). The study provides evidence to support the use of primary IVB with or without GLP as treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema. Primary IVB without GLP seems to be superior to GLP alone to provide stability or improvement in best-corrected visual acuity in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema at 24 months."}
{"id": "23218691", "title": "Serous macular detachment in Waldenstr\u00f6m macroglobulinemia: a report of four cases.", "content": "Serous macular detachment in Waldenstr\u00f6m macroglobulinemia: a report of four cases. To describe a series of 4 patients with Waldenstr\u00f6m macroglobulinemia and serous macular detachment, and propose a mechanism for development of subretinal fluid based on optical coherence tomography (OCT) findings. Retrospective observational case series. The records of patients with Waldenstr\u00f6m macroglobulinemia and OCT documentation of serous macular detachment at Wills Eye Institute were reviewed. Data collection included clinical examination, as well as findings on fluorescein angiography (FA) and OCT. Four patients (8 eyes) with Waldenstr\u00f6m macroglobulinemia and serous retinal detachment were identified. All eyes had varying degrees of venous stasis retinopathy and intraretinal edema overlying the macular detachment. Three patients had no FA leakage, while 1 patient had macular leakage in a petaloid pattern. Focal outer retinal defects within the detached retina were seen in 4 eyes on OCT imaging. In one eye, development of cystoid macular edema was observed before the outer retinal defect and serous macular detachment. All patients with serous macular detachment had some degree of outer retinal disruption. Discontinuity of the outer retina within the macular detachment may enable immunoglobulins along with accumulated intraretinal fluid to flow into the subretinal space, creating a serous retinal detachment. Even with systemic treatment of the underlying Waldenstr\u00f6m macroglobulinemia, the visual prognosis was guarded."}
{"id": "23218689", "title": "Treatment of diabetic macular edema with a designed ankyrin repeat protein that binds vascular endothelial growth factor: a phase I/II study.", "content": "Treatment of diabetic macular edema with a designed ankyrin repeat protein that binds vascular endothelial growth factor: a phase I/II study. To evaluate the safety and bioactivity of MP0112, a designed ankyrin repeat protein (DARPin) that specifically binds vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). DARPins are a novel class of proteins selected for specific, high-affinity binding to a target protein. Phase I/II, open-label, multicenter dose-escalation trial. After a single intravitreal injection of MP0112, the main outcomes were safety assessments, aqueous MP0112 levels, change in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), and foveal thickness measured by optical coherence tomography. Six cohorts were planned, but only 3 were enrolled (0.04, 0.15, 0.4\u00a0mg), because a maximally tolerated dose of 1.0\u00a0mg was identified in a parallel age-related macular degeneration trial. Median aqueous concentration of MP0112 was 555 nM 1\u00a0week and >10 nM in 3 of 4 patients 12\u00a0weeks post injection of 0.4\u00a0mg. Median BCVA improvement at week 12 was 4, 6, and 10 letters in cohorts 1, 2, and 3. Ocular inflammation was observed in 11 patients (61%) and was severe in 1. High-resolution chromatography separated proinflammatory impurities from MP0112, resulting in a new formulation. A single intraocular injection of 0.4\u00a0mg\u00a0MP0112 resulted in levels above the half-maximal inhibitory concentration and neutralization of VEGF in aqueous humor for 8-12\u00a0weeks. Despite inflammation in several patients, there was prolonged edema reduction and improvement in vision in several patients. The source of the inflammation was eliminated from a new preparation that is being tested in an ongoing clinical trial."}
{"id": "23204247", "title": "Microaneurysm turnover at the macula predicts risk of development of clinically significant macular edema in persons with mild nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Microaneurysm turnover at the macula predicts risk of development of clinically significant macular edema in persons with mild nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy. To examine the relationship between microaneurysm (MA) turnover using automated analysis of fundus photographs (RetmarkerDR; Critical Health SA) and development of clinically significant macular edema (CSME) in nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR). A prospective, monocenter, observational study was designed to follow eyes/patients with type 2 diabetes and NPDR (Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study levels 20 and 35) with no prior laser treatment for 2 years or until development of CSME. A total of 410 patients, one eye per patient, fulfilled the inclusion/exclusion criteria and were included in the study. Ophthalmologic examinations including best corrected visual acuity, fundus photography, and optical coherence tomography were performed at baseline, 6 months, and at the last study visit (24 months or before laser treatment). A total of 348 eyes/patients performed the 24-month visit or developed CSME. Of these 348 eyes/patients, 26 developed CSME. HbA1c levels at baseline and MA turnover (i.e., the sum of the MA formation and disappearance rates) computed during the first 6 months of follow-up were found to be independently predictive factors for development of CSME. MA turnover was 11.2 \u00b1 11.2 in the 26 eyes/patients that developed CSME and 5.0 \u00b1 5.2 in the remaining 322 (P < 0.001). Higher MA turnover values correlated with earlier development of CSME. MA turnover predictive values for CSME development were, for the positive predictive value, 20% and for the negative predictive value, 96%. MA turnover calculated with the RetmarkerDR predicts development of CSME in eyes with NPDR. Low MA turnover values identify well the eyes that are less likely to develop CSME in a 2-year period."}
{"id": "23172879", "title": "Association between external limiting membrane status and visual acuity in diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Association between external limiting membrane status and visual acuity in diabetic macular oedema. To evaluate the association between the foveal external limiting membrane (ELM) status and visual acuity (VA) in diabetic macular oedema (DMO). We retrospectively reviewed the spectral domain optical coherence tomography images of 127 eyes from 127 patients with DMO and evaluated the correlation between the logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution (logMAR) VA and the statuses of the foveal ELM, inner segment/outer segment (IS/OS) and cone outer segment tips (COST); foveal macular thickness (FMT); and presence or absence of hard exudates (HE), serous retinal detachment (SRD) and vitreous adhesion. The integrity of the ELM, IS/OS, and COST was classified into three categories (absent, disrupted and complete). There was a strong correlation between VA and the statuses of the ELM (r=0.699, p<0.001), IS/OS (r=0.716, p<0.001) and COST (r=0.471, p<0.001). There was no correlation between FMT and logMAR VA (r=-0.036, p=0.687). However, when we analysed the correlation between FMT and VA by dividing patients into those with FMT \u2264250 \u03bcm and those with FMT >250 \u03bcm, there was a positive correlation between FMT and VA in eyes with FMT \u2264250 \u03bcm (r=-0.601, p<0.0001) and a negative correlation in eyes with FMT>250 \u03bcm (r=0.290, p<0.01). Other factors HE, SRD and vitreous adhesion did not correlate with VA. In DMO, the ELM status may be as closely related to VA as the IS/OS status."}
{"id": "23084436", "title": "[Impact of cataract surgery on central macular thickness in diabetic patients without diabetic retinopathy].", "content": "[Impact of cataract surgery on central macular thickness in diabetic patients without diabetic retinopathy]. To determine whether cataract surgery increases macular thickness in diabetic patients without preoperative retinopathy or macular edema. In a prospective, non-controlled study, we compared preoperative macular thickness as measured by OCT to that measured 3 and 6 months after cataract surgery. Thirty-six eyes of 21 patients (ten men and 11 women) were included in the study from November 2008 to May 2009. Mean foveolar thickness measured preoperatively was 198 \u03bcm (\u00b1 18.5 \u03bcm) compared with 202 \u03bcm (\u00b117.2 \u03bcm) 3 months postoperatively and 212 \u03bcm (\u00b1 18.9 \u03bcm) 6 months postoperatively. In our study, we do not show a significant increase in central foveolar thickness 3 months after cataract surgery; however, we do measure a significant increase at 6 months. This increase in thickness is similar to that found in the literature after cataract surgery in a non-diabetic population. Cataract surgery in diabetic patients without preoperative retinopathy does not appear to induce significant macular thickening compared to non-diabetic patients. The period prior to any diabetic retinopathy or maculopathy seems to be the most amenable to cataract surgery when necessary."}
{"id": "23023529", "title": "Retina rejuvenation therapy for diabetic macular edema: a pilot study.", "content": "Retina rejuvenation therapy for diabetic macular edema: a pilot study. To prospectively investigate the safety and efficacy of a novel frequency-doubled nanosecond-pulsed laser with discontinuous beam energy distribution (2RT, Ellex) for the treatment of diabetic macular edema. Twenty-three consecutive patients (38 eyes) with newly diagnosed diabetic macular edema were recruited and assessed with logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution best-corrected visual acuity, central macular thickness measured with optical coherence tomography (OCT/scanning laser ophthalmoscope, OPKO/OTI), microperimetry, fundus photography, and fundus fluorescein angiography. Macular grid treatments were performed with 2RT laser system by 1 operator. Patients were examined with logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution best-corrected visual acuity, central macular thickness, microperimetry, and fundus photography at 3 weeks and 6 weeks and 3 months and 6 months. Fundus fluorescein angiography was repeated at 3 months and 6 months. Six months postoperatively, 17 patients (28 eyes) completed the study. No complications were identified after 2RT therapy. Intraoperative retinal discoloration was observed in 2 cases, fully resolved at 3 months with no permanent anatomical or functional changes. Mean logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution visual acuity improved from 20/44 at baseline to 20/27 at 6 months. The change in best-corrected visual acuity was significant (P = 0.0190). Central macular thickness in the central 1-mm subfield, retinal exudates and vascular leakage decreased in the majority of patients at 6 months (46, 41, and 55%, respectively), although the change from baseline was not statistically significant. Microperimetry confirmed photoreceptor integrity and showed a trend of improvement that correlated with decreased central macular thickness. For the first time, we achieved a beneficial effect on diabetic macular edema without the side effects of conventional laser therapy. The efficacy of this system in comparison with standard argon laser photocoagulation and in the treatment of other conditions affecting the retinal pigment epithelium needs further investigation."}
{"id": "22973980", "title": "Spontaneous macular hole closure without posterior vitreous detachment in a patient previously treated for diabetic maculopathy.", "content": "Spontaneous macular hole closure without posterior vitreous detachment in a patient previously treated for diabetic maculopathy."}
{"id": "22890369", "title": "The role of macular hydration in the evaluation of the effect of intravitreal triamcinolone on visual acuity in eyes with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "The role of macular hydration in the evaluation of the effect of intravitreal triamcinolone on visual acuity in eyes with diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the efficacy of intravitreal triamcinolone (IVTA) in eyes with clinically definite diabetic macular edema (DME) by using the parameters visual acuity (VA), central macular thickness (CMT) and macular hydration (MH). Medical records of patients who received IVTA (4\u00a0mg/0.1\u00a0mL) for DME were reviewed. Optically non-reflective areas which appear dark spaces within the 1000\u00a0\u03bcm from the center of the macula on OCT scan defined as MH. Best corrected logarithm of minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) visual acuity, CMT as determined by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and MH quantified from the OCT scans by using metamorph analysis were evaluated before the injection and at 1, 3 and 6\u00a0months in all, and up to 12\u00a0months in some eyes, after the IVTA injection. The correlations between these variables were also studied. 28 eyes of 27 patients were included in the study. Eyes with DME treated by a single IVTA injection responded with a trend towards significant improvement in logMAR VA at 1 (p\u00a0<\u00a00.0001) and 3\u00a0months (p\u00a0<\u00a00.0001), but no significant improvement in relation to baseline at 6\u00a0months was observed (p\u00a0=\u00a00.07). CMT was significantly reduced at 1\u00a0month (p\u00a0<\u00a00.0001), 3\u00a0months (p\u00a0<\u00a00.0001) and 6\u00a0months (p\u00a0=\u00a00.01) compared to baseline. Like the trend observed in VA improvement, MH also significantly reduced at 1\u00a0month (p\u00a0<\u00a00.0001) and 3\u00a0months (p\u00a0<\u00a00.0001), but not at 6\u00a0months (p\u00a0=\u00a00.14) compared to baseline. There was no correlation between the VA ratio and the CMT ratio (r\u00a0=\u00a00.18, p\u00a0=\u00a00.36), but there was a significant correlation between the VA ratio and the MH ratio (r\u00a0=\u00a00.85, p\u00a0<\u00a00.0001). There was also an inverse relationship between MH ratio and the age of the patients (r\u00a0=\u00a0-0.7089, p\u00a0=\u00a00.0001). Macular hydration seems to be a better parameter than macular thickness for determining the effectiveness of IVTA treatment in a subset of eyes with DME. Although the treatment effect is temporary, younger patients with DME were more prone to respond with a greater reduction in MH after IVTA injection."}
{"id": "22863290", "title": "Macular hole after injection of dexamethasone intravitreal implant for macular oedema due to central retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Macular hole after injection of dexamethasone intravitreal implant for macular oedema due to central retinal vein occlusion."}
{"id": "22048245", "title": "Misleading axial length measurements with the IOLMaster due to a dense posterior vitreous surface membrane and a macular edema in a diabetic patient.", "content": "Misleading axial length measurements with the IOLMaster due to a dense posterior vitreous surface membrane and a macular edema in a diabetic patient."}
{"id": "21861971", "title": "Identifying a clinically meaningful threshold for change in uveitic macular edema evaluated by optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Identifying a clinically meaningful threshold for change in uveitic macular edema evaluated by optical coherence tomography. To identify a clinically meaningful threshold for change in retinal thickness measured by optical coherence tomography for patients with uveitic macular edema using correlation with change in visual acuity. Cross-sectional and longitudinal study. One hundred twenty-eight eyes (101 individuals) with macular edema enrolled in the Multicenter Uveitis Steroid Treatment (MUST) trial. At enrollment and after 6 months of follow-up, retinal thickness was measured at the central subfield with time-domain optical coherence tomography and visual acuity was measured with logarithmic (Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study) visual acuity charts. Participants were classified as having macular edema if the retinal thickness was 260 \u03bcm or more. A threshold for change in retinal center subfield thickness of 20% balanced the percentage of false positives and false negatives for predicting more than a 10-letter change in visual acuity with a sensitivity of 77% and a specificity of 75%. The results were similar for more than 5-letter changes and for 15-letter or more changes. Those with a 20% or more reduction in retinal thickness had a mean 11.0-letter improvement (95% confidence interval, 7.7 to 14.3) as compared with a -0.4-letter change (95% confidence interval, -4.1 to 3.3) in visual acuity for those without a 20% reduction (P < .01). In addition to being above the level of measurement uncertainty, a 20% change in retinal thickness in patients with macular edema seems to be optimal for clinically important changes in visual acuity and may be considered as an outcome for clinical trials of treatments for uveitic macular edema."}
{"id": "22589436", "title": "Oral minocycline for the treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME): results of a phase I/II clinical study.", "content": "Oral minocycline for the treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME): results of a phase I/II clinical study. Inflammation contributes significantly to the pathogenesis of diabetic macular edema (DME). In particular, retinal microglia demonstrate increased activation and aggregation in areas of DME. Study authors investigated the safety and potential efficacy of oral minocycline, a drug capable of inhibiting microglial activation, in the treatment of DME. A single-center, prospective, open-label phase I/II clinical trial enrolled five participants with fovea-involving DME who received oral minocycline 100 mg twice daily for 6 months. Main outcome measurements included best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central retinal subfield thickness (CST), and central macular volume using spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) and late leakage on fluorescein angiography (FA). Findings indicated that the study drug was well tolerated and not associated with significant safety issues. In study eyes, mean BCVA improved continuously from baseline at 1, 2, 4, and 6 months by +1.0, +4.0, +4.0, and +5.8 letters, respectively, while mean retinal thickness (CST) on OCT decreased by -2.9%, -5.7%, -13.9, and -8.1% for the same time points. At month 6, mean area of late leakage on FA decreased by -34.4% in study eyes. Mean changes in contralateral fellow eyes also demonstrated similar trends. Improvements in outcome measures were not correlated with concurrent changes in systemic factors. In this pilot proof-of-concept study of DME, minocycline as primary treatment was associated with improved visual function, central macular edema, and vascular leakage, comparing favorably with historical controls from previous studies. Microglial inhibition with oral minocycline may be a promising therapeutic strategy targeting the inflammatory etiology of DME. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01120899.)."}
{"id": "19898182", "title": "The course of response to focal/grid photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "The course of response to focal/grid photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema. The purpose of this study was to determine whether eyes with center-involved diabetic macular edema, treated with focal/grid photocoagulation, in which there is a reduction in central subfield thickness (CST) measured with optical coherence tomography after 16 weeks, will continue to improve if retreatment is deferred. This is a prospective, multicenter, observational, single-group focal/grid photocoagulation study of 122 eyes with center-involved diabetic macular edema (optical coherence tomography CST > or =250 microm). At the 16-week visit and continuing every 8 weeks, eyes were assessed for retreatment and additional laser treatment was deferred if the visual acuity letter score improved > or =5 letters or optical coherence tomography CST decreased > or =10% compared with the visit 16 weeks prior. Of the 115 eyes that completed the 16-week visit, 54 (47%) had a decrease in CST by > or =10% compared with baseline. Of these, 26 (48%) had a CST > or =250 microm at 16 weeks and were evaluable at 32 weeks. Eleven (42%; 95% confidence interval, 23-63%) of the 26 eyes had a further decrease in CST > or =10% from 16 weeks to 32 weeks without further treatment. Sixteen weeks after focal/grid laser for diabetic macular edema in eyes with a definite reduction, but not resolution, of central edema, 23% to 63% likely will continue to improve without additional treatment."}
{"id": "17698196", "title": "A phase II randomized clinical trial of intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "A phase II randomized clinical trial of intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema. To provide data on the short-term effect of intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema (DME). Randomized phase II clinical trial. One hundred twenty-one eyes of 121 subjects (109 eligible for analysis) with DME and Snellen acuity equivalent ranging from 20/32 to 20/320. Random assignment to 1 of 5 groups: (A) focal photocoagulation at baseline (n = 19), (B) intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg of bevacizumab at baseline and 6 weeks (n = 22), (C) intravitreal injection of 2.5 mg of bevacizumab at baseline and 6 weeks (n = 24), (D) intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg of bevacizumab at baseline and sham injection at 6 weeks (n = 22), or (E) intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg of bevacizumab at baseline and 6 weeks with photocoagulation at 3 weeks (n = 22). Central subfield thickness (CST) on optical coherence tomography and best-corrected visual acuity (VA) were measured at baseline and after 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 weeks. At baseline, median CST was 411 mum and median Snellen VA equivalent was 20/50. Compared with group A, groups B and C had a greater reduction in CST at 3 weeks and about 1 line better median VA over 12 weeks. There were no meaningful differences between groups B and C in CST reduction or VA improvement. A CST reduction > 11% (reliability limit) was present at 3 weeks in 36 of 84 (43%) bevacizumab-treated eyes and 5 of 18 (28%) eyes treated with laser alone, and at 6 weeks in 31 of 84 (37%) and 9 of 18 (50%) eyes, respectively. Combining focal photocoagulation with bevacizumab resulted in no apparent short-term benefit or adverse outcomes. Endophthalmitis developed in 1 eye. The following events occurred during the first 24 weeks in subjects treated with bevacizumab without attributing cause to the drug: myocardial infarction (n = 2), congestive heart failure (n = 1), elevated blood pressure (n = 3), and worsened renal function (n = 3). These results demonstrate that intravitreal bevacizumab can reduce DME in some eyes, but the study was not designed to determine whether treatment is beneficial. A phase III trial would be needed for that purpose."}
{"id": "20189159", "title": "Topical mecamylamine for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Topical mecamylamine for diabetic macular edema. Stimulation of nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh) receptors on vascular endothelial cells promotes angiogenesis and vascular permeability in animal models. The safety and bioactivity of topical mecamylamine, an antagonist of nACh receptors, was tested in patients with diabetic macular edema. A multicenter phase I/II clinical trial. Twenty-three patients with chronic diabetic macular edema received 1% mecamylamine topically twice daily for 12 weeks, the primary end point. Patients underwent safety assessments, measurement of best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), and measurement of foveal thickness using optical coherence tomography at baseline, 1, 4, 8, 12, and 16 weeks. Mecamylamine drops were well tolerated and there were no drug-related safety problems. Mean improvement in BCVA at 1, 4, 8, 12, and 16 weeks was 2.8, 1.9, 2.4, 0.8, and 3.1 letters, respectively. There was little change in mean excess foveal thickness. There was substantial heterogeneity in response, because 8 patients showed convincing improvement in BCVA, foveal thickness, or both, 9 patients showed equivocal or no substantial changes, and 4 patients showed worsening. Five patients showed a substantial improvement in BCVA, foveal thickness, or both between their last visit while receiving mecamylamine and 1 month after stopping mecamylamine. This study suggested that administration of topical mecamylamine, a nonspecific nACh receptor blocker, may have heterogeneous effects in patients with diabetic macular edema. Variable expression of nACh receptor subtypes on endothelial cells that have different effects on permeability would provide an explanation for these results and should be investigated, because more specific nACh receptor blockers may dissociate antipermeability and propermeability effects."}
{"id": "19204228", "title": "Observational study of the development of diabetic macular edema following panretinal (scatter) photocoagulation given in 1 or 4 sittings.", "content": "Observational study of the development of diabetic macular edema following panretinal (scatter) photocoagulation given in 1 or 4 sittings. To compare the effects of single-sitting vs 4-sitting panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) on macular edema in subjects with severe nonproliferative or early proliferative diabetic retinopathy with relatively good visual acuity and no or mild center-involved macular edema. Subjects were treated with 1 sitting or 4 sittings of PRP in a nonrandomized, prospective, multicentered clinical trial. Main Outcome Measure Central subfield thickness on optical coherence tomography (OCT). Central subfield thickness was slightly greater in the 1-sitting group (n = 84) than in the 4-sitting group (n = 71) at the 3-day (P = .01) and 4-week visits (P = .003). At the 34-week primary outcome visit, the slight differences had reversed, with the thickness being slightly greater in the 4-sitting group than in the 1-sitting group (P = .06). Visual acuity differences paralleled OCT differences. Our results suggest that clinically meaningful differences are unlikely in OCT thickness or visual acuity following application of PRP in 1 sitting compared with 4 sittings in subjects in this cohort. More definitive results would require a large randomized trial. Application to Clinical Practice These results suggest PRP costs to some patients in terms of travel and lost productivity as well as to eye care providers could be reduced. clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00687154."}
{"id": "20299105", "title": "Vitrectomy outcomes in eyes with diabetic macular edema and vitreomacular traction.", "content": "Vitrectomy outcomes in eyes with diabetic macular edema and vitreomacular traction. To evaluate vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema (DME) in eyes with at least moderate vision loss and vitreomacular traction. Prospective cohort study. The primary cohort included 87 eyes with DME and vitreomacular traction based on investigator's evaluation, visual acuity 20/63-20/400, optical coherence tomography (OCT) central subfield >300 microns and no concomitant cataract extraction at the time of vitrectomy. Surgery was performed according to the investigator's usual routine. Follow-up visits were performed after 3 months, 6 months (primary end point), and 1 year. Visual acuity, OCT retinal thickening, and operative complications. At baseline, median visual acuity in the 87 eyes was 20/100 and median OCT thickness was 491 microns. During vitrectomy, additional procedures included epiretinal membrane peeling in 61%, internal limiting membrane peeling in 54%, panretinal photocoagulation in 40%, and injection of corticosteroids at the close of the procedure in 64%. At 6 months, median OCT central subfield thickness decreased by 160 microns, with 43% having central subfield thickness <250 microns and 68% having at least a 50% reduction in thickening. Visual acuity improved by > or =10 letters in 38% (95% confidence interval, 28%-49%) and deteriorated by > or =10 letters in 22% (95% confidence interval, 13%-31%). Postoperative complications through 6 months included vitreous hemorrhage (5 eyes), elevated intraocular pressure requiring treatment (7 eyes), retinal detachment (3 eyes), and endophthalmitis (1 eye). Few changes in results were noted between 6 months and 1 year. After vitrectomy performed for DME and vitreomacular traction, retinal thickening was reduced in most eyes. Between 28% and 49% of eyes with characteristics similar to those included in this study are likely to have improvement of visual acuity, whereas between 13% and 31% are likely to have worsening. The operative complication rate is low and similar to what has been reported for this procedure. These data provide estimates of surgical outcomes and serve as a reference for future studies that might consider vitrectomy for DME in eyes with at least moderate vision loss and vitreomacular traction."}
{"id": "21459214", "title": "Expanded 2-year follow-up of ranibizumab plus prompt or deferred laser or triamcinolone plus prompt laser for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Expanded 2-year follow-up of ranibizumab plus prompt or deferred laser or triamcinolone plus prompt laser for diabetic macular edema. To report expanded 2-year follow-up of a previously reported randomized trial evaluating intravitreal 0.5 mg ranibizumab or 4 mg triamcinolone combined with focal/grid laser compared with focal/grid laser alone for treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME). Multicenter, randomized clinical trial. A total of 854 study eyes of 691 participants with visual acuity of 20/32 to 20/320 (approximate Snellen equivalent) and DME involving the fovea. Continuation of procedures previously reported for the randomized trial. Best-corrected visual acuity and safety at the 2-year visit. At the 2-year visit, compared with the sham + prompt laser group, the mean change in the visual acuity letter score from baseline was 3.7 letters greater in the ranibizumab + prompt laser group (95% confidence interval adjusted for multiple comparisons [aCI], -0.4 to +7.7), 5.8 letters greater in the ranibizumab + deferred laser group (95% aCI, +1.9 to +9.8), and 1.5 letters worse in the triamcinolone + prompt laser group (95% aCI, -5.5 to +2.4). After the 1- to 2-year visit in the ranibizumab + prompt or deferred laser groups, the median numbers of injections were 2 and 3 (potential maximum of 13), respectively. At the 2-year visit, the percentages of eyes with central subfield thickness \u2265250 \u03bcm were 59% in the sham + prompt laser group, 43% in the ranibizumab + prompt laser group, 42% in the ranibizumab + deferred laser group, and 52% in the triamcinolone + prompt laser group. No systemic events attributable to study treatment were apparent. Three eyes in 3 (0.8%) of 375 participants had injection-related endophthalmitis in the ranibizumab groups, whereas elevated intraocular pressure and cataract surgery were more frequent in the triamcinolone + prompt laser group. The expanded 2-year results reported are similar to results published previously and reinforce the conclusions originally reported: Ranibizumab should be considered for patients with DME and characteristics similar to those of the cohort in this clinical trial, including vision impairment with DME involving the center of the macula."}
{"id": "17420366", "title": "Comparison of the modified Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study and mild macular grid laser photocoagulation strategies for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Comparison of the modified Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study and mild macular grid laser photocoagulation strategies for diabetic macular edema. To compare 2 laser photocoagulation techniques for treatment of diabetic macular edema: the modified Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) direct/grid photocoagulation technique and a potentially milder (but potentially more extensive) mild macular grid (MMG) laser technique in which microaneurysms are not treated directly and small mild burns are placed throughout the macula, whether or not edema is present. Two hundred sixty-three subjects (mean age, 59 years) with previously untreated diabetic macular edema were randomly assigned to receive laser photocoagulation by either the modified ETDRS (162 eyes) or MMG (161 eyes) technique. Visual acuity, fundus photographs, and optical coherence tomography measurements were obtained at baseline and at 3.5, 8, and 12 months. Treatment was repeated if diabetic macular edema persisted. Change in optical coherence tomography measurements at 12-month follow-up. Among eyes with a baseline central subfield thickness of 250 microm or greater, central subfield thickening decreased by an average of 88 microm in the modified ETDRS group and by 49 microm in the MMG group at 12-month follow-up (adjusted mean difference, 33 microm; 95% confidence interval, 5-61 microm; P = .02). Weighted inner zone thickening by optical coherence tomography decreased by 42 microm in the modified ETDRS group and by 28 microm in the MMG group (adjusted mean difference, 14 microm; 95% confidence interval, 1-27 microm; P = .04); maximum retinal thickening (maximum thickening of the central and 4 inner subfields) decreased by 66 and 39 microm, respectively (adjusted mean difference, 27 microm; 95% confidence interval, 6-47 microm; P = .01), and retinal volume decreased by 0.8 and 0.4 mm3, respectively (adjusted mean difference, 0.3 mm3; 95% confidence interval, 0.02-0.53 mm3; P = .03). At 12 months, the mean change in visual acuity was 0 letters in the modified ETDRS group and 2 letters worse in the MMG group (adjusted mean difference, 2 letters; 95% confidence interval, -0.5 to 5 letters; P = .10). At 12 months after treatment, the MMG technique was less effective at reducing optical coherence tomography-measured retinal thickening than the more extensively evaluated current modified ETDRS laser photocoagulation approach. However, the visual acuity outcome with both approaches is not substantially different. Given these findings, a larger long-term trial of the MMG technique is not justified. Modified ETDRS focal photocoagulation should continue to be a standard approach for treating diabetic macular edema. clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00071773."}
{"id": "20924264", "title": "Factors associated with visual acuity outcomes after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema: diabetic retinopathy clinical research network.", "content": "Factors associated with visual acuity outcomes after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema: diabetic retinopathy clinical research network. To evaluate factors \u00b6associated with favorable outcomes after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. Data were collected prospectively on 241 eyes undergoing vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. Multivariate models were used to evaluate associations of 20 preoperative and intraoperative factors with 6-month outcomes of visual acuity and retinal thickness. Median central subfield thickness decreased from 412 \u03bcm to 278 \u03bcm at 6 months, but median visual acuity remained unchanged (20/80, Snellen equivalent). Greater visual acuity improvement occurred in eyes with worse baseline acuity (P < 0.001) and in eyes in which an epiretinal membrane was removed (P = 0.006). Greater reduction in central subfield thickness occurred with worse baseline visual acuity (P < 0.001), greater preoperative retinal thickness (P = 0.001), removal of internal limiting membrane (P = 0.003), and optical coherence tomography evidence of vitreoretinal abnormalities (P = 0.006). No associations with clinician's preoperative assessments of the posterior vitreous were identified. These results suggest that the removal of epiretinal membranes may favorably affect visual outcome after vitrectomy. Preoperative presence of vitreoretinal abnormalities appeared to be associated with somewhat greater reductions in retinal thickness but not with visual acuity outcome. These results may be useful for future studies evaluating vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "18662829", "title": "A randomized trial comparing intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide and focal/grid photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "A randomized trial comparing intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide and focal/grid photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of 1-mg and 4-mg doses of preservative-free intravitreal triamcinolone in comparison with focal/grid photocoagulation for the treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME). Multicenter, randomized clinical trial. Eight hundred forty study eyes of 693 subjects with DME involving the fovea and with visual acuity of 20/40 to 20/320. Eyes were randomized to focal/grid photocoagulation (n = 330), 1 mg intravitreal triamcinolone (n = 256), or 4 mg intravitreal triamcinolone (n = 254). Retreatment was given for persistent or new edema at 4-month intervals. The primary outcome was evaluated at 2 years. Visual acuity measured with the electronic Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study method (primary), optical coherence tomography-measured retinal thickness (secondary), and safety. At 4 months, mean visual acuity was better in the 4-mg triamcinolone group than in either the laser group (P<0.001) or the 1-mg triamcinolone group (P = 0.001). By 1 year, there were no significant differences among groups in mean visual acuity. At the 16-month visit and extending through the primary outcome visit at 2 years, mean visual acuity was better in the laser group than in the other 2 groups (at 2 years, P = 0.02 comparing the laser and 1-mg groups, P = 0.002 comparing the laser and 4-mg groups, and P = 0.49 comparing the 1-mg and 4-mg groups). Treatment group differences in the visual acuity outcome could not be attributed solely to cataract formation. Optical coherence tomography results generally paralleled the visual acuity results. Intraocular pressure increased from baseline by 10 mmHg or more at any visit in 4%, 16%, and 33% of eyes in the 3 treatment groups, respectively, and cataract surgery was performed in 13%, 23%, and 51% of eyes in the 3 treatment groups, respectively. Over a 2-year period, focal/grid photocoagulation is more effective and has fewer side effects than 1-mg or 4-mg doses of preservative-free intravitreal triamcinolone for most patients with DME who have characteristics similar to the cohort in this clinical trial. The results of this study also support that focal/grid photocoagulation currently should be the benchmark against which other treatments are compared in clinical trials of DME."}
{"id": "17544778", "title": "Randomized trial of peribulbar triamcinolone acetonide with and without focal photocoagulation for mild diabetic macular edema: a pilot study.", "content": "Randomized trial of peribulbar triamcinolone acetonide with and without focal photocoagulation for mild diabetic macular edema: a pilot study. To provide pilot data on the safety and efficacy of anterior and posterior sub-Tenon injections of triamcinolone either alone or in combination with focal photocoagulation in the treatment of mild diabetic macular edema (DME). Prospective, phase II, multicenter, randomized clinical trial. One hundred nine patients (129 eyes) with mild DME and visual acuity 20/40 or better. The participants were assigned randomly to receive either focal photocoagulation (n = 38), a 20-mg anterior sub-Tenon injection of triamcinolone (n = 23), a 20-mg anterior sub-Tenon injection followed by focal photocoagulation after 4 weeks (n = 25), a 40-mg posterior sub-Tenon injection of triamcinolone (n = 21), or a 40-mg posterior sub-Tenon injection followed by focal photocoagulation after 4 weeks (n = 22). Follow-up visits were performed at 4, 8, 17, and 34 weeks. Change in visual acuity and retinal thickness measured with optical coherence tomography (OCT). At baseline, mean visual acuity in the study eyes was 20/25 and mean OCT central subfield thickness was 328 mum. Changes in retinal thickening and in visual acuity were not significantly different among the 5 groups at 34 weeks (P = 0.46 and P = 0.94, respectively). There was a suggestion of a greater proportion of eyes having a central subfield thickness less than 250 mum at 17 weeks when the peribulbar triamcinolone was combined with focal photocoagulation. Elevated intraocular pressure and ptosis were adverse effects attributable to the injections. In cases of DME with good visual acuity, peribulbar triamcinolone, with or without focal photocoagulation, is unlikely to be of substantial benefit. Based on these results, a phase III trial to evaluate the benefit of these treatments for mild DME is not warranted."}
{"id": "23374377", "title": "[Characteristics associated with visual improvement after focal photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Characteristics associated with visual improvement after focal photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema]. Photocoagulation reduces the incidence of moderate visual loss in patients with clinically significant macular edema (CSME). However, the incidence of visual improvement after treatment is low. Diffuse retinal thickening identified with optical coherence tomography (OCT) and visual loss before treatment have been associated with visual improvement. To identify features associated with visual improvement after focal photocoagulation for CSME. Observational, analytical, longitudinal, retrospective study. Diabetic patients with CSME treated with focal photocoagulation were evaluated. Study variables were: visual improvement (defined as a gain of one or more lines in a vision chart) and ocular and systemic features before treatment. Clinical and ancillary test variables were compared between eyes with and without visual improvement. Mann-Whitney's U was used to compare quantitative variables; \u03c7(2) was used for qualitative variables. 99 eyes of 72 patients mean age 60.6 years, 59.6% females. 38.4% had visual improvement after treatment. The incidence of visual improvement was higher in eyes with vision < 20/40 before treatment (58.8 vs. 16.7%, p < 0.001, relative risk 3.53). In eyes with vision = 20/40 before treatment, the probability of improving was 12 times higher when field 7 of the OCT map had no thickening (p < 0.001). The remaining variables showed no significant associations. Up to 48% of treated eyes could achieve visual improvement. Consistently with previous reports, the probability increased in eyes with vision < 20/40 before photocoagulation; when vision before treatment was = 20/40, the incidence of visual improvement increased significantly in eyes without thickening in the temporal parafoveal retina."}
{"id": "23373405", "title": "[Ocular complications of the diabetes--diagnostic and therapeutic implications].", "content": "[Ocular complications of the diabetes--diagnostic and therapeutic implications]. Author describe actual knowledge about diabetes epidemiology and ocular complications in course of diabetes. More information about innovation diabetic macular edema treatment is done."}
{"id": "23249122", "title": "New trends in early diagnosis of hydroxychloroquine toxic retinopathy.", "content": "New trends in early diagnosis of hydroxychloroquine toxic retinopathy. Toxic retinopathy is an uncommon sequella in the treatment of certain autoimmune diseases with hydroxychloroquine (HCQ). We present two cases of HCQ toxic retinopathy, as well as a discussion on how to diagnose and manage early toxicity findings; Two cases are presented of patients who experienced toxic effects of HCQ therapy. The first patient had bull's eye maculopathy confirmed with visual field testing and optical coherence tomography (OCT). The second patient had early signs of toxic maculopathy validated by repeat visual field and OCT testing; Management of toxic maculopathy includes the cessation of hydroxychloroquine, continued monitoring of the toxic effects and optimizing the remaining vision. The irreversible and potential devastating effect of HCQ toxic maculopathy underscores the importance of early diagnosis and working with the patient's rheumatologist."}
{"id": "23207021", "title": "Diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "23132803", "title": "Retinal thickness in people with diabetes and minimal or no diabetic retinopathy: Heidelberg Spectralis optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Retinal thickness in people with diabetes and minimal or no diabetic retinopathy: Heidelberg Spectralis optical coherence tomography. To evaluate macular thickness in people with diabetes but minimal or no retinopathy using Heidelberg Spectralis optical coherence tomography (OCT). In a multicenter, cross-sectional study of mean retinal thickness, on Spectralis OCT in the nine standard OCT subfields, spanning a zone with 6-mm diameter, center point, and total retinal volume were evaluated. Central subfield (CSF) thickness was evaluated for association with demographic and clinical factors. Stratus OCT scans also were performed on each participant. The analysis included 122 eyes (122 participants) with diabetes and no (n = 103) or minimal diabetic retinopathy (n = 19) and no macular retinal thickening on clinical exam. Average CSF thickness was 270 \u00b1 24 \u03bcm. Central subfield thickness was significantly greater in males relative to females (mean 278 \u00b1 23 \u03bcm vs. 262 \u00b1 22 \u03bcm, P < 0.001). After adjusting for gender, no additional factors were found to be significantly associated with CSF thickness (P > 0.10). Mean Stratus OCT CSF thickness was 199 \u00b1 24 \u03bcm. Mean CSF thickness is approximately 70 \u03bcm thicker when measured with Heidelberg Spectralis OCT as compared with Stratus OCT among individuals with diabetes in the absence of retinopathy or with minimal nonproliferative retinopathy and a normal macular architecture. CSF thickness values \u2265 320 \u03bcm for males and 305 \u03bcm for females (~2 SDs above the average for this normative cohort) are proposed as gender-specific thickness levels to have reasonable certainty that diabetic macular edema involving the CSF is present using Spectralis measurements."}
{"id": "23121699", "title": "[Diabetic retinopathy screening and teleophthalmology].", "content": "[Diabetic retinopathy screening and teleophthalmology]. To determine the prevalence of diabetic retinopathy (DR) and evaluate our experience in DR screening in a study carried out between the Ophthalmology Department of the University General Hospital of Alicante and Department 19 Primary Care of Alicante by using a non-retinal mydriatic camera and telemedicine. A descriptive, cross-sectional study was conducted on 2,435 diabetic patients from 1 February 2006 to 1 February 2009. Three 45\u00b0 retinographies of both eyes of each patient were obtained and sent to the Department of Ophthalmology via the hospital intranet. These were then evaluated by 2 ophthalmologists, experts in the retina, with each issuing an individualized report for each patient. The prevalence of DR was 17.90%, with 80.73% of them having mild-moderate proliferative DR, 12.16% severe non-proliferative DR, 2.29% proliferative DR, and 4.82% with diabetic maculopathy associated with any level of retinopathy. The retinographies were considered low quality in 41 patients (1.69%). We highlight the benefits of the tele-ophthalmology in screening diabetic patients to enable early diagnosis and treatment, and improving the circuit of communication between primary and specialist care."}
{"id": "23111610", "title": "Repeatability of Spectralis OCT measurements of macular thickness and volume in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Repeatability of Spectralis OCT measurements of macular thickness and volume in diabetic macular edema. We estimated coefficients of repeatability for Spectralis optical coherence tomography (OCT)-derived automated retinal thickness and volume measurements in subjects with center-involving diabetic macular edema (DME). A total of 50 eyes of 50 consecutive patients with center-involving DME underwent four consecutive \"fast\" volume scans at a single session using one OCT device operated by one of two experienced operators. Bland-Altman coefficients of repeatability (CR) were calculated for automated retinal thickness measurements in the nine Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) subfields, center point thickness, and total macular volume. Scans were evaluated for significant automated retinal boundary detection error and revised estimates for CR calculated with these scans excluded. CR in the central subfield was 8.03 \u03bcm (95% confidence interval [CI] 7.70-8.35 \u03bcm). In other subfields, CR ranged from 6.54 to 18.25 \u03bcm. Scan sets from 13 subjects had significant boundary detection error; reanalysis with these excluded yielded a CR for the central subfield of 7.44 \u03bcm with CR for all other subfields <8 \u03bcm. Retinal thickness measurements in subjects with DME obtained using Spectralis OCT are considerably less variable than has been reported with other devices. Changes in central subfield thickness >8 \u03bcm can be considered more indicative of true clinical change rather than measurement variability. This finding informs clinical practice and clinical trial design."}
{"id": "23111607", "title": "Quantification of external limiting membrane disruption caused by diabetic macular edema from SD-OCT.", "content": "Quantification of external limiting membrane disruption caused by diabetic macular edema from SD-OCT. Disruption of external limiting membrane (ELM) integrity on spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) is associated with lower visual acuity outcomes in patients suffering from diabetic macular edema (DME). However, no automated methods to detect ELM and/or determine its integrity from SD-OCT exist. Sixteen subjects diagnosed with clinically significant DME (CSME) were included and underwent macula-centered SD-OCT (512 \u00d7 19 \u00d7 496 voxels). Sixteen subjects without retinal thickening and normal acuity were also scanned (200 \u00d7 200 \u00d7 1024 voxels). Automated quantification of ELM disruption was achieved as follows. First, 11 surfaces were automatically segmented using our standard 3-D graph-search approach, and the subvolume between surface 6 and 11 containing the ELM region was flattened based on the segmented retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) layer. A second, edge-based graph-search surface-detection method segmented the ELM region in close proximity \"above\" the RPE, and each ELM A-scan was classified as disrupted or nondisrupted based on six texture features in the vicinity of the ELM surface. The vessel silhouettes were considered in the disruption classification process to avoid false detections of ELM disruption. In subjects with CSME, large areas of disrupted ELM were present. In normal subjects, ELM was largely intact. The mean and 95% confidence interval (CI) of the detected disruption area volume for normal and CSME subjects were mean(normal) = 0.00087 mm(3) and CI(normal) = (0.00074, 0.00100), and mean(CSME) = 0.00461 mm(3) and CI(CSME) = (0.00347, 0.00576) mm(3), respectively. In this preliminary study, we were able to show that automated quantification of ELM disruption is feasible and can differentiate continuous ELM in normal subjects from disrupted ELM in subjects with CSME. We have started determining the relationships of quantitative ELM disruption markers to visual outcome in patients undergoing treatment for CSME."}
{"id": "23074206", "title": "Dose-ranging evaluation of intravitreal siRNA PF-04523655 for diabetic macular edema (the DEGAS study).", "content": "Dose-ranging evaluation of intravitreal siRNA PF-04523655 for diabetic macular edema (the DEGAS study). To evaluate the safety and efficacy of three doses of PF-04523655, a 19-nucleotide methylated double stranded siRNA targeting the RTP801 gene, for the treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME) compared to focal/grid laser photocoagulation. This multicenter, prospective, masked, randomized, active-controlled, phase 2 interventional clinical trial enrolled 184 DME patients with best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) of 20/40 to 20/320 inclusive in the study eye. Patients were randomly assigned to 0.4-mg, 1-mg, 3-mg PF-04523655 intravitreal injections or laser. The main outcome measure was the change in BCVA from baseline to month 12. All doses of PF-04523655 improved BCVA from baseline through month 12. At month 12, the PF-04523655 3-mg group showed a trend for greater improvement in BCVA from baseline than laser (respectively 5.77 vs. 2.39 letters; P = 0.08; 2-sided \u03b1 = 0.10). The study was terminated early at month 12 based on predetermined futility criteria for efficacy and discontinuation rates. PF-04523655 was generally safe and well-tolerated, with few adverse events considered treatment-related. By month 12, the discontinuation rates in the PF-04523655 groups were higher than the laser group and were inversely related to dose levels. PF-04523655 showed a dose-related tendency for improvement in BCVA in DME patients. Studies of higher doses are planned to determine the optimal efficacious dose of PF-04523655. PF-04523655 may offer a new mode of therapeutic action in the management of DME. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00701181.)."}
{"id": "23060723", "title": "A three-year follow-up of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection and macular laser photocoagulation for diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "A three-year follow-up of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection and macular laser photocoagulation for diffuse diabetic macular edema. To report the three-year outcomes of macular laser photocoagulation following intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) for diffuse diabetic macular edema (DME). A prospective, randomized controlled study was completed. Eighty-six eyes of 74 patients with diffuse DME were randomized into two groups. Eyes assigned to the combination group (n = 48) were subjected to macular laser photocoagulation three weeks after IVTA. Eyes in the IVTA group (n = 38) underwent IVTA alone. Central macular thickness was measured by optical coherence tomography, and the number of additional treatments and mean time to recurrence were assessed. Thirty-seven eyes in the combination group and 26 eyes in the IVTA group completed the three-year follow-up. Recurrence of DME after initial treatment was not observed for nine of the 37 (24.3%) eyes in the combination group or for one of the 26 (3.9$) eyes in the IVTA group (p = 0.028). DME was absent for 19.9 months after treatment in the combination group compared to 10.3 months in the IVTA group (p = 0.027). The mean number of additional treatments was 0.92 in the combination group and 1.88 in the IVTA group (p = 0.001). Results in the subset of subjects who completed the three-year follow-up demonstrated that laser photocoagulation following IVTA is more effective than IVTA monotherapy for diffuse DME. Combination therapy required fewer additional treatments and resulted in a lower recurrence rate than IVTA monotherapy."}
{"id": "22999634", "title": "Intravitreal ranibizumab for diabetic macular edema with prompt versus deferred laser treatment: three-year randomized trial results.", "content": "Intravitreal ranibizumab for diabetic macular edema with prompt versus deferred laser treatment: three-year randomized trial results. To report the 3-year follow-up results within a previously reported randomized trial evaluating prompt versus deferred (for \u226524 weeks) focal/grid laser treatment in eyes treated with intravitreal 0.5 mg ranibizumab for diabetic macular edema (DME). Multicenter, randomized clinical trial. Three hundred sixty-one participants with visual acuity of 20/32 to 20/320 (approximate Snellen equivalent) and DME involving the fovea. Ranibizumab every 4 weeks until no longer improving (with resumption if worsening) and random assignment to prompt or deferred (\u226524 weeks) focal/grid laser treatment. Best-corrected visual acuity and safety at the 156-week (3-year) visit. The estimated mean change in visual acuity letter score from baseline through the 3-year visit was 2.9 letters more (9.7 vs. 6.8 letters; mean difference, 2.9 letters; 95% confidence interval, 0.4-5.4 letters; P = 0.02) in the deferral group compared with the prompt laser treatment group. In the prompt laser treatment group and deferral group, respectively, the percentage of eyes with a \u226510-letter gain/loss was 42% and 56% (P = 0.02), whereas the respective percentage of eyes with a \u226510-letter gain/loss was 10% and 5% (P = 0.12). Up to the 3-year visit, the median numbers of injections were 12 and 15 in the prompt and deferral groups, respectively (P = 0.007), including 1 and 2 injections, respectively, from the 2-year up to the 3-year visit. At the 3-year visit, the percentages of eyes with central subfield thickness of 250 \u03bcm or more on time-domain optical coherence tomography were 36% in both groups (P = 0.90). In the deferral group, 54% did not receive laser treatment during the trial. Systemic adverse events seemed to be similar in the 2 groups. These 3-year results suggest that focal/grid laser treatment at the initiation of intravitreal ranibizumab is no better, and possibly worse, for vision outcomes than deferring laser treatment for 24 weeks or more in eyes with DME involving the fovea and with vision impairment. Some of the observed differences in visual acuity at 3 years may be related to fewer cumulative ranibizumab injections during follow-up in the prompt laser treatment group. Follow-up through 5 years continues."}
{"id": "22965591", "title": "Factors associated with changes in visual acuity and central subfield thickness at 1 year after treatment for diabetic macular edema with ranibizumab.", "content": "Factors associated with changes in visual acuity and central subfield thickness at 1 year after treatment for diabetic macular edema with ranibizumab. To identify factors that predict the success or failure of treatment with intravitreal ranibizumab for patients with diabetic macular edema. A total of 37 baseline demographic, systemic, ocular, optical coherence tomographic, and fundus photographic variables were assessed for association with change in visual acuity or central subfield thickness between baseline and 1 year in 361 eyes that were randomly assigned to intravitreal ranibizumab with prompt or deferred laser treatment within a trial of ranibizumab, triamcinolone acetonide, and laser treatment for center-involved diabetic macular edema. A categorical variable describing follow-up anatomic responses to therapy was added to the visual acuity outcome model. After adjusting for baseline visual acuity, a larger visual acuity treatment benefit was associated with younger age (P< .001), less severe diabetic retinopathy on clinical examination (P= .003), and absence of surface wrinkling retinopathy (P< .001). The reduction in central subfield thickness during the first treatment year also predicted better visual acuity outcomes (P< .001). After adjusting for baseline central subfield thickness, the presence of hard exudates was associated with more favorable improvement on optical coherence tomographic scan (P= .004). Because only 11 eyes experienced vision loss and 6 eyes experienced an increase in central subfield thickness, factors for poor outcomes could not be evaluated. A review of baseline factors and anatomic responses during the first year of ranibizumab therapy for association with visual acuity outcome did not identify any features that would preclude ranibizumab treatment. However, baseline central subfield thickness is the strongest predictor of anatomic outcome, and reduction in central subfield thickness during the first treatment year is associated with better visual acuity outcomes."}
{"id": "22952126", "title": "Choroidal thinning in diabetes type 1 detected by 3-dimensional 1060 nm optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Choroidal thinning in diabetes type 1 detected by 3-dimensional 1060 nm optical coherence tomography. To map choroidal (ChT) and retinal thickness (RT) in patients with diabetes type 1 with and without maculopathy and retinopathy in order to compare them with healthy subjects using high speed 3-dimensional (3D) 1060 nm optical coherence tomography (OCT). Thirty-three eyes from 33 diabetes type 1 subjects (23-57 years, 15 male) divided into groups of without pathology (NDR) and with pathology (DR; including microaneurysms, exudates, clinically significant macular-oedema and proliferative retinopathy) were compared with 20 healthy axial eye length and age-matched subjects (24-57 years, 9 male), imaged by high speed (60.000 A-scans/s) 3D 1060 nm OCT performed over 36\u00b0 \u00d7 36\u00b0 field of view. Ocular health status, disease duration, body mass index, haemoglobin-A1c, and blood pressure (bp) measurements were recorded. Subfoveal ChT, and 2D topographic maps between retinal pigment epithelium and the choroidal/scleral-interface, were automatically generated and statistically analyzed. Subfoveal ChT (mean \u00b1 SD, \u03bcm) for healthy eyes was 388 \u00b1 109; significantly thicker than all diabetic groups, 291 \u00b1 64 for NDR, and 303 \u00b1 82 for DR (ANOVA P < 0.004, Tukey P = 0.01 for NDR and DR). Thinning did not relate to recorded factors (multi-regression analysis, P > 0.05). Compared with healthy eyes and the NDR, the averaged DR ChT-map demonstrated temporal thinning that extended superiorly and temporal-inferiorly (unpaired t-test, P < 0.05). Foveal RT and RT-maps showed no statistically significant difference between groups (mean SD, \u03bcm, healthy 212 \u00b1 17, NDR 217 \u00b1 15, DR 216 \u00b1 27, ANOVA P > 0.05). ChT is decreased in diabetes type 1, independent of the absence of pathology and of diabetic disease duration. In eyes with pathology, 3D 1060 nm OCT averaged maps showed an extension of the thinning area matching retinal lesions and suggesting its involvement on onset or progression of disease."}
{"id": "22952119", "title": "Segmentational analysis of retinal thickness after vitrectomy in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Segmentational analysis of retinal thickness after vitrectomy in diabetic macular edema. To measure the inner and outer retinal thicknesses on spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) and evaluate their association with logMAR after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema (DME). In this retrospective case series, there were 55 consecutive eyes with DME for which vitrectomy was performed. The total retinal thickness, the inner thickness (from the innermost of the retina to the inner nuclear layer), and the outer thickness (from the outer plexiform layer to the retinal pigment epithelium) in the parafoveal subfields were measured manually, and the association with logMAR was evaluated. The total retinal thicknesses in the central, nasal, and inferior subfields were significantly (r = 0.37, P = 0.005; r = 0.29, P = 0.032; r = 0.33, P = 0.015, respectively) associated with the baseline logMAR; no subfield thickness was correlated with the logMAR at the final visit. However, segmentational analysis showed that the outer retinal thickness of the temporal subfield was associated with disruption of the junction between the inner and outer segments at the fovea (P = 0.021 and P = 0.005) and negatively correlated with the logMAR (r = -0.37, P = 0.006 and r = -0.28, P = 0.042) at the 6-month and final visit. The inner thickness of the nasal subfield did not change after vitrectomy compared with the other subfields and the outer thickness of all subfields in the parafoveal area; the baseline nasal total thickness was correlated most significantly with the logMAR (r = 0.40, P = 0.002 and r = 0.37, P = 0.006) at the 6-month and final visits. Segmentational analysis provided useful information for considering the prognosis and pathogenesis after vitrectomy for DME."}
{"id": "22938703", "title": "Lamellar macular hole formation in a patient with diabetic CME treated by intravitreal bevacizumab injections.", "content": "Lamellar macular hole formation in a patient with diabetic CME treated by intravitreal bevacizumab injections. A 49-year-old woman with a diagnosis of diabetic cystoid macular edema in both eyes presented with the appearance of a macular hole in the left eye 1 month after intravitreal bevacizumab injection. Optical coherence tomography demonstrated a lamellar macular hole in the left eye. Although vitreomacular traction and epiretinal membrane are the possible underlying causes for the development of lamellar macular hole formation in eyes with cystoid macular edema, in this case previous optical coherence tomography scans revealed the complete separation of the posterior hyaloid membrane and the absence of an epiretinal membrane. The exact mechanism involved in the progression of cystoid macular edema to lamellar macular hole and the contribution of the intravitreal bevacizumab injections to this transformation remain unclear."}
{"id": "22912430", "title": "Assessment of diabetic retinopathy using nonmydriatic ultra-widefield scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (Optomap) compared with ETDRS 7-field stereo photography.", "content": "Assessment of diabetic retinopathy using nonmydriatic ultra-widefield scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (Optomap) compared with ETDRS 7-field stereo photography. To compare the diagnostic properties of a nonmydriatic 200\u00b0 ultra-widefield scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO) versus mydriatic Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) 7-field photography for diabetic retinopathy (DR) screening. A consecutive series of 212 eyes of 141 patients with different levels of DR were examined. Grading of DR and clinically significant macular edema (CSME) from mydriatic ETDRS 7-field stereo photography was compared with grading obtained by Optomap Panoramic 200 SLO images. All SLO scans were performed through an undilated pupil, and no additional clinical information was used for evaluation of all images by the two independent, masked, expert graders. Twenty-two eyes from ETDRS 7-field photography and 12 eyes from Optomap were not gradable by at least one grader because of poor image quality. A total of 144 eyes were analyzed regarding DR level and 155 eyes regarding CSME. For ETDRS 7-field photography, 22 eyes (18 for grader 2) had no or mild DR (ETDRS levels \u2264 20) and 117 eyes (111 for grader 2) had no CSME. A highly substantial agreement between both Optomap DR and CSME grading and ETDRS 7-field photography existed with \u03ba = 0.79 for DR and 0.73 for CSME for grader 1, and \u03ba = 0.77 (DR) and 0.77 (CSME) for grader 2. Determination of CSME and grading of DR level from Optomap Panoramic 200 nonmydriatic images show a positive correlation with mydriatic ETDRS 7-field stereo photography. Both techniques are of sufficient quality to assess DR and CSME. Optomap Panoramic 200 images cover a larger retinal area and therefore may offer additional diagnostic properties."}
{"id": "22882318", "title": "Macular oedema due to letrozole: a first case report.", "content": "Macular oedema due to letrozole: a first case report. A 72-year-old woman presented with unexplained, progressive, painless visual loss in the right eye during the past six months. At presentation visual acuity (VA) was 3/60 in the right eye and 6/6 in the left eye. Anterior segment examination and intraocular pressures were normal. Dilated fundoscopy revealed significant macular oedema in the right eye and a normal fundus appearance in the left eye. Her medical history was noteworthy for breast ductal carcinoma in situ, for which she had undergone right mastectomy three years earlier. She had not received chemotherapy or radiotherapy but she had been under treatment with letrozole 2.5\u2009mg/day over the past three years. She did not receive any other medication. Optical coherence tomography showed intraretinal fluid and a significant increase in retinal thickness in the foveal and parafoveal areas, while fluorescein angiography detected foveal hyperfluorescence and leakage of the dye in the late phase. Multifocal electroretinogram showed a decreased response in both eyes. In suspicion of letrozole-related retinopathy, the patient was advised to stop the medication. The patient agreed to receive an intravitreal injection of 0.05\u2009ml/0.5\u2009mg ranibizumab. One month later, VA in the right eye was 6/9 and macular oedema had apparently improved. This is the first reported case of letrozole-associated macular oedema treated with intravitreal ranibizumab."}
{"id": "22879414", "title": "Enhanced depth imaging optical coherence tomography in type 2 diabetes.", "content": "Enhanced depth imaging optical coherence tomography in type 2 diabetes. To investigate the changes in macular choroidal thickness in eyes with various stages of diabetic retinopathy, using enhanced depth imaging optical coherence tomography (EDI OCT). Sixty-three consecutive diabetic patients--who presented without diabetic retinopathy (NDR); with diabetic retinopathy (nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy [NPDR]) and no clinically significant macular edema (CSME-); or with NDPR and clinically significant macular edema (CSME+)--underwent EDI OCT. Twenty-one age- and sex-matched healthy subjects (21 eyes) also underwent EDI OCT. A total of 63 eyes of 63 consecutive diabetic patients (26 female [41.2%]; mean age 65 \u00b1 9 years, range 48-83 years) were included in the analysis. Mean best-corrected visual acuity was 0.13 \u00b1 0.25 LogMAR (range 0-1). Mean CMT was 272.5 \u00b1 16.2 \u03bcm in 21 NDR eyes, 294.5 \u00b1 23.5 \u03bcm in 21 NPDR/CSME- eyes, and 385.6 \u00b1 75.1 \u03bcm in 21 NPDR/CSME+ eyes. There was no difference in mean subfoveal choroidal thickness among each diabetic group (238.4 \u00b1 47.9 \u03bcm [NDR], 207.0 \u00b1 55.9 \u03bcm [NPDR/CSME-], 190.8 \u00b1 48.4 \u03bcm [NPDR/CSME+]; P = 0.23). The mean subfoveal choroidal thickness was significantly reduced in each diabetic group compared with the control group (309.8 \u00b1 58.5 \u03bcm, P < 0.001). In diabetic eyes, there is an overall thinning of the choroid on EDI OCT. A decreased choroidal thickness may lead to tissue hypoxia and consequently increase the level of VEGF, resulting in the breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier and development of macular edema."}
{"id": "22872201", "title": "Correlation between central subfield thickness, visual acuity and structural changes in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Correlation between central subfield thickness, visual acuity and structural changes in diabetic macular edema. To correlate the central subfield thickness (CST) measured by Cirrus\u2122 SD-OCT with best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and structural changes in diabetic macular edema (DME). The transversal study evaluated 200 patients with non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) and selected 55 eyes with DME between January, 2010 and April, 2011. Spectral domain OCT was performed in patients with type 2 diabetes and DME. CST and BCVA were correlated with the edema morphology and the ELM (external limiting membrane) integrity. Statistical tests were applied to validate the results. There was no difference between genders in the NPDR classification. 47.3% of the patients showed moderate NPDR. The CST average for male was of 393.58 \u00b5m and 434.16 \u00b5m for female, with no statistically significant difference. The patients with continuous ELM showed lower CST average (368.73 \u00b5m) than those with disrupted ELM (521.43 \u00b5m). There was a strong correlation between the macular volume and CST (59.63%), but poor correlation between age and CST (2.9%). Also, there was a significant difference between the average CST and the type of macular edema. Patients with serous detachment showed higher CST average (488.71 \u00b5m) than those with cystoid macular edema (CME) and diffuse edema. Patients with severe NPDR showed higher CST average (491.45 \u00b5m), if compared to mild and moderate NPDR. Cystoid macular edema was the most common type of edema (49.1%) and showed the worse VA. Patients with disrupted ELM showed worse BCVA. Patients with higher CST showed worse BCVA. There was a significant difference between the CST average of the case group (407.6 \u00b1 113,1 \u00b5m) and the control group (diabetic patients without DME: 252 \u00b1 12.5 \u00b5m). There was also a significant difference in the BCVA variables and macular volume between case and control groups. The study suggests that the CST of diabetic patients with edema is higher than the control group, the increase in CST of diabetic patients with edema leads to worsening of BCVA and macular volume. Continuous ELM showed lower CST average, and the serous detachment showed higher CST average. Cirrus\u2122 proved to be an important tool in the DME evaluation."}
{"id": "22872198", "title": "[Amsler grid and visual field on screening for chloroquine retinopathy].", "content": "[Amsler grid and visual field on screening for chloroquine retinopathy]. To compare the modified Amsler grid to the Humphrey(\u00ae) 10-2 red visual field in chloroquine users for the detection of early maculopathy, and to correlate with the risk variables. The study included 116 eyes of 58 patients followed at the Department of Ophthalmology of Hospital do Servidor P\u00fablico Estadual de S\u00e3o Paulo, from April, 2006 to April, 2008. All users had normal fundus and more than 2 years of chloroquine therapy. Their clinical data were evaluated and they underwent visual acuity examination, fundus biomicroscopy, visual field and Amsler grid. The incidence of early maculopathy was 7 to 10%, depending on the examination considered. The agreement between the Amsler grid and visual field was low. There was statistical significance with the use of high daily dose, elevated cumulative dose and low visual acuity in patients whose eyes had both abnormal tests; patient age and duration of treatment did not show good correlation in these cases, but their averages (67.4 years and 8.4 years, respectively) were within the range of high risk factors. The study suggests that Amsler can be useful in complementing the information on the visual field for chloroquine retinopathy periodic screening, especially for those patients who present high risk factors well established, selecting better candidates for objective tests, such as HD OCT and mfERG."}
{"id": "22870034", "title": "Resolution of macular edema after systemic treatment with furosemide.", "content": "Resolution of macular edema after systemic treatment with furosemide. We report two cases of macular edema treated with the oral administration of furosemide. The first case presented here was a 78-year-old male patient with visual disturbance of the left eye. He had been taking an oral agent for diabetes and had chronic renal failure for 7 years. From 10 days prior to the visit, he had visual disturbance of the left eye accompanied by systemic edema. There were no specific findings in the anterior segment, but sub-retinal fluid was observed in the left fundus. Macular edema was observed on fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography; therefore, the oral administration of furosemide was initiated. After seven days, the sub-retinal fluid disappeared. The second case was a 43-year-old female patient with visual disturbance of the left eye who had been taking hypoglycemic agents for diabetes for 13 years. There were no specific findings in the anterior segment, but flame-shaped retinal hemorrhages were scattered over both posterior poles, neovascularization was observed in the left eye, and, of particular note, sub-retinal fluid was detected in the macula of the left eye. Macular edema was also observed on fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography, and oral administration of furosemide was initiated. After 3 weeks, the macular edema had significantly decreased."}
{"id": "22869022", "title": "Macular and peripapillary choroidal thickness in diabetic patients.", "content": "Macular and peripapillary choroidal thickness in diabetic patients. To investigate macular and peripapillary choroidal thickness (CT) in diabetic patients with and without diabetic retinopathy (DR). One hundred and fifty subjects were enrolled: 102 diabetic patients (102 eyes) and 48 normals, as controls. Exclusion criteria were previously treated DR, refractive error higher than \u00b1 3 diopters, and treated or untreated glaucoma. All patients underwent full ophthalmic examination, stereoscopic color fundus photography, and spectral domain optical coherence tomography (RS-3000; Nidek). Spectral domain optical coherence tomography examination consisted of linear scans, 6 mm in length, centered onto the fovea, and circle scan positioned around the optic disk (3.46 mm in diameter). Choroidal thickness was measured manually at the fovea and at 1, 2, and 3 mm distance along all scans in the macula. Peripapillary CT was measured at eight points along the circle scan. All measurements were performed independently by 2 masked graders. Mean age was not significantly different between patients with diabetes and controls. In the macular area, CT was significantly lower in the nasal quadrant versus all other quadrants (P < 0.0001), in both groups. In the peripapillary area, CT was significantly lower in the inferior quadrant versus all other quadrants (P < 0.05), in both groups. Mean macular and peripapillary CT progressively and significantly decreased with increasing level of DR (nonproliferative and proliferative DR vs. controls, P < 0.05). No significant CT difference was found between controls and diabetic eyes without detectable DR. Diabetic macular edema did not influence CT. Interobserver coefficient of repeatability was 28.8 (95% confidence interval, 24.8-32.8) for foveal measurements and 13.0 (95% confidence interval, 11.2-14.8) for peripapillary measurements. Pearson correlation coefficient was 0.99, and P <0.0001 for all measurements. Choroidal thickness is reduced in diabetic eyes and parallels appearance and evolution of DR. Spectral domain optical coherence tomography clearly confirms in vivo previously reported histopathologic observations. The role of choroid in the pathophysiology of DR needs to be adequately investigated."}
{"id": "22856228", "title": "Macular thickness and volume parameters measured using optical coherence tomography (OCT) for evaluation of glaucoma patients.", "content": "Macular thickness and volume parameters measured using optical coherence tomography (OCT) for evaluation of glaucoma patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate macular thickness parameters in glaucoma patients and to compare them to normal subjects using Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT). This prospective, observational study included 20 primary open angle glaucoma patients (POAG) and 20 healthy subjects in control group. Exclusion criteria were diabetes and other macular pathology, like age-related macular degeneration, macular oedema, central serous retinopathy and high myopia >4.00 dsph. OCT imaging of peripapillar retina and macular area were performed using Cirrus HD OCT In these two groups of patients we analyzed changes of macular thickness parameters (central subfield thickness, macular volume, and average macular thickness). The group of glaucoma patients had decreased values of the two macular thickness parameters: macular volume and average macular thickness, compared to control group. There was no difference in central macular thickness, presumably because of the absence of the ganglion cells in this layer. Macular imaging can be a useful additional method to determine glaucoma status and has a potential for tracking glaucoma progression."}
{"id": "22836760", "title": "Behavior of SD-OCT-detected hyperreflective foci in the retina of anti-VEGF-treated patients with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Behavior of SD-OCT-detected hyperreflective foci in the retina of anti-VEGF-treated patients with diabetic macular edema. Hyperreflective foci (HFs) are observable within the neurosensory retina in diabetic macular edema (DME) using spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). HFs have also been seen in wet age-related macular degeneration (AMD), although the origin is still unknown; however, they reduced significantly during anti-VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) therapy, and their baseline amount seemed to correlate with treatment success. In this study the behavior of HFs was evaluated during anti-VEGF therapy for DME. Fifty-one patients (mean age: 67 years) underwent SD-OCT before and one month after one anti-VEGF injection (ranibizumab: n = 30; bevacizumab: n = 21). The HFs were semiquantitatively counted, assigned to three groups (group A: HFs n = 1-10; group B: n = 11-20; group C: n > 20), and correlated to the course of visual acuity and foveal thickness (paired t-test). Additionally the baseline HbA1c was categorized and correlated to baseline HFs (Spearman Rho). In all eyes, HFs of various amounts were detected in the foveal and parafoveal area. The mean number of HFs reduced significantly from 16.02 to 14.32 in all patients (P = 0.000), whereas foveal thickness reduced from 445.5 to 373.9 \u03bcm (P = 0.000) and visual acuity increased from 62.0 to 66.0 ETDRS letters (P = 0.003). Regarding the three HF groups, a reduction of the level stages was observed in 43.1% (stable: 54.9%; more: 2.0%). This reflects a HF distribution change from 31.4% to 62.7% (group A), from 45.1% to 31.4% (group B), and from 23.5% to 5.9% (group C). The HbA1c correlated significantly to the overall HF amount at baseline (0.880; P = 0.000); however, no distinct overall correlation was found between the HF reduction and the course of visual acuity or retinal thickness. Only in cases of complete edema resolution (25%) did HFs reduce significantly (P = 0.008). As in wet AMD, HFs are frequently found in DME and behave similarly under anti-VEGF therapy. Thus, a HF reduction was observable mainly in cases of complete edema resolution; however, no distinct correlation with visual acuity was noticed, presumably mainly due to the enhanced inhomogeneity in the disease progress of DME. Interestingly, the baseline HF amount seems to correlate positively with HbA1c values indicating the severity of disease."}
{"id": "22827402", "title": "Comparison of low-light nonmydriatic digital imaging with 35-mm ETDRS seven-standard field stereo color fundus photographs and clinical examination.", "content": "Comparison of low-light nonmydriatic digital imaging with 35-mm ETDRS seven-standard field stereo color fundus photographs and clinical examination. To compare agreement between diagnosis of clinical level of diabetic retinopathy (DR) and diabetic macular edema (DME) derived from nonmydriatic fundus images using a digital camera back optimized for low-flash image capture (MegaVision) compared with standard seven-field Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) photographs and dilated clinical examination. Subject comfort and image acquisition time were also evaluated. In total, 126 eyes from 67 subjects with diabetes underwent Joslin Vision Network nonmydriatic retinal imaging. ETDRS photographs were obtained after pupillary dilation, and fundus examination was performed by a retina specialist. There was near-perfect agreement between MegaVision and ETDRS photographs (\u03ba=0.81, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.73-0.89) for clinical DR severity levels. Substantial agreement was observed with clinical examination (\u03ba=0.71, 95% CI 0.62-0.80). For DME severity level there was near-perfect agreement with ETDRS photographs (\u03ba=0.92, 95% CI 0.87-0.98) and moderate agreement with clinical examination (\u03ba=0.58, 95% CI 0.46-0.71). The wider MegaVision 45\u00b0 field led to identification of nonproliferative changes in areas not imaged by the 30\u00b0 field of ETDRS photos. Field area unique to ETDRS photographs identified proliferative changes not visualized with MegaVision. Mean MegaVision acquisition time was 9:52 min. After imaging, 60% of subjects preferred the MegaVision lower flash settings. When evaluated using a rigorous protocol, images captured using a low-light digital camera compared favorably with ETDRS photography and clinical examination for grading level of DR and DME. Furthermore, these data suggest the importance of more extensive peripheral images and suggest that utilization of wide-field retinal imaging may further improve accuracy of DR assessment."}
{"id": "22822903", "title": "Acute exudative paraneoplastic polymorphous vitelliform maculopathy in five cases.", "content": "Acute exudative paraneoplastic polymorphous vitelliform maculopathy in five cases. To evaluate clinical features, course, and outcome of patients with acute exudative paraneoplastic polymorphous vitelliform maculopathy (AEPPVM). Retrospective case series of 5 patients. There were 3 males and 2 females, with a median age of 74 years. The primary neoplasms were cutaneous melanoma (n = 2), choroidal melanoma (n = 1), lung adenocarcinoma (n = 1), and lung plus breast adenocarcinoma (n = 1). The mean interval between the diagnosis of the primary neoplasm and the diagnosis of AEPPVM was 42 months. The presenting symptom was blurred vision in all cases. Ophthalmoscopy disclosed multifocal localized shallow serous detachments of the post-equatorial neurosensory retina with yellow-white subretinal debris confirmed by optical coherence tomography (OCT). There was a mean of 21 individual sites of detachment per eye, each measuring a mean of approximately 0.8 millimeter in diameter. Fundus autofluorescence depicted hyperautofluorescence corresponding to the detachments. After mean follow-up of 5 months, three patients had died of metastases. Of the two survivors, one showed resolution of lesions and the other was unchanged. AEPPVM is a paraneoplastic retinopathy found in patients with metastatic melanoma or carcinoma. The most salient feature is reduced visual acuity from multifocal shallow retinal detachments less than 1-mm diameter, best depicted on OCT."}
{"id": "22776935", "title": "Bevacizumab therapy for tamoxifen-induced crystalline retinopathy and severe cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Bevacizumab therapy for tamoxifen-induced crystalline retinopathy and severe cystoid macular edema."}
{"id": "22774596", "title": "[Subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation combined with direct photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema in Japanese patients].", "content": "[Subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation combined with direct photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema in Japanese patients]. To investigate the efficacy of subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation (SMDLP) combined with direct photocoagulation. Twenty one eyes of 20 patients with diabetic macular edema were treated with SMDLP and direct photocoagulation for microaneurysms within 1 month after SMDLP. The mean visual acuity in logMAR units and central macular thickness (CMT) were evaluated both before and after laser treatment by retrospective chart review and optical coherence tomography (OCT). The mean visual acuity did not change significantly at 3 and at 6 months. The mean CMT was significantly reduced at 3 and 6 months (3 months: p = 0.018, 6 months: p = 0.004). Visual acuity improved or maintained for 6 months in all of the patients (100%, 20 eyes of 20 patients). SMDLP combined with direct photocoagulation maintains visual acuity and improves diabetic macular edema for at least 6 months."}
{"id": "22746671", "title": "Rebound effect after intravitreal dexamethasone implant for the treatment of macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Rebound effect after intravitreal dexamethasone implant for the treatment of macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion. To report on the rebound macular edema (ME) effect following dexamethasone implant for the treatment of nonischemic central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). Twenty-one patients affected by ME secondary to central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) underwent an implant of dexamethasone (700\u2009\u03bcg) in a compassionate use program. The patients were followed up monthly. The Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central retinal thickness (CRT) on optical coherence tomography (OCT), and intraocular pressure were registered at monthly intervals. Retreatments were carried out on a pro-re-nata (PRN) basis starting from the third month. Both BCVA and CRT improved in all cases. A rebound effect, characterized by a recurrence of ME in excess of the baseline value, occurred in 3 cases (13%) at months 3 and 4. Visual acuity accordingly dropped at the higher CRT values in the 3 cases displaying the rebound effect. Additional treatment with dexamethasone implant led to both a recovery in visual acuity and reduction in CRT. A rebound effect can occur after dexamethasone implant for the treatment of ME related to CRVO, but does not affect functional or anatomical recovery when retreatment is provided. The retreatment rate with dexamethasone implant should be adapted to suit the patient's response."}
{"id": "22740015", "title": "[Measurement of retinal thickness with the Heidelberg retina tomograph for patients with macular edema and healthy individuals].", "content": "[Measurement of retinal thickness with the Heidelberg retina tomograph for patients with macular edema and healthy individuals]. This study was carried out to test the reliability of a defined cut-off value for retinal thickness with estimation of the sensitivity, specificity and formation of an edema index in comparison to retinal thickness. This was a single center prospective clinical non-blinded study of 100 eyes, including 22 eyes with central vein or branch vein occlusions, 20 eyes with diabetic macular edema, 6 eyes with postoperative macular edema, 2 eyes with uveitis and 50 healthy eyes. Detection of macular edema was carried out by third generation optical coherence tomography. Using the latest version of the Heidelberg retina tomograph (HRT 3) series of five images were produced and evaluated. The 9-zone circle of the HRT was used as the analysis contour. The reliability of measuring retinal thickness with the HRT in the subjects showed an intraclass correlation between 0.248 and 0.740 and patients with macular edema showed values between 0.515 and 0.949. The reliability of the edema index with the HRT in the subjects showed an intraclass correlation between 0.461 and 0.826 and patients with macular edema showed values between 0.383 and 0.826. The calculated cut-off values were between 285\u00a0\u00b5m and 360\u00a0\u00b5m. The corresponding sensitivity values were between 74.7% and 95.9% with a corresponding specificity of 74.7-90.2%. There was also a highly significant correlation between the edema index and retinal thickness (p\u2009<\u20090.001). The retina module of the latest generation HRT is capable of reproducible measurement of the retinal thickness in micrometers. The defined cut-off values correspond to expectations and can be used in this form in the clinical practice."}
{"id": "22731242", "title": "The eyes have it! Tamoxifen maculopathy revisited: a case report.", "content": "The eyes have it! Tamoxifen maculopathy revisited: a case report. To report on tamoxifen crystalline maculopathy in an 80-year-old patient and to review the ocular side effects of oral tamoxifen. We report a case of an 80-year-old female patient who presented to our ophthalmic institute with painless gradual progressive diminution of vision in both eyes. She had a history of surgery for breast cancer after which she had been treated with oral tamoxifen citrate for 2 years before presentation. Our patient had profound visual impairment in both eyes. The anterior segments were found to be normal; in particular, the corneas were clear; the intraocular pressures in both eyes were 12\u2009mm Hg. The perimacular region in both eyes showed deposits of multiple, fine crystalline material. Color vision was found to be impaired in both eyes and optical coherence tomography (OCT) confirmed the diagnosis of tamoxifen-induced maculopathy. Tamoxifen is a selective estrogen receptor modulator widely used in the treatment of hormone-responsive breast cancer. Ocular complications are rare with tamoxifen therapy and include cataract, vortex keratopathy, optic neuritis, and retinopathy. Crystalline maculopathy is one of the rare side effects of long-term tamoxifen use, which can be detected by noninvasive diagnostic tools such as OCT. Our patient is the oldest such patient reported in literature. Patients receiving tamoxifen therapy must be informed about the potential side-effects, and the need for serial ophthalmic examination to detect early signs of toxicity."}
{"id": "22727177", "title": "Sustained delivery fluocinolone acetonide vitreous inserts provide benefit for at least 3 years in patients with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Sustained delivery fluocinolone acetonide vitreous inserts provide benefit for at least 3 years in patients with diabetic macular edema. To assess long-term efficacy and safety of intravitreal inserts releasing 0.2 \u03bcg/d (low dose) or 0.5 \u03bcg/d (high dose) fluocinolone acetonide (FAc) in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). Two randomized, sham injection-controlled, double-masked, multicenter clinical trials. Subjects with persistent DME despite \u22651 macular laser treatment were randomized 1:2:2 to sham injection (n = 185), low-dose insert (n = 375), or high-dose insert (n = 393). Subjects received study drug or sham injection and after 6 weeks were eligible for rescue laser. Based on retreatment criteria, additional study drug or sham injections could be given after 1 year. Percentage of patients with improvement of \u226515 letters from baseline. Secondary outcomes included other parameters of visual function and foveal thickness. At month 36, the percentage of patients who gained \u226515 in letter score using the last observation carried forward method was 28.7% (low dose) and 27.8% (high dose) in the FAc insert groups compared with 18.9% (P = 0.018) in the sham group, and considering only those patients still in the trial at month 36, it was 33.0% (low dose) and 31.9% (high dose) compared with 21.4% in the sham group (P = 0.030). Preplanned subgroup analysis demonstrated a doubling of benefit compared with sham injections in patients who reported duration of DME \u22653 years at baseline; the percentage who gained \u226515 in letter score at month 36 was 34.0% (low dose; P<0.001) or 28.8% (high dose; P = 0.002) compared with 13.4% (sham). An improvement \u22652 steps in the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study retinopathy scale occurred in 13.7% (low dose) and 10.1% (high dose) compared with 8.9% in the sham group. Almost all phakic patients in the FAc insert groups developed cataract, but their visual benefit after cataract surgery was similar to that in pseudophakic patients. The incidence of incisional glaucoma surgery at month 36 was 4.8% in the low-dose group and 8.1% in the high-dose insert group. In patients with DME FAc inserts provide substantial visual benefit for up to 3 years and would provide a valuable addition to the options available for patients with DME."}
{"id": "22714043", "title": "High prevalence of sleep disordered breathing in patients with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "High prevalence of sleep disordered breathing in patients with diabetic macular edema. Diabetic retinopathy is more common and severe in patients with sleep disordered breathing (SDB). This study aimed to establish whether this is also true for patients with diabetic clinically significant macular edema (CSME). It is hypothesized that SDB, through intermittent hypoxia and blood pressure oscillations, might provoke worsening of CSME. Patients with CSME had a home sleep study (ApneaLink; ResMed) to identify SDB. These results were compared with relevant control populations. Macular thickness was measured using optical coherence tomography, and retinal photographs were graded to assess the severity of retinopathy. Eighty of 195 patients (40 men) consented, with average age of 64.7 (11.7) years, neck circumference of 40.4 (5.4) cm, body mass index of 30.2 (6.2) kg/m2, glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) 7.8% (1.4%) [62 (8.0) mmol/mol], and Epworth sleepiness scale of 7.4 (4.8). Overall, 54% had an oxygen desaturation index \u2265 10, and 31% had an apnea-hypopnea index \u2265 15. This SDB prevalence is probably higher than would be expected from the available matched control data. Those with SDB were not sleepier, but they were older and more obese. No significant relationship was identified between the degree of macular thickness and the severity of SDB. Individuals with CSME have a high prevalence of SDB. Sleep disordered breathing may contribute to the pathophysiology of CSME, but the mechanism remains unclear. Given the high prevalence, retinal specialists should perhaps consider a diagnosis of SDB in patients with CSME."}
{"id": "22699976", "title": "Two-wavelength fundus autofluorescence and macular pigment optical density imaging in diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Two-wavelength fundus autofluorescence and macular pigment optical density imaging in diabetic macular oedema. To evaluate the application of 488 and 514 nm fundus autofluorescence (FAF) and macular pigment optical density (MPOD) imaging in diabetic macular oedema (DMO) and to demonstrate the typical imaging features. A hundred and twenty-five eyes of 71 consecutive patients with diabetic retinopathy who underwent examination at a specialist university clinic employing a modified Heidelberg Retina Angiograph, using two different light sources of 488 and 514 nm wavelength, were retrospectively reviewed. MPOD images were calculated using modified Heidelberg Eye Explorer software. All images were evaluated by two independent masked graders. Features from FAF and MPOD images were correlated with optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging findings and inter-grader variability, sensitivity and specificity were calculated using OCT as reference. Sixty-seven eyes had DMO on OCT. The inter-grader variability was 0.84 for 488 nm FAF, 0.63 for 514 nm FAF and 0.79 for MPOD imaging. Sensitivity and specificity for detection of DMO were 80.6 and 89.7% for 488 nm FAF; 55.2 and 94.8% for 514 nm FAF; and 80.6 and 91.4% for MPOD imaging. In 488 nm FAF and MPOD imaging, DMO was better visualised in comparison with 514 nm FAF imaging, P<0.01. MPOD revealed displacement of macular pigment by intraretinal cysts. MPOD imaging, and particularly its combination with 488 nm and 514 nm FAF, provides a valuable addition to OCT in the evaluation of DMO and is clinically useful in rapid en-face assessment of the central macula."}
{"id": "22644004", "title": "Expected value of foveal thickness in macular edema in Mexican patients with diabetes.", "content": "Expected value of foveal thickness in macular edema in Mexican patients with diabetes. The tomographic cut-off point to detect macular edema uses an international reference of retinal thickness, which is greater than that in our population. We undertook this study to identify the expected value of central subfield mean thickness (CSMT) in Mexican patients with diabetes with clinically significant macular edema (CSME) and the proportion in which using only the tomographic cut-off point for clinical macular edema (>300 \u03bcm) could overlook the diagnosis. We carried out an observational, analytical, crosssectional and prospective study. Eyes of diabetic patients with CSME (January 2006-June 2007) with a fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography were included. The sample was divided according to angiographic type: monofocal (group 1), multifocal (group 2), or diffuse (group 3). The mean of CSMT of each group was weighed by the proportion represented by each group to calculate the all-type expected value. The proportion of eyes with CSMT = 300 \u03bcm was identified. Ninety-three eyes were included. Mean age was 60.9 years; there were 57 females (61.3%). Forty-one eyes were assigned to group 1 (44.1%, CSMT 210.63 \u03bcm), 31 to group 2 (33.3%, CSMT 279.65 \u03bcm), and 21 to group 3 (22.6%, CSMT 327.14 \u03bcm). The expected value of CSMT was 259.9 \u03bcm, 37.75% over the normal reference in the study population and 23% over the American reference. CSMT was <300 \u03bcm in 79.6% of the eyes (95% CI 71.4-87.8). The expected value of CSMT in Mexican patients with diabetes with CSME was within the range internationally regarded as subclinical. Using local references of CSMT is recommended to avoid overlooking the diagnosis of CSME and overestimating its treatment effect."}
{"id": "22627119", "title": "Longer axial length is protective of diabetic retinopathy and macular edema.", "content": "Longer axial length is protective of diabetic retinopathy and macular edema. To assess the association of ocular biometric parameters and refractive error with diabetic retinopathy (DR) and diabetic macular edema (DME) in persons with diabetes. Cross-sectional, clinic-based study. Patients with diabetes aged 18 years or more from the Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital, Victoria, Australia. Spherical equivalent (SE) refraction was assessed using objective autorefraction. Axial length (AL), corneal curvature (CC), and anterior chamber depth (ACD) were measured using the IOLMaster (Carl Zeiss Meditech AG, Jena, Germany). Diabetic retinopathy was graded from 2-field retinal photographs using the modified Airlie House classification system. Diabetic macular edema was defined as absent or present from fundus photographs and confirmed by optical coherence tomography (Stratus, Carl Zeiss Meditech AG). Severity of DR was grouped as no DR, mild DR (Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study [ETDRS] = 20), moderate DR (ETDRS = 31-43), and severe DR (ETDRS >43). Diabetic macular edema severity was classified as mild, moderate, or severe. A total of 208 of 630 eyes (33.0%) had DR. In multivariate models, eyes with longer AL were less likely to have mild (odds ratio [OR], 0.58; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.41-0.83; P = 0.006 per mm increase), moderate (OR, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.60-0.88; P = 0.002), and severe DR (OR, 0.67; 95% CI, 0.53-0.85; P=0.01), and had a lesser risk of mild (OR, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.56-0.86; P < 0.001) and moderate DME (OR, 0.72; 95% CI, 0.56-0.93; P=0.002) but not severe DME. No association was found for SE, ACD, and CC with DR. In persons with diabetes, eyes with longer ALs are less likely to have DR and DME."}
{"id": "22617833", "title": "Cytokine concentration in aqueous humor of eyes with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Cytokine concentration in aqueous humor of eyes with diabetic macular edema. To measure cytokine concentrations in aqueous humor of eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema. The interventional clinical comparative study included a study group of 23 patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema and a control group of 22 patients undergoing cataract surgery. Cytokine concentrations were measured in aqueous humor samples using a Luminex xMAP suspension array technology. In the study group as compared with the control group, significantly higher concentrations were measured for epidermal growth factor (P < 0.001), human growth factor (P < 0.001), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1; P < 0.001), interleukin (IL)-1a2 (P = 0.04), IL-6 (P = 0.001), IL-8 (P < 0.001), interferon gamma-induced protein (P = 0.004), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (P < 0.001), monokine induced by interferon gamma (P < 0.001), matrix metalloproteinase 1 (P = 0.02), matrix metalloproteinase 9 (P < 0.001), plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (P < 0.001), placenta growth factor (P < 0.001), tissue growth factor beta (P = 0.003), vascular cell adhesion molecule (P < 0.001), and vascular endothelial growth factor (P < 0.001). Retinal macula thickness was significantly associated with the concentrations of the epidermal growth factor (P = 0.005; \u03c1 = 0.45), ICAM-1 (P < 0.001; \u03c1 = 0.65), IL-3 (P = 0.002; \u03c1 = 0.48), IL-6 (P = 0.003; \u03c1 = 0.47), IL-8 (P < 0.001; \u03c1 = 0.71), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (P = 0.001; \u03c1 = 0.53), monokine induced by interferon gamma (P < 0.001; \u03c1 = 0.57), matrix metalloproteinase 9 (P < 0.001; \u03c1 = 0.61), tissue growth factor beta (P = 0.01; \u03c1 = 0.42), placenta growth factor (P = 0.004; \u03c1 = 0.46), vascular cell adhesion molecule (P = 0.006; \u03c1 = 0.44), and vascular endothelial growth factor (P = 0.01; \u03c1 = 0.42). In multivariate analysis, macular thickness remained to be significantly associated with the concentration of ICAM-1 (P = 0.03; r = 0.30). Vascular endothelial growth factor concentrations were correlated with concentration of placenta growth factor (P < 0.001; \u03c1 = 0.78), plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (P = 0.001; \u03c1 = 0.54), ICAM-1 (P < 0.001; \u03c1 = 0.47), monokine induced by interferon gamma (P = 0.004; \u03c1 = 0.44), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (P = 0.003; \u03c1 = 0.43), vascular cell adhesion molecule (P = 0.01; \u03c1 = 0.38), IL-6 (P = 0.02; \u03c1 = 0.35), IL-8 (P = 0.02; \u03c1 = 0.37), epidermal growth factor (P = 0.01; \u03c1 = 0.39), and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (P = 0.01; \u03c1 = 0.37). Numerous cytokines are associated with the presence and the amount of diabetic macular edema. Among these cytokines, ICAM-1 was the most significantly associated with the disease parameters."}
{"id": "22569393", "title": "Change in macular thickness in a case of refractory diabetic macular edema with dexamethasone intravitreal implant in comparison to intravitreal bevacizumab: a case report.", "content": "Change in macular thickness in a case of refractory diabetic macular edema with dexamethasone intravitreal implant in comparison to intravitreal bevacizumab: a case report. We report on the significant improvement of central macular thickness in a case of clinically significant macular edema after dexamethasone 0.7 mg sustained-release intravitreal implant (Ozurdex\u00ae; Allergan, Inc, Irvine, CA, USA). Patient presented to us with persistent clinically significant macular edema (CSME) in both eyes. Right eye received dexamethasone implant and left eye received two intravitreal bevacizumab injections 1.25 mg/0.05 mL (Avastin\u00ae; Genentech Inc., South San Francisco, CA, USA) with an interval of four weeks. After six weeks of follow-up, dexamethasone implant in the right eye showed normal macular thickness whereas persistent macular edema (ME) was found even after second intravitreal bevacizumab injection in the left eye."}
{"id": "22559933", "title": "A homozygous frameshift mutation in LRAT causes retinitis punctata albescens.", "content": "A homozygous frameshift mutation in LRAT causes retinitis punctata albescens. To determine the genetic defect and to describe the clinical characteristics in patients with retinitis punctata albescens (RPA) and fundus albipunctatus (FAP). Case series/observational study. We included 13 patients affected by RPA or FAP. Thirteen patients were collected from 8 families with a retinal dystrophy characterized by tiny, yellow-white dots on funduscopy, typical for FAP or RPA. All patients underwent full ophthalmologic examinations, including visual field assessment. Fundus photography, and electroretinography were performed in 12 patients, and optical coherence tomography and fundus autofluorescence were performed in 4 patients. DNA samples of all patients were screened for mutations in RLBP1 and for mutations in RDH5 in patients who did not carry mutations in RLBP1. DNA samples of 2 sibling pairs of nonconsanguineous families who carried mutations neither in RLBP1 nor in RDH5 were analyzed by genome-wide homozygosity mapping. Sequence analysis was performed of LRAT, a candidate gene in a shared homozygous region. We assessed DNA sequence variants, best-corrected visual acuity, fundus appearance, visual field measurements, electroretinogram responses, optical coherence tomography, and fundus autofluorescence. A homozygous frameshift mutation was identified in LRAT in 4 patients with RPA. Mutations in RLBP1 were identified in 7 patients with RPA and in 1 patient with FAP and cone dystrophy. One patient had compound heterozygous mutations in RDH5 and suffered from FAP with mild maculopathy. A genetic defect was identified in LRAT as a novel cause of RPA. LRAT is therefore the fourth gene involved in the visual cycle that may cause a white-dot retinopathy. We also revealed that mutations in RLBP1 may lead to FAP with cone dystrophy."}
{"id": "22555828", "title": "[Posterior vitreous detachment and cystoid macular oedema post-cataract surgery: a case report].", "content": "[Posterior vitreous detachment and cystoid macular oedema post-cataract surgery: a case report]. The posterior vitreous detachment consists in the separation between the posterior vitreal cortex and internal limiting membrane of the retina. This is the peak of the vitreal para-physiological age-related modifications. This problem occurs in 6% of normal people of age between 45 and 65 years and in 65% of individuals between 65 and 85 years. Several elements can be responsible for vitreous modifications, such as senility, myopia, aphakia, pseudophakia, diabetes, degeneration vitreous retinal hereditary, traumatisms, inflammation. A 75 year old male patient has come to our attention for a left eye cataract. He has undergone to a series of OCT: the first before surgery showed a perifoveal vitreous detachmen; the following ones until six months after surgery put in evidence the DPV progression accompanied by EMC, relating it with visual symptomatology. Therefore, OCT is a useful tool for a clinical analysis but also for the contribution to research concerning the pathogenesis of diseases due to vitreo-retinal modification."}
{"id": "22550713", "title": "[Modern aspects of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular oedema treatment].", "content": "[Modern aspects of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular oedema treatment]. Main reasons of eyesight deterioration in diabetic patients are diabetic retinopathy (DR) and diabetic macular oedema (DMO). International multicenter studies have shown that retinal laser coagulation in the event of DMO decreases the risk of eyesight loss in 50%, though only in 16% patients it was also possible to improve their eyesight. Use of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitor--Ranibizumab--have opened a new era in DMA treatment. It's efficacy and safety have been proven in several international studies. This article contains our own data upon the use of Lucentis in patients with DMO. Intravitreal Luzentis injections and subsequent retinal lasercoagulation in the macular zone were performed on 43 eyes; follow up period--6 months. Additional injections were required in 19 cases, average amount of injections--1,4. Mean corrected visual acuity before the treatment was 0,37 +/- 0,06, after 7 days, 1, 3 and 6 months. - respectively 0,41 +/- 0,06, 0,49 +/- 0,06, 0,51 +/- 0,07 and 0,52 +/- 0,07(p<0,05). Mean retina thickness in central zone was 428 +/- 125 mkm before treatment, 391 +/- 24 mkm 7 days after the last injection 349 +/- 23, 313 +/- 21 and 308 +/- 20 mkm (p<0,05) after 1, 3 and 6 months. In addition to that Luzentis use in preoperative period in patients with non-complicated proliferative DR allowed to decrease the risk of hemorrhagic complications. Thereby, intravitreal injections of Luzentis improve functional result of treatment of patients with DMO, increase efficacy and safety of surgical interventions in patients with complicated forms of proliferating DR."}
{"id": "22539259", "title": "Microcystic macular oedema in multiple sclerosis is associated with disease severity.", "content": "Microcystic macular oedema in multiple sclerosis is associated with disease severity. Macular oedema typically results from blood-retinal barrier disruption. It has recently been reported that patients with multiple sclerosis treated with FTY-720 (fingolimod) may exhibit macular oedema. Multiple sclerosis is not otherwise thought to be associated with macular oedema except in the context of comorbid clinical uveitis. Despite a lack of myelin, the retina is a site of inflammation and microglial activation in multiple sclerosis and demonstrates significant neuronal and axonal loss. We unexpectedly observed microcystic macular oedema using spectral domain optical coherence tomography in patients with multiple sclerosis who did not have another reason for macular oedema. We therefore evaluated spectral domain optical coherence tomography images in consecutive patients with multiple sclerosis for microcystic macular oedema and examined correlations between macular oedema and visual and ambulatory disability in a cross-sectional analysis. Participants were excluded if there was a comorbidity that could account for the presence of macular oedema, such as uveitis, diabetes or other retinal disease. A microcystic pattern of macular oedema was observed on optical coherence tomography in 15 of 318 (4.7%) patients with multiple sclerosis. No macular oedema was identified in 52 healthy controls assessed over the same period. The microcystic oedema predominantly involved the inner nuclear layer of the retina and tended to occur in small, discrete patches. Patients with multiple sclerosis with microcystic macular oedema had significantly worse disability [median Expanded Disability Score Scale 4 (interquartile range 3-6)] than patients without macular oedema [median Expanded Disability Score Scale 2 (interquartile range 1.5-3.5)], P\u2009=\u20090.0002. Patients with multiple sclerosis with microcystic macular oedema also had higher Multiple Sclerosis Severity Scores, a measure of disease progression, than those without oedema [median of 6.47 (interquartile range 4.96-7.98) versus 3.65 (interquartile range 1.92-5.87), P\u2009=\u20090.0009]. Microcystic macular oedema occurred more commonly in eyes with prior optic neuritis than eyes without prior optic neuritis (50 versus 27%) and was associated with lower visual acuity (median logMAR acuity of 0.17 versus -0.1) and a thinner retinal nerve fibre layer. The presence of microcystic macular oedema in multiple sclerosis suggests that there may be breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier and tight junction integrity in a part of the nervous system that lacks myelin. Microcystic macular oedema may also contribute to visual dysfunction beyond that explained by nerve fibre layer loss. Microcystic changes need to be assessed, and potentially adjusted for, in clinical trials that evaluate macular volume as a marker of retinal ganglion cell survival. These findings also have implications for clinical monitoring in patients with multiple sclerosis on sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulating agents."}
{"id": "22532038", "title": "[Navigated focal retinal laser therapy using the NAVILAS\u00ae system for diabetic macula edema].", "content": "[Navigated focal retinal laser therapy using the NAVILAS\u00ae system for diabetic macula edema]. The aim of this study was to investigate the accuracy of a navigated laser photocoagulator in clinically significant macular edema (CSME). Focal laser treatment for diabetic macular edema (DME) in 36 patients was digitally planned on fundus images and performed with navigation using NAVILAS\u00ae (OD-OS, Teltow, Germany). Treatment intensity was controlled visually during treatment so the laser spots applied were barely directly visible after treatment. Using color images (CI) and optical coherence tomography (OCT) 4,137 laser spots (mean 115 per eye) were analyzed at 1 month follow-up and accuracy of spot placement was determined. In total 79% of laser spots were visible on CI of which 96% were within 100\u00a0\u00b5m of the planned target position. On an intention-to-treat (ITT) basis, 76% of the laser spots were placed and visible within the 100\u00a0\u00b5m target and OCT confirmed that laser effects were limited to the outer retina. The mean time for focal treatment was <\u20097\u00a0min (\u00b13\u00a0min). After NAVILAS treatment for DME a high percentage of laser effects could be visualized on post-treatment color images and the location showed high concordance with the preplanning target."}
{"id": "22499985", "title": "Differential optical density of subretinal spaces.", "content": "Differential optical density of subretinal spaces. We investigated the optical density characteristics of 3subretinal spaces in neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic retinopathy (DR), rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (RRD), central serous retinopathy (CSR), retinoschisis (RS), and pseudophakic cystoids macular edema (PCME). Patients in whom subretinal fluid (SRF) was detected by optical coherence tomography (OCT), and whose earliest OCT scans showed sufficient SRF for sampling that did not include tissue edges, were chosen for study. The highest quality B-scan containing SRF (as graded by the OCT image acquisition software) was analyzed. Optical density measurements were obtained using ImageJ, an open code Java-based image processing software. The diagnoses of the 71 patients who met the inclusion criteria were AMD in 17, DR in 7, RRD in 18, CSR in 17, RS in 8, and PCME in 4. Optical density ratios (ODRs) were calculated as SRF OD divided by vitreous OD. ODRs were significantly higher in patients with AMD, DR, CSR, and PCME than in those with RRD and RS. No significant difference in vitreous reflectivity was detected between the former and latter patients. The finding that disease states produce significant changes in optical density ratios calls for further investigation of the possible usefulness of the parameter in differentiating between disease states, determining the outcome of various retinal diseases, and designing therapies aimed at treating the disease by correcting the abnormal density."}
{"id": "22495998", "title": "Central foveal thickness before and after cataract surgery in normal and in diabetic patients without retinopathy.", "content": "Central foveal thickness before and after cataract surgery in normal and in diabetic patients without retinopathy. This study aims to evaluate and compare central foveal thickness (CFT) changes after cataract surgery between normal and diabetic patients without retinopathy, using optical coherence tomography (OCT). Ninety-eight patients (49 patients with type 2 diabetes and 49 healthy controls, sex- and age-matched) undergoing phacoemulsification in one eye were included. The presence of retinopathy was an exclusion criterion. The OCT examination was performed preoperatively as well as one, three, six and twelve months postoperatively. CFT was evaluated and compared between groups. Preoperative CFT showed no significant difference between the two groups (normals: 205 \u00b1 18 \u03bcm vs. diabetics: 202 \u00b1 23 \u03bcm, p > 0.1). Postoperative CFT in diabetics at all time-points of the follow-up period was significantly increased when compared to controls (first month, normals: 215 \u00b1 28 \u03bcm vs. diabetics: 262 \u00b1 33 \u03bcm, p < 0.05; third month, normals: 211 \u00b1 19 \u03bcm vs. diabetics: 250 \u00b1 27 \u03bcm, p < 0.05; sixth month, normals: 208 \u00b1 12 \u03bcm vs. diabetics: 266 \u00b1 13 \u03bcm, p < 0.05; and twelfth month, normals: 209 \u00b1 13 \u03bcm vs. diabetics: 280 \u00b1 11 \u03bcm, p < 0.05). The incidence of cystoid macular edema (CME) was 4.0 % and 28.6 % for the control group and the diabetic group, respectively, at the end of the follow-up period (p < 0.05). Eyes of diabetic patients without retinopathy present higher CFT and a higher incidence of CME after cataract surgery on OCT examination compared to eyes of healthy controls. This may explain the unsatisfactory visual acuity following cataract surgery in these patients."}
{"id": "22495327", "title": "Intravitreal injection of ranibizumab during cataract surgery in patients with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal injection of ranibizumab during cataract surgery in patients with diabetic macular edema. To investigate macular thickness and visual acuity changes after 1 intravitreal injection of 0.5-mg ranibizumab during phacoemulsification cataract surgery in eyes with diabetic macular edema refractory to laser treatment. Eleven eyes of 11 patients with diabetic macular edema refractory to modified Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study laser therapy received intravitreal during phacoemulsification cataract surgery. Comprehensive ophthalmic evaluation was performed preoperatively and at 1, 4, 8 \u00b1 1, and 12 \u00b1 2 weeks postoperatively. Main outcome measures included central subfield thickness and best-corrected Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity. Eleven patients completed the 12-week study visit. Mean central subfield thickness (\u00b1 SEM) was 399.82 \u00b1 29.50 \u03bcm at baseline and did not change significantly at any postoperative study visit (P > 0.05). Mean (\u00b1 SEM) best-corrected Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity was 0.95 \u00b1 0.13 logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (20/200) at baseline and was significantly improved at Weeks 1 (0.38 \u00b1 0.13), 4 (0.38 \u00b1 0.11), 8 (0.35 \u00b1 0.08), and 12 (0.46 \u00b1 0.12) after treatment (P < 0.05). In this case series of patients with diabetic macular edema refractory to laser therapy, intravitreal ranibizumab administered during cataract surgery was associated with no significant change in central subfield thickness postoperatively. Significant improvement in best-corrected Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity was observed after treatment, likely because of cataract removal."}
{"id": "22491923", "title": "Adaptive optics and spectral- domain optical coherence tomography of human photoreceptor structure after short-duration [corrected] pascal macular grid and panretinal laser photocoagulation.", "content": "Adaptive optics and spectral- domain optical coherence tomography of human photoreceptor structure after short-duration [corrected] pascal macular grid and panretinal laser photocoagulation."}
{"id": "22491395", "title": "A 2-year prospective randomized controlled trial of intravitreal bevacizumab or laser therapy (BOLT) in the management of diabetic macular edema: 24-month data: report 3.", "content": "A 2-year prospective randomized controlled trial of intravitreal bevacizumab or laser therapy (BOLT) in the management of diabetic macular edema: 24-month data: report 3. To report the 2-year outcomes of the BOLT study, a prospective randomized controlled trial evaluating intravitreous bevacizumab and modified Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) macular laser therapy (MLT) in patients with persistent clinically significant macular edema (CSME). In a 2-year, single-center, randomized controlled trial, 80 patients with center-involving CSME and visual acuity of 20/40 to 20/320 were randomized to receive either bevacizumab or MLT. difference in ETDRS best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) between arms. mean change in BCVA, proportion gaining at least 15 and at least 10 ETDRS letters, losing fewer than 15 and at least 30 letters, change in central macular thickness, ETDRS retinopathy severity, and safety outcomes. At 2 years, mean (SD) ETDRS BCVA was 64.4 (13.3) (ETDRS equivalent Snellen fraction: 20/50) in the bevacizumab arm and 54.8 (12.6) (20/80) in the MLT arm (P=.005). The bevacizumab arm gained a median of 9 ETDRS letters vs 2.5 letters for MLT (P=.005), with a mean gain of 8.6 letters for bevacizumab vs amean loss of 0.5 letters for MLT. Forty-nine percent of patients gained 10 or more letters (P=.001) and 32% gained at least 15 letters (P=.004) for bevacizumab vs 7% and 4% for MLT. Percentage who lost fewer than 15 letters in the MLT arm was 86% vs 100% for bevacizumab (P=.03). Mean reduction in central macular thickness was 146 \u03bcm in the bevacizumab arm vs 118 \u03bcm in the MLT arm. The median number of treatments over 24 months was 13 for bevacizumab and 4 for MLT. This study provides evidence supporting longer-term use of intravitreous bevacizumab for persistent center-involving CSME. Improvements in BCVA and central macular thickness seen with bevacizumab at 1 year were maintained over the second year with a mean of 4 injections. eudract.ema.europa.eu Identifier: 2007-000847-89"}
{"id": "22489939", "title": "Scanning laser ophthalmoscopy in the retromode in diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Scanning laser ophthalmoscopy in the retromode in diabetic macular oedema. To determine the validity of scanning laser ophthalmoscopy in the retromode (RM-SLO) versus other imaging modalities in the diagnosis of diabetic macular oedema (DME). Two hundred and sixty-three eyes were examined. Inclusion criteria were any stage of untreated or treated diabetic retinopathy and four imaging modalities of the macula carried out on the same day: time domain optical coherence tomography (OCT), fundus autofluorescence (FAF), RM-SLO and fluorescein angiography (FA). Two masked retinal specialists independently graded all images. Agreement between RM-SLO and OCT, FA and FAF in evaluating the presence and patterns of DME was evaluated by kappa statistics, sensitivity, specificity, observed proportional agreement, and proportional agreement in positive and negative cases. The agreement in evaluating the presence/absence of DME between RM-SLO and OCT, FA and FAF was good: \u03ba = 0.73 (confidence interval; CI, 0.64-0.83), \u03ba = 0.71 (CI, 0.61-0.81) and \u03ba = 0.73 (CI, 0.63-0.83), respectively. The agreement in evaluating cystoid pattern of DME was almost perfect between RM-SLO and OCT, RM-SLO and FA, \u03ba > 0.8; and good between RM-SLO and FAF, \u03ba > 0.7. The agreement in evaluating the presence/absence of subfoveal neuroretinal was almost perfect between RM-SLO and OCT (\u03ba = 0.83; 95% CI, 0.70-0.96). Subfoveal neuroretinal detachment did not show any specific pattern on FA or FAF. Sensitivity and specificity of RM-SLO in evaluating DME was 97.7% and 71.9% versus OCT, 97.4% and 68.1% versus FA and 96.1% and 73.3% versus FAF. Retinal thickness of 233 \u03bcm represented the cut-off value to define DME by RM-SLO. The combined use of non-invasive imaging techniques can improve the diagnostic interpretation of different aspects of DME."}
{"id": "22486651", "title": "Intravitreal pegaptanib sodium (Macugen\u00ae) for treatment of diabetic macular oedema: a morphologic and functional study.", "content": "Intravitreal pegaptanib sodium (Macugen\u00ae) for treatment of diabetic macular oedema: a morphologic and functional study. To study whether morphologic (foveal thickness, FT) variations of clinically significant macular oedema (CMO) in patients suffering from diabetes following intravitreal pegaptanib sodium (IVP) injection were associated with functional [macular sensitivity (MS) and colour discrimination (CD)] changes. A longitudinal, interventional, non-randomized study was performed. FT was assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT), MS by microperimetry, best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) by early treatment diabetic retinopathy study charts (ETDRS) and CD by Farnswoth-Munsell test. The treatment protocol consisted of three consecutive injections (0.3\u2003mg/0.05\u2003ml; baseline, week 6 and week 12). Follow-up checks were scheduled at 18, 24, 36 and 48 weeks, after injections. Thirty eyes of 30 patients with clinically significant CMO were included for analysis. After IVP a significant decrease of FT occurred with a mean reduction from baseline of 56.9% (P= 0.0001). An improvement of functional parameters was recorded in all patients (BCVA from 18.2 \u00b1 8.5 letters to 25.5 \u00b1 8.4 letters, P < 0.005, MS from 8.6 \u00b1 2.16 dB to 10.6 \u00b1 2.61 dB, P < 0.001, colour analysis from 376.1 \u00b1 125.6 TES to 116 \u00b1 34.6 TES, P= 0.0001). A statistically significant correlation between FT and BCVA as well as MS and CD was also found. Neither ocular nor systemic adverse events were reported. Intravitreal pegaptanib significantly reduced FT, with a concomitant improvement of MS and CD. This association emphasizes the efficacy of IVP in the treatment of CMO."}
{"id": "22481482", "title": "Disrupted foveal photoreceptors after combined cystoid spaces and retinal detachment in branch vein occlusion treated with bevacizumab.", "content": "Disrupted foveal photoreceptors after combined cystoid spaces and retinal detachment in branch vein occlusion treated with bevacizumab. To investigate how combined cystoid spaces and serous retinal detachment affect photoreceptor status and visual acuity at final visit in macular edema associated with branch retinal vein occlusion. Forty-seven consecutive eyes from 47 patients with macular edema associated with branch retinal vein occlusion treated with intravitreal bevacizumab injection were retrospectively reviewed. Foveal pathomorphology on optical coherence tomography images were divided into two groups: those in which combined foveal cystoid spaces and serous retinal detachment were observed at least once (C+S(+)) and those in which they were not observed (C+S(-)). The relationship between foveal pathomorphology and photoreceptor status and logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution at final visit was investigated. Sixteen eyes were categorized as C+S(+), and the final visual acuity of C+S(+) group was significantly worse than that of C+S(-) group compared with no difference at baseline. Intriguingly, combined foveal pathomorphologies during the course were significantly associated with the absence of external limiting membrane and the junction of inner and outer segments at last visit. Using multivariable analysis, final logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution was significantly related to baseline logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution, diabetes, and C+S(+). Combined foveal cystoid spaces and retinal detachment during follow-up predict the disrupted foveal photoreceptors and concomitant poor final visual acuity in branch retinal vein occlusion treated with intravitreal bevacizumab injection."}
{"id": "22481473", "title": "New insights into the pathoanatomy of diabetic macular edema: angiographic patterns and optical coherence tomography.", "content": "New insights into the pathoanatomy of diabetic macular edema: angiographic patterns and optical coherence tomography. To describe the pathoanatomy of diabetic macular edema in optical coherence tomography and its correlation with fluorescein angiography patterns. Sixty eyes of 56 patients were analyzed. Diabetic macular edema was classified into typical focal leakage (from microaneurysm), typical diffuse leakage (the capillary plexus), or combined/questionable leakage using fluorescein angiography and retinal thickness profiles. The leakage and pooling patterns in fluorescein angiography were matched to the corresponding optical coherence tomography images and analyzed. Focal leakage shows swelling predominantly in the outer plexiform layer (OPL). Deeply located microaneurysms directly leak into the loose fiber portion of OPL (Henle layer) through the \"fluid conductivity barrier\" (synaptic portion of OPL). Diffuse leakage caused swelling predominantly in the inner nuclear layer and secondarily in the OPL. The deep capillary plexus is located between the two \"fluid barriers\" (inner plexiform layer and OPL); thus, diffuse leakage is primarily related with swelling in the inner nuclear layer. In the combined/questionable leakage, partial sections consisting of inner nuclear layer swelling and much larger areas of OPL/outer nuclear layer swelling are noticed. Based on the concept of the fluid conductivity barrier, we revealed a correlation between the intraretinal location of the leakage source and where the fluid accumulated within the retinal layers."}
{"id": "22472149", "title": "Disparity between foveal thickness and macular volume in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Disparity between foveal thickness and macular volume in diabetic macular edema. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) quantifies changes of foveal thickness and macular volume after photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema. Macular volume evaluates the whole macula, but it may underestimate changes in foveal thickness induced by photocoagulation. We undertook this study to evaluate the concordance between macular volume and foveal thickness for identifying clinically significant changes of retinal thickness after photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema. We carried out an observational, retrospective, longitudinal, analytical study. Center point thickness (CPT), central subfield mean thickness (CSMT) and macular volume were measured with OCT before photocoagulation and 3 weeks after in diabetic patients with focal macular edema (January 2006--January 2010). Concordance among variables to detect clinically significant changes (CPT >17%, CSMT >11%, macular volume >3%) was identified using the kappa test. Sixty eight eyes were included; 47 eyes had nonproliferative retinopathy (69.1%). CPT increased significantly in 14.7% of the sample; CSMT in 8.8%, and macular volume in 11.8%. CPT decreased significantly in 4.4%, CSMT in 8.8%, and macular volume in 42.6%. Concordance was regular for CPT and CSMT increased (57%). Concordance was good for CPT and CSMT decreased (64%). Concordance was regular for CSMT and macular volume decreased in eyes with center involvement (43%). The remaining concordances were poor. Two independent events happen after focal photocoagulation: involution of the original thickening and increase in CPT. In order to detect both events, evaluation of either foveal thickness alone or macular volume alone is insufficient. Identifying the efficacy and safety of treatments for diabetic macular edema requires simultaneous measurement of CPT and macular volume."}
{"id": "22466485", "title": "Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography imaging of retinal changes after conventional multicolor laser, subthreshold micropulse diode laser, or pattern scanning laser therapy in Japanese with macular edema.", "content": "Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography imaging of retinal changes after conventional multicolor laser, subthreshold micropulse diode laser, or pattern scanning laser therapy in Japanese with macular edema. To perform optical coherence tomography imaging of retinal healing after conventional multicolor laser, pattern scanning laser, or micropulse laser treatment and compare the characteristics of each method. This was a single-center interventional case series study. Twenty-nine patients with macular edema underwent laser photocoagulation. Changes of retinal morphology because of laser-tissue interaction were assessed within 3 months by using a spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. Immediately after conventional multicolor laser or pattern scanning laser treatment, a hyperreflective band appeared at the laser sites. The photoreceptor inner segment-outer segment line disappeared in all the patients treated with a conventional multicolor laser, but was intact in 22.2% (2/9 eyes) after pattern scanning laser. From 1 week to 1 month, the bands resolved. At 3 months, recovery of the inner segment-outer segment line surrounding the laser site was seen in all patients after conventional grid photocoagulation and pattern scanning laser. Retinal morphology did not change at any time during the observation period after subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation. The characteristic in vivo effects of retinal photocoagulation were monitored over time by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. Changes of retinal morphology appeared less intense after pattern scanning laser than conventional grid laser treatment."}
{"id": "22466472", "title": "Changes in ciliary body thickness in patients with diabetic macular edema after vitrectomy.", "content": "Changes in ciliary body thickness in patients with diabetic macular edema after vitrectomy. The purpose of the study to determine whether ciliary body thickness increased in the presence of diabetic macular edema (DME) and whether it changed after pars plana vitrectomy. A DME group consisted of 26 diabetic patients who underwent pars plana vitrectomy for diffuse DME. An epiretinal membrane group, a surgical control group, consisted of 23 nondiabetic patients with epiretinal membrane who underwent pars plana vitrectomy. A healthy control was also included for the comparison of preoperative ciliary body thickness. Ciliary body thickness was measured using ultrasound biomicroscopy, and central macular thickness was determined using optical coherence tomography. The visual acuity, ciliary body thickness, and central macular thickness were compared between groups before and 1, 2, and 4 months after pars plana vitrectomy, and the correlations between the central macular thickness and ciliary body thickness and best-corrected visual acuity were determined. The preoperative ciliary body thickness was increased significantly in the DME group compared with the epiretinal membrane and healthy control groups (both P < 0.001). The ciliary body thickness decreased significantly 1 and 2 months after surgery in the DME group (both P < 0.001) but not in the epiretinal membrane group. In the DME group, the postvitrectomy changes in the ciliary body thickness and central macular thickness showed similar trends and persisted significantly, until 4 months postoperatively (P = 0.027 and P = 0.010, respectively). The correlations between the preoperative central macular thickness and ciliary body thickness and between changes in central macular thickness and ciliary body thickness before and 2 months after surgery were not significant. Ciliary body thickness was increased in patients with DME, and vitrectomy was effective in decreasing ciliary body edema as well as macular edema in those patients during the 4-month follow-up period."}
{"id": "22441027", "title": "Observational study of subclinical diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Observational study of subclinical diabetic macular edema. To determine the rate of progression of eyes with subclinical diabetic macular edema (DME) to clinically apparent DME or DME necessitating treatment during a 2-year period. In all, 43 eyes from 39 study participants with subclinical DME, defined as absence of foveal center edema as determined with slit lamp biomicroscopy but a center point thickness (CPT) between 225 and 299 \u03bcm on time domain (Stratus, Carl Zeiss Meditec) optical coherence tomography (OCT) scan, were enrolled from 891 eyes of 582 subjects screened. Eyes were evaluated annually for up to 2 years for the primary outcome, which was an increase in OCT CPT of at least 50 \u03bcm from baseline and a CPT of at least 300 \u03bcm, or treatment for DME (performed at the discretion of the investigator). The cumulative probability of meeting an increase in OCT CPT of at least 50 \u03bcm from baseline and a CPT of at least 300 \u03bcm, or treatment for DME was 27% (95% confidence interval (CI): 14%, 38%) by 1 year and 38% (95% CI: 23%, 50%) by 2 years. Although subclinical DME may be uncommon, this study suggests that between approximately one-quarter and one-half of eyes with subclinical DME will progress to more definite thickening or be judged to need treatment for DME within 2 years after its identification."}
{"id": "22428627", "title": "Clinical development of new treatments for diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Clinical development of new treatments for diabetic macular oedema. The benchmark treatment for diabetic macular oedema, the major cause of visual impairment in patients with diabetes mellitus, has traditionally been laser photocoagulation; however, as laser treatment does not always improve vision or even prevent further loss in many cases, several new pharmacotherapies that are injected into the vitreous for diabetic macular oedema have been successfully trialled over the past decade. Others are currently being evaluated. The two major classes of these drugs are steroids and vascular endothelial growth factor antagonists. In this article we briefly review the major clinical studies recently conducted in this field."}
{"id": "22423055", "title": "Peripheral retinal ischaemia, as evaluated by ultra-widefield fluorescein angiography, is associated with diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Peripheral retinal ischaemia, as evaluated by ultra-widefield fluorescein angiography, is associated with diabetic macular oedema. To determine the relationship between retinal ischaemia and the presence of macular oedema (DMO) in patients with diabetic retinopathy (DR) using ultra-widefield fluorescein angiography (UWFA) imaging. A retrospective review of 122 eyes of 70 treatment-na\u00efve diabetic patients who underwent diagnostic UWFA using the Optos 200Tx imaging system. Two independent, masked graders quantified the area of retinal ischaemia. Based on clinical examination and optical coherence tomography (OCT), each patient was given a binary classification as either having DMO or no DMO. McNemar's test (with Yates' correction as indicated) and a two-sample test of proportions were used to determine the relationship between DMO and ischaemia for binary and proportional data, respectively. Linear and logistic models were constructed using generalised estimating equations to test relationships between independent variables, covariates and outcomes while controlling for inter-eye correlation, age, gender, haemoglobin A1c, mean arterial pressure and dependence on insulin. Seventy-six eyes (62%) exhibited areas of retinal ischaemia. There was a significant direct correlation between DMO and peripheral retinal ischaemia as seen on UWFA (p<0.001). In addition, patients with retinal ischaemia had 3.75 times increased odds of having DMO compared with those without retinal ischaemia (CI 1.26 to 11.13, p<0.02). Retinal ischaemia is significantly correlated with DMO in treatment-na\u00efve patients with DR. UWFA is a useful tool for detecting peripheral retinal ischaemia, which may have direct implications in the diagnosis, follow-up and treatment such as targeted peripheral photocoagulation."}
{"id": "22402896", "title": "Vision, retinal thickness, and foveal avascular zone size after intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Vision, retinal thickness, and foveal avascular zone size after intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema. To investigate three monthly intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) injections effects in chronic diabetic macular edema (DME). A prospective, noncomparative study in which inclusion criteria were; DME with central macular thickness (CMT) of at least 250 \u03bcm, and no treatment for diabetic retinopathy (DR) within 4 months before the first injection. All eyes received three monthly 1.25 mg IVB injections. CMT by optical coherence tomography, visual acuity (VA), foveal avascular zone (FAZ) greatest linear dimension (GLD), and area of FAZ by fundus fluorescein angiography were documented initially and 1 month after last injection. Outcomes (P<0.05 were significant) and correlations (r values) were analyzed. A total of 29 eyes of 29 patients (group 1, 19 female, 10 male), aged 60.7\u00b16.6 years were analyzed. The patients were split into two groups; group 2 included 15 mild-to-moderate nonproliferative DR, and group 3 included 14 more-severe DR. VA gain was significant in all groups (P<0.05). Mean CMT decrease was approximately 46, 36, and 55 \u03bcm in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively (P<0.05 only in group 1). A 0.045-mm2 increase in FAZ area was obtained in group 1 (P<0.05). In group 2, an increase in GLD and area of FAZ was 0.048 mm and 0.058 mm2, respectively (P<0.05), whereas in group 3, FAZ enlargement was nonsignificant. VA and CMT were significantly correlated (r values=0.5-0.6), except for the final VA-final CMT in group 2. FAZ dimensions and other parameters (VA and CMT) were noncorrelated. According to the authors' short-term results, three monthly IVB injections can be used for chronic DME regardless of VA, CMT, or FAZ dimensions, despite the FAZ enlargement encountered, especially in cases with milder DR."}
{"id": "22374157", "title": "Choroidal thickness in patients with diabetic retinopathy analyzed by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Choroidal thickness in patients with diabetic retinopathy analyzed by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. This study was designed to examine choroidal thickness in patients with diabetes using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. Forty-nine patients (49 eyes) with diabetes and 24 age-matched normal subjects underwent high-definition raster scanning using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography with frame enhancement software. Patients with diabetes were classified into 3 groups: 11 patients with mild or moderate nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy and no macular edema, 18 patients with nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema, and 20 patients with treated proliferative diabetic retinopathy and no diabetic macular edema (treated proliferative diabetic retinopathy). Choroidal thickness was measured from the posterior edge of the retinal pigment epithelium to the choroid/sclera junction at 500-\u03bcm intervals up to 2,500 \u03bcm temporal and nasal to the fovea. Reliable measurements of choroidal thickness were obtainable in 75.3% of eyes examined. Mean choroidal thickness showed a pattern of thinnest choroid nasally, thickening in the subfoveal region, and thinning again temporally in normal subjects and patients with diabetes. Mean subfoveal choroidal thickness was thinner in patients with diabetic macular edema (63.3 \u03bcm, 27.2%, P < 0.05) or treated proliferative diabetic retinopathy (69.6 \u03bcm, 30.0%, P < 0.01), compared with normal subjects. There was no difference between nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy and normal subjects. Choroidal thickness is altered in diabetes and may be related to the severity of retinopathy. Presence of diabetic macular edema is associated with a significant decrease in the choroidal thickness."}
{"id": "22354371", "title": "External limiting membrane as a predictor of visual improvement in diabetic macular edema after pars plana vitrectomy.", "content": "External limiting membrane as a predictor of visual improvement in diabetic macular edema after pars plana vitrectomy. To evaluate the predictors of visual improvement using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) in eyes with resistant diabetic macular edema (DME) treated with pars plana vitrectomy. Thirty-four eyes with resistant DME were evaluated in a retrospective manner. Several SD-OCT variables including photoreceptor inner segment/outer segment (IS/OS) junction, external limiting membrane (ELM) integrity, and central macular thickness (CMT) before and after the surgery, were evaluated by two experienced observers, masked to visual acuity. The visual improvement was used as the outcome measure for a stepwise regression, while the OCT factors were used as predictors. The strongest predictor of vision improvement was pre-operative damage to the ELM (p\u2009=\u20090.0277) compared to IS/OS junction (p\u2009=\u20090.03). Pretreatment central macular thickness was a very weak predictor (p\u2009=\u20090.18) of visual improvement. For each percentage increase of ELM integrity there was a 0.13 letter gain in vision. ELM integrity explained 16% of the visual acuity improvement after treatment, which rose to 21% with the addition of CMT. The addition of IS/OS junction in the model did not add predictive information. Evaluation of ELM preoperatively predicts the vision improvement more accurately than the IS/OS junction and CMT in eyes with DME."}
{"id": "22352446", "title": "Diabetic retinopathy: current and new treatment options.", "content": "Diabetic retinopathy: current and new treatment options. Diabetes mellitus has become a major health concern worldwide and its incidence is projected to increase. Diabetic macular edema (DME) and proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) are considered the most sight-threatening ocular complications in these patients. Pivotal studies, such as the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) and the Diabetic Retinopathy Study (DRS), have established macular and pan-retinal laser as the gold-standard of treatment for these complications. The recent discovery of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its role in the development of proliferative disease, has led to a movement towards treating PDR and DME with anti-angiogenic medications alone or in conjunction with the gold-standard of care. Due to the severity of the diabetic ocular complications and the rising incidence of diabetes worldwide, it is important for the non-ophthalmologist care provider to be informed of the new treatments available for these conditions in an effort to better guide their patients. In this review, I will discuss the importance of these new methods of treatment as well as the significance of systemic glucose control, vitreous surgery and laser photocoagulation."}
{"id": "22344185", "title": "Influence of diabetes on macular thickness measured using optical coherence tomography: the Singapore Indian Eye Study.", "content": "Influence of diabetes on macular thickness measured using optical coherence tomography: the Singapore Indian Eye Study. To determine the influence of diabetes, diabetic retinopathy (DR), and other factors on macular thickness, measured using optical coherence tomography (OCT), in a population-based sample. Data from the population-based Singapore Indian Eye Study were analyzed. We measured macular thickness using Stratus OCT Fast Macular Thickness scan protocol in 228 participants with diabetes mellitus (including 167 without DR, 44 with mild DR, 17 with moderate or severe DR) and 72 non-diabetic controls without macular oedema or other macular lesions. Analysis was done on right eyes. The mean age of participants was 60.1 \u00b1 10.1 years, with 53.8% men. Macular thickness measurements did not differ significantly between diabetic participants with no or mild DR and non-diabetic participants. Diabetic participants with moderate or severe DR had greater foveal and temporal outer macula thickness compared with those with no or mild DR (P=0.003). In a multivariate linear regression model, older age (P=0.009), male gender (P=0.005), and lower spherical equivalent (P=0.001) were other factors associated with greater foveal thickness in all participants after controlling for body mass index, glycosylated haemoglobin, total cholesterol, and mean systolic blood pressure. This population-based study showed that diabetic participants with moderate or severe DR had thicker foveal measurements, even in the absence of diabetic macula oedema, than non-diabetic controls. Other factors that influenced macular thickness measurements were age, gender, and spherical equivalent. These data may aid the interpretation of OCT findings in persons with diabetes and DR."}
{"id": "22344010", "title": "Optical coherence tomographic assessment of macular thickness and morphological patterns in diabetic macular edema: prognosis after modified grid photocoagulation.", "content": "Optical coherence tomographic assessment of macular thickness and morphological patterns in diabetic macular edema: prognosis after modified grid photocoagulation. The topographic mapping is useful for monitoring patients for the development of macular edema and following the resolution of edema after laser treatment. To evaluate the usefulness of optical coherence tomography (OCT) for mapping of macula after laser therapy in clinically significant macular edema (CSME). A prospective study was carried out enrolling 60 eyes of 35 patients with the diagnosis of CSME. OCT was performed at first visit and every successive follow up visit. The retinal thickness was measured automatically using OCT retinal mapping software. Correlation between vision status and central macular thickness (CMT) was done using the Spearman's correlation test. The analysis of variance (ANOVA) and independent t-test were used for comparison of groups. The OCT revealed sponge like thickening pattern (ST) in 67.4 % followed by cystoid macular edema (CME) in 19.6 %. Best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) improved in 89.1 % after 6 months of treatment. There was high correlation between vision status and CMT (P =less than 0.001). The mean values of baseline CMT were 301.68 (+/-134.738), 434.83 (+/-180.758), 518.67 (+/- 275.184), 327 (+/-108.393) and 334.85 (+/- 158.91) microns for the OCT patterns of ST, CME, sub-foveal detachment (SFD), vitreo-macular interface abnormality (VMIA) and average CMT respectively (p=0.042). OCT is a useful tool for evaluating CSME. It can show the various morphological variants of CSME while the BCVA and CMT are fairly different."}
{"id": "22342014", "title": "Correlation of fundus autofluorescence with spectral-domain optical coherence tomography and vision in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Correlation of fundus autofluorescence with spectral-domain optical coherence tomography and vision in diabetic macular edema. To investigate the correlation between fundus autofluorescence (FAF) and the results of spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) as well as visual acuity (VA) in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME) and to determine the visual prognostic factors. Retrospective, interventional case series. Sixty-one patients with DME who underwent intravitreal injection of bevacizumab (IVB) as their first treatment. An assessment of VA and FAF and SD-OCT images were obtained before and after IVB (pre- and post-IVB). Foveal FAF was graded on a scale of 1 to 4. The presence or absence of FAF at the foveola was also determined. The association of FAF with VA and the SD-OCT results, including central macular thickness (CMT), outer nuclear layer thickness, the integrity of the external limiting membrane (ELM), and the integrity of the junction between the inner and outer segment of the photoreceptor (IS/OS). Better VA, preservation of the ELM, and IS/OS pre-IVB were associated with better VA post-IVB. Of the types of DME, cystoid macular edema significantly correlated with increased FAF at the foveola. A higher level of FAF was 5.6 times more likely to occur in DME with a defect in IS/OS and 10 times more likely to occur with each 10-\u03bcm increase in CMT. Each increase by a factor of 0.1 in the logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) pre-IVB increased the probability of high FAF by a factor of 1.73. Despite severe DME, fewer eyes with a low level of FAF exhibited an IS/OS defect and large logMAR VA than eyes with a high level of FAF with severe DME pre-IVB. The average grade of FAF pre-IVB was higher in patients with decreased vision during follow-up than in patients with increased or unchanged good vision. The strong association of FAF with SD-OCT parameters and VA in patients with DME could aid in the prediction of the restoration of photoreceptor integrity and subsequent visual recovery, especially in patients with severe DME, in whom photoreceptor integrity before treatment could not be adequately evaluated, even with SD-OCT."}
{"id": "22342012", "title": "Rapid assessment of avoidable blindness and diabetic retinopathy in Chiapas, Mexico.", "content": "Rapid assessment of avoidable blindness and diabetic retinopathy in Chiapas, Mexico. To estimate the prevalence and causes of blindness in Chiapas, Mexico, and to assess the feasibility of using the Rapid Assessment of Avoidable Blindness framework to estimate diabetic retinopathy (DR) prevalence. A cross-sectional population-based survey. Sixty-six clusters of 50 people 50 years of age or older were selected by probability proportionate to size sampling. Households within clusters were selected through compact segment sampling. Participants underwent visual acuity (VA) screening and diagnosis of cause of visual impairment by an ophthalmologist. Participants were classed as having diabetes if they had a previous diagnosis of diabetes, were receiving treatment for glucose control, or had a random blood glucose level of more than 200 mg/dl. Participants with diabetes were assessed for DR using dilated clinical examination (direct and indirect ophthalmoscope) and 1 dilated digital fundus photograph per eye (graded by an ophthalmologist during the survey and regraded by a retinal specialist-\"reference standard\") following the Scottish DR grading protocol. Prevalence of blindness (VA <20/400 in the best eye with available correction) and DR. Three thousand three hundred subjects were selected, of whom 2864 (87%) were examined. The estimated prevalence of bilateral blindness was 2.3% (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.7%-2.9%). Cataract was the leading cause of bilateral blindness (63%), followed by posterior segment diseases (24%), which included DR (8% of blindness). The prevalence of diabetes was 21% (19.5%-23.1%). Among participants with diabetes, the prevalence of DR (in at least 1 eye) was 38.9% (95% CI, 33.7%-44.1%). The prevalence of sight-threatening DR (STDR; defined as proliferative DR, referable maculopathy, or both) was 21.0% (95% CI, 16.7%-25.3%). Agreement with the reference standard was good for any retinopathy and STDR for the clinical examination (\u03ba = 0.80 and 0.79, respectively) and the photograph graded during the survey (\u03ba = 0.80 and 0.82, respectively). The prevalence of diabetes and DR in Chiapas was high. Including the DR component was possible, but added considerably to the cost and complexity of the survey, and so would be warranted only if a high prevalence of diabetes is expected and if resources and time permit."}
{"id": "22340561", "title": "Treatment effects of captopril on non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Treatment effects of captopril on non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is one of the most common complications of diabetes. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor is thought to play an important role in preventing and treating retinal diseases in animal models of DR. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI, captopril) in the treatment of patients with non-proliferative DR. Three hundred and seventeen type 2 diabetic patients (88.05% of participants) without or with mild to moderate non-proliferative retinopathy were randomly divided into captopril group (n = 202) and placebo group (n = 115). All subjects received 24-month follow-up. General clinical examinations, including blood pressure and glycated hemoglobin, as well as comprehensive standardized ophthalmic examinations were performed. Color fundus photography and optical coherence tomography (OCT) were used to grade diabetic retinopathy and detect macular edema respectively. The levels of blood pressure and glycated hemoglobin in the two groups of patients remained within the normal range during the entire follow-up and no significant difference was found between the initial and last visits, suggesting that ACEI drugs play a protective role on the DR patients independent of its anti-blood pressure role. DR classification showed that 169 eyes (83.66%) remained unchanged and the DR grade of 33 eyes (16.34%) increased in captopril group, while 84 eyes (73.04%) remained unchanged and the grade of 31 eyes (26.96%) increased in placebo group (P = 0.024). Captopril treatment improved macular edema in 55.45% eyes, which was significantly higher than the 37.39% improvement in placebo group (P = 0.002). No significant difference was found in the visual acuity between the two groups (P = 0.271). Captopril can improve or delay the development of DR and macular edema, which can be used in the early treatment of DR patients with type 2 diabetic mellitus."}
{"id": "22331146", "title": "In diabetic eyes, multifocal ERG reflects differences in function between the nasal part and the temporal part of the macula.", "content": "In diabetic eyes, multifocal ERG reflects differences in function between the nasal part and the temporal part of the macula. The purpose of the present study was to compare retinal function between the perifoveal nasal and perifoveal temporal areas of diabetic eyes using multifocalERG (mfERG). We included 36 eyes from 27 patients with diabetes (age 58\u2009\u00b1\u200914\u00a0years; duration of diabetes 13\u2009\u00b1\u20099\u00a0years; HbA(1c) 7.1\u2009\u00b1\u20091.8%) and a control group with 18 eyes from 18 healthy subjects (age 57\u2009\u00b1\u200911\u00a0years). Retinal thickness was assessed with optical coherence tomography (OCT) in the perifoveal areas corresponding to the summed nasal and temporal inner and outer areas. MfERG amplitude and implicit time were recorded from corresponding areas. Diabetic eyes showed lower mfERG amplitude in the nasal area than in the temporal area (14\u2009\u00b1\u20096 vs 17\u2009\u00b1\u20097\u00a0nV/deg(2); p\u2009<\u20090.0001) and longer implicit time (31\u2009\u00b1\u20093 vs 30\u2009\u00b1\u20093\u00a0ms; p\u2009=\u20090.005). In the control group, there were no significant differences between the two areas. Diabetic eyes showed lower amplitude and longer implicit time in the nasal area than in the temporal, which might indicate that the nasal area is more vulnerable. These findings may be of importance for evaluation of diabetic maculopathy and outcome after laser treatment."}
{"id": "22330964", "title": "Ranibizumab for diabetic macular edema: results from 2 phase III randomized trials: RISE and RIDE.", "content": "Ranibizumab for diabetic macular edema: results from 2 phase III randomized trials: RISE and RIDE. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of intravitreal ranibizumab in diabetic macular edema (DME) patients. Two parallel, methodologically identical, phase III, multicenter, double-masked, sham injection-controlled, randomized studies. Adults with vision loss from DME (best-corrected visual acuity [BCVA], 20/40-20/320 Snellen equivalent) and central subfield thickness \u2265275 \u03bcm on time-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT). Monthly intravitreal ranibizumab (0.5 or 0.3 mg) or sham injections. Macular laser was available per-protocol-specified criteria. Proportion of patients gaining \u226515 letters in BCVA from baseline at 24 months. In RISE (NCT00473330), 377 patients were randomized (127 to sham, 125 to 0.3 mg, 125 to 0.5 mg). At 24 months, 18.1% of sham patients gained \u226515 letters versus 44.8% of 0.3-mg (P<0.0001; difference vs sham adjusted for randomization stratification factors, 24.3%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 13.8-34.8) and 39.2% of 0.5-mg ranibizumab patients (P<0.001; adjusted difference, 20.9%; 95% CI, 10.7-31.1). In RIDE (NCT00473382), 382 patients were randomized (130 to sham, 125 to 0.3 mg, 127 to 0.5 mg). Significantly more ranibizumab-treated patients gained \u226515 letters: 12.3% of sham patients versus 33.6% of 0.3-mg patients (P<0.0001; adjusted difference, 20.8%; 95% CI, 11.4-30.2) and 45.7% of 0.5-mg ranibizumab patients (P<0.0001; adjusted difference, 33.3%; 95% CI, 23.8-42.8). Significant improvements in macular edema were noted on OCT, and retinopathy was less likely to worsen and more likely to improve in ranibizumab-treated patients. Ranibizumab-treated patients underwent significantly fewer macular laser procedures (mean of 1.8 and 1.6 laser procedures over 24 months in the sham groups vs 0.3-0.8 in ranibizumab groups). Ocular safety was consistent with prior ranibizumab studies; endophthalmitis occurred in 4 ranibizumab patients. The total incidence of deaths from vascular or unknown causes, nonfatal myocardial infarctions, and nonfatal cerebrovascular accidents, which are possible effects from systemic vascular endothelial growth factor inhibition, was 4.9% to 5.5% of sham patients and 2.4% to 8.8% of ranibizumab patients. Ranibizumab rapidly and sustainably improved vision, reduced the risk of further vision loss, and improved macular edema in patients with DME, with low rates of ocular and nonocular harm."}
{"id": "22330965", "title": "Relationship between fluorescein pooling and optical coherence tomographic reflectivity of cystoid spaces in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Relationship between fluorescein pooling and optical coherence tomographic reflectivity of cystoid spaces in diabetic macular edema. To study the characteristics of the reflectivity of the cystoid spaces and serous retinal detachment (SRD) on spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) and the correlation with fluorescein findings in diabetic macular edema (DME). Retrospective, observational, cross-sectional study. Consecutive 134 eyes of 114 patients with clinically significant macular edema for whom SD-OCT and fluorescein angiography (FA) were performed on the same day. Fluorescein angiography using Heidelberg Retina Angiograph 2 (Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany) and OCT images using Spectralis OCT (Heidelberg Engineering) were obtained. The reflectivity of the cystoid spaces and SRD on the OCT images was evaluated qualitatively and quantitatively and compared with the fluorescein pooling intensity on FA images. The relationship between the fluorescein pooling and the reflectivity characteristics of the cystoid spaces on SD-OCT images. A total of 141 cystoid spaces in 101 eyes were delineated on OCT images, and 138 spaces (97.9%) had fluorescein pooling. Fifty-five cystoid spaces (39.9%) with marked fluorescein pooling intensity had lower reflectivity on OCT images than those with modest pooling (12.1\u00b110.4 vs. 22.0\u00b115.4, P < 0.001). The heterogeneity of the reflectivity of the cystoid spaces on the OCT images was associated significantly (P < 0.001) with modest fluorescein pooling. The hyperreflective foci in the cystoid spaces were correlated significantly with modest fluorescein pooling and higher or heterogeneous reflectivity on OCT images (P < 0.001, P < 0.001, and P=0.005, respectively). In addition, the cystoid spaces with microaneurysms had higher or heterogeneous reflectivity on OCT images more frequently than those without microaneurysms (P < 0.001 and P=0.019, respectively). The reflectivity levels in the SRD were significantly (P=0.005) lower than in the cystoid spaces, and only 1 eye (3.3%) had heterogeneous reflectivity on OCT images. The results provided a novel interpretation of fluorescein pooling and OCT characteristics of cystoid spaces and SRD in DME and suggested several mechanisms by which the blood-retinal barrier is disrupted and concomitant edematous changes develop."}
{"id": "22323463", "title": "Optical coherence tomographic reflectivity of photoreceptors beneath cystoid spaces in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomographic reflectivity of photoreceptors beneath cystoid spaces in diabetic macular edema. To investigate the relationship between the cystoid spaces in the outer plexiform layer (OPL) and the characteristics of the photoreceptors beneath the cystoid spaces in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). In this observational cross-sectional study, 123 eyes of 96 consecutive patients with clinically significant macular edema were retrospectively reviewed. The characteristics of the photoreceptors on optical coherence tomography (OCT) images represented by the external limiting membrane (ELM) and the junction between inner and outer segments (IS/OS), and their association with the overlying cystoid spaces were investigated. The areas beneath the cystoid spaces in the OPL had a longer transverse length of disrupted or faint IS/OS and disrupted ELM lines than those without cystoid spaces (P < 0.001, P < 0.001, and P = 0.009). The IS/OS lines beneath the cystoid spaces had higher reflectivity than those in areas without cystoid spaces (P < 0.001). Enlarged cystoid spaces extending from the inner nuclear layer to the OPL were associated with disrupted IS/OS or ELM but not faint IS/OS (P < 0.001, P < 0.001, and P = 0.467). The transverse length of disrupted IS/OS at the fovea was correlated with the logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) more than the association between foveal thickness and logMAR (r = 0.49, P < 0.001 vs. r = 0.28, P = 0.002). The ELM descended to the RPE more frequently in eyes with single-lobulated fluorescein pooling in the foveal avascular zone than those with multi-lobulated pooling (P < 0.001). OCT showed that the cystoid spaces in the OPL were accompanied by photoreceptor damage beneath the cystoid spaces in DME."}
{"id": "22310491", "title": "Intravitreal dexamethasone implant in patients with persistent diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal dexamethasone implant in patients with persistent diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the effects of a single injection of Ozurdex over 6 months in eyes with persistent diabetic macular edema (DME). In this retrospective interventional study, 9 patients with decreased visual acuity, as a result of persistent DME, received Ozurdex (intravitreal dexamethasone implant 0.7 mg). Main outcome measures included changes in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and central retinal thickness (CRT). Nine eyes of 9 patients (5 males, 4 females; mean age 58 years) were included in the analysis. The mean duration of DME was 49.9 months (range 24-85). All patients had undergone previous treatments for DME (intravitreal injection of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor, steroids or laser photocoagulation) before entering the study. At baseline, the mean BCVA was 0.74 \u00b1 0.33 logMAR, and the mean CRT was 502 \u00b1 222.16 \u00b5m. The mean BCVA was unchanged on the third day (0.74 \u00b1 0.38 logMAR, p = 0.5), improved to 0.62 \u00b1 0.32 logMAR (p = 0.02), 0.59 \u00b1 0.26 logMAR (p = 0.02) and 0.63 \u00b1 0.38 logMAR (p = 0.6) after the first, third and fourth months, respectively, and decreased again to 0.73 \u00b1 0.35 logMAR (p = 0.4) at 6 months. The mean CRT improved to 397 \u00b1 115.31 \u00b5m (p = 0.17), 271 \u00b1 99.97 \u00b5m (p = 0.007), 325 \u00b1 133.05 \u00b5m (p = 0.03) and 462 \u00b1 176.48 \u00b5m (p = 0.36) on the third day and after 1, 3 and 4 months of follow-up and then increased again to 537 \u00b1 265.42 \u00b5m (p = 0.33) at 6 months. Eight patients needed retreatments in the sixth month. One eye developed a transient intraocular pressure (IOP) increase 1 month after injection, which was successfully managed with topical IOP-lowering medication. In eyes with persistent DME, Ozurdex produces improvement in BCVA and CRT as soon as the first days after the injection. Such improvement is maintained until the fourth month."}
{"id": "22301066", "title": "Ranibizumab for macular edema due to retinal vein occlusions: long-term follow-up in the HORIZON trial.", "content": "Ranibizumab for macular edema due to retinal vein occlusions: long-term follow-up in the HORIZON trial. To assess long-term safety and efficacy of intraocular ranibizumab injections in patients with macular edema after retinal vein occlusion (RVO). Open-label extension trial of the 12-month Ranibizumab for the Treatment of Macular Edema following Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion: Evaluation of Efficacy and Safety (BRAVO) and Central Retinal Vein Occlusion Study: Evaluation of Efficacy and Safety (CRUISE) trials. We included 304 patients who completed BRAVO and 304 patients who completed CRUISE. Patients were seen at least every 3 months and given an intraocular injection of 0.5 mg ranibizumab if they met prespecified retreatment criteria. Primary outcomes were incidence and severity of ocular and nonocular adverse events (AEs). Key efficacy outcomes included mean change from baseline best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) letter score by Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study protocol and central foveal thickness. In patients who completed month 12, the mean number of injections (excluding month 12 injection) in the sham/0.5-, 0.3/0.5-, and 0.5-mg groups was 2.0, 2.4, and 2.1 (branch RVO) and 2.9, 3.8, and 3.5 (central RVO), respectively. The incidence of study eye ocular serious AEs (SAEs) and SAEs potentially related to systemic vascular endothelial growth factor inhibition across treatment arms was 2% to 9% and 1% to 6%, respectively. The mean change from baseline BCVA letter score at month 12 in branch RVO patients was 0.9 (sham/0.5 mg), -2.3 (0.3/0.5 mg), and -0.7 (0.5 mg), respectively. The mean change from baseline BCVA at month 12 in central RVO patients was -4.2 (sham/0.5 mg), -5.2 (0.3/0.5 mg), and -4.1 (0.5 mg), respectively. No new safety events were identified with long-term use of ranibizumab; rates of SAEs potentially related to treatment were consistent with prior ranibizumab trials. Reduced follow-up and fewer ranibizumab injections in the second year of treatment were associated with a decline in vision in central RVO patients, but vision in branch RVO patients remained stable. Results suggest that during the second year of ranibizumab treatment of RVO patients, follow-up and injections should be individualized and, on average, central RVO patients may require more frequent follow-up than every 3 months."}
{"id": "22300292", "title": "Pilot randomized trial of a nanopulse retinal laser versus conventional photocoagulation for the treatment of diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Pilot randomized trial of a nanopulse retinal laser versus conventional photocoagulation for the treatment of diabetic macular oedema. \u2002 To assess the efficacy of a new nanopulse laser, retinal regeneration therapy for the treatment of diabetic macular oedema. \u2002 Randomized, non-inferiority, trial. \u2002 20 eyes of 17 subjects in the retinal regeneration therapy group and 18 eyes of 14 subjects in the conventional group were analysed. \u2002 The treatment group received retinal regeneration therapy laser, and the control group received photocoagulation. \u2002 The primary outcome was the optical coherence tomography-measured change in central retinal thickness at 6 months. A secondary outcome was the change in logarithm of minimum angle of resolution visual acuity at 6 months. Non-inferiority required the one-sided 95% confidence interval of the mean retinal thickness reduction after retinal regeneration therapy to be within 35\u2003\u00b5m of the reduction after control laser. \u2002 When outliers were included in the dataset, the difference in retinal thickness reduction by analysis of covariance was 10.9 (standard deviation 17.6) mm in favour of the control laser. The difference between groups in retinal thickness reduction was 40.8\u2003mm. If two extreme outliers were excluded, the difference was 5.6 (standard deviation 14.2) mm in favour of the retinal regeneration therapy laser, and the D optical coherence tomography was 18.5\u2003mm. The visual acuity difference between groups was 0.059, meeting non-inferiority requirements. \u2002 Although retinal thickness reduction was not unambiguously non-inferior, in the short-term, retinal regeneration therapy approximates the clinical efficacy of conventional photocoagulation, stabilizing visual acuity and providing motivation for larger trials assessing retinal regeneration therapy."}
{"id": "22287165", "title": "24-Hour variation of optical coherence tomography-measured retinal thickness in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "24-Hour variation of optical coherence tomography-measured retinal thickness in diabetic macular edema. To investigate 24-hour variation in retinal thickness in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME) using optical coherence tomography (OCT). Fifty-three eyes of 53 diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema and central subfield thickness (CST) >225 \u00b5m, 36 eyes of 36 healthy individuals (normal controls), and 22 eyes of 22 diabetic patients without macular pathology (diabetic controls) underwent 5 OCT measurements at 7 am, 10 am, 3 pm, 8 pm, and 1 am. Visual acuity, blood pressure, blood glucose, and body temperature were measured as well. The CST (p<0.0005), total macular volume (p<0.0005), and visual acuity (p<0.0005) showed significant variation in patients. The CST (450 \u00b5m at 7 am) reached a minimum at 3 pm (absolute change of -49 \u00b5m, relative change of -17%) before increasing again. Thickening changes were higher in more thickened retinas (p<0.0005, p=0.024, absolute and relative change, respectively). Visual acuity was worse in the morning (0.38 logMAR) and improved to a maximum at 8 pm (0.30 logMAR) (p<0.0005). Blood pressure, blood glucose, and body temperature did not vary over time. The 24-hour variation of retinal thickness is observed in a large proportion of patients with DME, with a decrease from morning to afternoon. Time of examination should be taken into account when managing such patients."}
{"id": "22268957", "title": "Resolution of diabetic papillopathy after a single intravitreal injection of ranibizumab.", "content": "Resolution of diabetic papillopathy after a single intravitreal injection of ranibizumab."}
{"id": "22232366", "title": "Spectral-domain optical coherence tomographic assessment of severity of cystoid macular edema in retinopathy of prematurity.", "content": "Spectral-domain optical coherence tomographic assessment of severity of cystoid macular edema in retinopathy of prematurity. To investigate whether the severity of cystoid macular edema (CME) in neonates who were 31 to 36 weeks' postmenstrual age, as viewed by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT)imaging, predicts the severity of retinopathy of prematurity(ROP) or is related to systemic health. Of 62 prematurely born neonates in a prospective institutional review board-approved study, 42 met the following inclusion criteria: at least 1 SD-OCT imaging session prior to 37 weeks' postmenstrual age and prior to ROP laser treatment, if a laser treatment was performed,and an ophthalmic ROP examination at or after 41 weeks' postmenstrual age, evidence of complete retinal vascularization in zone III, or documentation through telephone report of such information after transfer of care.Measures of CME severity, including central foveal thickness,retinal layer thicknesses, and foveal-to-parafoveal thickness ratio in 1 eye per subject, were compared with ROP outcomes: laser treatment, maximum plus disease,and maximum ROP stage. Systemic health factors were also correlated. Cystoid macular edema was present in 50% of neonates. Multiple elongated cystoid structures within the inner nuclear layer were most common. The presence of CME was not associated with ROP outcomes. The central foveal thickness, the thickness of the inner retinal layers, and the foveal-to-parafoveal thickness ratio were higher in eyes that required laser treatment or that developed plus disease or ROP stage 3. Cystoid macular edema was not clearly associated with systemic factors. Cystoid macular edema is common in premature infants screened for ROP before 37 weeks' postmenstrual age, with the most common SD-OCT phenotype ofa bulging fovea from multiple elongated cystoid spaces. Detection of CME is not associated with ROP severity; however,tomographic thickness measurements could potentially predict a higher risk of requiring laser treatment or developing plus disease or ROP stage 3. Systemic health factors are probably not related to the development of CME."}
{"id": "22189259", "title": "Visual improvement following continuous positive airway pressure therapy in diabetic subjects with clinically significant macular oedema and obstructive sleep apnoea: proof of principle study.", "content": "Visual improvement following continuous positive airway pressure therapy in diabetic subjects with clinically significant macular oedema and obstructive sleep apnoea: proof of principle study. Diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular oedema are more prevalent in patients with coexistent obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA). We assessed if treatment of OSA with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) might improve visual acuity (VA). A total of 35 patients with clinically significant macular oedema (CSMO) and OSA [oxygen desaturation index (ODI) \u226510 or apnoea-hypopnoea index (AHI) \u226515] were identified and agreed to be studied. VA (expressed as the logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution, logMAR), macular thickness, fundal photographs, glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and rhodopsin mRNA were measured twice at baseline and at 3 and 6 months post-CPAP. Fluorescein angiography and the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) were obtained once at baseline and at 6 months. Three patients withdrew before the first trial visit. Thus, a total of 32 patients (17 males) entered the study, and 4 subsequently withdrew; thus 28 completed 6 months of follow-up. Baseline characteristics of the subjects were as follows [mean (SD or inter-quartile range)]: age 66.2 (7.1) years, body mass index 31.7 (6.3), HbA1c 7.4% (1.44) [57.1 (15.7) mmol/mol], AHI 16.5 (11-25), ODI 16.0 (12-25), ESS 6.5 (4.0-12.0) and duration of diabetes 9.5 years (5.0-16.5). Participants were divided into 13 high and 15 low CPAP compliers (\u2265 and <2.5 h/night over the 6 months, respectively). At 6 months, the adjusted treatment effect on VA of high compliance versus low compliance was 0.11 (95% confidence interval 0.21 to -0.002; p = 0.047), equivalent to a one-line improvement on the logMAR chart. There was no significant improvement in macular oedema or fundal photographs. This hypothesis-generating, uncontrolled study suggests that \u22652.5 h/night CPAP usage over 6 months in individuals with CSMO and OSA may be associated with improvement in VA. This provides justification for a randomised controlled trial of CPAP therapy in such patients."}
{"id": "22165865", "title": "Non-full-thickness macular holes: a closer look.", "content": "Non-full-thickness macular holes: a closer look. Lamellar macular holes and macular pseudoholes are non-full-thickness defects of retinal tissue involving the anatomic fovea, thereby affecting central visual acuity. Non-full-thickness macular holes have been associated with myriad ocular conditions. Originally, lamellar macular holes were described as secondary to diabetic macular edema and macular pseudoholes as idiopathic. The pathogenesis of secondary non-full-thickness macular defects was recently confirmed by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. These may be mistaken for macular hole lesions, despite careful clinical examination. Careful biomicroscopic examination with a contact lens and optical coherence tomography help to ensure accurate diagnosis. Surgical management with or without air or gas tamponade improves visual acuity and foveal morphology in most eyes."}
{"id": "22159173", "title": "Evaluation of visual acuity measurements after autorefraction vs manual refraction in eyes with and without diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Evaluation of visual acuity measurements after autorefraction vs manual refraction in eyes with and without diabetic macular edema. To compare visual acuity (VA) scores after autorefraction vs manual refraction in eyes of patients with diabetes mellitus and a wide range of VAs. The letter score from the Electronic Visual Acuity (EVA) test from the electronic Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study was measured after autorefraction (AR-EVA score) and after manual refraction (MR-EVA score), which is the research protocol of the Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical Research Network. Testing order was randomized, study participants and VA examiners were masked to refraction source, and a second EVA test using an identical supplemental manual refraction (MR-EVAsuppl score) was performed to determine test-retest variability. In 878 eyes of 456 study participants, the median MR-EVA score was 74 (Snellen equivalent, approximately 20/32). The spherical equivalent was often similar for manual refraction and autorefraction (median difference, 0.00; 5th-95th percentile range, -1.75 to 1.13 diopters). However, on average, the MR-EVA scores were slightly better than the AR-EVA scores, across the entire VA range. Furthermore, the variability between the AR-EVA scores and the MR-EVA scores was substantially greater than the test-retest variability of the MR-EVA scores (P < .001). The variability of differences was highly dependent on the autorefractor model. Across a wide range of VAs at multiple sites using a variety of autorefractors, VA measurements tend to be worse with autorefraction than manual refraction. Differences between individual autorefractor models were identified. However, even among autorefractor models that compare most favorably with manual refraction, VA variability between autorefraction and manual refraction is higher than the test-retest variability of manual refraction. The results suggest that, with current instruments, autorefraction is not an acceptable substitute for manual refraction for most clinical trials with primary outcomes dependent on best-corrected VA."}
{"id": "22149905", "title": "Effect of intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin(\u00ae)) therapy in malignant hypertensive retinopathy: a report of two cases.", "content": "Effect of intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin(\u00ae)) therapy in malignant hypertensive retinopathy: a report of two cases. Malignant hypertensive retinopathy is a rare, but serious, complication of uncontrolled systemic hypertension for which no treatment has been established yet. We report 2 patients with malignant hypertensive retinopathy who recovered promptly following intravitreal bevacizumab injection. Intravitreal bevacizumab (1.25 mg/0.05 mL) was injected in 4 eyes of 2 patients having malignant hypertensive retinopathy with optic disc edema, macular edema, and retinal exudates. A complete ophthalmic examination, including the best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central macular thickness (CMT) on optical coherence tomography (OCT), and fluorescein angiography (FAG), was performed before and after the treatments. Two eyes in 1 patient received two intravitreal injections of bevacizumab, whereas 2 eyes in the other patient received a single treatment. All 4 eyes had improvement of macular edema on OCT at 1 month and decreased fluorescein leakage on FAG 3 months after the treatment, which led to improvements in the BCVA in 3 eyes. In 1 eye with foveal atrophy, no change in the BCVA occurred despite the improved macular edema on OCT. The results suggest that intravitreal bevacizumab injections might be a useful adjunctive treatment of malignant hypertensive retinopathy in some selected cases. However, further studies are mandatory to determine the safety and the efficacy of such injections in this disease."}
{"id": "22137207", "title": "Association between hyperreflective foci in the outer retina, status of photoreceptor layer, and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Association between hyperreflective foci in the outer retina, status of photoreceptor layer, and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema. To determine if hyperreflective foci in the outer retina are associated with photoreceptor integrity and the logarithm of minimal angle of resolution (logMAR) visual acuity (VA) in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). Retrospective, observational, cross-sectional study. Patients (n=76; 108 eyes) with clinically relevant macular edema and no serous retinal detachment were analyzed retrospectively. Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) images were obtained for all patients. We investigated the relationship between the hyperreflective foci in the outer retinal layers of the external limiting membrane (ELM) at the fovea and the photoreceptor integrity and VA. SD-OCT showed that 58 eyes (53.7%) had hyperreflective foci in the outer retinal layers, and 107 eyes (99.1%) had hyperreflective foci in the inner retinal layers. The logMAR VA was significantly (P<.0001) worse in eyes with hyperreflective foci in the outer retinal layers than in eyes without them (0.463\u00b10.382 vs 0.127\u00b10.206, respectively). Disruption of the ELM line on OCT was significantly (P<.0001, for both comparisons) associated with both hyperreflective foci in the outer retinal layers and poor logMAR VA. Disruption of the junction of the inner and outer segment line (IS/OS) also was related to hyperreflective foci in the outer retinal layers and poor logMAR VA (P<.0001 for both comparisons). The presence of hyperreflective foci in the outer retina is closely associated with a disrupted ELM and IS/OS line on SD-OCT images and decreased VA in DME."}
{"id": "22134597", "title": "Spectral- and time-domain optical coherence tomography measurements of macular thickness in normal eyes and in eyes with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Spectral- and time-domain optical coherence tomography measurements of macular thickness in normal eyes and in eyes with diabetic macular edema. To report macular thickness values in normal eyes and eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME) using time-domain (TD) and spectral-domain (SD) optical coherence tomography (OCT), and to derive a conversion equation. The index study was a prospective investigation conducted on 80 eyes from 40 normal subjects and 130 eyes from 118 patients with DME seen in our clinic. Retinal thickness values from the central 1\u2009mm of the macula and surrounding four ETDRS subfields were acquired using TD-OCT (Stratus OCT) and SD-OCT (SPECTRALIS HRA+OCT). Measurements of the central (C) subfield from both devices were used to derive a conversion equation. The equation was used to predict SD-OCT values using measurements from TD-OCT. Agreement between predicted and actual SD-OCT measurements was assessed. In normal eyes, the mean difference between TD-OCT and SD-OCT measurements of the C subfield was 76\u2009\u03bcm (CI(95)=74 and 77, respectively). The conversion equation, y=1.029x+72.49, was derived. In eyes with DME, using the equation, SPECTRALIS-predicted values were 5% higher than actual measurements, with 95% of predicted values falling within 9% of the actual measurements. Relocating SD-OCT grids to match the location on TD-OCT resulted in predicted values falling within 7% of actual measurements. The percent difference between actual thickness measurements from SPECTRALIS and predicted thickness measurements, using the conversion equation, was within reported limits of repeatability of Stratus in eyes with DME. Our equation may help correlate OCT values from both devices in standard care and clinical trials for DME."}
{"id": "22132722", "title": "Phacoemulcification with intravitreal bevacizumab injection in patients with cataract and coexisting diabetic retinopathy: prospective randomized study.", "content": "Phacoemulcification with intravitreal bevacizumab injection in patients with cataract and coexisting diabetic retinopathy: prospective randomized study. To evaluate efficacy of intravitreal injection of bevacizumab at the time of cataract surgery on the postoperative progression of diabetic retinopathy (DR) and diabetic maculopathy. Patients were randomized to a standardized procedure of phacoemulsification with intraocular lens implantation alone (control group; 30 eyes) or to receive 1.25 mg intravitreal bevacizumab (0.05 mL of solution prepared from avastin, 100 mg/4 mL vial) at the end of surgery (IVB group; 27 eyes). Efficacy measures included best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) testing, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and ophthalmoscopic examination at each postoperative visit during a 6-month follow-up. There were no significant differences in central macular thickness (CMT), BCVA, or systemic condition between the control and IVB groups at baseline. Progression of diabetic maculopathy occurred in 15 eyes (50%) in the control group and 2 eyes (7.4%) in the intervention group (P = 0.0008). There was no statistically significant difference in postoperative visual acuity between the 2 groups after 6 months (P = 0.5). Five eyes in the control group and 1 eye in the intervention group progressed to neovascular glaucoma. Difference in mean postoperative CMT was not statistically significant between both groups (P = 0.54). Intravitreal administration of 1.25 mg bevacizumab at the time of cataract surgery was safe and effective in preventing the progression of DR and diabetic maculopathy in patients with cataract and DR."}
{"id": "22115710", "title": "A randomized, dose-escalation study of subconjunctival and intravitreal injections of sirolimus in patients with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "A randomized, dose-escalation study of subconjunctival and intravitreal injections of sirolimus in patients with diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of a single subconjunctival (SCJ) or intravitreal (IVT) injection of an ophthalmic sirolimus formulation in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME). Randomized, open-label, dose-escalating phase I study. Fifty eyes among 50 patients with DME, retinal thickness \u2265 300 microns and best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) 20/40 to 20/200. A single dose of sirolimus administered SCJ (220, 440, 880, 1320, or 1760 \u03bcg) or IVT (44, 110, 176, 264, or 352 \u03bcg) on day 0; observation through day 90. Primary end points were the frequency and severity of ocular and systemic adverse events. Secondary end points were changes in BCVA and retinal thickness. No dose-limiting toxicities were observed and ocular adverse events were mostly mild and transient. Conjunctival hyperemia, hemorrhage, and edema were common after the SCJ injection procedure and conjunctival hemorrhage was common after the IVT injection procedure. Three patients experienced ocular adverse events considered possibly related to study drug: Conjunctival edema and reduced visual acuity were reported in 1 SCJ patient each and iritis was reported in 1 IVT patient. No serious ocular adverse events were reported. No nonocular adverse events were considered related to study drug. Systemic exposure to sirolimus was low, with blood concentrations below levels necessary for systemic immunosuppression. For the SCJ group (n = 25), a median increase in BCVA started at day 7 (5.0 letters) and was 3.0, 4.0, and 4.0 letters at days 14, 45 and 90, respectively. At day 45, median decrease in retinal thickness was -23.7 \u03bcm. For the IVT group (n = 25), the median increase in BCVA was 2.0 letters at day 7; at days 14, 45, and 90, the median increase was maintained (4.0 letters); the median decrease in retinal thickness was -52.0 \u03bcm at day 45. Locally administered sirolimus was well-tolerated with minimal systemic exposure at all doses tested in this small phase I population. These findings support advancing the present sirolimus formulation into phase II studies. Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references."}
{"id": "22074677", "title": "Reversible opacification of a hydrophilic acrylic intraocular lens.", "content": "Reversible opacification of a hydrophilic acrylic intraocular lens. A 56-year-old woman with diabetic retinopathy and chronic myelogenous leukemia had phacoemulsification cataract removal and hydrophilic acrylic intraocular lens (IOL) (Akreos MI-60) implantation in both eyes. One month after surgery, significant IOL opacity and severe cystoid macular edema were observed in both eyes. After bilateral intravitreal injection of bevacizumab (Avastin) to control macular edema, central clearing of the IOL opacity was observed in both eyes. Two months after the injection, the IOL opacity had almost disappeared from both eyes. To our knowledge, this is the first case of early postoperative bilateral IOL opacity in a hydrophilic acrylic IOL cleared after anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) intravitreal injection. The role of anti-VEGF therapy in clearing IOL opacification requires further investigation."}
{"id": "22059904", "title": "Functional and anatomic response of the retina and the choroid to intravitreal bevacizumab for macular edema.", "content": "Functional and anatomic response of the retina and the choroid to intravitreal bevacizumab for macular edema. This study evaluated the rate of change of best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central retinal sensitivity, and retinal and choroidal thickness in patients with macular edema after intravitreal bevacizumab. This was a prospective, nonrandomized, interventional study. Thirty-four consecutive eyes (34 patients) with macular edema were included in the study. Choroidal neovascularization was present in 21 cases, stage 1 retinal angiomatous proliferation in 6 cases, branch retinal vein occlusion in 4 cases, and diabetic edema in 3 cases. Evaluation of BCVA (Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study [ETDRS] logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution [LogMAR]), central retinochoroidal thickness (RCT) at standardized A-scan, combined optical coherence tomography/microperimetric assessment of central retinal thickness (RT), central scotoma, and fixation behavior was performed during 12 months after treatment. Choroidal thickness was considered as the difference between RCT and RT. All patients received two initial intravitreal bevacizumab injections (1.25\u2009mg/0.05\u2009mL) at a 1-month interval. BCVA and RT during follow-up were significantly better than at baseline. BCVA was improved of 0.32\u00b10.3 LogMAR (P<0.001) at month 1, 0.18\u00b10.4 LogMAR (P=0.05) at month 6, and 0.14\u00b10.2 (P=0.09) at month 12. RT was reduced by 172.9\u00b1192.8\u2009\u03bcm (P<0.001) at month 1, 157.7\u00b1134.2\u2009\u03bcm (P=0.003) at month 6, and 164.3\u00b1122.3 (P=0.002) at month 12. Mean retinal sensitivity significantly increased during the first month; it decreased afterward, but an improvement if compared with baseline was present at each visit during follow-up. In 23.5% of cases, a choroidal thinning was present during follow-up, and in this group visual acuity at baseline and final visual improvement were significantly greater if compared with patients showing a choroidal thickening. Intravitreal bevacizumab for macular edema determines significant functional and anatomic improvement at the 12-month follow-up. Visual acuity at baseline and following treatment could be influenced by the choroidal involvement."}
{"id": "21997197", "title": "Comparison of intravitreal bevacizumab alone or combined with triamcinolone versus triamcinolone in diabetic macular edema: a randomized clinical trial.", "content": "Comparison of intravitreal bevacizumab alone or combined with triamcinolone versus triamcinolone in diabetic macular edema: a randomized clinical trial. To compare the effect of an intravitreal injection of bevacizumab alone (IVB) or combined with triamcinolone (IVB/IVT) versus triamcinolone (IVT) in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). In this randomized three-arm clinical trial, eligible eyes were assigned randomly to one of the three study arms: the IVB group, 2 injections of 1.25 mg of bevacizumab with 6-week intervals; the IVB/IVT group, 1.25 mg of IVB with 2 mg of IVT, and the IVT group, 2 mg of IVT. The clinical course of best-corrected visual acuity and central macular thickness by optical coherence tomography was monitored for up to 12 months after the initial injection. One hundred eleven eyes of 105 patients with DME completed 12 months of follow-up. The IVB/IVT group and the IVT group showed better visual acuity and reduced central macular thickness at 6 weeks and 3 months, compared with the IVB group (p = 0.041, p = 0.02 at 6 weeks; p = 0.045, p = 0.043 at 3 months, respectively). However, no significant difference in visual acuity and central macular thickness was observed between the three groups at 12 months (p = 0.088, p = 0.132, respectively). The frequency of retreatment was lower in the IVB/IVT and IVT groups during the 12-month period (p < 0.001). No significant differences in visual acuity or central macular thickness were observed between the IVB/IVT and IVT groups during the follow-up. IVB/IVT and IVT showed more pronounced effects during the earlier postinjection period. However, levels of visual acuity or central macular thickness at 12 months were comparable in the three study groups. No beneficial effect of the combination injection was observed."}
{"id": "21996307", "title": "Use of nonmydriatic spectral-domain optical coherence tomography for diagnosing diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Use of nonmydriatic spectral-domain optical coherence tomography for diagnosing diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the accuracy of 3 spectral-domain (SD) optical coherence tomography (OCT) devices (Topcon 3D-1000 [Topcon]; Cirrus HD [Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc], and Spectralis OCT [Heidelberg Engineering]) before and after mydriasis for the diagnosis of diabetic macular edema. Cross-sectional study. Sixty-two eyes of 62 consecutive patients with diabetes without recent loss of vision referred for retinal control were assessed. Two scans were performed for each SD OCT instrument. Central retinal thickness was measured before and after pupil dilation. Pupil dynamic was studied using pMetrics pupillometer (iVIS Technologies), and lens opacity was measured by Pentacam densitometry (Oculus). The diagnostic accuracy of SD OCT devices was assessed by sensitivity, specificity, and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve. Logistic regression analysis was used to assess the effect of pupil size and lens opacity on the reliability of SD OCT in the acquisition of adequate images. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for the Topcon 3D OCT device was 0.84, that for the Cirrus HD OCT device was 0.93, and that for the Spectralis OCT device was 0.91. Significant differences in area under the receiver operating characteristic curve before and after pupillary dilatation were not found. Sensitivity and specificity associated with the cutoff value for the best performance were 82% and 74% for the Topcon 3D OCT device, 90% and 87% for the Cirrus HD OCT device, and 90% and 84% for the Spectralis OCT device, respectively. The Topcon 3D OCT device had an 11.3% segmentation algorithm failure rate for the central millimeter of the fovea, and the nuclear lens density was significantly greater in these eyes than in those without failure (17.1 \u00b1 1.1 mm vs 10.4 \u00b1 0.2 mm; P < .05). SD OCT is a useful tool to detect and to measure diabetic macular edema without the need for pupil dilatation."}
{"id": "21992557", "title": "Optical coherence tomographic patterns in diabetic macula edema can predict the effects of intravitreal bevacizumab injection as primary treatment.", "content": "Optical coherence tomographic patterns in diabetic macula edema can predict the effects of intravitreal bevacizumab injection as primary treatment. To identify optical coherence tomography (OCT) patterns in diabetic macular edema (DME) that were predictive of visual outcomes after intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) injection. This was a retrospective study. We examined 31 eyes (24 patients) with clinically significant macular edema that received IVB injections along with macular OCT data. The eyes were categorized into 4 groups by using OCT features: diffuse retinal thickening (DRT), cystoid macular edema (CME), serous retinal detachment (SRD), and vitreomacular interface abnormalities (VMIAs). Changes in retinal thickness, retinal volume, and visual acuity (VA) after IVB injection were compared on the basis of OCT patterns. After IVB injections, changes in VA logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution were -0.06\u00b10.36, -0.26\u00b10.26, 0.09\u00b10.13, and -0.08\u00b10.15, respectively, for DRT, CME, SRD, and VMIA patterns. Central macular thickness decreased by 70.5\u00b1105.5, 110.67\u00b197.28, 181\u00b1125.87, and 24.25\u00b177.12\u2009\u03bcm for the DRT, CME, SRD, and VMIA patterns, respectively. The CME group was associated with a greater reduction in retinal thickness (P=0.009) and volume (P=0.027) with superior VA improvement (P=0.012) as compared with the DRT, SRD, and VMIA groups. Patients with CME gained greater improvement in visual acuity and macular thickness and volume after IVB injection had been administered as the primary treatment for DME, as compared with other patients. The OCT patterns of DME may indicate the appropriate treatment; we consider these patterns to be prognostic of the response to IVB injection for macular edema."}
{"id": "21971077", "title": "Long-term safety, high-resolution imaging, and tissue temperature modeling of subvisible diode micropulse photocoagulation for retinovascular macular edema.", "content": "Long-term safety, high-resolution imaging, and tissue temperature modeling of subvisible diode micropulse photocoagulation for retinovascular macular edema. To determine the long-term safety of high-density subvisible diode micropulse photocoagulation (810 nm), compare the clinical findings with computational modeling of tissue hyperthermia and to report results for a subset of eyes treated for diabetic macular edema (ME) documented pre- and postoperatively by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. All eyes treated for ME from diabetic retinopathy (diabetic ME) and branch retinal vein occlusion between April 2000 and January 2010 were reviewed for subvisible diode micropulse laser-induced retinal damage. Therapeutic outcomes were reviewed for a subgroup treated for diabetic ME with pre- and postoperative spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. Laser-induced retinal thermal effects were modeled computationally using Arrhenius formalism. A total of 252 eyes (212 diabetic ME, 40 branch retinal vein occlusion) of 181 patients qualified. None of the 168 eyes treated at irradiance <350 W/cm2 and 7 of 84 eyes at \u2265 590 W/cm2 had retinal damage (P = 0.0001) (follow-up 3-120 months, median, 47). Sixty-two eyes of 48 patients treated for diabetic ME with pre- and postoperative spectral-domain optical coherence tomography with median 12 months follow-up had no retinal injury by infrared, red-free, or fundus autofluorescence photos; fluorescein angiography or indocyanine green angiography; or spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. Central foveal thickness (P = 0.04) and maximum macular thickness decreased (P < 0.0001). Modeling of retinal hyperthermia demonstrates that the sublethal clinical regimen corresponds to Arrhenius integral >0.05, while damage is likely to occur if it exceeds 1. Subvisible diode micropulse can effectively treat retinovascular ME without laser-induced retinal damage, consistent with Arrhenius modeling of pulsed hyperthermia."}
{"id": "21963486", "title": "Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography in Irvine-Gass syndrome.", "content": "Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography in Irvine-Gass syndrome. To report longitudinal evaluation of morphology and function, by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography and Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity, respectively, in patients with cystoid macular edema after cataract surgery (Irvine-Gass syndrome). Fifteen eyes (15 patients) with a diagnosis of cystoid macular edema related to Irvine-Gass syndrome underwent ocular ophthalmologic examinations including Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity and macular morphology assessment by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. An observational period of 3 months after surgery was considered before starting therapy with oral acetazolamide and topical indomethacin. Patients' eyes were tested at baseline and at 3, 6, and 12 months posttreatment by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography and Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity. Repeated measures analysis of variance was used to compare mean values. Mean (\u00b1SD) central macular thickness by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography was 530 (\u00b198.1), 385.6 (\u00b155.1), 339 (\u00b132.3), and 316.2 (\u00b127.0) \u03bcm at baseline, 3, 6, and 12 months of follow-up, respectively (P < 0.001). Mean (\u00b1SD) Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity was 0.6 (\u00b10.2), 0.2 (\u00b10.1), 0.16 (\u00b10.1), and 0.09 (\u00b10.07) logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution at baseline, 3, 6, and 12-month follow-up, respectively (P < 0.001). Macular thickness changes were positively correlated (r = 0.75; P < 0.001) with visual acuity changes. Eyes with interruption of inner segment/outer segment junction at baseline (n = 3, 20%) showed a persistent damage of the photoreceptor junction and incomplete visual acuity recovery at the end of follow-up. Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography detects retinal findings, including photoreceptor inner segment/outer segment junction abnormalities that are correlated with visual acuity changes in treated patients with Irvine-Gass syndrome."}
{"id": "21954975", "title": "Short-term effects of a single intravitreal bevacizumab injection on retinal vessel calibre.", "content": "Short-term effects of a single intravitreal bevacizumab injection on retinal vessel calibre. \u2002 The aim was to investigate the short-term effects of a single intravitreal bevacizumab injection on the retinal vessel calibre in patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration and in patients with diabetic macular oedema. \u2002 Twelve patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration and eight patients with diabetic macular oedema were included in the study. All patients received an intravitreal injection of 1.25\u2003mg bevacizumab. Red-free fundus photographs (35\u00b0) were acquired with a fundus camera at baseline and one day, one week and one month after the intravitreal injection. Measurements of retinal vessel diameter were made of the supero-temporal retinal venule and arteriole using the software available on the IMAGEnet program. \u2002 Although there appeared to be a trend towards vasoconstriction for the measurements in the diabetic macular oedema group (both for arterioles and venules at day 7) and the age-related macular degeneration group (for venules at day 1 and for arterioles at day 7), it did not reach statistical significance (p > 0.05). Optical coherence tomography revealed a significant decrease in foveal thickness measurements in both groups at the one month visit compared with baseline. \u2002 The results suggest that intravitreal injection of bevacizumab might induce retinal vasoconstriction; however, low numbers of subjects might have prevented the difference from reaching statistical significance. Further studies with a larger number of subjects would reveal the effect of intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor treatment on retinal vessel diameters more clearly."}
{"id": "21921588", "title": "Hemodialysis-induced alterations in macular thickness measured by optical coherence tomography in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Hemodialysis-induced alterations in macular thickness measured by optical coherence tomography in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease. To evaluate changes in macular thickness measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) during a hemodialysis (HD) session in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease. 72 eyes of 36 diabetic patients with and without macular edema were evaluated before and immediately after an HD session. Average and maximum macular thicknesses in the central disk (6 mm in diameter) and total macular volume were measured. In the eyes with diabetic macular edema, maximum macular thickness within the central disk of 6 mm, and mainly in its peripheral parts, was significantly reduced by 31.18 \u00b1 4.18 \u03bcm after HD (p < 0.001). Average macular thickness and total macular volume were also significantly reduced (p = 0.003 and 0.015, respectively). In diabetic eyes without edema, maximum macular thickness decreased significantly by 11.21 \u00b1 1.98 \u03bcm after HD (p < 0.001), while average macular thickness and total macular volume decreased slightly (p = 0.034, p = 0.043). Best-corrected visual acuity failed to change. We found a significant association of macular thickness changes with osmolality reduction and the presence of macular edema. HD decreases macular thickness in diabetic patients with macular edema, while there exists a less-pronounced effect in diabetic eyes without edema."}
{"id": "21909051", "title": "Non-full-thickness macular holes reassessed with spectral domain optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Non-full-thickness macular holes reassessed with spectral domain optical coherence tomography. The aim of this study was to describe spectral domain optical coherence tomography characteristics and evolution of non-full-thickness macular holes, with a bed of retinal tissue present in the outer retinal layers, which the author will henceforth refer to as non-full-thickness macular holes (NFMHs). Retrospective observational study of 10,239 consecutive spectral domain optical coherence tomographic examinations was conducted, to select patients with idiopathic NFMH. We measured the following parameters: visual acuity, type of NFMH, coexistence of epiretinal membranes, photoreceptor layer defects, central and maximum retinal thickness, and diameters of the fovea defect. Patients with a history of diabetes; previous vein occlusions, with age-related macular degeneration; high and medium myopia; a previous history of retinal detachment; or macular edema were excluded. Four subtypes of NFMH were distinguished among 125 eyes (116 patients): macular pseudohole (21 eyes), paralamellar macular holes (34 eyes), pseudoholes with lamellar defects (25 eyes), and lamellar macular holes (45 eyes). We observed different fovea appearances on consecutive B-scans in 54% of eyes. Epiretinal membranes coexisted in 100% of cases. Photoreceptor layer defects, seen in 29% of cases, were the most important factor correlating with visual acuity. Other factors correlating with visual acuity were maximum retinal thickness and outer diameter of the fovea defect. We noted epiretinal membranes in the second eye in 32 cases. Sixty-six patients were followed up for a mean time of 14 months. Non-full-thickness macular hole formation was documented in five cases. Spectral domain optical coherence tomography images presented of four different morphologic types NFMH, which may change during the natural course of the disease. High resolution of spectral domain optical coherence tomography enabled the visualization of photoreceptor defects, a feature not previously described. Moreover, epiretinal membranes and fovea contour localized beneath the outer plexiform layer were noted in all cases."}
{"id": "21893972", "title": "Comparison of grid laser, intravitreal triamcinolone, and intravitreal bevacizumab in the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Comparison of grid laser, intravitreal triamcinolone, and intravitreal bevacizumab in the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema. To compare the effects of grid laser (GL), intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB), and intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) in diffuse diabetic macular edema (DDME). One hundred and twenty-six patients (126 eyes) treated with GL (modified grid), IVTA (4 mg), and IVB (1.25 mg) injections, matched for best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and OCT-based central macular thickness at presentation, were enrolled. Primary outcome measure was change in best corrected logMAR visual acuity at 1-year follow-up. Rates of visual stabilization (within \u00b10.2 logMAR of baseline BCVA) (71.4, 83.3, 78.6%, respectively) were not different between the groups (p = 0.41) at 12-month follow-up. Higher rates of anatomical and functional success, however, were evident in IVB and IVTA groups within 6 months of treatment (p < 0.05 for both). No severe adverse effects except higher intraocular pressure (10 mm Hg from baseline) in one third (14 eyes) of the IVTA cases, who required trabeculectomy in 2 (4.8%) eyes, were observed. Intraocular injections may give favorable results within the first 6 months, and after 6 months, GL results seem to be more favorable in the treatment of treatment-na\u00efve, acute, nonischemic, and center-involving DDME."}
{"id": "21886018", "title": "Topical dorzolamide for treatment of cystoid macular edema in patients with choroideremia.", "content": "Topical dorzolamide for treatment of cystoid macular edema in patients with choroideremia. : To determine the value of a topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitor on the macular thickness and function in choroideremia patients with cystoid macular edema. : Two choroideremia patients with cystoid macular edema, observed by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography, were treated with a topical form of carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. Examinations performed before and during treatment included best-corrected visual acuity by using the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study charts and contrast sensitivity measured with briefly presented grating targets and the Pelli-Robson letter contrast sensitivity chart, microperimetry, and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. : The 2 choroideremia patients treated with dorzolamide 2% formulation had a noticeable reduction in macular thickness by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. This reduction was found in both eyes after 2 months of treatment. After an additional 3 months of the same treatment regimen, a more noticeable reduction in macular thickness was observed. The two study patients had improvement of their visual acuity, in at least one eye, on Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study charts, but no clinically significant changes for the other measures of visual function. : The present study shows the potential efficacy of topical dorzolamide for treating choroideremia patients with cystoid macular edema."}
{"id": "21886017", "title": "Focal navigated laser photocoagulation in retinovascular disease: clinical results in initial case series.", "content": "Focal navigated laser photocoagulation in retinovascular disease: clinical results in initial case series. To evaluate clinical results after the use of a novel integrated imaging and laser device to perform focal retinal navigated laser photocoagulation in perifoveal abnormalities and retinovascular disease. Interventional case series of 25 consecutive eyes with perifoveal and retinovascular diseases treated with a navigated laser photocoagulator Navilas (OD-OS, Berlin, Germany). We treated eyes with perifoveal telangiectasia (n = 3), central serous chorioretinopathy (n = 2), and diabetic macular edema with focal leakage (n = 20). The treatments were performed without a contact lens and without topical anesthesia. There was no inadvertent photocoagulation of the fovea, and all laser applications accurately hit the preplanned points. Mean and median (\u00b1 standard deviation) foveal thickness at baseline was 535 \u00b1 171 \u03bcm and 402 \u00b1 152 \u03bcm, respectively. Mean and median (\u00b1 standard deviation) foveal thickness at 6 months was 318 \u00b1 112 \u03bcm and 221 \u00b1 127 \u03bcm, respectively. This represents a statistically significant decrease in foveal thickness (P = 0.003). Mean and median visual acuity at baseline was 20/80 and 20/50, respectively. Mean and median visual acuity at 6 months was 20/50 and 20/40, respectively, which represents a significant improvement (P = 0.011). Precise retinal targeting with a navigated laser photocoagulator resulted in highly accurate perifoveal laser application and no foveal damage. At 6 months after the treatment, significant decreases in central foveal thickness and significant improvements in visual acuity were identified."}
{"id": "21874345", "title": "Association between photoreceptor integrity and visual outcome in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Association between photoreceptor integrity and visual outcome in diabetic macular edema. To investigate the correlation between foveal photoreceptor integrity and final visual acuity (VA) after treatment of eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME), and to determine the visual prognostic factors. We retrospectively studied 61 eyes of 52 patients with DME who were treated successfully with intravitreal triamcinolone injection (IVTA). Using spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), the eyes were categorized into three groups at the final visit according to restoration of the photoreceptor inner and outer segment junction (IS/OS) and the external limiting membrane (ELM): (1) the A group, with a completely visible IS/OS and ELM, (2) the B group, with a disrupted IS/OS and intact ELM, and (3) the C group, with a disrupted or loss of the IS/OS and ELM. Disrupted IS/OS length (DIL), disrupted ELM length (DEL), and mean disrupted IS/OS and ELM length (DIEL) were measured at the initial and final visits. Foveal thickness (FT), macular center thickness (MCT), and outer nuclear layer (ONL) thickness were also measured at the initial and final visits. Multivariate analysis testing was performed over the measured SD OCT variables. Final VA was closely associated with IS/OS integrity at the final visit; final VA (logMAR) in the A group (0.21 \u00b1 0.14; 31 eyes) or B group (0.31 \u00b1 0.21; 15 eyes) was significantly better than that in the C group (0.45 \u00b1 0.33; 15 eyes) (p < 0.001). Shorter DIL, DEL, and DIEL at the final visit were associated with better final VA. Multivariate analysis showed that DIEL (r = 0.564) have the greatest correlation coefficient with final VA compared to DIL (r = 0.561) and DEL (r = 0.540). Better VA, preservation of the IS/OS and ELM at the initial visit were associated with intact photoreceptor integrity after resolution of DME. However, MCT, FT, and ONL thickness had no significant correlation with photoreceptor integrity. IS/OS and ELM are useful hallmarks for use in evaluation of foveal photoreceptor layer integrity, and are closely associated with final VA in DME. Pretreatment VA and photoreceptor status can predict potential restoration of photoreceptor integrity and subsequent visual recovery in DME."}
{"id": "21866075", "title": "Characteristics of optical coherence tomographic hyperreflective foci in retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Characteristics of optical coherence tomographic hyperreflective foci in retinal vein occlusion. To evaluate the hyperreflective foci in branch retinal vein occlusion and central retinal vein occlusion depicted by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT). Consecutive series of 73 eyes of 73 patients with retinal vein occlusion (58 branch retinal vein occlusion and 15 central retinal vein occlusion) who had Spectralis OCT images obtained were retrospectively reviewed, comparing color fundus photographs and fluorescein angiography. Hyperreflective foci were detected in 54 eyes (74.0%) by spectral-domain OCT, and hard exudates were detected in 17 eyes (23.3%) by color fundus photography. Hard exudates on the color photographs corresponded to the confluence of hyperreflective foci mainly around the outer plexiform layer in the unaffected areas on the spectral-domain OCT images, whereas fine hyperreflective foci were scattered in all retinal layers of the affected areas (P < 0.001). Most eyes with hyperreflective foci attached to the inner side of the external limiting membrane also had serous retinal detachment (P < 0.001). Compared with diabetic macular edema, we did not find subfoveal hard exudates in retinal vein occlusion. Hyperreflective foci delineated on spectral-domain OCT suggest the pathogenesis regarding the flow of extravasated blood constituents in retinal vein occlusion."}
{"id": "21853229", "title": "Comparative study of vitrectomy versus intravitreous triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema on randomized paired-eyes.", "content": "Comparative study of vitrectomy versus intravitreous triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema on randomized paired-eyes. The present study was performed to compare the effects of pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) and single intravitreaous triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) on diabetic macular edema (DME) in paired eyes. Prospective comparative study on randomized paired-eyes was carried out at two hospitals. Forty eyes of 20 patients with bilateral DME were included. One randomly-selected eye was treated with PPV (PPV group), and the other eye was treated with IVTA (4 mg, IVTA group). The central macular thickness (CMT) measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) were monitored for 12 months after treatment. Changes from baseline and differences between groups were analyzed using a mixed model. At 1 and 3 months, CMT decreased significantly in the IVTA group compared to baseline (p < 0.0001 both), but CMT then increased gradually and no significant difference was found at 12 months (p = 0.90). In the PPV group, CMT decreased continuously and reached a significant level at 12 months (p < 0.0001). CMT of the IVTA group was significantly less than that of the PPV group at 1 month (p = 0.009); however, there was no significant difference at 3 months. Conversely, CMT was significantly less in the PPV group than in the IVTA group at 12 months (p = 0.0003). The changes of BCVA paralleled those of CMT, but no significant difference was detected between baseline BCVA and any time point. Despite the short-term improvement, DME recurred 6 months after IVTA, while it remained resolved after PPV. Although this study did not reveal a significant change of BCVA with either treatment, PPV resolved DME more effectively than IVTA at 1 year."}
{"id": "21837585", "title": "[Evaluation of possible prognostic factors for the course of visual acuity after intravitreal ttriamconolone acetonide].", "content": "[Evaluation of possible prognostic factors for the course of visual acuity after intravitreal ttriamconolone acetonide]. Intrvitreal injections are increasingly applied in the treatment of macular oedema of different origins. So far no clear preoperative prognostic factors are known. This investigation was implemented to quantify the predictive value of preoperative retinal sensitivity assessments by means of microperimetry with regard to the short-term course of visual acuity. 42 patients with macular oedema due different ocular diseases (such as diabetic maculopathy, retinal vein occlusion, Irvine Gass syndrome) were examined pre- and postoperatively by means of microperimetry, fixation, optical coherence tomography and fluorescein angiography. Their medical history, treatment to date, visual acuity, central retinal thickness and retinal sensitivity were recorded before and six weeks after intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide. The data from 38 injections could be evaluated; 21 eyes showed an improvement in visual acuity of more than one line. However, statistically significant prognostic factors could not be identified: patients with a visual acuity increase of at least one line showed a median total retinal sensitivity of 8.5 dB (5.0-11.0 dB) versus 8.3 dB (3.6-12.8 dB) in patients with unchanged or decreasing visual acuity (Wilcoxon p = 0.706). The same tendency was observed in retinal thickness with medians of 618 \u00b5m (483-689 \u00b5m) versus 558 \u00b5m (447-621 \u00b5m; Wilcoxon p = 0.220). However, a moderate association of the visual outcome with the 6 weeks change in total retinal sensitivity was observed. Patients with visual improvement of at least one line showed a significant sensitivity increase of 1.7 dB in median versus a median decrease of 0.8 dB in patients with stable or worsened visual acuity (sign test p = 0.003 and p = 0.629, respectively). The presented data did not reveal statistically significant predictors of the short-term visual outcome after triamzinolone injection by means preoperative microperimetry assessment."}
{"id": "21232079", "title": "Treatment of diffuse diabetic macular oedema using steroid eye drops.", "content": "Treatment of diffuse diabetic macular oedema using steroid eye drops. \u2002To evaluate the efficacy of treatment of diffuse diabetic macular oedema (DME) with difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion 0.05% (Durezol\u2122) in eyes before vitrectomy. This study enrolled patients with diffuse DME for whom more than 3\u2003months had passed since prior treatment. Nineteen eyes in 15 subjects were treated with difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion 0.05% four times daily for the first month and then twice daily for 2\u2003months (treatment group). As a control group, 22 eyes in 11 subjects with DME were selected from subjects who underwent the steroid responder test. In the treatment group, the mean visual acuity (VA) (\u00b1SD) was 0.38\u2003\u00b1\u20030.25 logMAR and mean retinal thickness was 461.1\u2003\u00b1\u2003109.9\u2003\u03bcm at baseline. After 1\u2003month of treatment, the mean VA had improved to 0.29\u2003\u00b1\u20030.25 (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, p\u2003=\u20030.30), while mean retinal thickness had decreased to 372.1\u2003\u00b1\u200370.0\u2003\u03bcm (p\u2003=\u20030.006). The rate of effective improvement in retinal thickness was 42% and that of VA was 26%. In the control group, changes in neither VA nor retinal thickness were significant. Eye drop therapy using difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion 0.05% is a useful and effective treatment modality without surgical intervention or severe side-effects."}
{"id": "20809906", "title": "Local retinal sensitivity in relation to specific retinopathy lesions in diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Local retinal sensitivity in relation to specific retinopathy lesions in diabetic macular oedema. To study microperimetric macular sensitivity in diabetic macular oedema (DMO) in relation to lesion characteristics obtained by optical coherence tomography (OCT), colour fundus photography, and fluorescein angiography (FA). The study comprised 20 eyes in 15 patients with nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy and recently diagnosed untreated DMO. Investigations included microperimetry, fluorescein angiography, colour fundus photography, and OCT. All measures and gradings were made for each of the nine fields of an early treatment diabetic retinopathy study macula template. Statistical analysis was made using Spearman's nonparametric test including field and mean values within fields. Comparisons were made within the study population and with a normative microperimetry database. Subnormal microperimetric sensitivity was associated with cystoid macular oedema, both in foveal petaloid (r = -0.50, p = 0.02) and extrafoveal honeycomb patterns (r = -0.8, p < 0.0001) and with outer nuclear layer cysts (r = -0. 5, p = 0.024), inner nuclear layer cysts (r = -0.31, p = 0.03), and hard exudate (r = -0.38, p = 0.0026). There was no detectable effect of focal noncystoid oedema (r = -0.16, p = 0. 48), diffuse noncystoid oedema (r = -0.14, p = 0.55), capillary nonperfusion (r = -0.33, p = 0.15), intraretinal haemorrhage (r = -0.15, p = 0.53), or serous retinal detachment (r = -0.11, p = 0.63). Foveal thickening was associated with locally reduced sensitivity (r = -0.54, p = 0.01). Foveal sensitivity was positively correlated to the visual acuity, with a correlation of 0.44 and a borderline significance (p = 0.0509). Macular hard exudates and cystoid oedema were associated with locally reduced sensitivity. Thus, the lesions associated with reduced sensitivity for a white-on-white stimulus were such lesions that cause light to be blocked or scattered before it reaches the photoreceptors, suggesting that optical effects are a major cause of sensitivity loss."}
{"id": "20015098", "title": "Comparing intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide and bevacizumab injections for the treatment of diabetic macular oedema: a randomized double-blind study.", "content": "Comparing intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide and bevacizumab injections for the treatment of diabetic macular oedema: a randomized double-blind study. To compare the effect of a single intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide and bevacizumab in reducing macular thickness, which was measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) in patients with diabetic macular oedema (DMO). \u2002 The patients received a single intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg bevacizumab in one randomly selected eye and 4.0 mg triamcinolone acetonide in the contralateral eye. Central foveal thickness measurement (CFT) with OCT was taken at the initial visit and at the 4-week, 12-week and 24-week visits. Eleven patients (22 eyes) were enrolled and statistically analysed. CFT reduced in the eyes treated with triamcinolone and those treated with bevacizumab in weeks 4 and 12 (p < 0.05). At the 24-week follow-up, no significant difference was noted, relative to the initial visit. Comparing the two groups treated with different drugs, a statistically significant difference in CFT in weeks 4 and 12 was noted, with a more significant reduction in triamcinolone-treated eyes (p < 0.05). Regarding visual acuity (VA), patients treated with triamcinolone had improvement in VA at 4-week (p = 0.02) and 12-week follow-up (p = 0.01), while the group treated with bevacizumab had VA improvement at 4 -week follow-up (p = 0.02). Among the eyes treated with triamcinolone, intraocular pressure (IOP) measurement of more than 21 mmHg was found in three eyes (27.3%). Intravitreal triamcinolone proved to be more efficient in reducing DMO, providing longer lasting visual improvement, relative to bevacizumab. Eyes treated with triamcinolone had the highest percentage increase in IOP. Further studies are needed to corroborate these findings."}
{"id": "23264331", "title": "Postsurgical cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Postsurgical cystoid macular edema. Cystoid macular edema (CME) is a primary cause of postoperative reduced vision. It may occur even when the intraoperative course is successful for operations such as cataract and vitreoretinal surgery. Its incidence following modern cataract surgery is 0.1%-2.35%. This risk is increased if there are certain preexisting systemic or ocular conditions and when there are intraoperative complications. The etiology of CME is not completely understood. Prolapsed or incarcerated vitreous and postoperative inflammatory processes have been proposed as causative agents. Pseudophakic CME is characterized by poor postoperative visual acuity. Fluorescein angiography is indispensable in the workup of CME, showing the classical perifoveal petaloid staining pattern and late leakage of the optic disk. Optical coherence tomography is a useful diagnostic tool, which displays cystic spaces in the outer nuclear layer. The most important differential diagnoses include age-related macular degeneration and other causes of CME such as diabetic macular edema. Most cases of pseudophakic CME resolve spontaneously. The value of prophylactic treatment is doubtful. First-line treatment of postsurgical CME should include topical nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and corticosteroids. Oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors can be considered complementary. In cases of resistant CME, periocular or intraocular corticosteroids present an option. Antiangiogenic agents, though experimental, should be considered for nonresponsive persistent CME. Surgical options should be reserved for special indications."}
{"id": "23264323", "title": "Blood-retinal barrier.", "content": "Blood-retinal barrier. The blood-ocular barrier system is formed by 2 main barriers: the blood-aqueous barrier and the blood-retinal barrier (BRB). The BRB is particularly tight and restrictive and is a physiologic barrier that regulates ion, protein, and water flux into and out of the retina. The BRB consists of inner and outer components, the inner BRB being formed of tight junctions between retinal capillary endothelial cells and the outer BRB of tight junctions between retinal pigment epithelial cells. The BRB is essential to maintaining the eye as a privileged site and is essential for normal visual function. Methods of clinical evaluation of the BRB are reviewed and new directions using optical coherence tomography are presented. Alterations of the BRB play a crucial role in the development of retinal diseases. The 2 most frequent and relevant retinal diseases, diabetic retinopathy and age-related macular degeneration (AMD), are directly associated with alterations of the BRB. Diabetic retinopathy is initiated by an alteration of the inner BRB and neovascular AMD is a result of an alteration of the outer BRB. Macular edema is a direct result of alterations of the BRB."}
{"id": "22642147", "title": "[The role of OCT in diagnosis and follow-up of diabetic macular ederma].", "content": "[The role of OCT in diagnosis and follow-up of diabetic macular ederma]. To present the major importance of optical coherence tomography in early diagnosis and follow-up of diabetic macular edema. The patients diagnosed with diabetic retinopathy in our clinic between april 2008 - march 2011 were evaluated by OCT and other complementary exams. OCT in diabetic maculopathy is useful in the evaluation of the following: presence and area of retinal thickening; quantification of retinal thickening; proximity of retinal thickening to the centre of the macula; presence or absence of cyst formation (cystoid macular edema). OCT contributes in understanding the anatomy of diabetic macular edema and the intraretinal damage and it is the technique of choice for the follow-up of diabetic macular edema and for monitoring the effect of therapies."}
{"id": "22642142", "title": "[Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide treatment in diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide treatment in diabetic macular edema]. To assess the efficacy and safety of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in diabetic macular oedema. prospective study; 76 patients, 102 eyes; preoperative assessment: visual acuity, intraocular pressure, fundus biomicroscopy fluoresceine angiography, sometimes OCT; postoperative assessment: visual acuity, intraocular pressure, fundus biomicroscopy, fluoresceine angiography, sometimes OCT. Visual acuity improvement in 42% cases; subjective improvement of visual acuity in 72% of cases Triamcinolon acetonide may play a role in treatment of diabetic macular oedema."}
{"id": "22452685", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide versus combined intravitreal bevacizumab and dexamethasone in diffuse diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide versus combined intravitreal bevacizumab and dexamethasone in diffuse diabetic macular oedema. To compare the efficacy of a single injection of combined intravitreal dexamethasone and bevacizumab (Avastin) with that of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in eyes with diffuse cystoid diabetic macular oedema. Prospective, non-randomized, masked, interventional case series. Twenty-four eyes of 24 subjects with centre-involved diabetic macular oedema extending over two disc-areas with predominant cystic changes on spectral domain optical coherence tomography were selected. Ten phakic and two pseudophakic, ocular hypertensive eyes received intravitreal dexamethasone and bevacizumab as against 12 pseudophakic, normotensive eyes that received intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide. Change in central macular volume on spectral domain optical coherence tomography and best-corrected visual acuity were measured at 6-week follow-up. Baseline data were matched in both groups. Post-injection central macular volume (7.46 \u00b1 0.73 mm(3)) was significantly lower (P < 0.001) in the intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide group when compared with its pre-injection central macular volume (9.11 \u00b1 1.0 mm(3)) or when compared with the post-injection central macular volume (P = 0.02) of the intravitreal dexamethasone and bevacizumab group (8.42 \u00b1 1.18 mm(3)). However, post-injection best-corrected visual acuity between the intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (0.65 \u00b1 0.15 logMAR) and the intravitreal dexamethasone and bevacizumab groups (0.685 \u00b1 0.15 logMAR) was not significantly different (P = 0.06) at 6 weeks. No significant correlation was noted between change in central macular volume and change in best-corrected visual acuity (r = 0.35, P = 0.07) from the pooled data of both the groups. A fair correlation was noted between change in central macular volume and pre-injection central macular volume (r = 0.55, P = 0.005). Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide may be more effective than intravitreal dexamethasone and bevacizumab in reducing macular volume in patients with diffuse cystoid diabetic macular oedema. A significant reduction in macular volume does not necessarily translate into a correspondingly significant improvement in best-corrected visual acuity."}
{"id": "22385758", "title": "[Effect of photocoagulation on center point thickness in diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Effect of photocoagulation on center point thickness in diabetic macular edema]. Photocoagulation is the standard treatment for clinically significant macular edema (CSME). This procedure is effective in reducing macular thickening, but it has been reported that initially it does not improve the thickness at the area of best visual function (center point of the fovea). We undertook this study to compare the effect of focal photocoagulation on center point thickness (CPT) and macular volume 3 weeks after treatment in Mexican diabetic patients with CSME, with and without center point involvement. We carried out an observational, retrospective, longitudinal, analytical, open study. Type 2 diabetic patients undergoing focal photocoagulation for CSME at a general hospital in Mexico City were evaluated. Mean CPT and macular volume were compared before and 3 weeks after photocoagulation (paired t test) in the sample and in eyes with (group 1) and without (group 2) baseline center point involvement. Absolute and percent CPT and macular volume changes were identified. Fifty-nine eyes (mean age 59.6 years) were studied. CPT mean increased from 193 to 197 \u03bcm (p = 0.3), statistically in group 2 (168.8 to 178.5 \u03bcm, p <0.001). Macular volume mean changed from 7.8 to 7.6 mm(3) (p <0.001). CPT increased 3.9 \u03bcm (3%) in the sample, whereas macular volume decreased 0.26 mm(3) (3.1%). Correlation between changes was 0.089. Although macular volume decreased statistically 3 weeks after photocoagulation, CPT did not and increased statistically in eyes without baseline center point involvement, which was unnoticed in the sample effect. These changes should not be overlooked because dealing with them could improve the early results of treatment."}
{"id": "22255738", "title": "Optical coherence tomography: Health information embedded on OCT signal statistics.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography: Health information embedded on OCT signal statistics. Optical coherence tomography is becoming one of the most important imaging modalities in the area of ophthalmology because of being noninvasive and by allowing to visualize the human retina structure in detail. It was recently proposed that OCT data embeds functional information from the human retina. Specifically, it was proposed that blood-retinal barrier status information is present within OCT data. Following this rationale, in this work we illustrate (based on support vector machines) the possibility to discriminate between eyes from healthy volunteers, eyes from type 2 diabetic patients with no signs of diabetic retinopathy (ETDRS level 10 eyes) and eyes diagnosed with diabetic macular edema, thus confirming the presence within OCT data of information on the BRB status."}
{"id": "22220397", "title": "Anti-VEGF in treatment of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Anti-VEGF in treatment of diabetic macular edema. Diabetic macular edema is the leading cause of moderate visual deterioration in patients with diabetic retinopathy. Ranibizumab) blocks vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) induced hyperpermeability of blood vessels. In this prospective case series we investigated the efficacy and safety of anti-VEGF treatment in reduction of central retinal thickness (CRT) and improvement in visual acuity (VA) in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). 9 patients were followed up for 6 months and treated monthly with intravitreal ranibizumab. VA and CRT were measured at each visit. Treatment was discontinued as the peak improvement of either parameter was reached and reinstituted in case of deterioration/recurrence of edema. Study endpoints included: VA using ETDRS chart, CRT and number of injections at 6 months. Mean VA from all 9 patients increased by 0.3 lines of logMAR (p < 0.05 compared to baseline), and CRT decreased from 515 +/- 123 microm to 310 +/- 110 microm. The improvement of VA after ranibizumab injection was in correlation with a decrease in CRT. Mean of 4 injections were needed to control the disease during the follow-up period. Ranibizumab treatment was effective in VA and reducing CRT. Several injections were needed to control the disease. Regular OCT examinations and retreatment are advised in order to maintain initially reached VA."}
{"id": "22183994", "title": "Treatment of diffuse diabetic maculopathy with intravitreal triamcinolone and laser photocoagulation: randomized clinical trial with morphological and functional evaluation.", "content": "Treatment of diffuse diabetic maculopathy with intravitreal triamcinolone and laser photocoagulation: randomized clinical trial with morphological and functional evaluation. Treatment of diffuse macular edema in diabetes mellitus is currently unsatisfactory. The purpose of this double blind randomized clinical trial was to compare the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema with intravitreal triamcinolone or laser in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients using a morphofunctional assessment. Fourteen patients (21 eyes) with clinically significant diffuse macular-edema, previously untreated and with a macular thickness >250 \u00b5m at optical coherence tomography were randomized for treatment with laser or intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetate. Optical coherence tomography, biomicroscopy, fundoscopy, fluorescein angiography, tonometry, scotometry, visual and contrast acuities were performed at 0, 1, 3 and 6 months. At pre-treatment stage, Laser (n=9) and Triamcinolone (n=12) groups did not differ regarding retinal thickness, visual and contrast acuities. In Triamcinolone group macular thickness decreased after 1 month (424.1 \u00b1 19.9 \u00b5m to 358.4 \u00b1 18.2 \u00b5m; p=0.04) and started to return to the initial values in the 3(rd) month (p=0.02). No changes occurred in macular scotometry and visual and contrast acuities. No side effects were observed with both treatments. During the study macular thickness diminished in the triamcinolone group, especially in the first month of treatment. At 3 and 6 months there was no difference. Macular thickness did not change during the study in the laser group. In the study sample it was not possible to demonstrate differences relates to visual acuity and scotometry between the two groups. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV IDENTIFIER: NCT00668239."}
{"id": "22169610", "title": "[Characters of multifocal electroretinogram in different grades of diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Characters of multifocal electroretinogram in different grades of diabetic macular edema]. To investigate the characters of multifocal electroretinogram (mfERG) in different grades of diabetic macular edema defined by optical coherence tomography (OCT). MfERG and OCT were performed in 57 eyes of diabetic macular edema (DME) patients and 35 eyes of the control group. According to the macular thickness measured by OCT, eyes with DME were divided into three groups: mild, moderate and severe DMEs. In mild DME, the response densities of N(1) were attenuated in ring 4[(14.67 \u00b1 4.91) nV\u00d7deg(-2)] to ring 5 [(11.65 \u00b1 3.89) nV\u00d7deg(-2)] respectively (t = 2.179, 2.529; P < 0.05). The latencies of P(1) was prolonged significantly in ring 3 [(40.61 \u00b1 4.10) ms] (t = -2.133, P < 0.05). In moderate DME, the response densities of P(1) and N(1) were attenuated in ring 1 [(149.50 \u00b1 29.01) nV\u00d7deg(-2)], ring 2 [(59.33 \u00b1 25.96) nV\u00d7deg(-2)], ring 3 [(41.83 \u00b1 9.78) nV\u00d7deg(-2)], and ring 5 [(22.00 \u00b1 5.52) nV\u00d7deg(-2)] respectively (t = 3.610, 2.168, 2.627, 3.445; P < 0.05). The latencies of P(1) and N(1) were prolonged significantly in ring 3 [(42.86 \u00b1 4.72) ms], ring 4 [(44.33 \u00b1 5.56) ms], ring 5 [(46.31 \u00b1 4.72) ms] (t = -3.150, -3.210, -3.968; P < 0.05) and ring 3 [(23.05 \u00b1 3.06) ms], ring 4 [(22.41 \u00b1 3.36) ms] (t = -2.845, -2.098; P < 0.05) respectively. In severe DME. The response densities of P(1) and N(1) were attenuated in ring 1 [(110.00 \u00b1 20.68) nV\u00d7deg(-2)], ring 2 [(62.40 \u00b1 27.90) nV\u00d7deg(-2)], ring 3[(39.20 \u00b1 19.65) nV\u00d7deg(-2)], ring 5 [(21.60 \u00b1 11.12) nV\u00d7deg(-2)] (t = 7.135, 1.782, 2.214, 2.609; P < 0.05) and ring 1 [(41.63 \u00b1 39.17) nV\u00d7deg(-2)], ring 3 [(16.63 \u00b1 5.81) nV\u00d7deg(-2)], ring 4 [(11.20 \u00b1 7.42) nV\u00d7deg(-2)], ring 5 [(9.05 \u00b1 4.63) nV\u00d7deg(-2)] (t = 2.714, 2.282, 2.736, 2.858; P < 0.05) respectively. The latencies of P(1) and N(1) were prolonged significantly in ring 1 [(35.12 \u00b1 8.44) ms], ring 3 [(40.44 \u00b1 2.10) ms], ring 4 [(42.80 \u00b1 3.74) ms] (t = 3.426, -2.710, -3.120; P < 0.05) and ring 4 [(23.36 \u00b1 4.05) ms] (t = -2.572; P < 0.05) respectively. As the progress of DME, the thickness of macular fovea had significant correlation with responses of multifocal electroretinogram in patients with moderate or severe DME. MfERG combined with OCT can evaluate the changes of morphology and local retinal function in macula area objectively and quantitatively."}
{"id": "22169365", "title": "Severity distribution of diabetic macular edema at the time of diagnosis.", "content": "Severity distribution of diabetic macular edema at the time of diagnosis. The International Clinical Diabetic Macular Edema Disease Severity Scale grades retinal thickening according to its distance from the macular center, but its definitions have not been standardized quantitatively. We undertook this study to identify the severity distribution of diabetic macular edema at the time of diagnosis. We used optical coherence tomography (OCT) in a standardized manner and identified the proportion of eyes that required immediate treatment. We carried out an observational, prospective, cross-sectional, descriptive study. Diabetic patients with a diagnosis of clinically significant macular edema were evaluated. Severity levels according to the International Clinical Scale were operatively defined, guided by the thickening location in a 6-mm OCT fast macular map, as mild (thickening outside the 3-mm circle), moderate (thickening outside the 1-mm circle), and severe (thickening within the 1-mm circle). The proportion and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were identified for each severity level. We studied 118 eyes (mean \u00b1 SD: 59.9 \u00b1 8.3 years). Seventy one eyes had nonproliferative retinopathy (60.1%), 94 eyes (79.7%) had focal macular edema, and 24 eyes (20.3%) showed diffuse edema. Edema severity was mild in 27 eyes (22.9%, 95% CI 15.3-30.5), moderate in 23 (19.5%, 95% CI 12.3-26.6) and severe in 68 (57.6% 95% CI 48.7-66.5). Standardization of the International Clinical Scale using OCT showed that the most common severity level of macular edema was severe; the minimum expected proportion of eyes with high risk of visual loss secondary to severe edema approached 50%. Opportune detection needs reinforcement because more than half of these eyes require immediate treatment."}
{"id": "22165097", "title": "[Intravitreal ranibizumab for diabetic macula edema].", "content": "[Intravitreal ranibizumab for diabetic macula edema]. 25 patients with diabetic macula edema (DME) treated with 0,5 mg intravitreal ranibizumab (Lucentis) were studied. Mean number of intravitreal injections was 1.7 (1-5 injections). Visual acuity improved from 0.29 +/- 0.03 to 0.36 +/- 0.04 after the 1st injection and to 0.38 +/- 0.04 after the last one (p < 0.001). Central retinal thickness reduced from 469 +/- 36.3 to 353 +/- 31.5 microm in a month after the 1st injection and was 346 +/- 30.3 microm after the last one (p < 0.05). No systemic or ocular adverse effects were observed. Intravitreal ranibitumab (Lucentis) leads to stabilization and improvement of visual acuity and reduction of DME. The procedure is a safe treatment option for DME."}
{"id": "22112018", "title": "Nine-month results of intravitreal bevacizumab versus triamcinolone for the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular oedema: a retrospective analysis.", "content": "Nine-month results of intravitreal bevacizumab versus triamcinolone for the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular oedema: a retrospective analysis. To compare efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab versus triamcinolone in the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular oedema (DME). This retrospective nonrandomized study includes 60 patients with diffuse DME treated with at least one intravitreal triamcinolone injection (ITA) or intravitreal bevacizumab injection (IBe). Regression analysis was performed for pretreatment, glycosylated haemoglobin level, visual acuity (VA) at baseline and central macular thickness (CMT) at baseline. After 1-, 3-, 6- and 9-month follow-up, there was no significant change in either VA or CMT treatment in the ITA and IBe groups. There was no statistically significant difference between the two treatment groups. Changes in CMT and VA in the subgroups were not significant. Only predictive factor independent of HbA1c level and VA was CMT at baseline in both treatment groups. The thicker CMT at baseline, the higher was reduction in CMT. After 1 month, the IBe group had a significantly higher decrement than the ITA group. In our study collective, neither IBe nor ITA treatment was able to improve VA during follow-up, significantly. CMT was reduced in both treatment groups, however not significantly. Our data demonstrates that reduction in CMT with either IBe or ITA treatment was significantly influenced by degree of CMT at baseline."}
{"id": "22057789", "title": "Ocular decompression retinopathy following post-trabeculectomy suture lysis and management with triamcinolone acetonide.", "content": "Ocular decompression retinopathy following post-trabeculectomy suture lysis and management with triamcinolone acetonide. Ocular decompression retinopathy (ODR) is a rare complication of sudden lowering of intraocular pressure (IOP) in glaucoma and ocular hypertension. An 80-year-male, a known case of chronic open-angle glaucoma for 13\u00a0years, had his IOP controlled by multiple topical antiglaucoma medications. There was an increase in IOP, progression of optic disc cupping and visual field loss along with cataract over the past 6\u00a0months. The patient underwent uneventful phacoemulsification with posterior chamber intraocular lens (PCIOL) and penetrating trabeculectomy. Postoperatively, the trabeculectomy bleb was flat and IOP was 44\u00a0mmHg and was not controlled by bleb massage. Bleb needling and suture lysis were performed after 2\u00a0weeks. The IOP dropped from 44 to 6\u00a0mmHg. Three days later the patient presented with a sudden decline in visual acuity (VA) from 0.5 to 1.225 logMAR. The fundus showed multiple retinal haemorrhages resembling ODR. Choroidal detachment also occurred after 3\u00a0weeks. Optical coherence tomography confirmed the presence of macular oedema which was treated with an orbital floor triamcinolone acetonide injection (OFTA). The haemorrhages, choroidal detachment and macular oedema resolved and VA improved in 6\u00a0months. This is the first case report of ODR following suture lysis and needling after an uneventful combined phacoemulsification with PCIOL implant and trabeculectomy. It also highlights the role of OFTA injections in the management of ODR."}
{"id": "22042822", "title": "Vitreoschisis in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Vitreoschisis in diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "22020171", "title": "Regression of early diabetic macular oedema is associated with prevention of dark adaptation.", "content": "Regression of early diabetic macular oedema is associated with prevention of dark adaptation. Dark-adapted rods consume oxygen at high rates and light adaptation decreases this oxygen burden and can have therapeutic effects on diabetic macular oedema (DMO). Patients with mild non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (DR) and early, untreated non-sight-threatening DMO slept for 6 months wearing masks that illuminated the eyelid of one closed eye by 505\u2009nm light. Exclusion criteria were any concomitant eye disease, DR >ETDRS grade 35, and other systemic diseases. change of OCT retinal thickness in the local region where oedema was present. A total of 34 out of 40 patients completed the study. Mean baseline OCT macular cube thickness was equivalent for study and fellow eyes. But study eyes had a greater mean thickness in the central subfield zone 1 (282\u00b153\u2009\u03bcm) vs (256\u00b119\u2009\u03bcm) the fellow eyes. Twenty-eight study eyes showed intraretinal cysts compared with nine in the fellow eyes. At 6 months, only 19 study eyes had cysts while cysts were seen in 20 fellow eyes. After 6 months, the worst affected ETDRS zone and the central subfield zone 1 reduced in thickness in study eyes only by 12\u2009\u03bcm (95% CI 20 to -7, P=0.01). The secondary outcomes of change in visual acuity, achromatic contrast sensitivity, and microperimetric thresholds improved significantly in study eyes and deteriorated in fellow eyes. Sleeping in dim light that can keep rods light adapted may reverse the changes of DMO."}
{"id": "22004576", "title": "[Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide use in diffuse persistent diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide use in diffuse persistent diabetic macular edema]. To determine the efficacy of intravitreal triamcinolone injections (iv TA) for diffuse persistent diabetic macular oedema (DMO) based on the functional parameter of modification in best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and the anatomic parameter of quantitative changes in central macular thickness, as determined by optical coherence tomography (OCT). The secondary outcome is to analyse the safety of the procedure. In this retrospective study, 16 patients (22 eyes) were included over a period of six months. Type and time of evolution of diabetes mellitus, previous treatments, BCVA, lens status, intraocular pressure (IOP) and central macular thickness, were analysed. During the follow-up period were collected: number of injections, changes in BCVA, IOP, central macular thickness, and complications observed. Improvement in BCVA was recorded in 30.77%, 47.37% and 52.63%, at one, three and six months, respectively (P<.05 at 3 months). The IOP increased in 57.69% at one month, and 75 and 47.05%, at 3 and 6 months, respectively (P<.05 at 3 months). Progression of cataracts was found in 22.72%. No cases of endophthalmitis were observed. Intravitreal TA is a good therapeutic option for patients with persistent DMO, increasing BCVA and decreasing central macular thickness in the short term, with a percentage of clinical resolution of more than 70%. However, due to the transient effect, and potential adverse effects, it should be administered to selected refractory cases with caution."}
{"id": "21997827", "title": "[Combined pharmacosurgery as treatment for diabetic macular edema: core pars plana vitrectomy and intravitreal injection of bevacizumab and triamcinolone].", "content": "[Combined pharmacosurgery as treatment for diabetic macular edema: core pars plana vitrectomy and intravitreal injection of bevacizumab and triamcinolone]. The aim of this work is to report the efficacy of a 1.5 mL core pars plana vitrectomy (cppV) combined with isovolumetric substitution with 1.25 mg bevacizumab and 8 mg triamcinolone for the treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME). Data of 73 eyes (60 patients; mean age: 65.4 \u00b1 10.4 years) with diabetic macular edema were retrospectively analysed. Main outcome measures were changes in visual acuity, central macular thickness (CMT) and the need for re-intervention and further treatment modalities, i. e., laser photocoagulation (LPC) or pars plana vitrectomy (ppV). Study eyes were assigned to one of three groups: non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy without ischaemic maculopathy (NPDR I. M.; group I; n = 38 eyes); NPDR with I. M. (group II; n = 17 eyes); proliferative diabetic retinopathy with or without I. M. (group III; n = 18). Mean follow-up times were 9 weeks (T1), 25 weeks (T2) and 44 weeks. Preoperative mean VA was 0.69 \u00b1 0.4 logMAR. A statistically significant increase in mean VA was observed in all study eyes at 2 months after the initial operation (T1; 0.51 \u00b1 0.22 logMAR; p < 0.01). This remained stable at T 2 (0.52 \u00b1 0.33 logMAR; p = 0.6) and T 3 (0.55 \u00b1 0.35 logMAR; p = 0.99). At baseline mean VA was 0.52 \u00b1 0.21 logMAR in group I, 0.99 \u00b1 0.5 logMAR in group II and 0.77 \u00b1 0.42 logMAR in group III. At T 1 (2 months) the VA change was statistically significant in group II (0.64 \u00b1 0.18 logMAR; p < 0.05) only. In contrast, group I had a highly significant VA gain after 6 months (0.36 \u00b1 0.16; p < 0.01). Patients with PDR (group III) had a non-significant VA gain at T 1 (0.53 \u00b1 0.24; p = 0.08) and remained stable at T 2 and T 3. The mean central macular thickness (CMT) in all study eyes decreased significantly from 393.7 \u00b1 120.6 \u00b5m to 269.7 \u00b1 100.2 \u00b5m (delta -28 %; p < 0.01) at T 1. Thereafter CMT slightly increased but, on the whole, remained stable at that level. Retreatment with the intravitreal combination therapy was performed in 20 of 73 eyes (27.4 %). Laser photocoagulation was only carried out in more than half of the eyes with PDR (10 / 18; 55.6 %). An increase in IOP was noted in 12 / 73 eyes (16.4 %) at different follow-up, and was controlled using topical medication. Systemic side effects were not reported. Our data show that the majority of the study eyes maintained or improved their visual acuity after pharmacosurgical therapy. Furthermore we observed a reduction of the central macular thickness in almost all study eyes. Only few retreatments and other treatment modalities were needed during the follow-up period. This combind pharmacosurgical treatment may supplement current treatment standards like laser photocoagulation, classical pars plana vitrectomy or intravitreal monotherapy for DME."}
{"id": "21983248", "title": "Intravitreal tissue plasminogen activator to treat refractory diabetic macular edema by induction of posterior vitreous detachment.", "content": "Intravitreal tissue plasminogen activator to treat refractory diabetic macular edema by induction of posterior vitreous detachment. To evaluate the effects of intravitreal injection of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) for the treatment of refractory diabetic macular edema. A total of 27 patients with refractory diabetic macular edema with no evidence of posterior vitreous detachment were randomly assigned into follow-up (F/U) or TPA treatment groups. To control for the effects of intravitreal injection, an additional 14 patients with diabetic macular edema who were candidates for first-time intravitreal bevacizumab injection were enrolled as the IVB group. For the TPA and IVB groups, 25 \u03bcg of TPA or 1.25 mg of bevacizumab, respectively, were intravitreally injected. Fundoscopy, optical coherence tomography, and B-scan ultrasonography were performed at 1 week, 1 month, and 3 months after initiation of the study. The incidence of posterior vitreous detachment in fundoscopy over the follow-up period was 69.2% in the TPA group, which was significantly higher than that of the F/U and IVB groups (P = 0.001). Best-corrected visual acuity and changes in macular thickness did not significantly differ between the TPA and F/U groups over the 3-month period. Intravitreal TPA injection induces posterior vitreous detachment in patients with diabetic macular edema refractory to standard treatment but has no effect on macular thickness or best-corrected visual acuity within 3 months."}
{"id": "21979875", "title": "Correlation of macular thickness and posterior hyaloid change following bevacizumab and triamcinolone in diffuse diabetic macular edema in middle-aged patients.", "content": "Correlation of macular thickness and posterior hyaloid change following bevacizumab and triamcinolone in diffuse diabetic macular edema in middle-aged patients. To compare changes in posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) following intravitreal injection of bevacizumab and triamcinolone in diffuse diabetic macular edema in middle-aged type 2 diabetes patients and to correlate this change with change in central macular thickness (CMT). cross sectional study. Fifteen consecutive patients treated by intravitreal bevacizumab (group A) and ten patients treated by intravitreal triamcinolone (group B). Institutional study carried out by retrospective analysis of patient registers including serial optical coherence tomography (OCT) images at baseline, and after 1 and 4\u00a0months. A central macular thickness (CMT) and vitreomacular relationship was noted on OCT. PVD was graded on a linear scale (0-4). Change in grade of PVD was correlated with change in CMT at each follow-up. At month 4, the decrease in mean CMT from baseline was 51.2\u00a0\u03bc (P\u00a0=\u00a00.000) and 45\u00a0\u03bc (P\u00a0=\u00a00.022) in group A and group B, respectively, with no significant difference between the two groups (P\u00a0=\u00a00.874). A change in grades of PVD from baseline to month 4 was significant in both group A (P\u00a0=\u00a00.001) and group B (P\u00a0=\u00a00.004) with no significant difference between the two groups (P\u00a0=\u00a00.906). A significant correlation between change in PVD and reduction of CMT was observed in group A (P\u00a0=\u00a00.011) but not in group B (P\u00a0=\u00a00.315). Both bevacizumab and triamcinolone caused a significant reduction in macular thickness and a significant change in grade of PVD. Change in PVD played an influential role in the reduction of macular thickness following bevacizumab."}
{"id": "21976935", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab alone versus combined with macular photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab alone versus combined with macular photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema. To compare the efficacy between intravitreal bevacizumab and combination treatment (bevacizumab and macular photocoagulation) for the treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME). In addtion, changes of DME type were researched using optical coherence tomography. The present study included 90 eyes with bevacizumab injection and 38 eyes with combination treatment. Using chart records, patients were reviewed until 6 months after treatment. The present study compared changes of visual acuity (VA) and macular thickness at each follow up. DME was classified into 4 types and the morphologic pattern was compared. In patients with the bevacizumab injection only, VA improved from 0.29 \u00b1 0.18 to 0.48 \u00b1 0.26 at 1 month and returned to 0.32 \u00b1 0.20 at 6 months after treatment. In the combination treatment, VA improved from 0.32 \u00b1 0.22 to 0.52 \u00b1 0.26 at 1 month and returned to 0.36 \u00b1 0.18 at 6 months after treatment. There was no significant improvement of VA at the final follow-up with either treatment. There was significant decrease of macular thickness except in the mixed DME type. The combination treatment did not yield better VA or macular thickness reduction at 6 months than bevacizumab injection alone. By classifying and observing the change of DME type, determining the treatment objectively and predicting the effectiveness of treatment can be helpful."}
{"id": "21970365", "title": "Implementation and first-year screening results of an ocular telehealth system for diabetic retinopathy in China.", "content": "Implementation and first-year screening results of an ocular telehealth system for diabetic retinopathy in China. To describe implementation and first-year screening results of the first Chinese telehealth system for diabetic retinopathy (DR) - the Beixinjing Community Diabetic Retinopathy Telehealth system (BCDRT). BCDRT implementation was based on the acquisition of adequate digital retinographs, secure digital transmission, storage and retrieval of participants' data and reader-generated medical reports. Local diabetic residents meeting inclusion criteria were enrolled into the BCDRT system beginning in 2009. Participants recommended for further in-person examination with ophthalmologists were followed, and the consistencies in diagnoses between BCDRT and ophthalmologists for DR or macular edema were calculated. A total of 471 diabetic residents participated in BCDRT screening in 2009. The proportions of total DR, proliferative DR, and diabetic macular edema were 24.42% (115 patients), 2.12% (10 patients) and 6.47% (24 patients), respectively: 56 patients consulted ophthalmologists for further in-person retinal examination with funduscopy after pupil dilation. High rates of consistency between BCDRT screening and ophthalmologists were observed for macular edema (Kappa = 0.81), moderate or severe non-proliferative DR grade (Kappa = 0.92), and other DR grades (Kappa = 1). A total of 456 (96.82%) patients were willing to participate in the next BCDRT screening. BCDRT was a reliable and valid system for DR screening, and offers the potential to increase DR annual screening rates in local residents."}
{"id": "21940051", "title": "Dynamics of human foveal development after premature birth.", "content": "Dynamics of human foveal development after premature birth. To determine the dynamic morphologic development of the human fovea in vivo using portable spectral domain-optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). Prospective, observational case series. Thirty-one prematurely born neonates, 9 children, and 9 adults. Sixty-two neonates were enrolled in this study. After examination for retinopathy of prematurity (ROP), SD-OCT imaging was performed at the bedside in nonsedated infants aged 31 to 41 weeks postmenstrual age (PMA) (= gestational age in weeks + chronologic age) and at outpatient follow-up ophthalmic examinations. Thirty-one neonates met eligibility criteria. Nine children and nine adults without ocular pathology served as control groups. Semiautomatic retinal layer segmentation was performed. Central foveal thickness, foveal to parafoveal (FP) ratio (central foveal thickness divided by thickness 1000 \u03bcm from the foveal center), and 3-dimensional thickness maps were analyzed. In vivo determination of foveal morphology, layer segmentation, analysis of subcellular changes, and spatiotemporal layer shifting. In contrast with the adult fovea, several signs of immaturity were observed in the neonates: a shallow foveal pit, persistence of inner retinal layers (IRLs), and a thin photoreceptor layer (PRL) that was thinnest at the foveal center. Three-dimensional mapping showed displacement of retinal layers out of the foveal center as the fovea matured and the progressive formation of the inner/outer segment band in the opposite direction. The FP-IRL ratios decreased as IRL migrated before term and minimally after that, whereas FP-PRL ratios increased as PRL subcellular elements formed closer to term and into childhood. A surprising finding was the presence of cystoid macular edema in 58% of premature neonates that appeared to affect inner foveal maturation. This study provides the first view into the development of living cellular layers of the human retina and of subcellular specialization at the fovea in premature infant eyes using portable SD-OCT. Our work establishes a framework of the timeline of human foveal development, allowing us to identify unexpected retinal abnormalities that may provide new keys to disease activity and a method for mapping foveal structures from infancy to adulthood that may be integral in future studies of vision and visual cortex development. Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references."}
{"id": "21914262", "title": "[Clinical observation of vitrectomy for treatment of diffuse nontraditional diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Clinical observation of vitrectomy for treatment of diffuse nontraditional diabetic macular edema]. To evaluate the efficacy of vitrectomy combined with internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling in the treatment of diffuse nontraditional diabetic macular edema. It was a retrospective case series study. Clinical records of 21 consecutive patients (21 eyes) with diffuse diabetic macular edema without macular traction were reviewed. All patients underwent pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane peeling. Main outcome measurements included pre- and postoperative optical coherence tomography (OCT) and visual acuity. Postoperative follow-up ranged from 12 to 24 months (mean, 16.3 months). Mean preoperative foveal thickness significantly decreased from (406 \u00b1 59) \u00b5m to (291 \u00b1 67) \u00b5m at 1 months after surgery (t = 9.26, P < 0.01), and further decreased to (280 \u00b1 77) \u00b5m at 12 months (t = 9.46, P < 0.01). No differences in visual acuity between preoperative and postoperative were found during follow-up periods. The final best-corrected visual acuity improved in 8 (38.1%) of the 21 eyes, remained unchanged in 11 eyes (52.4%), and decreased in 2 eyes (9.5%). Pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane peeling appears to be beneficial in eyes with diffuse nontraditional diabetic macular edema in retinal thickness but visual acuity outcomes showed only minimal improvement as compared to the baseline."}
{"id": "21896859", "title": "Topical dexamethasone-cyclodextrin microparticle eye drops for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Topical dexamethasone-cyclodextrin microparticle eye drops for diabetic macular edema. To test the safety and efficacy of topical 1.5% dexamethasone aqueous eye drops with cyclodextrin microparticles for diabetic macular edema (DME). Nineteen eyes of 19 consecutive patients with DME were administered dexamethasone-cyclodextrin eye drops three or six times a day for 4 weeks and then observed for 4 weeks without treatment. Visual acuity, intraocular pressure, and spectral domain optical coherent tomography-measured central macular thickness recordings at weeks 0 (baseline), 4, and 8. These parameters were compared using Bonferroni-corrected paired t-tests. At weeks 0, 4, and 8, logMAR visual acuity (mean \u00b1 SD) was 0.52 \u00b1 0.41, 0.37 \u00b1 0.40 (P = 0.0025 vs. baseline), and 0.45 \u00b1 0.41, respectively; central macular thickness (\u03bcm) was 512 \u00b1 164, 399 \u00b1 154 (P = 0.0016 vs. baseline), and 488 \u00b1 172 (P = 0.0116 versus week 4), respectively; and intraocular pressure (mm Hg) was 15.2 \u00b1 3.1, 17.4 \u00b1 4.2 (P = 0.0015 vs. baseline) and 15.8 \u00b1 4.0, respectively. At week 4, in 12 (63%) of 19 eyes, central macular thickness had decreased more than 10%, and the mean change was -20% (-65% to +10%). In 14 of 19 eyes (74%) visual acuity (logMAR) had improved more than 0.1 at week 4. No subjects showed severe adverse effects related to the eye drops. Based on this short pilot study, topical dexamethasone-cyclodextrin eye drops are well tolerated, decrease central macular thickness, and improve visual acuity in DME. The results encourage comparative studies between dexamethasone cyclodextrin microparticle eye drops and other treatments for DME. (http://www.umin.ac.jp/ctr number, UMIN000001790.)."}
{"id": "21896838", "title": "Changes in vision- and health-related quality of life in patients with diabetic macular edema treated with pegaptanib sodium or sham.", "content": "Changes in vision- and health-related quality of life in patients with diabetic macular edema treated with pegaptanib sodium or sham. To compare vision function and self-reported quality of life (QoL) in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME) treated with intravitreous pegaptanib 0.3 mg or sham injection. This randomized (1:1), controlled, multicenter trial included subjects with DME (center point thickness on OCT, \u2265 250 \u03bcm) and visual acuity (VA) \u2264 65 letters and \u2265 35 letters. In year 1, pegaptanib or sham was administered every 6 weeks with focal/grid photocoagulation at investigator discretion after week 18. Subjects received injections as often as every 6 weeks per pre-specified criteria in year 2. Primary efficacy endpoint: proportion gaining \u226510 letters of VA from baseline to week 54. Change in QoL from baseline to weeks 54 and 102 was assessed with the 25-item National Eye Institute-Visual Function Questionnaire (NEI-VFQ 25) and the EQ-5D. One hundred thirty-three pegaptanib- and 127 sham-treated subjects were in the year 1 intent-to-treat population. From baseline to week 54, \u2265 10 letter gains seen in 49 (36.8%) pegaptanib- and 25 (19.7%) sham-treated subjects (odds ratio [95% CI]: 2.38 [1.32-4.30]; P = 0.0047). At 2 years, the VA trend favored pegaptanib. The NEI-VFQ 25 domains of Near Vision, Distance Vision, and Social Functioning (week 54) and Distance Vision, Social Functioning, Mental Health, and Composite Score (week 102) demonstrated clinically meaningful (>5-point between-group difference) and statistically significant (P < 0.05) benefits favoring pegaptanib. No significant difference in the mean change in generic EQ-5D-weighted utility scores was seen. The VA improvement from pegaptanib treatment versus sham is reflected by improved vision-related QoL as reported by the DME patient (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00605280)."}
{"id": "21887610", "title": "Comparing central retinal thickness in diabetic macular edema measured by two different spectral-domain optical coherence tomography devices.", "content": "Comparing central retinal thickness in diabetic macular edema measured by two different spectral-domain optical coherence tomography devices. We evaluated central retinal thickness (CRT) in diabetic macular edema (DME) using two different spectral-domain (SD) optical coherence tomography (OCT) instruments: the Cirrus and Spectralis OCTs. CRT was measured in 63 eyes of 32 patients with DME using both instruments on the same day. CRT measurements were significantly greater for the Spectralis than the Cirrus (p < 0.0003, n = 63, paired t test); mean CRT values were 382 \u00b1 136 \u03bcm with the Cirrus and 394 \u00b1 139 \u03bcm with the Spectralis. In eyes with poor best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) (<20/40), mean CRT was 378 \u00b1 130 \u03bcm with the Cirrus and 395 \u00b1 139 \u03bcm with the Spectralis (p < 0.007, n = 29). In eyes with good acuity (equal to or better than 20/40), the mean CRT was 385 \u00b1 142 \u03bcm with the Cirrus and 393 \u00b1 140 \u03bcm with the Spectralis (p < 0.005, n = 34). Foveal retinal thickness measurements may vary among SD-OCT devices. The differences between instruments could affect the results of a multicenter study."}
{"id": "21886189", "title": "Use of systemic steroid after successful macular surgery in eyes with epiretinal membrane: a randomized, controlled clinical study.", "content": "Use of systemic steroid after successful macular surgery in eyes with epiretinal membrane: a randomized, controlled clinical study. To evaluate the functional and morphological outcomes of postoperative systemic steroid therapy after successful macular surgery in eyes with macular edema due to idiopathic macular epiretinal membranes (ERMs). Prospective, randomized, investigator-masked, controlled clinical study. Twenty-eight patients scheduled for 23-gauge vitrectomy combined with ERM and inner limiting membrane (ILM) peeling for macular edema due to ERM were included in this single center trial. Patients were randomized to receive oral steroid therapy (Prednisolone, 100 mg per day for 5 days) or no oral steroid (control group) after surgery. Main outcome measures included best corrected visual acuity (BCVA; Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study), central retinal thickness (CRT), retinal volume (RV), and macular morphology as determined by spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT, Cirrus). Examinations were carried out preoperatively and at week 1, at months 1 and 3, postoperatively. At month 3, mean BCVA improved to a eight-letter gain in each study group (P<0.01 compared with baseline for both groups), showing no statistically significant difference between both the groups (P=0.19). Morphologically, retinal surface folds resolved within 1 month after surgery in both treatment groups, followed by a progressive recovery of retinal layer integrity and a statistical significant (P<0.01) decrease in CRT and RV without significant differences between both groups (P=0.62, P=0.13, respectively, ANOVA between the groups). The early postoperative use of systemic steroid treatment after successful vitrectomy combined with ERM and ILM peeling does not seem to improve significantly the anatomic and functional outcomes in eyes with ERM."}
{"id": "21880238", "title": "The use of optical coherence tomography to determine the effect of thiazolidinediones on retinal thickness in patients with type 2 diabetes.", "content": "The use of optical coherence tomography to determine the effect of thiazolidinediones on retinal thickness in patients with type 2 diabetes. Thiazolidinediones (TZDs) are insulin-sensitizing agents that are associated with peripheral edema and have been reported to be associated with diabetic macular edema (DME). We hypothesized that TZDs produce subclinical increases in retinal thickness that may be detected by optical coherence tomography (OCT) but are not seen on routine dilated funduscopic examination. We used OCT to screen for subclinical DME in a cross-sectional study of patients with type 2 diabetes; 29 patients were taking TZDs and 58 were not taking TZDs. We analyzed data using multiple linear regression analysis to investigate associations of retinal thickness with clinical characteristics. There was no significant difference between the central subfield retinal thickness in the non-TZD group (206.4 \u00b1 28.0 microns; n = 59) and TZD group (204.1 \u00b1 26.1 microns; n = 29) (p = .72) nor were there significant differences in any other retinal subfield. There was no significant correlation of retinal thickness with laboratory results studies--peripheral edema, gender, age, duration of diabetes, individual, or combinations of medications. Retinal thickness differences between regions displayed normal anatomical variation. However, ethnic differences were found in which African-Americans had thinner retinas in all regions than Caucasians regardless of whether or not they used TZDs. These data suggest that TZDs do not cause subclinical DME in a demographically diverse patient population with diabetes. The established normal ranges for macular thickness may require adjustment based on ethnicity."}
{"id": "21862642", "title": "Differential association of serum lipids with diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Differential association of serum lipids with diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema. To assess the association of serum lipids with diabetic retinopathy (DR), diabetic macular edema (DME), and macular thickness in adults with diabetes. Diabetic patients aged \u2265 18 years were prospectively recruited from specialized eye clinics in Melbourne, Australia. Fasting total-C (cholesterol), triglyceride, HDL-C, non-HDL-C, and LDL-C were assessed. DR was graded from fundus photographs and classified into mild, moderate, severe nonproliferative, and proliferative DR and separately graded for the presence of DME, including clinically significant macular edema (CSME). Macular thickness was assessed using optical coherence tomography (OCT). A total of 500 participants (median age, 65 years) were examined. DR, DME, and CSME were present in 321 (66.2%), 149 (33.0%), and 68 (15.0%) patients, respectively. Serum lipid levels were not related to DR or DME. In multivariate models adjusted for traditional risk factors and lipid medications, persons with higher total-, LDL-, and non-HDL-C were more likely to have CSME (odds ratio of 1.54, 1.49, and 1.63 per 1-SD increase, respectively; all P < 0.05). No association was found for serum lipids with macular thickness, as assessed by OCT. The pattern of these associations remained similar in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes, although it was statistically significant only in type 2 diabetes. Serum lipids are independently associated with the CSME, but not with DR, mild or moderate DME, or macular thickness. These data reflect the different impact of hyperlipidemia in the pathogenesis of DR and DME and may explain the discrepancies in previous studies."}
{"id": "21860569", "title": "Evaluation of changes of macular thickness in diabetic retinopathy after cataract surgery.", "content": "Evaluation of changes of macular thickness in diabetic retinopathy after cataract surgery. To assess the macular thickness changes after cataract surgery in diabetic patients using optical coherence tomography (OCT). We retrospectively reviewed the records of 104 diabetic patients who underwent cataract surgery. We examined the changes of macular thickness using OCT before cataract surgery and 1 week, 1-, 2- and 6-months after surgery. The central subfield mean thickness (CSMT) was used to evaluate macular edema which was defined as an increase of CSMT (\u0394CSMT) > 30% from the baseline. The association between prior laser treatment or severity of diabetic retinopathy and macular thickness were also analyzed. Macular edema occurred in 19 eyes (18%) from the diabetic group and 63% of macular edema developed at 1 month after surgery. Thirteen (68%) out of 19 eyes with macular edema showed the resolution of macular edema by 6 months after surgery without treatment. \u0394CSMT of eyes without a history of laser treatment was statistically greater compared to eyes with a history of laser treatment in at 1- and 2-months after surgery, but was not different than eyes who had laser treatment at 6-months after surgery. The severity of diabetic retinopathy was not significantly correlated to macular edema, but there was statistical difference when patients who had a history of prior laser treatment were excluded. The incidence of macular edema after cataract surgery in diabetic patients was 18%. Its peak incidence was at 1 month post surgery and it resolved spontaneously in 68% of patients by 6 months post surgery. Prior laser treatment might prevent postoperative macular edema until 2 months after cataract surgery in diabetic patients. However, macular edema did not affect the severity of diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "21836404", "title": "Visual outcome after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide depends on optical coherence tomographic patterns in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Visual outcome after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide depends on optical coherence tomographic patterns in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the effectiveness of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) on the reduction of diffuse diabetic macular edema with different optical coherence tomographic patterns. One hundred and thirty-five eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema without any treatment that had received a single dose (4 mg in 0.1 mL) of IVTA were retrospectively examined. Each preoperative macular optical coherence tomographic image was classified according to its appearance as follows: sponge-like diffuse retinal thickening, cystoid macular edema (CME), and serous retinal detachment (SRD). Central macular thickness with optical coherence tomographic images and visual acuity with a logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution chart were assessed at 3 months postoperatively. Of 135 eligible eyes, 49 eyes were identified as having only sponge-like diffuse retinal thickening, 45 eyes with CME, and 26 eyes with SRD. Of those 135 eyes, 15 eyes exhibited the combination of all types of diffuse diabetic macular edema, defined as FULL. After IVTA, central macular thickness was reduced to 31.0 \u00b1 15.9% in the sponge-like diffuse retinal thickening, 40.7 \u00b1 14.2% in the CME, 23.4 \u00b1 15.0% in the SRD, and 25.8 \u00b1 14.8% in the FULL group (P < 0.001; one-factor analysis of variance), while improvement in logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution visual acuity was -0.26 \u00b1 0.21 in the sponge-like diffuse retinal thickening, -0.32 \u00b1 0.20 in the CME, -0.17 \u00b1 0.20 in the SRD, and -0.14 \u00b1 0.22 in the FULL group (P = 0.018; one-factor analysis of variance). The effectiveness of IVTA on diffuse diabetic macular edema was dependent on the optical coherence tomographic pattern, and IVTA was found to be more effective in patients with CME, while IVTA was less effective in those with SRD."}
{"id": "21823986", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for treatment of macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion: eighteen-month results of a prospective trial.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for treatment of macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion: eighteen-month results of a prospective trial. The purpose of this article was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) in eyes with macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). Forty-five consecutive eyes with macular edema secondary to CRVO were included in a prospective clinical trial. Eyes were treated with 3 initial intravitreal bevacizumab injections of 1.25 mg at monthly intervals. Retreatment was based on central retinal thickness (CRT) measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT). OCT was performed monthly; fluorescein angiography was performed every 3 months. Main outcome parameters were visual acuity (VA, using the Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study protocol) and CRT in an 18-month follow-up period. After 18 months of follow-up, mean VA increased from 40.9 letters at baseline to 61.9 letters (+21 letters; P<0.001) at month 18; CRT decreased from 572.3 \u03bcm at baseline to 273.2 \u03bcm at month 18 (-299.1 \u03bcm; P<0.001). Neither age, duration of CRVO, baseline VA, nor baseline CRT was correlated with the change in VA. No drug-related systemic or ocular side effects were observed following intravitreal bevacizumab treatment. Intravitreal bevacizumab is generally well tolerated and may improve VA and decrease CRT in patients with macular edema secondary to CRVO over a period of 18 months."}
{"id": "21822008", "title": "Effect of intravitreal bevacizumab based on optical coherence tomography patterns of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Effect of intravitreal bevacizumab based on optical coherence tomography patterns of diabetic macular edema. To compare the effects of intravitreal bevacizumab on different morphologic patterns of diabetic macular edema (DME) classified using optical coherence tomography (OCT). Medical records for 65 eyes of 48 patients were retrospectively reviewed, and each subject was classified as one of three DME types according to the OCT features: diffuse retinal thickening (DRT), cystoid macular edema (CME), serous retinal detachment (SRD). Subjects were given three monthly intravitreal injections of bevacizumab (1.25 mg/0.05 ml). The clinical course of best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) with a logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution chart and central foveal thickness (CFT) using OCT was monitored for 12 months after the injections. On follow-up, injections were repeated if DME remained or was aggravated. Of the 65 eyes with DME, 29 eyes were of the DRT type, 21 of the CME type, and 15 of the SRD type. Before the injection, CFT and BCVA were, respectively, 377.1 \u00b1 145.9 \u03bcm and 0.54 \u00b1 0.36 in the DRT type, 427.7 \u00b1 143.1 \u03bcm and 0.59 \u00b1 0.42 in the CME type, and 485.1 \u00b1 187.1 \u03bcm and 0.65 \u00b1 0.27 in the SRD type; there was no significant difference in CFT and BCVA between DME types (p > 0.05). At 6 months, the changes in BCVA and CFT differed significantly between OCT types (p < 0.05). At 12 months, changes in CFT and BCVA from baseline were not significantly different between groups (p > 0.05). The DRT type was associated with a greater reduction in the CFT and greater BCVA improvement than the CME or SRD types. Three monthly injections of intravitreal bevacizumab seem to be effective treatment in the first 6 months, but the therapeutic effect is temporary and repeated injections of bevacizumab should be considered to maintain the therapeutic effect after 6 months. In addition, intravitreal injection of bevacizumab was more effective in the DRT type than in the CME or SRD types of DME."}
{"id": "21819507", "title": "Aqueous humour levels of vascular endothelial growth factor and erythropoietin in patients with diabetic macular oedema before and after intravitreal erythropoietin injection.", "content": "Aqueous humour levels of vascular endothelial growth factor and erythropoietin in patients with diabetic macular oedema before and after intravitreal erythropoietin injection. To determine the aqueous humour levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and erythropoietin (EPO) in eyes with diabetic macular oedema before and after intravitreal EPO injection. Prospective interventional case series. Eleven eyes of 11 patients with diabetic macular oedema, and 10 eyes of 10 patients with cataract surgery as controls. EPO and VEGF levels in aqueous humour before and after intravitreal EPO injection in patients and compared with controls. Eyes with diabetic macular oedema received an intravitreal injection of EPO (1000 IU/0.05 mL), followed by various intraocular procedures at different intervals (1-54 days) after injection. An aqueous humour sample was obtained and aqueous humour levels of EPO and VEGF were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The aqueous levels of EPO and VEGF were significantly elevated in diabetic macular oedema eyes compared to control eyes (P < 0.05). EPO levels in patients correlated with VEGF levels (r = 0.816, P = 0.002) and central macular thickness at baseline (r = 0.618, P = 0.043). After intravitreal EPO injection, aqueous EPO levels were significantly elevated, whereas aqueous VEGF levels were varied according to the time interval since injection. Visual acuity and central macular thickness were not different after injection, compared to before injection. Aqueous EPO levels did not correlate with serum EPO levels(r = 0.299, P = 0.371). EPO is locally expressed and is correlated with VEGF in eyes with diabetic macular oedema. The role of EPO and the effect of intravitreal EPO in patients with diabetic macular oedema need to be further defined."}
{"id": "21813090", "title": "Fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant for diabetic macular edema: a 3-year multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial.", "content": "Fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant for diabetic macular edema: a 3-year multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial. We studied the 3-year efficacy and safety results of a 4-year study evaluating fluocinolone acetonide (FA) intravitreal implants in eyes with persistent or recurrent diabetic macular edema (DME). Prospective, evaluator-masked, controlled, multicenter clinical trial. We included 196 eyes with refractory DME. Patients were randomized 2:1 to receive 0.59-mg FA implant (n = 127) or standard of care (SOC additional laser or observation; n = 69). The implant was inserted through a pars plana incision. Visits were scheduled on day 2, weeks 1, 3, 6, 12, and 26, and thereafter every 13 weeks through 3 years postimplantation. The primary efficacy outcome was \u226515-letter improvement in visual acuity (VA) at 6 months. Secondary outcomes included resolution of macular retinal thickening and Diabetic Retinopathy Severity Score (DRSS). Safety measures included incidence of adverse events (AEs). Overall, VA improved \u22653 lines in 16.8% of implanted eyes at 6 months (P=0.0012; SOC, 1.4%); in 16.4% at 1 year (P=0.1191; SOC, 8.1%); in 31.8% at 2 years (P=0.0016; SOC, 9.3%); and in 31.1% at 3 years (P=0.1566; SOC, 20.0%). The number of implanted eyes with no evidence of retinal thickening at the center of the macula was higher than SOC eyes at 6 months (P<0.0001), 1 year (P<0.0001; 72% vs 22%), 2 years (P=0.016), and 3 years (P=0.861). A higher rate of improvement and lower rate of decline in DRSS occurred in the implanted group versus the SOC group at 6 months (P=0.0006), 1 year (P=0.0016), 2 years (P=0.012), and 3 years (P=0.0207). Intraocular pressure (IOP) \u226530 mmHg was recorded in 61.4% of implanted eyes (SOC, 5.8%) at any time and 33.8% required surgery for ocular hypertension by 4 years. Of implanted phakic eyes, 91% (SOC, 20%) had cataract extraction by 4 years. The FA intravitreal implant met the primary and secondary outcomes, with significantly improved VA and DRSS and reduced DME. The most common AEs included cataract progression and elevated IOP. The 0.59-mg FA intravitreal implant may be an effective treatment for eyes with persistent or recurrent DME. Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references."}
{"id": "21792089", "title": "Macular features from spectral-domain optical coherence tomography as an adjunct to indirect ophthalmoscopy in retinopathy of prematurity.", "content": "Macular features from spectral-domain optical coherence tomography as an adjunct to indirect ophthalmoscopy in retinopathy of prematurity. To compare vitreoretinal pathology imaged with portable handheld spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) to conventional indirect ophthalmoscopic examination in neonates undergoing screening for retinopathy of prematurity. Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography images were collected from 76 eyes of 38 neonates during 118 routine retinopathy of prematurity examinations. Imaging sessions in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit were performed immediately after the subjects underwent a standard ophthalmic examination with indirect ophthalmoscopic by a pediatric ophthalmologist. Masked certified SD-OCT graders evaluated scans for preretinal and retinal findings including material in the vitreous, epiretinal membrane, intraretinal cystoid structures and deposits, optic nerve and vascular features, and severity and location of retinopathy of prematurity. The frequency of detection of these features by clinical examination and evaluation of SD-OCT images was compared to determine potential clinical advantages for each modality. Portable SD-OCT imaging characterized macular features of retinal cystoid structures in 39% of examinations and epiretinal membrane in 32% of examinations. Neither feature was visualized by indirect ophthalmoscopy in any cases. The clinician using indirect ophthalmoscopy detected stage of retinopathy of prematurity and the presence or absence of Plus or pre-Plus disease. These were not visualized with SD-OCT. Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography provides new information about the premature infant retina that is of unknown importance relative to visual development and acuity. As used in this study, SD-OCT does not replace indirect ophthalmoscopy for evaluation of retinopathy of prematurity."}
{"id": "21790110", "title": "Optical coherence tomography in the diagnosis and management of diabetic macular edema: time-domain versus spectral-domain.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography in the diagnosis and management of diabetic macular edema: time-domain versus spectral-domain. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is an important imaging modality in the setting of diabetic macular edema (DME). Its use allows more precise evaluation of retinal pathology in DME, including retinal thickness and edema, vitreomacular interface abnormalities, subretinal fluid, and foveal microstructural changes. Additional advantages include its ability to quantitatively monitor response to treatment of DME by laser, intravitreal pharmacotherapies, and vitreoretinal surgery. OCT measurements are now used in all major clinical studies of DME treatment as critical endpoints. This article presents a review of both time-domain and spectral-domain OCT in the diagnosis and management of DME. The authors discuss the various parameters evaluated by the OCT systems and provide an evidence-based evaluation of their accuracy, significance, reliability, and limitations. As the capability of OCT continues to advance, it appears that its use will play an increasingly important role in the understanding, evaluation, and treatment of DME."}
{"id": "21780926", "title": "Intravitreal injection of commercially available ketorolac tromethamine in eyes with diabetic macular edema refractory to laser photocoagulation.", "content": "Intravitreal injection of commercially available ketorolac tromethamine in eyes with diabetic macular edema refractory to laser photocoagulation. To evaluate the short-term effect of a single intravitreal injection of commercially available ketorolac tromethamine (KT) in eyes with diabetic macular edema refractory to laser photocoagulation. Prospective interventional case series. Twenty five patients with diabetic macular edema refractory to laser photocoagulation received a single intravitreal injection of commercially available KT (Toradol\u00ae), in a dose of 3000 \u00b5g. Examination included assessment of ETDRS-best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), measurement of intraocular pressure and high resolution imaging by optical coherence tomography, preoperatively and 7, 15, and 30 days postoperatively. In the follow up visits at 7, 15 and 30 days, BCVA had improved five or more letters in 20% (95% confidence interval, 7.7-38.9%), 16% (95% confidence interval, 5.3-34.2%) and 28% (95% confidence interval, 13.2-47.7%) respectively. An improvement in macular thickness was also observed, although it has not been statistically significant. This pilot study showed that a single intravitreal injection of 3000 \u00b5g of commercial KT led to a short-term improvement of visual acuity in approximately 30% of eyes with diabetic macular edema refractory to laser photocoagulation."}
{"id": "21774389", "title": "[Avastin a treatment of diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Avastin a treatment of diabetic macular edema]. Macular edema is the first cause of visual impairment in diabetic patient. This paper is a retrospective evaluation of a group of patients with diabetic retinopathy and macular edema, treated with intravitreal Avastin (Bevacizumab) injection. The patients have been monitored mainly by assessing the evolution of visual acuity and macular thickness (OCT), after treatment, and the results have been compared with preexisting literature data."}
{"id": "21774386", "title": "[Diabetic maculopathy--incidence and clinical aspects].", "content": "[Diabetic maculopathy--incidence and clinical aspects]."}
{"id": "21765371", "title": "Intravitreal diclofenac versus intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in the treatment of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal diclofenac versus intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in the treatment of diabetic macular edema. To compare the efficacy and safety of intravitreal diclofenac versus intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in the treatment of diabetic macular edema. Thirty-two eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema were randomly allocated to intravitreal injection of 4 mg/0.1 mL of triamcinolone (Group 1: N = 16) or 500 \u03bcg/0.1 mL of diclofenac (Group 2: N = 16). Preoperative and postoperative visual acuity, intraocular pressure, and central macular thickness were recorded and compared between the 2 groups up to 12 weeks. Both groups showed statistically significant reduction in central macular thickness (triamcinolone: P = 0.02 and diclofenac: P = 0.01), without statistically significant difference between the 2 groups. Visual improvement was significant only in triamcinolone group (P = 0.05). However, the 2 groups showed no statistically significant difference in mean visual acuity or mean line improvement. Transient elevation of intraocular pressure occurred in 12.5% of the triamcinolone group. Diclofenac group showed statistically significant reduced intraocular pressure (P = 0.02). Intravitreal diclofenac is effective in the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema up to 12 weeks. Intravitreal triamcinolone and diclofenac appear to have comparable therapeutic effects on retinal thickness. The degree of visual improvement is higher with triamcinolone."}
{"id": "21764030", "title": "Feasibility of a method for en face imaging of photoreceptor cell integrity.", "content": "Feasibility of a method for en face imaging of photoreceptor cell integrity. To report a method for en face imaging of the photoreceptor inner and outer segment junction by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD OCT) and to describe findings in normal subjects and patients with various retinal diseases. Observational case series. SD OCT images were acquired from 6 normal subjects (mean age, 44 \u00b1 11 years) and from 5 subjects with retinal diseases (mean age, 66 \u00b1 22 years). A customized high-density SD OCT volume scan was acquired on the retina. SD OCT B-scan images were segmented automatically to extract intensity data along the inner and outer segment junction. Data obtained from the raster B-scans were combined to generate an inner and outer segment en face image in a 4.4 \u00d7 4.4-mm retinal area centered on the fovea. The foveal-to-parafoveal mean intensity ratio was measured, and repeatability was determined. An infrared scanning laser ophthalmoscope image was acquired and was cropped to provide a field of view similar to the inner and outer segment en face image. Inner and outer segment en face images generated in normal subjects provided clear visualization of the retinal vasculature, matching the vascular network observed in the infrared scanning laser ophthalmoscope image. In normal subjects, the foveal-to-parafoveal mean intensity ratio was 0.88 \u00b1 0.06, and repeatability of measurements was, on average, 7%. In macular hole, a dark circular region was observed in the inner and outer segment en face image, indicative of photoreceptor cell loss. In age-related macular degeneration, the en face image displayed nonuniform texture corresponding to topographic variations in the inner and outer segment junction. In central serous retinopathy, areas of lower intensity were visible on the en face image corresponding to regions of prior neurosensory elevation. In cystoid macular edema, reduced intensity was present in the inner and outer segment en face image in areas with increased retinal thickness. In diabetic retinopathy, the inner and outer segment en face image displayed regions of reduced intensity resulting from edema, laser scars, or both. Detection of intensity abnormalities in the inner and outer segment en face image is useful for monitoring the integrity of photoreceptor cells in the course of disease progression and therapeutic intervention."}
{"id": "21760625", "title": "Effect of OCT volume scan density on thickness measurements in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Effect of OCT volume scan density on thickness measurements in diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the impact of reducing B-scan frame-sampling density on retinal thickness measurements using spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME). We retrospectively collected OCT data for 64 eyes of 43 patients undergoing imaging for DME using the Cirrus HD-OCT 512 \u00d7 128 macular cube protocol. For each case, raw OCT data were imported into the 3D-OCTOR software, and retinal thickness maps were generated using all 128 B-scans and for lower densities of B-scans ranging from every other scan to only four scans (every 30-s B-scan). Maps were generated before and after manual correction of retinal boundary segmentation errors. The foveal central subfield (FCS) and total macular volume (TMV) values were used to compare thickness maps of varying densities. The mean difference in FCS retinal thickness and TMV increased as the B-scan density was reduced, particularly when the density was reduced to fewer than 16 B-scans over 6 mm. At a density of 16 B-scans, the mean absolute difference in FCS thickness was 2.43 \u03bcm (0.79%), with a maximum of 10.1 \u03bcm (4.09%). At this density, the mean difference in TMV was 0.012 mm(3) (0.13%), with a maximum difference of 0.04 mm(3) (0.47%). Manual correction of OCT segmentation errors resulted in a difference in FCS thickness of \u2265 10 \u03bcm in only 12.5% of cases, with a maximum difference of 115.7 \u03bcm. A minimum of 16 equally spaced B-scans appear necessary to generate retinal thickness measurements similar to those produced using all 128 B-scans in eyes with DME. Manual correction of segmentation errors appeared to have a clinically meaningful effect in a small minority of cases. These results may have implications for the design of SD-OCT imaging and grading protocols in clinical trials of DME, particularly when using multiple SD-OCT instruments that acquire varying numbers of B-scans."}
{"id": "21735421", "title": "Optical coherence tomography (OCT) for detection of macular oedema in patients with diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography (OCT) for detection of macular oedema in patients with diabetic retinopathy. Diabetic macular oedema (DMO) is a thickening of the central retina, or the macula, and is associated with long-term visual loss in people with diabetic retinopathy (DR). Clinically significant macular oedema (CSMO) is the most severe form of DMO. Almost 30 years ago, the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) found that CSMO, diagnosed by means of stereoscopic fundus photography, leads to moderate visual loss in one of four people within three years. It also showed that grid or focal laser photocoagulation to the macula halves this risk. Recently, intravitreal injection of antiangiogenic drugs has been investigated to try to improve vision in people with macular oedema due to DR.Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is based on optical reflectivity and is able to image retinal thickness and structure producing cross-sectional and three-dimensional images of the central retina. It is already widely used because it provides objective and quantitative assessment of macular oedema unlike the subjectivity of fundus biomicroscopic assessment, which is routinely used by ophthalmologists instead of photography. Optical coherence tomography is also used for quantitative follow up of the effects of treatment of CSMO. Disadvantages of using OCT are the cost to purchase it and the need for trained personnel to perform the examinations. To determine the diagnostic accuracy of OCT for detecting macular oedema in people with DR. A secondary objective is to compare the diagnostic accuracy by study-specific characteristics, such as factors related to methodology, patients or OCT. We searched the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR), the Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects (DARE), the Health Technology Assessment Database (HTA) and the NHS Economic Evaluation Database (NHSEED) (The Cochrane Library 2011, Issue 5), MEDLINE (January 1950 to May 2011), EMBASE (January 1950 to May 2011), ISI Web of Science (January 1970 to May 2011), BIOSIS Previews (January 1969 to May 2011), MEDION and the Aggressive Research Intelligence Facility database (ARIF). There were no date or language restrictions in the electronic search for trials. The electronic databases were last searched on 16 May 2011. We checked bibliographies of relevant studies for additional references. We selected studies that assessed the diagnostic accuracy of any OCT model for detecting DMO or CSMO in patients with DR who were referred to eye clinics. Diabetic macular oedema and CSMO were diagnosed by means of fundus biomicroscopy by ophthalmologists or stereophotography by ophthalmologists or other trained personnel. Three authors independently extracted data on study characteristics and measures of accuracy. We assessed data using random-effects hierarchical sROC meta-analysis models. Nine studies (768 participants, 1325 eyes) were included. Prevalence of CSMO was 19% to 65% (median 50%). Study quality was good for half the QUADAS items, whereas unclear or inadequate quality was found in some studies regarding selection criteria, index and reference test masking (blinding), availability of clinical information, uninterpretable results and withdrawals. There was a specific 'unit of analysis' issue because both eyes of the majority of participants were included in the analyses as if they were independent.Central CSMO was the target condition in all but one study and thus our results cannot be applied to non-central CSMO. In eight studies providing data on CSMO (697 participants, 1241 eyes), pooled sensitivity was 0.78 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.72 to 0.83) and specificity was 0.86 (95% CI 0.76 to 0.93). The median central retinal thickness cut-off we selected for data extraction was 250 \u00b5m (range 230 \u00b5m to 300 \u00b5m).Data from three studies reporting accuracy for detection of DMO (180 participants, 343 eyes) were not pooled. Sensitivities and specificities were about 0.80 in two studies and were both 1.00 in the third study. Central retinal thickness measured with OCT cannot be used as a stand-alone test to diagnose the central type of CSMO and decide on the use of laser photocoagulation in patients who are referred to retina clinics. In fact, there is a substantial disagreement of OCT with the ETDRS definition of CSMO based on clinical examination. Some researchers have observed that OCT can detect macular thickening earlier than clinical examination, but also found that such cases did not necessarily progress to CSMO and need photocoagulation.Care should be taken in applying the conclusions of this review to other test-treatment pathways. In fact, OCT will become an essential tool to manage antiangiogenic therapy, an expanding therapeutic option for patients with macular oedema due to DR, because OCT is a component of the diagnostic algorithms of studies on this new treatment."}
{"id": "21730849", "title": "Macular cysts in retinal dystrophy.", "content": "Macular cysts in retinal dystrophy. To describe the entity of macular cysts in retinal dystrophy, differentiate it from cystoid macular edema (CME), and review the role of carbonic anhydrase inhibitors in management. Macular cysts in retinal dystrophy are seen in retinopathies caused by mutations in the NR2E3 gene, juvenile X-linked retinoschisis (XLRS), and some other retinal dystrophies. These must be distinguished from CME. Optical coherence tomography can clearly demonstrate intraretinal cysts which may not be clinically detectable. Intravenous fluorescein angiography (IVFA) does not show macular hyperfluorescence (i.e. leakage). Molecular genetic testing aids in the diagnosis and elucidation of pathophysiology. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may promote resolution of the cysts resulting in visual improvement. Non-CME macular cysts in retinal dystrophies can be differentiated from CME by a combination of clinical examination, IVFA, and molecular genetic testing to identify causative phenotype. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may be effective in promoting resolution."}
{"id": "21730347", "title": "Epiretinal membranes and incomplete posterior vitreous detachment in diabetic macular edema, detected by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Epiretinal membranes and incomplete posterior vitreous detachment in diabetic macular edema, detected by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. PURPOSE. To present the vitreoretinal interface in diabetic macular edema (DME) associated with both epiretinal membrane (ERM) and incomplete posterior vitreous detachment (PVD), as detected by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). METHODS. In a retrospective study, findings were analyzed in one eye in consecutive patients. Excluded were eyes that had undergone vitreoretinal intervention or that had complete PVD or complete vitreous attachment. RESULTS. Of 44 eyes with DME and ERM, incomplete PVD was apparent in 23 (52.2%) eyes. A hyperreflective unified ERM/posterior vitreous cortex (PViC) membrane, or EVi membrane, was apparent in various sizes in 20 (87.0%) of the 23 eyes. This unified membrane (n = 20) was associated with vitreopapillary adherence in 19 (82.6%) of 23 eyes. Two major OCT presentations (n = 23) were encountered: incomplete vitreopapillary detachment (n = 11; 25% of 44), with attachment to the macular ERM, and posterior vitreous detachment from the macula, associated with vitreopapillary adhesion (n = 10; 22.7%), in four different manifestations. In the remaining two eyes, there was no association between the ERM and the PViC. CONCLUSIONS. In eyes with DME, ERM, and incomplete PVD, the posterior cortical vitreous and ERM appeared as one united EVi membrane in various lengths in most eyes, typically associated with vitreopapillary adhesion. These findings may have clinical importance in the context of epimacular membrane characteristics and its removal in DME."}
{"id": "21708377", "title": "High-resolution optical coherence tomography findings in solar maculopathy and the differential diagnosis of outer retinal holes.", "content": "High-resolution optical coherence tomography findings in solar maculopathy and the differential diagnosis of outer retinal holes. To characterize the morphology of outer retinal holes caused by solar maculopathy, using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). This study is an observational case series. The SD-OCT findings of 3 patients (6 eyes) with chronic solar maculopathy are presented. SD-OCT demonstrates a characteristic appearance of partial-thickness hole(s) in the outer retina at the fovea. In 3 of 6 eyes, there is 1 hole directly beneath the umbo. In the remaining 3 eyes, there are multifocal holes spread across the fovea. Holes in more restricted layers, as had been previously reported with time-domain OCT, were not seen. In addition, advanced visualization of SD-OCT data demonstrates a hyperreflective ring around the outer retinal hole. SD-OCT can be used diagnose solar maculopathy. In patients with central scotomas, characteristic outer retinal hole(s) without inner retinal cystic changes may prompt the clinician to uncover an undisclosed history of sungazing. Similar OCT findings can be caused by welder's maculopathy, tamoxifen retinopathy, juxtafoveal macular telangiectasia, foveolar vitreomacular traction, or, rarely, a closed macular hole, achromatopsia, alkyl nitrite abuse, acute retinal pigment epitheliitis, or Stargardt disease."}
{"id": "21696702", "title": "The relationship between macular sensitivity and retinal thickness in eyes with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "The relationship between macular sensitivity and retinal thickness in eyes with diabetic macular edema. To investigate relationship between macular sensitivity and retinal thickness in diabetic macular edema (DME). Prospective observational study. settings: University-based retina practice. patients: Twenty-two eyes of 11 patients with DME. procedure: Fundus microperimetry and retinal thickness tomography were performed simultaneously using an automatic fundus perimetry/tomography system. main outcome measures: Quantification of macular sensitivity, fixation pattern, and relationship between macular sensitivity and retinal thickness. Fixation stability revealed that 21 eyes (95.4%) had stable fixation (>75% within central 2 degrees of point of fixation) and 1 eye (4.5%) had relatively unstable fixation (<75% of fixation points located within 2 degrees, >75% located within 4 degrees). Evaluation of fixation location revealed that 15 eyes (68.2%) had central (>50% of fixation points within 0.5 mm of fovea), 3 eyes (13.6%) pericentral (25% to 50% within 0.5 mm of fovea), and 4 eyes (18.2%) eccentric (<25% of fixation points within 0.5 mm of fovea) fixation location. Macular sensitivity increased by an average of 0.03 decibel (dB) (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.00, 0.06) per 1-micron (\u03bcm) increase in retinal thickness for thickness values \u2264280 \u03bcm measured with the OPKO/OTI spectral-domain OCT. The macular sensitivity decreased by an average 0.05 dB (95% CI: -0.08, -0.02) per 1-\u03bcm increase in thickness for thickness values >280 \u03bcm. In this pilot study, the majority of eyes with DME had stable, central fixation. Macular sensitivity varied depending on the thickness of the retina. Additional studies are needed to determine the role of microperimetry in eyes with DME."}
{"id": "21655039", "title": "Comparison of the short-term effects of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide and bevacizumab injection for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Comparison of the short-term effects of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide and bevacizumab injection for diabetic macular edema. To compare the short-term effects of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) with those of intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) injection for diabetic macular edema (DME). The present retrospective, comparative case study included 58 eyes of 35 consecutive patients (IVTA group, 20 eyes; IVB group, 38 eyes) with DME. IVTA (4 mg) or IVB (1.25 mg) injection was performed under local anesthesia. The effects of injection for DME were evaluated using best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central macular thickness (CMT) by optical coherence tomography and intraocular pressure (IOP) by applanation tonometer. Patients underwent eye examinations, including BCVA, CMT, and IOP at pre-injection, 2, 4, and 8 weeks after injection. BCVA (logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution) \u00b1 SD at pre-injection, 2, 4, and 8 weeks after injection was 0.67 \u00b1 0.40, 0.56 \u00b1 0.35 (p = 0.033), 0.55 \u00b1 0.33 (p = 0.041), and 0.43 \u00b1 0.31 (p = 0.001) in the IVTA group and 0.51 \u00b1 0.31, 0.42 \u00b1 0.26 (p = 0.003), 0.43 \u00b1 0.32 (p = 0.001), and 0.43 \u00b1 0.27 (p = 0.015) in the IVB group, respectively. CMT (\u00b5m) \u00b1 SD at pre-injection, 2, 4, and 8 weeks after injection was 400.4 \u00b1 94.9, 332.8 \u00b1 47.4 (p = 0.002), 287.5 \u00b1 49.1 (p = 0.007), and 282.5 \u00b1 49.6 (p = 0.043) in the IVTA group and 372.6 \u00b1 99.5, 323.2 \u00b1 72.4 (p = 0.077), 360.9 \u00b1 50.3 (p = 0.668), 368.2 \u00b1 88.6 (p = 0.830) in the IVB group, respectively. The effects of IVTA for BCVA were more favorable than were those of IVB and were consistent throughout the eight weeks after injection. IVTA significantly reduced CMT during the eight weeks after injection, while IVB did not."}
{"id": "21647567", "title": "Long-term therapeutic efficacy of the subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Long-term therapeutic efficacy of the subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema. To investigate the long-term efficacy of subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation (SMDLP) on diabetic macular edema (DME). The effects of SMDLP (810 nm) were studied on 56 eyes of 44 patients with DME. Optical coherence tomography-determined foveal thickness and best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) were evaluated at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after the SMDLP. The mean foveal thickness was 504 \u03bcm before the SMDLP, and it was significantly reduced to 439 \u03bcm at 1 month (P = 0.001), 409 \u03bcm at 3 months (P < 0.0001), 358 \u03bcm at 6 months (P < 0.0001), and 320 \u03bcm at 12 months (P < 0.0001). The mean BCVA at baseline was 0.47 logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution (logMAR) units, and it was not changed significantly at all of the postoperative examinations. Among the 56 eyes, 10 (17.8%) had an improvement of BCVA of >0.2 logMAR units, 36 (64.2%) remained the same, and 10 eyes (17.8%) had a reduction of >0.2 logMAR units at 12 months postoperatively. Our results indicate that SMDLP has a beneficial effect on DME. However, prospective studies are needed to evaluate this technique in more detail."}
{"id": "21631366", "title": "Comparison of intravitreal bevacizumab and ranibizumab treatment for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Comparison of intravitreal bevacizumab and ranibizumab treatment for diabetic macular edema. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of bevacizumab and ranibizumab on visual function and macular thickness in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). The data of diabetic patients who had been treated with bevacizumab for DME were reviewed. Those patients who received 1 injection of intravitreal bevacizumab and ranibizumab with at least 6-month interval were considered for enrollment. The best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) assesment with Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) chart and central subfield macular thickness (CSMT) measurement using optical coherence tomography-3 before and after the injections were recorded as outcome measures. The study included 29 eyes of 29 patients with a mean age of 56.18\u00b113.07 years. The median BCVA was 59 ETDRS letters and the median CSMT was 411\u2009\u03bcm preceeding the bevacizumab injection. At the 4th-6th week control after the injection, median BCVA increased to 61.50 ETDRS letters and the median CSMT decreased to 373\u2009\u03bcm. This change in BCVA and CSMT was found to be statistically significant (P=0.029 and P=0.011, respectively). The mean interval between bevacizumab and ranibizumab treatment was 9.54\u00b12.64 months. Ranibizumab treatment increased the median BCVA from 53 to 66 ETDRS letters and decreased the median CSMT from 428\u2009\u03bcm to a level of 279\u2009\u03bcm, which were statistically significant (P<0.001 and P<0.001, respectively). The median change in BCVA was 4.5 ETDRS letters in the bevacizumab group and 6 ETDRS letters in the ranibizumab group (P=0.58), whereas the median changes in CSMT were 41 and 100\u2009\u03bcm after bevacizumab and ranibizumab injections, respectively (P=0.005). Bevacizumab and ranibizumab are both effective antivascular endothelial growth factor drugs preferred in the treatment of DME. Our comparison of both therapies on the same patients suggested that the effect on BCVA was not statistically different, but ranibizumab provided more decrease in CSMT."}
{"id": "21612513", "title": "Subthreshold micropulse diode laser and double frequency neodymium: YAG laser in treatment of diabetic macular edema: a prospective, randomized study using multifocal electroretinography.", "content": "Subthreshold micropulse diode laser and double frequency neodymium: YAG laser in treatment of diabetic macular edema: a prospective, randomized study using multifocal electroretinography. The purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of subthreshold micropulse diode (SDM) laser with double-frequency neodymium YAG (Nd:YAG) laser in treatment of clinically significant diabetic macular edema. Forty-six eyes of 33 patients with clinically significant macular edema (CSME) caused by diabetic retinopathy were randomized to either SDM (810?nm) laser or the conventional double-frequency Nd:YAG (532?nm) laser. Primary outcome measures were: change in the central macular thickness as measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and change in macular retinal sensitivity measured using multifocal electroretinography (MfERG). Secondary outcomes were: change in best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and contrast sensitivity. The group was divided in half, with 23 eyes assigned to SDM laser and 23 eyes assigned to double-frequency Nd:YAG laser. Mean follow-up period was 6 months. No statistically significant difference was noted in either the primary or the secondary outcome measures between the two groups. Macular thickness decreased from the baseline measures of 298.5?49.3 and 312.9?45.8??m to 274.9?62.9 and 286.7?32.8??m in the SDM laser and Nd:YAG laser groups, respectively. On MfERG, P1 implicit wave time delay at baseline changed from 46.27?4.9 to 45.27?3.4?ms in the SDM group and from 46.55?4.9 to 45.27?4.1?ms in the Nd:YAG group. MfERG recordings of 18 of the 23 eyes treated with double-frequency Nd:YAG laser showed areas of signal void as compared to 4 eyes treated with the SDM laser. SDM laser photocoagulation showed an equally good effect on visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, and reduction of diabetic macular edema (DME) as compared to conventional Nd:YAG laser photocoagulation. MfERG recordings, however, suggest that SDM laser results in better preservation of electrophysiological indices."}
{"id": "21607565", "title": "Imaging of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Imaging of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema. Imaging of the retinal complications of diabetes mellitus is rapidly changing from the emergence of new technology such as optical coherence tomography. In particular, the characterization of diabetic macular edema is much easier for the clinician and there are new, more sensitive clinical research end points. However, our understanding of structure-functional relationships remains suboptimal and the classification of macular edema by optical coherence tomography continues to evolve. The classification of diabetic retinopathy severity continues to rely upon fundus photography, although the transition from film to digital photography presents both challenges and advantages."}
{"id": "21597307", "title": "Taut internal limiting membrane causing diffuse diabetic macular edema after vitrectomy: clinicopathological correlation.", "content": "Taut internal limiting membrane causing diffuse diabetic macular edema after vitrectomy: clinicopathological correlation. To describe 2 cases of diffuse diabetic macular edema (DME) after diabetic vitrectomy caused by a taut internal limiting membrane (ILM), with clinicopathological correlation. Interventional case series with immunohistochemical analysis. Two patients were referred for unresponsive diffuse DME after pars plana vitrectomy with removal of the posterior hyaloid. Clinically, a taut ILM was noted over the fovea, and its removal resulted in rapid and long-term resolution of the edema, confirmed by optical coherence tomography with visual acuity improvement. Histopathology with immunostaining revealed a segment of ILM with an inner monolayer of cytokeratin-positive (retinal pigment epithelial cells) and/or glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells with smooth muscle actin immunoreactivity. A taut ILM can cause diffuse DME after vitrectomy, and its removal can restore the normal foveal contour and improve visual acuity. Tangential tractional forces from contractile cells propagated across the fovea via the ILM appear to be the etiology."}
{"id": "21596303", "title": "Crystalline retinopathy in primary hyperoxaluria.", "content": "Crystalline retinopathy in primary hyperoxaluria. We present the case of a 2.5-month-old boy with type 1 primary hyperoxaluria and severe systemic oxalosis resulting in massive retinal crystalline deposition. Maculopathy was demonstrated by optical coherence tomography, and nystagmus was present. Electroretinography demonstrated retinal dysfunction, unusual in oxalosis."}
{"id": "21591862", "title": "Predictability of vitreous detachment following intravitreal plasmin injection in diabetic macular edema associated with vitreomacular traction.", "content": "Predictability of vitreous detachment following intravitreal plasmin injection in diabetic macular edema associated with vitreomacular traction. To assess preoperative factors associated with postoperative posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) following intravitreal autologous plasmin injection in diabetic macular edema associated with vitreomacular traction. Twenty-five eyes with diabetic macular edema associated with vitreomacular traction as documented with optical coherence tomography were included. Approximately 0.2 IU/0.2\u2009ml of autologous plasmin was injected intravitreally. Condition of the posterior vitreous face (degree of detachment, thickness, reflectivity, and diameter of attached vitreous base) was evaluated preoperatively and postoperatively up to 3 months. PVD was achieved in ten eyes (41.7%). There was a significant difference (P\u2009=\u20090.03) in mean posterior vitreous face thickness between the eyes with PVD and the eyes with failed PVD. There was a significant correlation between PVD and both posterior vitreous face thickness (P\u2009<\u20090.03%) and degree of posterior vitreous face reflectivity (P\u2009=\u20090.002). In diabetic eyes with vitreomacular traction, the prediction of PVD after plasmin injection is governed by the condition of posterior vitreous face; mainly posterior vitreous face thickness and reflectivity. Eyes with thinner, less reflective posterior vitreous face are more likely to develop PVD."}
{"id": "21573106", "title": "SDOCT imaging to identify macular pathology in patients diagnosed with diabetic maculopathy by a digital photographic retinal screening programme.", "content": "SDOCT imaging to identify macular pathology in patients diagnosed with diabetic maculopathy by a digital photographic retinal screening programme. Diabetic macular edema (DME) is an important cause of vision loss. England has a national systematic photographic retinal screening programme to identify patients with diabetic eye disease. Grading retinal photographs according to this national protocol identifies surrogate markers for DME. We audited a care pathway using a spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SDOCT) clinic to identify macular pathology in this subset of patients. A prospective audit was performed of patients referred from screening with mild to moderate non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (R1) and surrogate markers for diabetic macular edema (M1) attending an SDOCT clinic. The SDOCT images were graded by an ophthalmologist as SDOCT positive, borderline or negative. SDOCT positive patients were referred to the medical retina clinic. SDOCT negative and borderline patients were further reviewed in the SDOCT clinic in 6 months. From a registered screening population of 17 551 patients with diabetes mellitus, 311 patients met the inclusion criteria between (March 2008 and September 2009). We analyzed images from 311 patients' SDOCT clinic episodes. There were 131 SDOCT negative and 12 borderline patients booked for revisit in the OCT clinic. Twenty-four were referred back to photographic screening for a variety of reasons. A total of 144 were referred to ophthalmology with OCT evidence of definite macular pathology requiring review by an ophthalmologist. This analysis shows that patients with diabetes, mild to moderate non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (R1) and evidence of diabetic maculopathy on non-stereoscopic retinal photographs (M1) have a 42.1% chance of having no macular edema on SDOCT imaging as defined by standard OCT definitions of DME when graded by a retinal specialist. SDOCT imaging is a useful adjunct to colour fundus photography in screening for referable diabetic maculopathy in our screening population."}
{"id": "21567211", "title": "Subconjunctival sirolimus in the treatment of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Subconjunctival sirolimus in the treatment of diabetic macular edema. Diabetic macular edema (DME) is a leading cause of blindness in the developed world. Sirolimus has been shown to inhibit the production, signaling, and activity of many growth factors relevant to the development of diabetic retinopathy. This phase I/II study assesses the safety of multiple subconjunctival sirolimus injections for the treatment of DME, with some limited efficacy data. In this phase I/II prospective, open-label pilot study, five adult participants with diabetic macular edema involving the center of the fovea and best-corrected ETDRS visual acuity score of \u226474 letters (20/32 or worse) received 20 \u03bcl (440 \u03bcg) of subconjunctival sirolimus at baseline, month 2 and every 2 months thereafter, unless there was resolution of either retinal thickening on OCT or leakage on fluorescein angiography. Main outcome measures included best-corrected visual acuity and central retinal thickness on OCT at 6 months and 1 year, as well as safety outcomes. Repeated subconjunctival sirolimus injections were well-tolerated, with no significant drug-related adverse events. There was no consistent treatment effect related to sirolimus; one participant experienced a 2-line improvement in visual acuity and 2 log unit decrease in retinal thickness at 6 months and 1 year, two remained essentially stable, one had stable visual acuity but improvement of central retinal thickness of 1 and 3 log units at 6 months and 1 year respectively, and one had a 2-line worsening of visual acuity and a 1 log unit increase in retinal thickness at 6 months and 1 year. Results in the fellow eyes with diabetic macular edema, not treated with sirolimus, were similar. Subconjunctival sirolimus appears safe to use in patients with DME. Assessment of possible treatment benefit will require a randomized trial."}
{"id": "21555906", "title": "Quantitative assessment of photoreceptor layer in eyes with resolved edema after pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Quantitative assessment of photoreceptor layer in eyes with resolved edema after pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal for diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the correlation between visual acuity (VA) and photoreceptor integrity in eyes with resolved diabetic macular edema (DME) after pars plana vitrectomy (PPV). Eleven eyes with resolved macular edema following PPV with internal limiting membrane removal for DME were included in this retrospective study. The integrity of the external limiting membrane (ELM) and inner and outer segments (IS/OS) of the photoreceptor junction was evaluated by spectral domain optical coherence tomography. The main outcome measures were percentage of disrupted ELM and IS/OS lines, and correlation between VA and photoreceptor integrity. The mean time after PPV was 78 \u00b1 17 months. The mean lengths of the disrupted ELM and IS/OS lines were 223 \u00b1 167 \u03bcm (63%) and 189 \u00b1 175 \u03bcm (54%) in the foveola, and 900 \u00b1 522 \u03bcm (60%) and 835 \u00b1 582 \u03bcm (55%) in the fovea, respectively. Intact ELM and IS/OS lines were positively correlated with VA in both the fovea (p = 0.09 and p = 0.02, respectively) and foveola (p = 0.004 and p = 0.03, respectively). Linear regression analysis showed a statistically significant association of intact ELM and IS/OS lines with VA in the fovea. Disrupted ELM and IS/OS lines had a strong correlation with each other in both the fovea (r = -0.71, p = 0.013) and foveola (r = 0.81, p = 0.02). The integrity of the ELM and IS/OS lines was positively correlated with VA in eyes with resolved DME after PPV."}
{"id": "21546089", "title": "The DA VINCI Study: phase 2 primary results of VEGF Trap-Eye in patients with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "The DA VINCI Study: phase 2 primary results of VEGF Trap-Eye in patients with diabetic macular edema. To determine whether different doses and dosing regimens of intravitreal vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) Trap-Eye are superior to focal/grid photocoagulation in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME). Multicenter, randomized, double-masked, phase 2 clinical trial. A total of 221 diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema involving the central macula. Patients were assigned to 1 of 5 treatment regimens: 0.5 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 4 weeks; 2 mg VEGF Trap-Eye every 4 weeks; 2 mg VEGF Trap-Eye for 3 initial monthly doses and then every 8 weeks; 2 mg VEGF Trap-Eye for 3 initial monthly doses and then on an as-needed (PRN) basis; or macular laser photocoagulation. Assessments were completed at baseline and every 4 weeks thereafter. Mean change in visual acuity and central retinal thickness (CRT) at 24 weeks. Patients in the 4 VEGF Trap-Eye groups experienced mean visual acuity benefits ranging from +8.5 to +11.4 Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) letters versus only +2.5 letters in the laser group (P \u2264 0.0085 for each VEGF Trap-Eye group vs. laser). Gains from baseline of 0+, 10+, and 15+ letters were seen in up to 93%, 64%, and 34% of VEGF Trap-Eye groups versus up to 68%, 32%, and 21% in the laser group, respectively. Mean reductions in CRT in the 4 VEGF Trap-Eye groups ranged from -127.3 to -194.5 \u03bcm compared with only -67.9 \u03bcm in the laser group (P = 0.0066 for each VEGF Trap-Eye group vs. laser). VEGF Trap-Eye was generally well tolerated. Ocular adverse events in patients treated with VEGF Trap-Eye were generally consistent with those seen with other intravitreal anti-VEGF agents. Intravitreal VEGF Trap-Eye produced a statistically significant and clinically relevant improvement in visual acuity when compared with macular laser photocoagulation in patients with DME."}
{"id": "21538005", "title": "Characteristics of age-related macular degeneration in patients with diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Characteristics of age-related macular degeneration in patients with diabetic retinopathy. The purpose of this study was to determine the clinical characteristics of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) in patients with diabetic retinopathy (DR). Retrospective, consecutive case series. Twenty-six eyes of 25 Japanese patients were studied. All patients were diagnosed as having exudative AMD with DR. Patients with no apparent DR, dry AMD, neovascular maculopathy associated with high myopia, and age <50 years were excluded. The clinical characteristics of AMD in patients with DR, e.g., gender, age, stage of DR, and type of AMD were evaluated. In the 26 eyes, 2 eyes (7.7%) were classified as mild nonproliferative DR (NPDR), 7 (27.0%) with moderate NPDR, 16 (61.5%) with severe NPDR and 1 eye (3.8%) with PDR. Of the 26 eyes with exudative AMD, 21 eyes (80.8%) were classified as neovascular AMD, 4 (15.4%) as polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy and 1 eye (3.8%) as a retinal angiomatous proliferation. Among the eyes with neovascular AMD, 9 eyes (42.9%) were classified as predominantly classic choroidal neovascularization (CNV). There is a predominance of men, neovascular AMD and predominantly classic CNV in Japanese AMD patients with DR. The exudative AMD in patients with DR may have different clinical characteristics from those without DR."}
{"id": "21508108", "title": "Mapping choroidal and retinal thickness variation in type 2 diabetes using three-dimensional 1060-nm optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Mapping choroidal and retinal thickness variation in type 2 diabetes using three-dimensional 1060-nm optical coherence tomography. To map choroidal (ChT) and retinal thickness (RT) in healthy subjects and patients with diabetes with and without maculopathy using three dimensional 1060-nm optical coherence tomography (3D-1060nm-OCT). Sixty-three eyes from 42 diabetic subjects (41-82 years of age; 11 females) grouped according to a custom scheme using Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study definitions for pathology within 1 disc-diameter of fovea (without pathology [NDR], microaneurysms [M1], exudates [M2], clinically significant macular edema [CSME]) and 16 eyes from 16 healthy age matched subjects (38-79 years of age; 11 females) were imaged by 3D-1060nm-OCT performed over a 36\u00b0 \u00d7 36\u00b0 field of view. Axial length, 45\u00b0 fundus photographs, body mass index, plasma glucose, and blood pressure measurements were recorded. The ChT at the subfoveal location and ChT maps between RPE and the choroidal-scleral interface were generated and statistically analyzed. RT maps show thinning in the NDR group but an increase in thickness with increasing maculopathy in the temporal and central regions (unpaired t-test; P < 0.05). ChT mapping of all diabetic patients revealed central and inferior thinning compared to healthy eyes (unpaired t-test; P < 0.001). Subfoveal ChT (mean \u00b1 SD) for healthy eyes was 327 \u00b1 74 \u03bcm, which was significantly thicker than all diabetic groups (214 \u00b1 55 \u03bcm for NDR, 208 \u00b1 49 \u03bcm for M1, 205 \u00b1 54 \u03bcm for M2, and 211 \u00b1 76 \u03bcm for CSME (ANOVA P < 0.001; Tukey P < 0.001). 3D-1060nm-OCT has shown that the central choroid is thinner in all type 2 diabetic eyes regardless of disease stage. The choroidal thinning may exceed the magnitude of possible choriocapillaris atrophy. In contrast to the conventional assessment of pathologic thickness change in several locations, thickness maps allow investigation of the choroid over the extent of affected areas."}
{"id": "21507488", "title": "Economic considerations of macular edema therapies.", "content": "Economic considerations of macular edema therapies. To relate costs and treatment benefits for diabetic macular edema (DME), branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO), and central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). A model of resource use, outcomes, and cost-effectiveness and utility. None. Results from published clinical trials (index studies) of laser, intravitreal corticosteroids, intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) agents, and vitrectomy trials were used to ascertain visual benefit and clinical protocols. Calculations followed from the costs of 1 year of treatment for each treatment modality and the visual benefits as ascertained. Visual acuity (VA) saved, cost of therapy, cost per line saved, cost per line-year saved, and costs per quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). The lines saved for DME (0.26-2.02), BRVO (0.74-4.92), and CRVO (1.2-3.75) yielded calculations of costs/line of saved VA for DME ($1329-$11,609), BRVO ($494-$13,039), and CRVO ($704-$7611); costs/line-year for DME ($60-$561), BRVO ($25-$754), and CRVO ($45-$473); and costs/QALY ($824 to $25,566). Relative costs and benefits should be considered in perspective when applying and developing treatment strategies."}
{"id": "21494279", "title": "Qualitative and quantitative OCT response of diffuse diabetic macular oedema to macular laser photocoagulation.", "content": "Qualitative and quantitative OCT response of diffuse diabetic macular oedema to macular laser photocoagulation. To assess the quantitative and morphological changes of the macula in response to macular grid laser for diabetic macular oedema (DMO) using optical coherence tomography (OCT). Cirrus OCT macular cube scans of 30 eyes of 25 patients were retrospectively analysed before and 4 months after macular grid laser for diffuse DMO. The oedema was quantified and response evaluated in the nine early-treatment diabetic retinopathy study (ETDRS) zones of the macula. Post-laser OCT changes were compared with the baseline features, including morphology patterns, changes in both logarithmic transformed (logOCT) and standardised average macular thickness (AMT), total macular volume, number of parafoveal quadrants involved, and the presence of intact 3rd hyper-reflective band (HRB). The rate of change of retinal thickness in response to laser was maximum in the central (8.17%) and perifoveal inferior quadrants (0.04%). Diffuse retinal thickening on OCT responded best to treatment. The AMT of 300-350 \u03bcm had the worst response (+0.94%). Eyes with less than four quadrants of oedema showed good response. Disrupted HRB was associated with poor visual gain (-0.33 ETDRS letters). The topographic location of oedema on the retinal map and the morphological patterns of the oedema on OCT are useful predictors of treatment response in diffuse DMO."}
{"id": "21487341", "title": "Dexamethasone intravitreal implant for treatment of diabetic macular edema in vitrectomized patients.", "content": "Dexamethasone intravitreal implant for treatment of diabetic macular edema in vitrectomized patients. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of Ozurdex (dexamethasone intravitreal implant) 0.7 mg in the treatment of diabetic macular edema in vitrectomized eyes. This was a prospective, multicenter, open-label, 26-week study. Fifty-five patients with treatment-resistant diabetic macular edema and a history of previous pars plana vitrectomy in the study eye received a single intravitreal injection of 0.7-mg dexamethasone intravitreal implant. The primary efficacy outcome measure was the change in central retinal thickness from baseline to Week 26 measured by optical coherence tomography. The mean age of patients was 62 years. The mean duration of diabetic macular edema was 43 months. The mean (95% confidence interval) change from baseline central retinal thickness (403 \u03bcm) was -156 \u03bcm (-190, -122 \u03bcm) at Week 8 (P < 0.001) and -39 \u03bcm (-65, -13 \u03bcm) at Week 26 (P = 0.004). The mean (95% CI) increase in best-corrected visual acuity from baseline (54.5 letters) was 6.0 letters (3.9, 8.1 letters) at Week 8 (P < 0.001) and 3.0 letters (0.1, 6.0 letters) at Week 26 (P = 0.046). At Week 8, 30.4% of patients had gained \u226510 letters in best-corrected visual acuity. Conjunctival hemorrhage, conjunctival hyperemia, eye pain, and increased intraocular pressure were the most common adverse events. Treatment with dexamethasone intravitreal implant led to statistically and clinically significant improvements in both vision and vascular leakage from diabetic macular edema in difficult-to-treat vitrectomized eyes and had an acceptable safety profile."}
{"id": "21472465", "title": "Extrafoveal traction in retinal vein occlusion using spectral domain optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Extrafoveal traction in retinal vein occlusion using spectral domain optical coherence tomography. To present extrafoveal vitreous traction membranes, and their prevalence and association with diffuse macular oedema in eyes with retinal vein occlusion (RVO), using 3-D spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). In a retrospective institutional observational study, charts and qualified SD-OCT findings of consecutive patients with either central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) or branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO) associated with macular oedema were analyzed. Exclusion criteria covered eyes that had: 1) another retinopathy that could affect the data analysis, 2) vitreoretinal adherence without signs of retinal traction, 3) undergone vitreoretinal surgery, or 4) been treated by intravitreal administration of medication(s). An age-matched control group (n\u2009=\u200972) afforded the normal central subfield thickness. Twenty-six eyes (of 26 patients) with either CRVO (n\u2009=\u200912) or BRVO (n\u2009=\u200914) were analyzed. Four eyes were excluded because they had a lack of macular oedema (n\u2009=\u20092), had an earlier pars plana vitrectomy (n\u2009=\u20091), or had previous treatment by intravitreal bevacizumab (n\u2009=\u20091). Of the 22 remaining eyes, both the SD-OCT B-mode video clip and the 3-D image reconstruction enabled a detection of extrafoveal traction membranes, either unifocally or multifocally, in nine eyes: four (of 11; 36.4 %) in CRVO, and five eyes (of 11; 45.5%) in BRVO. The retinal oedema in these nine eyes, which underlined at least one of the traction sites per eye, and the accompanied subretinal fluid in four of these nine eyes, were in continuum in each eye with the diffuse macular oedema and serous macular detachment respectively. During follow-up, a spontaneous release of a traction membrane coupled with resolution of the macular oedema occurred in one eye with BRVO. Of the four eyes that were excluded, two eyes had extrafoveal vitreous traction membranes. The SD-OCT B-mode video clip and its 3-D image reconstruction enabled relatively frequent detection of extrafoveal vitreous traction membranes in RVO and their association with diffuse macula oedema and macular detachment. A larger cohort is required to validate these findings and to compare the efficacy of early release of such traction membranes, either surgically or possibly by pharmacologic vitreolysis, with the current therapeutic modalities."}
{"id": "21459216", "title": "Long-term benefit of sustained-delivery fluocinolone acetonide vitreous inserts for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Long-term benefit of sustained-delivery fluocinolone acetonide vitreous inserts for diabetic macular edema. To assess the efficacy and safety of intravitreal inserts releasing 0.2 \u03bcg/day (low dose) or 0.5 \u03bcg/day (high dose) fluocinolone acetonide (FA) in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). Two parallel, prospective, randomized, sham injection-controlled, double-masked, multicenter clinical trials. Subjects with persistent DME despite at least 1 macular laser treatment were randomized 1:2:2 to sham injection (n = 185), low-dose insert (n = 375), or high-dose insert (n = 393). Subjects received study drug or sham injection at baseline and after 6 weeks were eligible for rescue laser. Based on retreatment criteria, additional study drug or sham injections could be given after 1 year. The primary outcome was the percentage of patients with improvement from baseline best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) in Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Trial (ETDRS) letter score of 15 or more at month 24. Secondary outcomes included other parameters of visual function and foveal thickness (FTH). The percentage of patients with improvement from baseline ETDRS letter score of 15 or more at month 24 was 28.7 and 28.6 in the low- and high-dose insert groups, respectively, compared with 16.2 in the sham group (P = 0.002 for each). Benefit occurred for both doses compared with sham at 3 weeks and all subsequent time points. The mean improvement in BCVA letter score between baseline and month 24 was 4.4 and 5.4 in the low- and high-dose groups, respectively, compared with 1.7 in the sham group (P = 0.02 and P = 0.016). At all time points compared with sham, there was significantly more improvement in FTH. Subjects requiring cataract surgery were more frequent in the insert groups, and their visual benefit was similar to that of subjects who were pseudophakic at baseline. Glaucoma requiring incisional surgery occurred in 3.7%, 7.6%, and 0.5% of the low-dose, high-dose, and sham groups, respectively. Both low- and high-dose FA inserts significantly improved BCVA in patients with DME over 2 years, and the risk-to-benefit ratio was superior for the low-dose insert. This is the first pharmacologic treatment that can be administered by an outpatient injection to provide substantial benefit in patients with DME for at least 2 years."}
{"id": "21459215", "title": "The RESTORE study: ranibizumab monotherapy or combined with laser versus laser monotherapy for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "The RESTORE study: ranibizumab monotherapy or combined with laser versus laser monotherapy for diabetic macular edema. To demonstrate superiority of ranibizumab 0.5 mg monotherapy or combined with laser over laser alone based on mean average change in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) over 12 months in diabetic macular edema (DME). A 12-month, randomized, double-masked, multicenter, laser-controlled phase III study. We included 345 patients aged \u226518 years, with type 1 or 2 diabetes mellitus and visual impairment due to DME. Patients were randomized to ranibizumab + sham laser (n = 116), ranibizumab + laser (n = 118), or sham injections + laser (n = 111). Ranibizumab/sham was given for 3 months then pro re nata (PRN); laser/sham laser was given at baseline then PRN (patients had scheduled monthly visits). Mean average change in BCVA from baseline to month 1 through 12 and safety. Ranibizumab alone and combined with laser were superior to laser monotherapy in improving mean average change in BCVA letter score from baseline to month 1 through 12 (+6.1 and +5.9 vs +0.8; both P<0.0001). At month 12, a significantly greater proportion of patients had a BCVA letter score \u226515 and BCVA letter score level >73 (20/40 Snellen equivalent) with ranibizumab (22.6% and 53%, respectively) and ranibizumab + laser (22.9% and 44.9%) versus laser (8.2% and 23.6%). The mean central retinal thickness was significantly reduced from baseline with ranibizumab (-118.7 \u03bcm) and ranibizumab + laser (-128.3 \u03bcm) versus laser (-61.3 \u03bcm; both P<0.001). Health-related quality of life, assessed through National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire (NEI VFQ-25), improved significantly from baseline with ranibizumab alone and combined with laser (P<0.05 for composite score and vision-related subscales) versus laser. Patients received \u223c7 (mean) ranibizumab/sham injections over 12 months. No endophthalmitis cases occurred. Increased intraocular pressure was reported for 1 patient each in the ranibizumab arms. Ranibizumab monotherapy or combined with laser was not associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular events in this study. Ranibizumab monotherapy and combined with laser provided superior visual acuity gain over standard laser in patients with visual impairment due to DME. Visual acuity gains were associated with significant gains in VFQ-25 scores. At 1 year, no differences were detected between the ranibizumab and ranibizumab + laser arms. Ranibizumab monotherapy and combined with laser had a safety profile in DME similar to that in age-related macular degeneration."}
{"id": "21451442", "title": "Initial macular thickness and response to treatment in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Initial macular thickness and response to treatment in diabetic macular edema. To assess the effect of initial central macular thickness (CMT) on the response to treatment in diabetic macular edema. The data of 150 eyes of 129 patients with clinically significant diabetic macular edema and no previous treatment who had been randomly assigned in the original trial to 1 of the 3 groups, 1) intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) group (50 eyes); 2) combined intravitreal bevacizumab and triamcinolone (IVB/IVT) group (50 eyes); and 3) macular laser photocoagulation group (50 eyes), were reevaluated. This time the data of the cases were reanalyzed based on their initial CMT. Accordingly, the original treatment groups were categorized into 3 subgroups: 1) <250 \u03bcm, 2) 250 \u03bcm to 349 \u03bcm, and 3) \u2265350 \u03bcm. Visual acuity and CMT changes in response to different treatments were compared. Main outcome measures were changes in visual acuity and CMT at Weeks 6, 12, 24, and 36. At 6 weeks in all subgroups, mean visual acuity improvement in the IVB group was significantly greater than the other groups (P = 0.002, P = 0.003, P < 0.001, for subgroups of <250, 250-349, and \u2265350 \u03bcm, respectively). At 12, 24, and 36 weeks in the subgroup >350 \u03bcm and at 24 weeks in the subgroup 250 \u03bcm to 349 \u03bcm, the difference of mean visual acuity changes among the groups reached to a significant level (P = 0.010, P = 0.028, P < 0.001, and P < 0.001, respectively) in favor of the IVB group. The difference in mean CMT changes at 6 weeks and 12 weeks was significant among the groups in the subgroup \u2265350 \u03bcm (P < 0.001 and P < 0.001) in favor of the IVB group and in the subgroup 250 \u03bcm to 349 \u03bcm at 24 weeks in favor of combined IVB/IVT group (P < 0.001). In the primary treatment of diabetic macular edema, initial CMT may be an important factor in decision making. Regardless of initial CMT, IVB caused a better visual outcome only at 6 weeks. With longer follow-up, however, IVB was superior to IVB/IVT and macular laser photocoagulation only in the eyes with initial CMT of \u2265350 \u03bcm. Concerning CMT reduction, this superiority of IVB in the eyes with initial CMT of \u2265350 \u03bcm was not observed beyond 12 weeks."}
{"id": "21394067", "title": "Macular micropseudocysts in early stages of diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Macular micropseudocysts in early stages of diabetic retinopathy. To identify by noninvasive means early retinal abnormalities that may predict diabetic macular edema. The authors analyzed retrospectively data from consecutive patients with Type 1 (n = 16) or Type 2 (n = 23) diabetes who presented for routine follow-up of early retinopathy, had no clinical signs or symptoms of diabetic macular edema, and were evaluated with spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. Age- and gender-matched nondiabetic subjects provided normative data. Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography revealed in the macular region of diabetic patients small hyporeflective areas (median diameter, 55 \u03bcm) contained within discrete retinal layers that we named micropseudocysts (MPCs). Micropseudocysts are associated with vascular leakage. The patients showing MPCs had more frequently systemic hypertension and increased central foveal thickness than those without MPCs. The association with increased central foveal thickness was only in the patients with Type 2 diabetes. Macular MPCs in patients with mild diabetic retinopathy appear to reflect leakage and can precede macular thickening. The association of MPCs with increased central foveal thickness in patients with Type 2 diabetes, but not in patients with Type 1 diabetes, points to a greater tendency to retinal fluid accumulation in patients with Type 2 diabetes. Studies in larger cohorts will determine the usefulness of MPCs in strategies to abort diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "21389739", "title": "Intravitreal versus sub-tenon posterior triamcinolone injection in bilateral diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal versus sub-tenon posterior triamcinolone injection in bilateral diffuse diabetic macular edema. To compare the efficacy of intravitreal and sub-Tenon (ST) posterior triamcinolone injection in the treatment of bilateral diabetic diffuse macular edema (DDME). 28 eyes of 14 diabetic patients with bilateral DDME were included in this prospective randomized study. One eye of each individual received a sub-Tenon (ST) posterior triamcinolone injection (ST group), whereas the fellow eye received an intravitreal triamcinolone injection (IV group). All eyes were treated with supplementary focal laser after the injections. Cases were evaluated 1, 2, 3 and 6 months after the initial treatment. Both groups had visual improvement and macular edema reduction following the injections. This temporary effect was prominent for 24 weeks in the IV group and for 8 weeks in the ST group. Edema resorption and visual improvement were more pronounced in the IV group, although this difference was not statistically significant. No major complications were observed except for moderate and reversible intraocular pressure elevation in some cases. Both intravitreal and ST injections of triamcinolone appear to yield a significant visual recovery and prompt resolution of DDME. The beneficial outcome appears to be more longstanding with intravitreal injection."}
{"id": "21376246", "title": "Diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "21362332", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab combined with/without triamcinolone acetonide in single injection for treatment of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab combined with/without triamcinolone acetonide in single injection for treatment of diabetic macular edema. Diabetic macular edema (DME) is a common manifestation of diabetic retinopathy (DR) that forms the main cause of central visual impairment. This study aimed to compare the efficacy and safety of a single intravitreal injection of bevacizumab alone versus bevacizumab combined with triamcinolone acetonide in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME). A total of 40 eyes in 40 Chinese patients (22 male and 18 female) diagnosed with diabetic macular edema were enrolled in this prospective, randomized, consecutive study. Among them, 21 patients in group 1 were treated with intravitreal injection of bevacizumab (1.25 mg/0.05 ml), and the other 19 patients in group 2 accepted intravitreal bavacizumab (1.25 mg/0.05 ml) combined with triamcinolone acetonide (2 mg/0.05 ml). All patients were examined at baseline and followed up at 4, 6 and 12 weeks after the injection. Changes in mean best correct visual acuity (BCVA) using ETDRS chart, central retina thickness (CRT) measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT), and intraocular pressure (IOP) were focused on. In group 1, mean BCVA improved from (41.76 \u00b1 15.59) letters (baseline) to (56.24 \u00b1 18.56) letters, (52.57 \u00b1 12.31) letters and (48.41 \u00b1 17.90) letters at 4, 6 and 12 weeks post-injection, respectively (P = 0.004, P = 0.011 and P = 0.026, respectively). Mean CRT decreased from (525.76 \u00b1 184.10) \u00b5m (baseline) to (270.33 \u00b1 202.67)\u00b5m, (303.12 \u00b1 168.43) \u00b5m and (402.26 \u00b1 196.21) \u00b5m, respectively (P = 0.009, P = 0.016 and P = 0.030, respectively). In group 2, mean BCVA improved from (39.89 \u00b1 12.27) letters (baseline) to (55.31 \u00b1 19.27) letters, (51.25 \u00b1 13.48) letters and (46.97 \u00b1 16.23) letters at 4, 6 and 12 weeks after injection, respectively (P = 0.003, P = 0.010 and P = 0.027, respectively). Mean CRT decreased from (554.50 \u00b1 169.05) \u00b5m (baseline) to (292.76 \u00b1 196.05) \u00b5m, (323.46 \u00b1 164.05) \u00b5m and (426.38 \u00b1 169.05) \u00b5m, respectively (P = 0.009, P = 0.014 and P = 0.028, respectively). However, there was no significant difference between these two groups with regard to mean BCVA (F = 1.602, P = 0.216) and CRT (F = 0.412, P = 0.526). At 12 weeks after the injection, 11 of the patients in group 1 and nine patients in group 2 appeared recurrent macular edema and needed repeat injections. There was one patient in group 2 appeared transient intraocular pressure increases. Intravitreal injection of bevacizumab combined with/without triamcinolone acetonide had a beneficial effect on DME. However, the significant effect was not permanent. Our results showed that no significant differences were detected between intravitreal bevacizumab combined with/without triamcinolone acetonide for the eyes with diabetic macular edema in Chinese patients."}
{"id": "21348228", "title": "[Retinal sensitivity following subthreshold diode laser micropulse photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Retinal sensitivity following subthreshold diode laser micropulse photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema]. To report the retinal sensitivity after subthreshold diode laser micropulse photocoagulation(SDM) to evaluate its safety. Eight eyes of 8 diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema were treated with SDM. SDM was applied with a 15% duty cycle, 0.2 to 0.3 sec, 200 microm, at 700 to 800 mW. Postoperative retinal sensitivity (1-2 weeks) was compared to preoperative retinal sensitivity measured by microperimeter-1 (MP-1, Nidek technologies, Padova, Italy) using a 1 x 1 mm square test grid with 49 stimulus locations. The retinal sensitivity improved (more than 2 dB) in 3 eyes and remained stable (within 2 dB) in 5 eyes. The median retinal sensitivity increased significantly in 5 eyes and decreased significantly in 3 eyes. The average retinal sensitivity of 8 eyes was 12.04 +/- 3.69 dB before laser treatment, and 13.20 3.47 dB after laser treatment and there was no statistically significant change in retinal sensitivity at 2 weeks (p = 0.09). Short duration SDM for diabetic macular edema has no significant effect on retinal sensitivity."}
{"id": "21345996", "title": "Randomized clinical trial evaluating mETDRS versus normal or high-density micropulse photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Randomized clinical trial evaluating mETDRS versus normal or high-density micropulse photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema. To compare modified Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (mETDRS) focal/grid laser photocoagulation with normal-density (ND-SDM) or high-density (HD-SDM) subthreshold diode-laser micropulse photocoagulation for the treatment diabetic macular edema (DME). A prospective, randomized, controlled, double-masked clinical trial with patients with previously untreated DME and best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) worse than 20/40 and better than 20/400. Patients were randomized to receive either mETDRS focal/grid photocoagulation (42 patients), ND-SDM (39 patients), or HD-SDM (42 patients). Before treatment and 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after treatment, all patients underwent ophthalmic examinations, BCVA, color fundus photography, fluorescein angiography, and optical coherence tomography (OCT). At 12 months, the HD-SDM group had the best improvement in BCVA (0.25 logMAR), followed by the mETDRS group (0.08 logMAR), whereas no improvements were seen in the ND-SDM group (0.03 logMAR). All groups showed statistically significant progressive reduction of central macular thickness (CMT) throughout the study (P < 0.001). The HD-SDM group exhibited the greatest CMT reduction (154 \u03bcm), which was not significantly different from that of the mETDRS group (126 \u03bcm; P = 0.75). At 1 year, the clinical performance of HD-SDM was superior to that of the mETDRS photocoagulation technique, according to the anatomic and functional measures of improvement used in this investigation. A rationale for this treatment modality as a preferable approach is suggested, and the precise role of subthreshold micropulse laser treatment may become more defined as experience grows, guided by optimized treatment guidelines and more comprehensive trials. (Clinicaltrials.gov number, NCT00552435.)."}
{"id": "21323303", "title": "Management of retinal vasoproliferative tumor associated with ROP by plaque brachytherapy.", "content": "Management of retinal vasoproliferative tumor associated with ROP by plaque brachytherapy. The authors report a secondary exudative vasoproliferative tumor of the retina associated with retinopathy of prematurity, managed by plaque radiotherapy. A 15-year-old girl with a history of mild, stable retinopathy of prematurity in both eyes noted progressively reduced visual acuity to hand motions in the left eye. Examination disclosed a vasoproliferative tumor of 10-mm base and 3.5-mm thickness with near total (macula-off) exudative retinal detachment. She was treated with iodine-125 plaque radiotherapy, giving apex dose of 40 Gy over 4 days. The tumor regressed to 1.9 mm and retinal detachment resolved 8 months following therapy. Epiretinal membrane with significant macular pucker and edema later developed and was managed with pars plana vitrectomy and membrane peeling. Visual acuity was counting fingers due to photoreceptor loss. Retinopathy of prematurity is a rare cause of vasoproliferative tumor. Iodine-125 plaque radiotherapy can lead to tumor regression and reattachment of the retina in such cases."}
{"id": "21317833", "title": "Longer-term outcomes of a prospective study of intravitreal ranibizumab as a treatment for decreased visual acuity secondary to central retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Longer-term outcomes of a prospective study of intravitreal ranibizumab as a treatment for decreased visual acuity secondary to central retinal vein occlusion. To evaluate long-term effectiveness and safety of intravitreal injection of ranibizumab as a potential treatment for decreased visual acuity secondary to central retinal vein occlusion. In this prospective interventional case series, patients with central retinal vein occlusion were administered intravitreal ranibizumab 0.5 mg at baseline and monthly for 2 additional doses. Thereafter, the patients were given additional ranibizumab if they had macular edema by optical coherence tomography, leakage during fluorescein angiography, or any intraretinal hemorrhage. There were 35 eyes of 35 patients who at baseline had a mean visual acuity of 44.2 Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study letters and a mean central macular thickness of 638 \u03bcm. At 12 months, mean visual acuity of 32 eyes improved by 16.5 letters and macular thickness decreased to 164 \u03bcm (P < 0.001 vs. baseline for each). At 24 months, mean visual acuity of 24 eyes improved by 17.8 letters and macular thickness was 263 \u03bcm (P < 0.001 vs. baseline for each). Patients received an average of 10.2 injections during the first year and 6.6 injections during the second year. No cases of endophthalmitis, retinal detachment, or neovascularization were observed. Intravitreal ranibizumab caused a significant improvement in visual acuity and central retinal thickness, which persisted for up to 2 years with minimal side effects."}
{"id": "21314440", "title": "Combination of flavonoids with Centella asiatica and Melilotus for diabetic cystoid macular edema without macular thickening.", "content": "Combination of flavonoids with Centella asiatica and Melilotus for diabetic cystoid macular edema without macular thickening. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the orally administered combination of flavonoids desmin and troxerutin with Centella asiatica and Melilotus for the treatment of diabetic cystoid macular edema (CME) without macular thickening. In this prospective, interventional, controlled study, 40 consecutive patients with type 2 diabetes and CME without macular thickening at optical coherence tomography were randomized into 2 groups of 20 subjects each (treatment and control groups). The treatment group received an oral combination of desmin (300\u2009mg/day) and troxerutin (300\u2009mg/day) with C. asiatica (30\u2009mg/die) and Melilotus (160\u2009mg/die) for 14 months. Best collected visual acuity, central retinal thickness at optical coherence tomography, retinal sensitivity (RS), and stability of fixation at microperimetry were measured at baseline and monthly for 14 months. In both groups, mean best collected visual acuity, central retinal thickness, and stability of fixation did not show differences during follow-up (P\u2009>\u20090.05). At month 14, the RS was greater in the treated group (P\u2009=\u20090.01) and was significantly reduced in the control group only (P\u2009<\u20090.001). Five eyes in the study group showed disappearance of the intraretinal cysts after a mean time of 3.5\u2009\u00b1\u20090.3 months, which persisted in the following months. These 5 eyes presented a greater RS at each follow-up visit when compared with the control group (P\u2009<\u20090.05). Anatomic improvement was never reported in the control group. The orally administered combination of flavonoids, C. asiatica, and Melilotus could be beneficial in preserving RS in diabetic CME without macular thickening."}
{"id": "21293498", "title": "Comparison of retinal thickness values and segmentation performance of different OCT devices in acute branch retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Comparison of retinal thickness values and segmentation performance of different OCT devices in acute branch retinal vein occlusion. To compare retinal thickness (RT) measurement and segmentation performance of time domain (TD, Stratus) and spectral domain (SD) optical coherence tomography (OCT) devices (Cirrus, Spectralis) for imaging macular oedema (ME) secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). In this study, 20 eyes of 20 consecutive patients with acute BRVO were included. A total of 18 unaffected fellow eyes served as control group. RT measurement was analysed in the five inner fields of the early-treatment diabetic retinopathy grid, and proportional segmentation errors were evaluated. Central millimetre thickness (CMT) showed a mean difference of -64, -74, and -18 \u03bcm (P < 0.001) in the control group and -31 \u03bcm (P=0.107), -92 \u03bcm (P<0.001), and -105 \u03bcm (P=0.016) in the BRVO group, between Stratus and Cirrus, between Stratus and Spectralis, and between Cirrus and Spectralis, respectively. Mean RT showed the highest variability between different devices in the area most intensively affected by BRVO-related ME. In eyes with BRVO, 14.6% of Spectralis, 20% of Stratus, and 36.6% of Cirrus scans demonstrated moderate and severe segmentation errors. RT measurement in eyes with BRVO, by TD and SD OCT, is compromised by a significant rate of segmentation errors. Deviations are most pronounced in the areas most severely affected by ME."}
{"id": "21293315", "title": "Macular thickness changes after phacoemulsification in previously vitrectomized eyes for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Macular thickness changes after phacoemulsification in previously vitrectomized eyes for diabetic macular edema. To report visual results and anatomical outcome after uncomplicated phacoemulsification in eyes that previously underwent pars plana vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. This retrospective noncomparative study included 22 eyes of 19 diabetic patients who underwent uncomplicated cataract surgery with phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implantation after pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal for diabetic macular edema. Main outcome measures included visual acuity and foveal thickness (FT) changes as assessed by optical coherence tomography. Wilcoxon test was used for statistical analysis. Mean follow-up time was 11.9 \u00b1 8.75 months. Mean FT increased by 20.5 \u00b1 67.6 \u03bcm (8.4%), with a mean preoperative FT of 237 \u00b1 69 \u03bcm compared with a mean postoperative FT of 257.6 \u00b1 89.8 \u03bcm (P = 0.236). Foveal thickness increased by at least 20% in 6 eyes (27.3%), remained within 20% in 14 eyes (63.6%), and decreased by 20% in 2 eyes (9.1%). Visual acuity improved by \u22652 lines in 16 eyes (72.7%) and remained stable in 6 eyes (27.3%). Visual acuity was 20/40 or better in 11 eyes (50%). Moderate but insignificant increase in FT was observed after phacoemulsification in eyes that previously underwent pars plana vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. Prospective studies with a large number of patients are warranted for a more reliable conclusion."}
{"id": "21293160", "title": "Diabetic macular edema - prognostic factors.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema - prognostic factors."}
{"id": "21292109", "title": "Revised recommendations on screening for chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine retinopathy.", "content": "Revised recommendations on screening for chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine retinopathy. The American Academy of Ophthalmology recommendations for screening of chloroquine (CQ) and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) retinopathy were published in 2002, but improved screening tools and new knowledge about the prevalence of toxicity have appeared in the ensuing years. No treatment exists as yet for this disorder, so it is imperative that patients and their physicians be aware of the best practices for minimizing toxic damage. New data have shown that the risk of toxicity increases sharply toward 1% after 5 to 7 years of use, or a cumulative dose of 1000 g, of HCQ. The risk increases further with continued use of the drug. The prior recommendation emphasized dosing by weight. However, most patients are routinely given 400 mg of HCQ daily (or 250 mg CQ). This dose is now considered acceptable, except for individuals of short stature, for whom the dose should be determined on the basis of ideal body weight to avoid overdosage. A baseline examination is advised for patients starting these drugs to serve as a reference point and to rule out maculopathy, which might be a contraindication to their use. Annual screening should begin after 5 years (or sooner if there are unusual risk factors). Newer objective tests, such as multifocal electroretinogram (mfERG), spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), and fundus autofluorescence (FAF), can be more sensitive than visual fields. It is now recommended that along with 10-2 automated fields, at least one of these procedures be used for routine screening where available. When fields are performed independently, even the most subtle 10-2 field changes should be taken seriously and are an indication for evaluation by objective testing. Because mfERG testing is an objective test that evaluates function, it may be used in place of visual fields. Amsler grid testing is no longer recommended. Fundus examinations are advised for documentation, but visible bull's-eye maculopathy is a late change, and the goal of screening is to recognize toxicity at an earlier stage. Patients should be aware of the risk of toxicity and the rationale for screening (to detect early changes and minimize visual loss, not necessarily to prevent it). The drugs should be stopped if possible when toxicity is recognized or strongly suspected, but this is a decision to be made in conjunction with patients and their medical physicians."}
{"id": "21283169", "title": "Choroidal detachment after PASCAL photocoagulation.", "content": "Choroidal detachment after PASCAL photocoagulation."}
{"id": "21283055", "title": "Intravitreal ranibizumab for macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Intravitreal ranibizumab for macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of intravitreal ranibizumab for macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion. Patients with macular edema secondary to perfused central retinal vein occlusion were enrolled in this ongoing, prospective, open-label study. Treatment was initiated with monthly intravitreal ranibizumab for 3 months. In the first year, additional injections were administered for edema in quarterly intervals as needed (PRN) for Cohort 1 (n = 10) and monthly PRN for Cohort 2 (n = 10). In the second year of treatments, all patients received monthly PRN treatment. Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study best-corrected visual acuity, central retinal thickness, fundus photographs, and fluorescein angiograms were evaluated, and the incidence and severity of adverse events were documented. Mean change in best-corrected visual acuity and central retinal thickness improved during the induction phase in both groups. During the remainder of the first year for Cohort 1, initial gains were lost during quarterly treatment but returned with monthly PRN treatment in the second year. For Cohort 2, improvement in best-corrected visual acuity and central retinal thickness from the induction phase was maintained through Month 24. Nineteen of 20 patients experienced a reduction in intraretinal hemorrhage, optic nerve swelling, and/or venous diameter after treatment. One myocardial infarction, one cerebrovascular accident, and no serious ocular adverse events were reported. Iris neovascularization was developed in none of the eyes. Ranibizumab was well tolerated and associated with a greater reduction in macular edema and improvement in visual acuity in the monthly PRN regimen compared with quarterly treatment. Vision lost during the quarterly PRN injection intervals in the first year of Cohort 1 could be regained by switching to monthly PRN dosing."}
{"id": "21270915", "title": "Measurement of foveal thickness by optical coherence tomography in adult haemodialysis patients with diabetic nephropathy.", "content": "Measurement of foveal thickness by optical coherence tomography in adult haemodialysis patients with diabetic nephropathy. Several studies have demonstrated the efficacy of hemodialysis (HD) on macular edema in diabetic patients. To study the effects of a HD session on foveal thickness by optical coherence tomography (OCT) in adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus with chronic renal failure (CRF) secondary to stage 5 diabetic nephropathy in HD. We studied 25 eyes of 14 patients who underwent analytical studies and pre-HD and post-HD OCT. As a group, the foveal thickness did not change after one session of HD in the 25 eyes studied (245.28 \u00b1 52.21 \u03bc versus 240.40 \u00b1 40.25 \u03bc) (p = 0.428) (2% reduction) or correlated with any clinical or laboratory parameters analyzed.When comparing the subgroup of 13 eyes in which the foveal thickness did not change or decreased compared to the subgroup of 12 eyes in which the foveal thickness increased we found that in the first subgroup the bath temperature was significantly higher (37.00 \u00b1 0.00 versus 36.29 \u00b0 C, p = 0.008) and the conductivity was significantly lower (14.00 \u00b1 0.00 versus 14.29 \u00b1 0.10 mS / cm, p = 0.030). HD may modify the foveal retinal thickness as a function of changing parameters such as bath temperature and conductivity."}
{"id": "21243370", "title": "Pars plana vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. Internal limiting membrane delamination vs posterior hyaloid removal. A prospective randomized trial.", "content": "Pars plana vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. Internal limiting membrane delamination vs posterior hyaloid removal. A prospective randomized trial. Diabetes mellitus, as well as subsequent ocular complications such as cystoid macular edema (CME), are of fundametal socio-economic relevance. Therefore, we evaluated the influence of internal limiting membrane (ILM) removal on longterm morphological and functional outcome in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) type 2 and chronic CME without evident vitreomacular traction. Forty eyes with attached posterior hyaloid were included in this prospective trial and randomized intraoperatively. Prior focal (n\u2009=\u200931) or panretinal (n\u2009=\u200925) laser coagulation was permitted. Group I (n\u2009=\u200919 patients) underwent surgical induction of posterior vitreous detachment (PVD), group II (n\u2009=\u200920 patients) PVD and removal of the ILM. Eleven patients with detached posterior hyaloid (group III) were not randomized, and ILM removal was performed. One eye had to be excluded from further analysis. Examinations included ETDRS best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), fluorescein angiography (FLA) and OCT at baseline, 3 and 6\u00a0months postoperatively. Main outcome measure was BCVA at 6\u00a0months, secondary was foveal thickness. Mean BCVA over 6\u00a0months remained unchanged in 85% of patients of group II, and decreased in 53% of patients of group I. Results were not statistically significant different [group I: mean decrease log MAR 95% CI (0.06; 0.32), group II: (-0.02; 0.11)]. OCT revealed a significantly greater reduction of foveal thickness following PVD with ILM removal [group I: mean change: 95% CI (-208.95\u00a0\u03bcm; -78.05\u00a0\u03bcm), group II: (-80.90\u00a0\u03bcm: +59.17\u00a0\u03bcm)]. Vitrectomy, PVD with or without ILM removal does not improve vision in patients with DM type 2 and cystoid diabetic macular edema without evident vitreoretinal traction. ILM delamination shows improved morphological results, and appears to be beneficial in eyes with preexisting PVD."}
{"id": "21232801", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone prior to laser treatment of diabetic macular edema: 24-month results of a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone prior to laser treatment of diabetic macular edema: 24-month results of a randomized controlled trial. To report the 24 months outcomes from a clinical trial of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) plus laser versus laser treatment only in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME). Prospective, double-masked, randomized, placebo-controlled study. Eighty-four eyes of 54 participants were entered into the study, with 42 eyes randomly assigned to receive IVTA plus laser and 42 randomly assigned to receive laser treatment alone. Primary end point data were available for 71 (84.5%) eyes at 24 months, with last visual acuity observation carried forward for the remaining eyes. Best-corrected logarithm of minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) visual acuity and central macular thickness (CMT) by optical coherence tomography were measured after laser treatment preceded by either IVTA or sham. The primary outcome was the proportion of eyes with improvement in visual acuity of 10 letters or more at 24 months. The secondary outcomes were mean visual acuity, requirement for further treatment, change in CMT, and adverse events. At 24 months, improvement of 10 logMAR letters or more was seen in 15 (36%) of 42 eyes treated with IVTA plus laser compared with 7 (17%) of 42 eyes treated with laser only (P = 0.047; odds ratio, 2.79; 95% confidence interval, 1.01-7.67). There was no difference in the mean CMT or mean logMAR visual acuity between 2 groups. At least 1 retreatment was required in the second year of the study in 29 (69%) of 42 IVTA plus laser-treated eyes compared with 19 (45%) of 42 laser only eyes (P = 0.187). Cataracts were removed from 17 (61%) of 28 phakic IVTA plus laser-treated eyes versus 0 (0%) of 27 laser only eyes (P<0.001). Treatment for elevated intraocular pressure was required in 27 (64%) of 42 IVTA plus laser eyes compared with 10 (24%) of 42 laser only eyes (P<0.001). Treatment with IVTA plus laser resulted in a doubling of improvement in vision by 10 letters or more compared with laser only over 2 years in eyes with DME, but is associated with cataract and raised intraocular pressure."}
{"id": "21218391", "title": "Intravitreal anti-VEGF bevacizumab (Avastin) for external beam related radiation retinopathy.", "content": "Intravitreal anti-VEGF bevacizumab (Avastin) for external beam related radiation retinopathy. To report on intravitreal bevacizumab treatment for external beam radiation therapy (EBRT)-related radiation maculopathy. Three patients (4 eyes) with EBRT-related maculopathy were treated with periodic (4- to 8-week) intravitreal injections of bevacizumab (1.25 mg in 0.05 cc). Outcome measures included best-corrected Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity, retinal examination, fundus photography, fluorescein angiography, and optical coherence tomography. Patients were diagnosed with Stage 3 radiation maculopathy occurring 12, 19, and 48 months after irradiation. One received 50 Gy of 6-MV photon EBRT for a maxillary carcinoma, the second 30.6 Gy of 6-MV photon EBRT for intraocular lymphoma, and the third 72 Gy proton beam irradiation for adenoid cystic carcinoma of the lacrimal gland. With up to 33 months follow-up, visual acuities improved (8 and 11 letters) in 2 eyes, gained 5 letters in 1 eye and 1 decreased 5 letters from 20/16 to 20/20. All cases demonstrated clinical findings of decreased intraretinal hemorrhages, cotton-wool spots, and retinal edema. There were no significant ocular or systemic side effects. Intravitreal anti-VEGF therapy was associated with reductions of EBRT-related retinopathy. No ocular or systemic side effects were noted. Anti-VEGF therapy may be considered radiation maculopathy secondary to EBRT."}
{"id": "21212801", "title": "The Optic UK Lecture: bench-to-bedside adventures of a diabetes researcher: results past, results present.", "content": "The Optic UK Lecture: bench-to-bedside adventures of a diabetes researcher: results past, results present. This presentation covers two topics. First is a basic laboratory study, designed to explore the mechanism for the phenomenon of 'early worsening,' in which individuals with type 1 diabetes and early to moderate retinopathy are rapidly placed on 'tight' blood glucose control, after which about 10% of these individuals develop a worsening of retinopathy with the appearance of multiple 'cotton wool' spots. Our studies on cultured retinal cells used vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) production as an index of cellular ischaemia. VEGF production increases substantially when cells are cultured in low oxygen, but VEGF production in these hypoxic cultures decreases when the medium contains a fivefold excess glucose concentration. Cultures with no medium glucose also show increased VEGF production. In the clinical situation, we infer from these results that retinas with early retinopathy have a reduced blood supply and are therefore relatively ischaemic, thus increasing their VEGF production. Adding glucose provides an alternative energy supply, thus reducing the demand for VEGF and hence, reducing the likelihood of 'early worsening.' However, reducing the glucose supply to these already compromised retinas further increases their ischaemia and, therefore, the stimulus to produce more VEGF. The second part of this presentation is a clinical exploration of possible reasons for the frequent, wide discrepancy between measured central macular thickness by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and visual acuity in eyes with diabetic macular oedema. I explore the influence of different diseases in which macular oedema appears, the presence or absence, and size, of cystoid cavities; duration of the oedema; age of the subject, different anatomic derangements including epiretinal membranes and disruptions of the photoreceptor layer, and various biochemical and physiological mechanisms."}
{"id": "21145531", "title": "Association of pathomorphology, photoreceptor status, and retinal thickness with visual acuity in diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Association of pathomorphology, photoreceptor status, and retinal thickness with visual acuity in diabetic retinopathy. To evaluate whether visual acuity (VA) is associated with pathologic changes in morphology (pathomorphology), macular thickness, and the status of external limiting membrane (ELM) in diabetic retinopathy (DR). Retrospective, observational case series. One hundred twenty-five consecutive eyes of 73 patients with DR were analyzed retrospectively. No patients had been treated for diabetic macular edema, and all had Spectralis optical coherence tomography (OCT) images. We evaluated the pathomorphology, qualitatively evaluated the status of ELM and cystic changes, and measured the retinal thickness. The correlation with logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution (logMAR) was investigated. We classified 3 types of pathomorphology at the presumed fovea: cystoid macular edema (CME type, n = 20), serous retinal detachment (SRD type, n = 21), and the absence of either cystoid macular edema or serous retinal detachment (diffuse type, n = 84). The mean logMAR VA with the CME type (0.460 \u00b1 0.301) was significantly worse than with the SRD type (0.222 \u00b1 0.178; P = .004) or diffuse type (0.149 \u00b1 0.260; P < .001). With CME type and diffuse type, a disrupted ELM or parafoveal thickening was significantly correlated with poor VA; these correlations were not found with the SRD type. Seventy-nine of 104 eyes with CME type or diffuse type presented intact ELM and showed the significant correlation between logMAR and the parafoveal thickness or cystic changes, although these parameters were not associated with logMAR VA in 25 eyes with disrupted ELM. The pathomorphology and photoreceptor status at the fovea and retinal edema in the parafovea are correlated with the VA in DR."}
{"id": "21124251", "title": "Phacoemulsification with intravitreal bevacizumab and triamcinolone acetonide injection in diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema and cataract.", "content": "Phacoemulsification with intravitreal bevacizumab and triamcinolone acetonide injection in diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema and cataract. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the results of phacoemulsification with intravitreal bevacizumab and triamcinolone acetonide injection in patients with diabetic clinically significant macular edema and cataract. The records of 22 diabetic patients, with clinically significant macular edema and cataract who have undergone phacoemulsification with intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg bevacizumab and 2 mg triamcinolone acetonide, were retrospectively evaluated. All patients have undergone focal or modified grid argon laser photocoagulation 1 month after the surgery. All patients were evaluated by spectral OCT/OCT SLO before, 1 month, and 3 months after the surgery. The main parameters were the best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and central macular thickness (CMT). Paired samples t-test was used for statistical analysis. The mean initial best-corrected visual acuity was 0.15 \u00b1 0.09 (0.05-0.3), whereas it was 0.6 \u00b1 0.28 (SD) (0.3-0.7), 0.6 \u00b1 0.22 (SD) (0.4-0.7) at 1 month and 3 months after the surgery, respectively. The BCVA levels recorded at 1 month and 3 months after the surgery were significantly higher than the initial BCVA (P = 0.002). The mean initial CMT was 392.2 \u00b1 109.5 \u03bcm, whereas it was 295 \u00b1 57.2 \u03bcm and 265.5 \u00b1 30.3 \u03bcm at 1 month and 3 months after the surgery, respectively. The CMT values recorded at 1 month and 3 months after the surgery were significantly lower than the initial CMT (P < 0.001, P < 0.001). Phacoemulsification with intravitreal injection of bevacizumab and triamcinolone acetonide provides a decrease in CMT with a gain in BCVA in diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema and cataract."}
{"id": "21102372", "title": "Cilioretinal arteries in diabetic eyes are associated with increased retinal blood flow velocity and occurrence of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Cilioretinal arteries in diabetic eyes are associated with increased retinal blood flow velocity and occurrence of diabetic macular edema. The main purpose was to investigate the relationship between occurrence of cilioretinal arteries and macular edema in diabetic eyes in terms of retinal blood flow characteristics revealed by the Retinal Function Imager (RFI). Other standard imaging techniques such as fundus photography, fluorescein angiography, and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography/scanning laser ophthalmoscopy were also used along with the RFI. The additional purpose was to look for the evidence of cilioretinal-retinal collaterals using the RFI. Patients with a diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy were included. All patients underwent fundus photography, fluorescein angiography, spectral-domain optical coherence tomography, and imaging using RFI. The presence of cilioretinal artery (CilRA) was recognized using color/red-free fundus photographs, fluorescein angiography, and RFI. There were two groups according to the presence (CilRA group) or absence (NoCilRA group) of cilioretinal artery or arteries in the study eye. Thirty-nine eyes with diabetic retinopathy were included. Cilioretinal artery was identified in 15 eyes (38%). In the CilRA group, spectral-domain optical coherence tomography evidence of macular edema was observed in 13 of 15 eyes (87%), whereas in the NoCilRA group, macular edema was observed on spectral-domain optical coherence tomography in 7 of 24 eyes (29%). Mean blood flow velocities in retinal arteries and veins were significantly higher in diabetic eyes with cilioretinal artery (P = 0.04 and P = 0.005, respectively). Mean blood velocity in cilioretinal arteries was significantly higher in comparison with the mean arterial blood velocity (P = 0.03). In the CilRA group, cilioretinal-retinal collaterals, assessed by RFI, were detected in 4 of 15 eyes (27%) with cilioretinal arteries. In the NoCilRA group, mean blood velocity in retinal veins was significantly higher in eyes with macular edema in comparison with those without macular edema (P = 0.03). Using the RFI in conjunction with standard fundus imaging techniques, the presence of cilioretinal artery in diabetic eyes was found to be associated with increased retinal blood flow velocity and increased occurrence of diabetic macular edema. The occurrence of cilioretinal-retinal collaterals was also noted; however, the pathophysiologic significance of this finding requires further investigation."}
{"id": "21102366", "title": "Early change of central macular thickness after intravitreous triamcinolone or bevacizumab in diabetic macular edema or retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Early change of central macular thickness after intravitreous triamcinolone or bevacizumab in diabetic macular edema or retinal vein occlusion. To evaluate the immediate changes after intravitreous triamcinolone acetonide or intravitreous bevacizumab in diabetic macular edema (DME). A nonrandomized interventional study. Type 2 diabetic patients were included. Intravitreous triamcinolone acetonide (4 mg) was injected for 22 eyes with DME and IVB (1.25 mg) for 18 eyes with DME. The early time-dependent changes of central macular thickness were evaluated by optical coherence tomography before and from 1 hour to 1 month after intervention. Intravitreous bevacizumab was also tested in patients with retinal vein occlusion as a control of non-DME. Visual acuity was also examined. Compared with the baseline, central macular thickness of eyes with DME decreased significantly 1 hour after intravitreous triamcinolone acetonide (P < 0.05, Wilcoxon signed rank test), while it did not significantly until 24 hours after IVB. The decrease in central macular thickness was observed significantly from 3 hours after IVB in retinal vein occlusion (P < 0.05, Wilcoxon signed rank test), and it was more evident in retinal vein occlusion than DME after IVB. Visual acuity improved significantly in DME with intravitreous triamcinolone acetonide or IVB at 1 month (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively, Wilcoxon signed rank test). Factors responsive to triamcinolone acetonide, other than vascular endothelial growth factor, might play an important role in pathogenesis of DME compared with retinal vein occlusion. Although no conclusion can be drawn, immediate decrease in central macular thickness after intravitreous triamcinolone acetonide might indicate the possible involvement of a nongenomic pathway of triamcinolone acetonide action."}
{"id": "21099452", "title": "intravitreal tumor necrosis factor inhibitors in the treatment of refractory diabetic macular edema: a pilot study from the Pan-American Collaborative Retina Study Group.", "content": "intravitreal tumor necrosis factor inhibitors in the treatment of refractory diabetic macular edema: a pilot study from the Pan-American Collaborative Retina Study Group. The purpose of this study was to report the short-term visual and anatomical outcomes after intravitreal injections of two different tumor necrosis factor \u03b1 inhibitors in eyes with refractory diabetic macular edema. An interventional, retrospective, multicenter study of 39 eyes with refractory diabetic macular edema that were injected with adalimumab (n = 5 for 2 mg) or infliximab (n = 15 for 1 mg; n = 19 for 2 mg). The main outcome measures were the best-corrected visual acuity and the central macular thickness at 3 months of follow-up. In the 1-mg infliximab group, the logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution best-corrected visual acuity improved from 1.49 \u00b1 0.58 at baseline to 1.38 \u00b1 0.56 at 3 months (P = 0.6991). In the 2-mg infliximab group, the logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution best-corrected visual acuity worsened from 0.76 \u00b1 0.54 to 1.03 \u00b1 0.69 at 3 months (P = 0.5995). In the adalimumab group, the logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution best-corrected visual acuity improved from 1.44 \u00b1 0.77 to 1.08 \u00b1 0.85 at 3 months (P = 0.2500). The central macular thickness in the 1-mg infliximab group decreased from 459 \u00b1 125 \u03bcm at baseline to 388 \u00b1 131 \u03bcm at 3 months (P = 0.1178). In the 2-mg infliximab group, the central macular thickness remained unchanged from 378 \u00b1 97 \u03bcm at baseline to 349 \u00b1 118 \u03bcm at 3 months (P = 0.2162). In the adalimumab group, the central macular thickness remained unchanged from 521 \u00b1 163 \u03bcm at baseline to 526 \u00b1 390 \u03bcm at 3 months (P = 0.1250). There were no systemic side effects reported in any of the patients. However, laboratory markers for autoimmunity were not done. None of the eyes injected with either adalimumab or 1 mg of infliximab had adverse ocular events. In the 2-mg infliximab group, 42% (8 of 19) of eyes developed severe uveitis. Three of these eyes (37.5%) required pars plana vitrectomy. The uveitis in the remaining five eyes resolved with topical steroid therapy. Both intravitreal adalimumab and infliximab do not appear to benefit eyes with refractory diabetic macular edema. Intravitreal injections of infliximab may elicit a severe intraocular inflammatory reaction."}
{"id": "21075650", "title": "Glucose regulation influences treatment outcome in ranibizumab treatment for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Glucose regulation influences treatment outcome in ranibizumab treatment for diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the effect of glucose regulation on intravitreal ranibizumab injection for clinically significant diabetic macular edema (DME). This retrospective study enrolled 65 eyes of 65 patients with persistent DME treated with intravitreal ranibizumab injection. The main outcome measures were the change in best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), the central subfield macular thickness (CSMT) recorded with optical coherence tomography (OCT), and its correlation with the serum hemoglobin A(1c) values (HbA(1c)). The study included 24 (36.9%) female and 41 (63.1%) male patients with a mean age of 58.90\u00b19.45 years. The mean HbA(1c) of the enrolled patients was 8.25\u00b11.74% (range 5.7-12.7%). The median value of BCVA at baseline examination was 20/80 (52 letters), and the median CSMT was 468 \u03bcm (range 255-964 \u03bcm). In the final control after 4-6 weeks following injection, the median value of BCVA increased to 20/50 (59.50 letters) and the median CSMT decreased to 310 \u03bcm (range 129-652 \u03bcm). This change in BCVA and macular thickness was found to be significant (P<.001 for both). There was no correlation between BCVA and the change in macular thickness (coefficient=0.04, P=.78). The serum HbA(1c) values were found to be negatively correlated with the change in CSMT (coefficient=-0.50, P<.001). The results of intravitreal ranibizumab injection for DME demonstrated a beneficial effect on visual acuity and a decrease in CSMT which is inversely correlated with the serum HbA(1c) level."}
{"id": "21071757", "title": "Risk factors for progression of subclinical diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Risk factors for progression of subclinical diabetic macular oedema. [corrected] The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence of, and risk factors dictating, progression of subclinical macular oedema (SCME) to clinically significant macular oedema (CSME) in patients with diabetes. This was a retrospective, observational case-controlled study at the Veterans Administration (VA) Boston Healthcare System. The study group included subjects with central subfield macular thickness (CSMT) of 200-300 \u03bcm, measured by optical coherence tomography, compared with a control group with foveal thickness of <200 \u03bcm, matched for age, sex and duration of diabetes. Main outcomes measured were progression to CSME by clinical examination. A total 124 eyes of 73 diabetic patients from the greater Boston area were included in this retrospective study. The study group comprised 52 eyes of 37 diabetic patients with SCME in one or both eyes. The control group included 72 eyes of 36 patients without macular oedema. Sixteen eyes of 13 subjects (35%) progressed to CSME in the study group, compared with six eyes of four subjects (11%) in the control group. Stepwise logistic regression analysis confirmed that prior history of CSME increased the risk of progression (OR 3.69, CI 1.10 to 12.31, p=0.03). Logistic regression analysis also depicted a 15% increase in odds of progression with each 10 \u03bcm increase in CSMT (OR 1.15, CI 1.03 to 1.28, p=0.01). The results and statistical analyses of this retrospective study suggest that a significant number of patients with SCME ultimately progress to CSME compared with controls. A significant association with prior history of CSME, advancing age and graded increases in CSMT was found."}
{"id": "20926135", "title": "Baseline predictors of visual acuity and retinal thickness outcomes in patients with retinal vein occlusion: Standard Care Versus COrticosteroid for REtinal Vein Occlusion Study report 10.", "content": "Baseline predictors of visual acuity and retinal thickness outcomes in patients with retinal vein occlusion: Standard Care Versus COrticosteroid for REtinal Vein Occlusion Study report 10. To investigate baseline factors associated with visual acuity and central retinal thickness outcomes in patients with macular edema secondary to retinal vein occlusion in the Standard Care versus COrticosteroid for REtinal Vein Occlusion (SCORE) Study. Two multicenter, randomized clinical trials: one evaluating participants with central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) and one evaluating participants with branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). Participants with follow-up data of 1 year or more, including 238 with CRVO and 367 with BRVO. Visual acuity was measured by the electronic Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (E-ETDRS) method, and central retinal thickness was measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT). Regression analysis related these outcomes to 20 baseline measures. Multiple P values were adjusted to control the false discovery rate. Outcome measures of visual acuity letter score included absolute change from baseline, a gain of \u2265 15 from baseline, and a loss of \u2265 15 from baseline. Outcome measures of center point thickness included absolute change from baseline, a measurement of \u2264 250 \u03bcm, and a measurement of \u2265 500 \u03bcm. Outcomes were assessed at 1 and 2 years. For CRVO and BRVO, younger age was associated with improved visual acuity and central retinal thickness outcomes. For CRVO, triamcinolone treatment and less severe anatomic abnormalities of the retina (center point thickness and areas of retinal hemorrhage, thickening, and fluorescein leakage) were predictive of better visual acuity outcomes. For BRVO, no history of coronary artery disease was predictive of improved visual acuity outcomes. For center point thickness outcomes, shorter duration of macular edema was associated with improvement in both disease entities. For CRVO, higher baseline visual acuity letter score was predictive of favorable OCT outcomes. For BRVO, lower baseline visual acuity letter score, presence of dense macular hemorrhage, and no prior grid photocoagulation were predictive of favorable OCT outcomes. Several factors were predictive of better visual acuity outcomes and more favorable OCT outcomes, including younger age and shorter duration of macular edema, respectively. These factors may assist clinicians in predicting disease course for patients with CRVO and BRVO."}
{"id": "20853269", "title": "Prophylactic intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema (thickening) after cataract surgery: prospective randomized study.", "content": "Prophylactic intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema (thickening) after cataract surgery: prospective randomized study. To determine the role of intravitreal bevacizumab injected at the time of cataract surgery on postoperative increase of retinal thickness in patients with diabetic retinopathy. Patients were randomized to a standardized procedure of phacoemulsification with intraocular lens implantation alone (control group; 30 eyes) or to receive 1.25 mg intravitreal bevacizumab at the end of surgery (IVB group; 31 eyes). Efficacy measures included best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) testing, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and ophthalmoscopic examination at each postoperative visit during a 6-month follow-up. There were no significant differences in central macular thickness, BCVA, or systemic condition between the control and IVB groups at baseline. One month after surgery, the control group showed a significant increase in central macular thickness, whereas the bevacizumab group did not show an increase. After 6 months, there was no significant difference in macular thickness and postoperative visual acuity between the 2 groups. Intravitreal administration of 1.25 mg bevacizumab at the time of cataract surgery is effective just for the short term and 6-month results are the same as the control group."}
{"id": "20852916", "title": "Ischemic maculopathy following intravitreal bevacizumab for refractory diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Ischemic maculopathy following intravitreal bevacizumab for refractory diabetic macular edema. A 58-year-old male presented with decreased visual acuity from persistent diffuse diabetic macular edema despite multiple interventions including laser photocoagulation and intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injections. Following treatment with 1.25 mg of intravitreal bevacizumab, reduction in macular leakage was shown by fluorescein angiography and resolution of edema was shown by optical coherence tomography (OCT); however, visual acuity deteriorated and fluorescein angiograms demonstrated progressive enlargement of the foveal avascular zone (FAZ), which had shown no abnormalities before the injection. Despite normalisation of macular thickness on OCT and cessation of leakage on angiography, visual acuity remained at the same level until 6 months of follow-up. Intravitreal bevacizumab must be used with caution in patients with chronic, persistent diabetic macular edema. Disruption of the fragile fine foveal network of capillaries with induction of macular ischemia may result following treatment even if there are no pre-existing defects in the FAZ and may be responsible for non-improvement or decrease in visual acuity."}
{"id": "20827486", "title": "Macular edema and visual outcome following cataract surgery in patients with diabetic retinopathy and controls.", "content": "Macular edema and visual outcome following cataract surgery in patients with diabetic retinopathy and controls. Cystoid macular edema (CME) is a well-known complication after cataract surgery, and diabetic retinopathy is reported to be an important risk factor for impaired visual recovery. In this prospective study, we compared visual outcome 6\u00a0months after surgery in eyes with moderate retinopathy and no previous ME with a control group, and observed the incidence of ME seen on fluorescein angiography (FA) and optical coherence tomography (OCT). Thirty-four patients with type-2 diabetes and 35 controls were enrolled. Best-corrected visual acuity (VA) letters ETDRS was measured pre-op, at day 7, week 6 and month 6. FA performed pre-op and at week 6 was divided into three leakage patterns. OCT performed pre-op, at week 6 and month 6 was qualitatively divided into three types. Macular thickness was measured in three circular fields (central subfield, inner and outer circle) from the macular maps. There was no statistically significant difference in VA before surgery, at day 7 or at 6\u00a0months, but at 6\u00a0weeks there was a significant difference with lower VA in the diabetic group. Six percent of control and 12% of diabetic eyes developed a clinical CME defined as a loss of >5 letters between day 7 and week 6. Incidence of FA leakage was 23% in control and 76% in diabetic eyes. At 6\u00a0weeks, 20% of control and 44% of the diabetic eyes had qualitative changes on OCT. A statistically significant increase in thickness was observed for all three macular areas in both groups, part of it remaining at 6\u00a0months. There were, however, no differences in central macular thickness between the groups at any visit. Retinal thickening had poor correlation with VA. The final visual outcome in eyes with mild to moderate retinopathy, without previous ME, is as good as in normal eyes, but an increased frequency of macular changes may protract recovery of full vision. Changes on OCT or FA are often seen without any obvious effect on VA. OCT is as good as FA at detecting a clinical CME, and is the technique recommended for follow-up before FA is considered."}
{"id": "20722590", "title": "Current treatments for radiation retinopathy.", "content": "Current treatments for radiation retinopathy. to review the currently available therapeutic modalities for radiation retinopathy (RR), including newer investigational interventions directed towards specific aspects of the pathophysiology of this refractory complication. a review of the literature encompassing the pathogenesis of RR and the current therapeutic modalities available was performed. RR is a chronic and progressive condition that results from exposure to any source of radiation. It might be secondary to radiation treatment of intraocular tumors such as choroidal melanomas, retinoblastomas, and choroidal metastasis, or from unavoidable exposure to excessive radiation from the treatment of extraocular tumors like cephalic, nasopharyngeal, orbital, and paranasal malignancies. After the results of the Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study, most of the choroidal melanomas are being treated with plaque brachytherapy increasing by that the incidence of this radiation complication. RR has been reported to occur in as many as 60% of eyes treated with plaque radiation, with higher rates associated with larger tumors. Initially, the condition manifests as a radiation vasculopathy clinically seen as microaneurysms and telangiectases, with posterior development of retinal hard exudates and hemorrhages, macular edema, neovascularization and tractional retinal detachment. Regrettably, the management of these eyes remains limited. Photodynamic therapy, laser photocoagulation, oral pentoxyphylline and hyperbaric oxygen have been attempted as treatment modalities with inconclusive results. Intravitreal injections of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor such as bevacizumab, ranibizumab and pegaptanib sodium have been recently used, also with variable results. RR is a common vision threatening complication following radiation therapy. The available therapeutic options are limited and show unsatisfactory results. Further large investigative studies are required for developing better therapeutic as well as preventive treatment strategies."}
{"id": "20720226", "title": "Diabetic macular edema: fundus autofluorescence and functional correlations.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema: fundus autofluorescence and functional correlations. Diabetic macular edema (DME) shows variable clinical characteristics with unpredictable results to local treatment, probably reflecting different phenotypes. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of structural and functional macular imaging in the characterization of DME patterns. One hundred fifty-one eyes of 92 diabetic patients with untreated clinically significant macular edema (CSME) underwent best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) determination (logMAR), slit lamp biomicroscopy; fluorescein angiography; optical coherence tomography (OCT; mean central retinal thickness [CRT], volume, and DME pattern); fundus autofluorescence (FAF; absent or increased [i]FAF, single or multiple spots; iFAF area quantification); and microperimetry. Linear correlation, data agreement and three-way analysis of covariance were used for statistics. Thirty-five (23.2%) eyes had normal FAF; and 116 eyes had iFAF: 48 (31.8%) single-spot iFAF, 68 (45%) multiple-spot iFAF. Retinal sensitivity in areas with iFAF was 11.5\u00b15.3 dB (vs. 15.1\u00b13.9 dB in normal areas, P<0.005). Retinal sensitivity of the central field was 15.1\u00b13.9 dB in normal FAF, 12.4\u00b14.8 dB in single-spot iFAF and 11.4\u00b14.9 dB in multiple-spot iFAF (P<0.05). OCT CRT and volume were not significantly different between the FAF groups. OCT volume correlated to OCT CRT (r=0.68), retinal sensitivity in iFAF (r=-0.50) and BCVA (r=0.42). Cystoid OCT pattern and FA edema patterns correlated with iFAF presence (P<0.0001). In CSME, FAF correlates better with OCT patterns and central field microperimetry rather than with visual acuity. FAF is a rapid, noninvasive technique that may give new insight into the evaluation of DME. The validity of FAF in the follow-up and treatment outcomes in DME remain to be assessed."}
{"id": "20683379", "title": "Retinal thickness and volume measurements in diabetic macular edema: a comparison of four optical coherence tomography systems.", "content": "Retinal thickness and volume measurements in diabetic macular edema: a comparison of four optical coherence tomography systems. To compare different spectral domain optical coherence tomography devices regarding retinal thickness values in patients with diabetic macular edema and to correlate the results with conventional time domain Stratus OCT data. Thirty eyes of 30 consecutive patients with diabetic macular edema were included into a prospective study. The macula was examined by Spectralis HRA+OCT, Cirrus HD-OCT, 3D OCT-1000, and Stratus OCT. The procedures' sequence was performed by a single experienced technician in a randomized fashion according to a computer-generated list. In each eye, foveal thickness, foveal volume, and total macular volume were measured automatically. Intraclass correlation, coefficients of variance, and coefficients of repeatability were calculated. Foveal thickness differed between the particular devices with a mean \u00b1 SD ranging from 359.97 \u00b1 105.84 \u03bcm to 437.70 \u00b1 115.84 \u03bcm. Correlation between the different OCT devices resulted in r > 0.7 (Pearson), and intraclass correlation was >0.9. Agreement of measurements was assessed showing a mean difference of foveal thickness values ranging from 19.2 \u03bcm to 77.7 \u03bcm (P < 0.05) and coefficients of repeatability ranging from 37.7 \u03bcm to 87.4 \u03bcm. While intradevice reproducibility is satisfactory, retinal thickness and volume measurements should not be used interchangeably because measurements differed significantly between systems. The lack of interdevice agreement seems to be related to the different segmentation algorithm of thickness measurement and should be considered because it may strongly influence treatment decisions and conclusions."}
{"id": "20658146", "title": "Geographic pattern of central retinal sensitivity after intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Geographic pattern of central retinal sensitivity after intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the geographic pattern of central retinal sensitivity and its resolution shortly after intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) for diabetic macular edema (DME). Twenty eyes of 20 patients who underwent IVTA for the treatment of DME were reviewed retrospectively. Early changes in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central macular thickness (CMT), photoreceptor inner and outer segments (IS/OS) line and central retinal sensitivity were analyzed. Retinal sensitivity was measured at 40 points within the central 10 degrees of the macula with the Micro Perimeter 1 before treatment, and at 1 week and 1 month after IVTA. Mean BCVA and CMT improved significantly at 1 week and 1 month after IVTA. Mean retinal sensitivity, however, showed no significant improvement at 1 week (P = 0.238), but did show significant improvement at 1 month (P = 0.0003). Mean retinal sensitivity of the points at the central 2 degrees, which was significantly lower than that at 6 and 10 degrees before treatment, showed improvement similar to those of 6 and 10 degrees after IVTA. Mean retinal sensitivity in the nasal quadrant of the macular area had the best sensitivity at all time points, and improved more than it did in the other quadrants. Mean retinal sensitivity in the central 2 degrees was better in the eyes with complete IS/OS line (P < 0.0001). BCVA and CMT improved significantly after IVTA for DME. Retinal sensitivity also showed significant, albeit relatively slow, improvement. The nasal quadrant of the macular area showed more improvement than did any other quadrant."}
{"id": "20656355", "title": "Foveal cystoid spaces are associated with enlarged foveal avascular zone and microaneurysms in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Foveal cystoid spaces are associated with enlarged foveal avascular zone and microaneurysms in diabetic macular edema. To study the association between pathomorphology at the foveal center delineated by spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) and vascular changes around the fovea in fluorescein angiography (FA) in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). Retrospective, observational, cross-sectional study. Consecutive series of 86 eyes from 72 patients with clinically significant macular edema (CSME) on which SD-OCT and FA were performed on the same day. Fluorescein angiography using HRA2 (Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany) and SD-OCT images using Spectralis OCT (Heidelberg Engineering) were obtained for all patients. Microaneurysms (MAs) in the perifoveal capillary network (PCN) and foveal avascular zone (FAZ) in the FA images were quantified. The pathomorphology at the foveal center was evaluated in OCT images. We then investigated the association between pathologic perifoveal capillaries in FA and the neuroglial morphology in OCT. The relationship between pathologic changes in perifoveal capillaries in FA and foveal pathomorphology in OCT. According to the foveal morphology in OCT images, 44 eyes presented foveal cystoid spaces (cystoid macular edema [CME]), 25 eyes had serous retinal detachment (SRD) at the foveal center, and 17 eyes had foveal thickening without cystoid spaces or retinal detachment (retinal swelling). After 3 eyes with ischemic maculopathy were excluded, the relationship was evaluated. The number of MAs in the PCN was significantly greater in eyes with CME (3.20 \u00b1 1.76) than in eyes with SRD (0.40 \u00b1 1.04; P < 0.01) or retinal swelling (0.47 \u00b1 0.72; P < 0.01). In addition, the FAZ in the eyes with CME (0.553 \u00b1 0.323 mm(2)) was significantly larger than that of the eyes with SRD (0.302 \u00b1 0.245 mm(2); P < 0.01) or retinal swelling (0.268 \u00b1 0.142 mm(2); P < 0.01). These associations were found in eyes with thickened posterior hyaloid membranes. The eyes with cystoid spaces at the foveal center delineated by OCT had more MAs in the PCN and larger FAZ in FA images."}
{"id": "20597042", "title": "[Prognostic factors for visual outcome after intravitreal drug therapy for chronic diabetic macular oedema].", "content": "[Prognostic factors for visual outcome after intravitreal drug therapy for chronic diabetic macular oedema]. In recent years, intravitreal bevacizumab and triamcinolone acetonide (TA) have been widely used to treat diabetic macular oedema (DMO). However, the indication criteria are not clear. The purpose of this study was to evaluate factors which are decisive for long-term visual outcome after intravitreal drug treatment for eyes with DMO. Fifty eyes (37 patients) treated with intravitreal bevacizumab, TA, or sequentially with both for DMO with a minimum follow-up period of 6 months were analysed retrospectively. The eyes with an increase of best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) at the last visit were classified as gainers, and eyes with stable or decreased BCVA as non-gainers. Clinical and imaging findings were evaluated. BCVA significantly increased in 22 eyes and decreased in 28 eyes after a mean follow-up period of 14.6 \u00b1 6 months after initial intravitreal intervention. Unfavourable for the long-term visual outcome was the presence of cystoid macular oedema (CMO, p < 0.001), whereas an early response at 5 weeks into therapy indicated a positive outcome (p = 0.016). The initial central macular thickness measured by OCT, the type of agent used in monotherapy, age and gender were without influence on long-term visual acuity. An initial CMO is unfavourable for the prognosis of long-term visual outcome of DMO. Hence, benefit from intravitreal treatment with bevacizumab and/or TA is more likely in the early stages of chronic DMO before CMO has evolved. In eyes without CMO even a low number of injections is beneficial. An early response following intravitreal bevacizumab or TA is a predictor of long-term benefit."}
{"id": "20584710", "title": "Vitreoschisis in macular diseases.", "content": "Vitreoschisis in macular diseases. Vitreoschisis is a possible pathogenic mechanism in macular diseases. Thus, the vitreoretinal interface was evaluated in monkey eyes and patients with various macular diseases in search of vitreoschisis. It is hypothesised that vitreoschisis is present in macular holes (MH) and macular pucker (MP), but not in other maculopathies. Histopathology was studied in 14 monkey eyes and a vitrectomy specimen of a patient with macular pucker. Optical coherence tomography/scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (OCT/SLO) was performed in 239 eyes: 45 MH, 45 MP, 51 dry age-related macular degeneration (AMD), 53 non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) and 45 controls. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated lamellae in the posterior vitreous cortex of 12/14 (86%) monkey eyes. With OCT/SLO, vitreoschisis was detected in 24/45 (53%) MH and 19/45 (42%) MP eyes, but in only 7/53 (13%) NPDR, 3/51 (6%) AMD and 3/45 (7%) control eyes (p<0.001 for all comparisons). Rejoining of the inner and outer walls of the split posterior vitreous cortex was visible in 16/45 (36%) MH eyes and 15/45 (33%) MP eyes. Histopathology of the MP specimen confirmed a split with rejoining in the posterior vitreous cortex. Vitreoschisis was detected in half of eyes with MH and MP, but much less frequently in controls, AMD and NPDR patients. These findings suggest that anomalous PVD with vitreoschisis may be pathogenic in MH and MP."}
{"id": "20538987", "title": "Optical coherence tomography may be used to predict visual acuity in patients with macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography may be used to predict visual acuity in patients with macular edema. To determine whether the volume of retinal tissue passing between the inner and outer retina in macular edema could be used as an indicator of visual acuity. Diabetic and uveitic patients with cystoid macular edema (81 subjects, 129 eyes) were recruited. Best corrected logMAR visual acuity and spectral optical coherence tomography (OCT/SLO; OTI, Toronto, ONT, Canada) were performed in all patients. Coronal OCT scans obtained from a cross section of the retina between the plexiform layers were analyzed with a grid of five concentric radii (500, 1000, 1500, 2000, and 2500 \u03bcm centered on the fovea). The images were analyzed to determine the amount of retinal tissue present within each ring. A linear regression model was developed to determine the relationship between tissue integrity and logMAR visual acuity. A linear relationship between tissue integrity and VA was demonstrated. The volume of retinal tissue between the plexiform layers in rings 1 and 2 (up to 1000 \u03bcm from the foveal center) predicted 80% of visual acuity. By contrast, central macular thickness within the central 1000 \u03bcm predicted only 14% of visual acuity. This study showed that the cross-sectional area of retinal tissue between the plexiform layers in cystoid macular edema, as imaged by OCT, is the best indicator of visual function at baseline. Further prospective treatment trials are needed to investigate this parameter as a predictor of visual outcome after intervention."}
{"id": "20102350", "title": "Haemorheopheresis could block the progression of the dry form of age-related macular degeneration with soft drusen to the neovascular form.", "content": "Haemorheopheresis could block the progression of the dry form of age-related macular degeneration with soft drusen to the neovascular form. To evaluate the influence of haemorheopheresis on anatomical and functional findings in patients with soft-drusen maculopathy. We investigated 29 eyes (16 patients) and randomized 25 eyes (16 controls) with soft-drusen maculopathy [soft, confluent and reticular drusen, drusenoid retinal pigment epithelium detachment (RPED)]. Each patient received a series of eight haemorheophereses (cascade filtration of 1.5 plasma volume) within 10 weeks. The patients were followed up using Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) charts, optical coherence tomography, fluorescein angiography, electroretinography and measurements of pulsed ocular blood flow. After the procedures, there was a substantial reduction in rheologically active substances [lipoproteins, \u03b12-macroglobulin, immunoglobulin M (IgM), fibrinogen], plasma and blood viscosity. At the 1.5-year follow-up, we noticed soft drusen absorption; reattachment of drusenoid RPED and stabilization or improvement of visual acuity occurred in 72% of patients in comparison to only 39% of patients in the control group. Full-field electroretinograms showed significantly higher scotopic activity of treated patients in comparison with the control group, and mainly insignificant differences in photopic activity between both groups. Despite the significant increase of activity in the paramacular retina in treated patients, the differences in amplitudes of multifocal electroretinography (mfERG) average responses were insignificant between groups. Haemorheopheresis seems to be capable of changing the activity of promoters of the natural course of soft-drusen maculopathy, its development and progression. Visual acuity and electrical activity of the retina can be stabilized or even improved. The therapy has been shown to be effective and safe."}
{"id": "22785535", "title": "Spectral domain optical coherence tomography can detect visible and subthreshold laser burns using 532-nm laser.", "content": "Spectral domain optical coherence tomography can detect visible and subthreshold laser burns using 532-nm laser. Retinal burns of subthreshold intensity created using micropulsed diode laser, which remain clinically invisible, have been shown to be successful in treating macular edema while minimizing the risk of collateral damage to the retina. A study was conducted to determine whether spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) could be used to detect subthreshold retinal burns created using the 532-nm green wavelength laser. A series of retinal burns of gradually decreasing intensity were created in 10 eyes. Retinal burns produced with duration of laser exposure of 0.03 second or less, although clinically invisible, were detectable on the SD-OCT scan as increased retinal reflectivity confined to the outer retinal layers. This series demonstrates the potential of using SD-OCT imaging to verify delivery of subthreshold laser burns."}
{"id": "21212849", "title": "Interpreting thickness changes in the diabetic macula: the problem of short-term variation in optical coherence tomography-measured macular thickening (an american ophthalmological society thesis).", "content": "Interpreting thickness changes in the diabetic macula: the problem of short-term variation in optical coherence tomography-measured macular thickening (an american ophthalmological society thesis). To estimate the short-term variability of macular thickness in eyes with refractory and regressed diabetic macular edema (DME). In this retrospective review of consecutive cases from a retina practice, optical coherence tomography (OCT) measurements of macular thickness were extracted from the clinical charts of patients with refractory DME and regressed DME. Variation in macular thickness was defined as maximal central subfield mean thickness (CSMT) minus minimal CSMT during a period of observation in which clinical macular status did not change. There were 36 eyes of 29 patients in the refractory DME group and 93 eyes of 93 patients in the regressed DME group. Median intervals during which macular status was unchanged and OCTs were collected were 7 months for the refractory DME group and 22 months for the regressed DME group. Baseline CSMTs were 321 \u03bcm for the refractory DME group and 217 \u03bcm for the regressed DME group. The median variation in CSMT was 89 \u03bcm for the refractory DME group and 19 \u03bcm for the regressed DME group. Results for total macular volume paralleled those for CSMT. In consonance with eyes having treatment-na\u00efve DME, eyes with refractory DME have short-term fluctuation in macular thickness larger than OCT measurement variability. In eyes with regressed DME, short-term fluctuation is less than in eyes with refractory DME, yet can also exceed measurement variability. This information is clinically important in deciding whether subsequent treatment is indicated."}
{"id": "21191718", "title": "Predictors of response after intravitreal bevacizumab injection for neovascular age-related macular degeneration.", "content": "Predictors of response after intravitreal bevacizumab injection for neovascular age-related macular degeneration. To identify fluorescein angiography (FA) and optical coherence tomography (OCT) characteristics predicting responses to intravitreal bevacizumab therapy in patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Results of 113 consecutive patients (113 eyes) treated with intravitreal bevacizumab injections for neovascular AMD were retrospectively reviewed. Patients were categorized into two groups according to visual acuity (VA) improvement 1 year after treatment: responders and nonresponders. Responders were defined as patients who achieved VA improvement \u22657 Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) letters for occult choroidal neovascularization (CNV), and \u226511 ETDRS letters for classic CNV at month 12. N onresponders were defined as patients who did not meet the above VA improvement at month 12. Of the 113 eyes, 36 (31.9%) were categorized as responders and 77 (68.1%) as nonresponders. Nonresponders, compared with responders, had thicker subretinal tissue (SRT) (218.9 \u03bcm versus 180.9 \u03bcm, P = 0.040), and more frequent cystoid macular edema (CME) (42.9% versus 13.9%, P < 0.001). Thick SRT and CME on OCT may be characteristic of nonresponders and may be helpful for tailoring treatment for neovascular AMD."}
{"id": "21167436", "title": "[SERV clinical practice guidelines: management of retinal vein occlusion. Sociedad Espa\u00f1ola de Retina y Vitreo].", "content": "[SERV clinical practice guidelines: management of retinal vein occlusion. Sociedad Espa\u00f1ola de Retina y Vitreo]. A guidelines for the management of retinal vein occlusion is presented. This is necessary because at this moment several therapeutic alternatives have been developed although their role is not yet sufficiently defined. Review of the literature for evidence published up to date. Relevant literature was identified and the level of evidence graded. Evidence was then assessed for consistency, applicability and clinical impact. The information was contrasted with those guides published in other countries. Taking into account the different options of treatment that are currently used, several modes of action are suggested. The role of the various complementary examinations are discussed and it is recommended that criteria for the treatment are based on clinical, angiographic, and tomographic findings. Although there is no overall consensus, these guidelines promote a good standard of clinical practise and provide an update of the management of retinal vein occlusion."}
{"id": "21166040", "title": "[Macular morphology and function in patients with diabetic retinopathy without apparent visual loss].", "content": "[Macular morphology and function in patients with diabetic retinopathy without apparent visual loss]. To investigate the macular morphology and function in patients with diabetic retinopathy(DR) without apparent visual loss. Multifocal electroretinograms(mfERG) and optical coherence tomography(OCT) examination were performed in the DR patients on phase 0, 1 to 2, 3 to 4 as well as the normal control non-diabetes subjects. Macular edema was detected in DR phase 1 and 2 (3 eyes,10%) and DR phase 3 and 4 group (6 eyes,23.1%). In comparison with the normal control and DR phase 0 group,the thickness of retinal neuroepithelium increased in DR phase 3 and 4 group(P>0.05). The amplitude and the average density of P1 wave and N1 wave decreased in all DR groups in comparison with normal controls although the latency of P1 wave and N1 wave was not statistically significant (P>0.05).However,comparing with the DR phase 1 and 2 group,the latency of P1 wave and N1 waves were longer whereas the amplitude and the average density decreased in DR phase 3 and 4 group. In the patients with DR but without apparent visual loss,abnormalities of the macular morphology and function already develop. The changes of function appear to develop earlier than that of morphology."}
{"id": "21142537", "title": "Images in clinical medicine. Intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Images in clinical medicine. Intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "21121809", "title": "Inflammatory and angiogenic factors in the aqueous humor and the relationship to diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Inflammatory and angiogenic factors in the aqueous humor and the relationship to diabetic retinopathy. To determine the relationship between the aqueous concentrations of inflammatory and angiogenic factors and the severity of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema. Aqueous samples were obtained from 50 eyes of diabetic patients and 28 eyes of nondiabetic subjects. The aqueous levels of inflammatory factors, including IL-1\u03b2, TNF-\u03b1, MCP-1, IP-10, IL-8, IL-6, and VEGF were measured with multiplex bead array assays. The aqueous levels of cytokines were investigated according to the severity of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema measured by optical coherence tomography. The aqueous levels of MCP-1, IP-10, IL-8, and VEGF were higher in eyes of diabetic patients than in eyes of nondiabetic subjects. The aqueous levels of MCP-1 and IP-10 were elevated in eyes with severe NPDR and PDR compared to eyes with less severe DR and eyes of nondiabetic subjects. There was a trend toward elevated IL-8 levels in eyes with severe NPDR compared to eyes of nondiabetic subjects. The aqueous levels of VEGF were markedly elevated in eyes with PDR that had not received PRP compared to eyes with severe NPDR. Eyes with PDR that had received PRP treatment showed higher MCP-1 and IP-10 levels than eyes with PDR that had not received PRP treatment. The aqueous levels of IL-6 were positively correlated with TMV and CSMT in eyes with DR. Elevation of MCP-1, IP-10, and IL-8 levels in eyes with severe NPDR suggests that inflammatory change precedes the development of neovascularization in PDR. The positive correlation between the aqueous levels of IL-6 and macular thickness indicates that IL-6 may play a central role in the development of diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "21121130", "title": "[Ocular findings in hepatitis C patients treated with interferon].", "content": "[Ocular findings in hepatitis C patients treated with interferon]. The pathology of the liver is associated with many disorders including the eye. We described ocular changes following hepatitis C. The most common ophthalmic findings in hepatitis C patients treated with interferon--involve keratoconjunctivitis, scleritis, dry eye syndrome, uveitis, retinopathy, retinal hemorrhages, anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, retinal vascular changes and macular oedema, as well as electroretinogram, visual field and OCT abnormalities."}
{"id": "21117576", "title": "Spectral domain optical coherence tomography can detect visible and subthreshold laser burns using 532-nm laser.", "content": "Spectral domain optical coherence tomography can detect visible and subthreshold laser burns using 532-nm laser. Retinal burns of subthreshold intensity created using micropulsed diode laser, which remain clinically invisible, have been shown to be successful in treating macular edema while minimizing the risk of collateral damage to the retina. A study was conducted to determine whether spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) could be used to detect subthreshold retinal burns created using the 532-nm green wavelength laser. A series of retinal burns of gradually decreasing intensity were created in 10 eyes. Retinal burns produced with duration of laser exposure of 0.03 second or less, although clinically invisible, were detectable on the SD-OCT scan as increased retinal reflectivity confined to the outer retinal layers. This series demonstrates the potential of using SD-OCT imaging to verify delivery of subthreshold laser burns."}
{"id": "21090999", "title": "Ocular coherence tomography and diabetic eye disease.", "content": "Ocular coherence tomography and diabetic eye disease. Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) is a high-resolution, cross-sectional imaging technique that allows detailed assessment of retinal thickness and morphologic evaluation of the neurosensory retinal layers. OCT imaging has rapidly been integrated into diagnosis and management of diabetic macular edema (DME) in routine clinical practice and clinical trials. OCT findings correlate well with other evaluation techniques for DME. Although there is a moderate correlation between OCT measured retinal thickness and visual acuity, OCT cannot replace visual acuity because there is a high degree of variability. Recent improvements in OCT technology have led to widespread interest in the use of spectral domain OCT, which is faster and has higher resolution than time domain OCT. Future research in OCT imaging will likely result in improvements in image quality. The ability to combine OCT with other various diagnostic modalities will further improve the evaluation of DME in both clinical practice and trials."}
{"id": "21060272", "title": "Short-duration focal pattern grid macular photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema: four-month outcomes.", "content": "Short-duration focal pattern grid macular photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema: four-month outcomes. To evaluate the visual acuity (VA) and optical coherence tomography thickness results of short-duration pattern scanning laser macular photocoagulation in the treatment of clinically significant macular edema because of diabetes. Consecutive retrospective analysis of VA and optical coherence tomographic data from eyes treated in a modified Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study style using a short-duration pattern scanning laser. A total of 100 eyes from 70 patients met study criteria. All subjects were treated with the same PASCAL (pattern scanning laser) photocoagulation unit. Parameters varied according to media and pigmentation status, but typical settings were 100-\u03bcm spot size, 10-millisecond pulse duration, 225-mW power, and 29 J/cm fluence to give a pale but visible lesion. At 4 months posttreatment, there was an average improvement in VA of 0.060 logMAR (an improvement from 20/45 to 20/40, or approximately 3 Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study letters; P = 0.0007) and a reduction of central optical coherence tomographic thickness of 40 \u03bcm and 37 \u03bcm (spectral domain and time domain optical coherence tomography groups, respectively), both of which were statistically significant (P = 0.0049 and 0.012, respectively). Short-duration PASCAL macular photocoagulation has a biological treatment effect at 4 months for the treatment of clinically significant macular edema. While caution must be used when converting between different VA measurement methods and when using literature-based controls, the observed VA improvement seems equivalent to 3 Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study letters. These findings are similar to the recently published results from the diabetic retinopathy clinical research network cohort. PASCAL laser photocoagulation for clinically significant macular edema appears safe and effective in the short term and may have significant long-term advantages."}
{"id": "20976212", "title": "Novel rodent models for macular research.", "content": "Novel rodent models for macular research. Many disabling human retinal disorders involve the central retina, particularly the macula. However, the commonly used rodent models in research, mouse and rat, do not possess a macula. The purpose of this study was to identify small laboratory rodents with a significant central region as potential new models for macular research. Gerbillus perpallidus, Meriones unguiculatus and Phodopus campbelli, laboratory rodents less commonly used in retinal research, were subjected to confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (cSLO), fluorescein and indocyanine green angiography, and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) using standard equipment (Heidelberg Engineering HRA1 and Spectralis\u2122) adapted to small rodent eyes. The existence of a visual streak-like pattern was assessed on the basis of vascular topography, retinal thickness, and the topography of retinal ganglion cells and cone photoreceptors. All three species examined showed evidence of a significant horizontal streak-like specialization. cSLO angiography and retinal wholemounts revealed that superficial retinal blood vessels typically ramify and narrow into a sparse capillary net at the border of the respective area located dorsal to the optic nerve. Similar to the macular region, there was an absence of larger blood vessels in the streak region. Furthermore, the thickness of the photoreceptor layer and the population density of neurons in the ganglion cell layer were markedly increased in the visual streak region. The retinal specializations of Gerbillus perpallidus, Meriones unguiculatus and Phodopus campbelli resemble features of the primate macula. Hence, the rodents reported here may serve to study aspects of macular development and diseases like age-related macular degeneration and diabetic macular edema, and the preclinical assessment of therapeutic strategies."}
{"id": "20970013", "title": "Vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "20970010", "title": "Scanning laser edema index.", "content": "Scanning laser edema index."}
{"id": "20944945", "title": "[Treatment of radiation retinopathy with intravitreal injection of bevacizumab (Avastin\u00ae): case report].", "content": "[Treatment of radiation retinopathy with intravitreal injection of bevacizumab (Avastin\u00ae): case report]. To report a case of radiation retinopathy treatment with intravitreal injection of bevacizumab (Avastin\u00ae) in a patient undergoing radiotherapy for lymphoma in the right orbit. Patient of 55 years-old male, diabetic, diagnosed with an orbital MALT lymphoma three years ago, treated with local radiotherapy (dose: 35Gy) two years ago, complaining of reduced visual acuity of the right eye for about four months. During the ophthalmologic evaluation, he had an exam suggestive of radiation retinopathy. Macular thickness at the optical coherence tomography was 480 \u00b5m. Patient was referred to intravitreal injection (0.05 ml) of bevacizumab (Avastin\u00ae) in the right eye, showing reduction of macular edema and mild improvement of visual acuity. In this case, the treatment of radiation retinopathy with intravitreal injection of bevacizumab (Avastin\u00ae) was relatively useful, with mild improvement of visual acuity due to the regression of macular edema."}
{"id": "20944936", "title": "[Intravitreal injection of ketorolac tromethamine in patients with diabetic macular edema refractory to retinal photocoagulation].", "content": "[Intravitreal injection of ketorolac tromethamine in patients with diabetic macular edema refractory to retinal photocoagulation]. To evaluate the effect of a single dose of intravitreous injection of ketorolac tromethamine (500 \u00b5g/0.1 ml) in patients with diabetic macular edema refractory to retinal photocoagulation. Prospective study. Twenty patients with bilateral diabetic macular edema and ETDRS best-corrected visual acuity between 20/50 and 20/200 were selected. Patients who had other ocular diseases or previous eye surgery were excluded. Preservative-free ketorolac tromethamine was injected intravitreally (500 \u00b5g in 0.1 ml) in 20 eyes; fellow eyes served as controls. Ophthalmic examinations included ETDRS best-corrected visual acuity, measurement of intraocular pressure and optical coherence tomography. The examinations were performed preoperatively, 1 week and 1 month postoperatively. A statistically significant increase in visual acuity over time in the treated eye compared with the fellow eye was noted (p=0.039). There were no statistically significant differences in the assessment of intraocular pressure (p=0.99), foveal thickness (p=0.86) and macular volume (p=0.23) during the period. Patients with diabetic macular edema refractory to photocoagulation showed improvement in visual acuity over a one month period with a statistically significant difference when compared with the control eye. There were no statistically significant differences in intraocular pressure, foveolar thickness and macular volume between the treated and control eyes."}
{"id": "20936526", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for persistent macular edema with proliferative diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for persistent macular edema with proliferative diabetic retinopathy. To evaluate the effectiveness of an intravitreal bevacizumab injection on retinal neovascularization and diabetic macular edema (DME) refractory to laser photocoagulation therapy. Thirty-four eyes of 22 patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy and DME refractory to laser photocoagulation therapy received an intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg/0.05 ml of bevazicumab. Changes in mean best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central macular thickness (CMT), regression of neovascularization over time, and correlation between BCVA and CMT were evaluated. Follow-up visits were at weeks 1, 2 and 4 and months 3 and 6. Mean BCVA was significantly better than baseline only at week 2 (P = 0.036). Mean CMT decreased significantly from baseline at weeks 1, 2, and 4 (P = 0.001). At months 3 and 6, mean CMT increased, albeit insignificantly (P = 0.804 and P = 1.0). The decrease in fluorescein leakage was moderate in all eyes at the end of week 1. At week 2, there was total resolution of fluorescein leakage in 24 (70.5%) eyes and moderate resolution in 10 (29.5%) eyes. At the end of month 3, the fluorescein leakage was fully resolved in 5 (14.7%) eyes, moderately resolved in 24 (70.5%) eyes, and was similar to baseline in 5 (14.7%) eyes. At month 6, the fluorescein leakage was fully resolved in 3 (8.8%) eyes, moderately resolved in 20 (58.8%) eyes, and was similar to baseline in 11 (32.4%) eyes. A moderate but insignificant negative correlation was found between visual acuity and CMT (P > 0.05). Persistence or recurrence of neovascular tissue after panretinal photocoagulation may be attributed to the production of vascular endothelial growth factor by the residual ischemic retina, which also results in persistent or recurrent DME despite macular grid photocoagulation."}
{"id": "20888483", "title": "Laser tissue interactions.", "content": "Laser tissue interactions."}
{"id": "20875634", "title": "Visualization of subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation by scanning laser ophthalmoscopy in the retro mode.", "content": "Visualization of subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation by scanning laser ophthalmoscopy in the retro mode. To assess the efficacy of scanning laser ophthalmoscopy in the retro mode, employing a new dark-field aperture, for detecting laser spots created by subthreshold diode laser micropulse photocoagulation. Interventional case series. setting: Institutional. patients: Eight consecutive patients (8 eyes) with clinically significant diabetic macular edema and 1 patient (1 eye) with macular edema attributable to branch vein occlusion underwent subthreshold diode laser micropulse photocoagulation. Scanning laser ophthalmoscopy images were obtained before and immediately after subthreshold laser photocoagulation. Application of the laser was done under 3 different sets of conditions with a 15% duty cycle for 0.2 seconds in the micropulse mode: condition I was 200-\u03bcm spots at 200% of the threshold power in the continuous wave mode, condition II was 200-\u03bcm spots at 300%, and condition III was 125-\u03bcm spots at 250% or 300%. The laser-treated area was monitored on both color images and by scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (F-10, NIDEK, Gamagori, Japan). Immediately after subthreshold laser photocoagulation, there were no obvious laser scars affecting the treated area in any of the patients on color images. Scanning laser ophthalmoscopy with a diode laser in the retro mode showed no obvious changes after treatment under condition I. However, conditions II and III resulted in dark spots at the sites where the laser had been applied in 5 out of 7 patients. Scanning laser ophthalmoscopy in the retro mode is useful to detect sites of subthreshold micropulse laser application. The dark spots detected by retro mode scanning laser ophthalmoscopy are probably related to swelling of the pigment epithelium after laser application. This method is useful to confirm the invisible spots created by subthreshold diode laser micropulse photocoagulation."}
{"id": "20855114", "title": "Two-year outcomes of the ranibizumab for edema of the mAcula in diabetes (READ-2) study.", "content": "Two-year outcomes of the ranibizumab for edema of the mAcula in diabetes (READ-2) study. To determine the long-term effects of ranibizumab (RBZ) in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). Prospective, randomized, interventional, multicenter clinical trial. One hundred twenty-six patients with DME. Subjects were randomized 1:1:1 to receive 0.5 mg RBZ at baseline and months 1, 3, and 5 (group 1), focal or grid laser photocoagulation at baseline and month 3 if needed (group 2), or a combination of 0.5 mg RBZ and focal or grid laser at baseline and month 3 (group 3). Starting at month 6, if retreatment criteria were met, all subjects could be treated with RBZ. The mean change from baseline in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) at month 24. After the primary end point at month 6, most patients in all groups were treated only with RBZ, and the mean number of injections was 5.3, 4.4, and 2.9 during the 18-month follow-up period in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. For the 33 patients in group 1, 34 patients in group 2, and 34 patients in group 3 who remained in the study through 24 months, the mean improvement in BCVA was 7.4, 0.5, and 3.8 letters at the 6-month primary end point, compared with 7.7, 5.1, and 6.8 letters at month 24, and the percentage of patients who gained 3 lines or more of BCVA was 21, 0, and 6 at month 6, compared with 24, 18, and 26 at month 24. The percentage of patients with 20/40 or better Snellen equivalent at month 24 was 45% in group 1, 44% in group 2, and 35% in group 3. Mean foveal thickness (FTH), defined as center subfield thickness, at month 24 was 340 \u03bcm, 286 \u03bcm, and 258 \u03bcm for groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively, and the percentage of patients with center subfield thickness of 250 \u03bcm or less was 36%, 47%, and 68%, respectively. Intraocular injections of RBZ provided benefit for patients with DME for at least 2 years, and when combined with focal or grid laser treatments, the amount of residual edema was reduced, as were the frequency of injections needed to control edema. Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references."}
{"id": "20855054", "title": "Optical coherence tomographic characteristics of microaneurysms in diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Optical coherence tomographic characteristics of microaneurysms in diabetic retinopathy. To characterize microaneurysms in diabetic retinopathy (DR) depicted by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). Retrospective, observational case series. We surveyed a consecutive series of 76 eyes from 60 patients with DR (22 mild nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy [NPDR]; 43 moderate NPDR; 9 severe NPDR; 2 proliferative diabetic retinopathy [PDR]) who underwent Spectralis OCT, fluorescein angiography (FA), and color fundus photography on the same day. The microaneurysms on OCT were oval and well demarcated at the points where those on color fundus photographs and FA were delineated. The characteristics of microaneurysms were evaluated. Based on the status of the capsular structure shown in the sectional images of OCT (called ring sign), we classified 147 microaneurysms depicted by all of SD-OCT, FA, and color fundus photographs in 76 eyes: 28 with complete ring sign, 54 with incomplete one, and 65 with no structure. Microaneurysms with no ring sign had hyperreflective spots in the lumen and were accompanied by nearby cystoid spaces more frequently than other types (P = .033 and P = .007). Thirteen of 75 microaneurysms with nearby cystoid spaces protruded into the cystoid spaces, and 11 of those 13 microaneurysms presented with no ring sign. Microaneurysms resided mainly in the inner nuclear layer (INL) (80.3%), and 65 of such microaneurysms (55.1%) were accompanied by nearby cystoid spaces. SD-OCT delineated the capsular structure, hyperreflective spots, and location of microaneurysms, and microaneurysms with the ring sign were positively correlated with nearby cystoid spaces and protrusion into the cystoid spaces."}
{"id": "20839667", "title": "Retinal layer thickness changes in eyes with preserved visual acuity and diffuse diabetic macular edema on optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Retinal layer thickness changes in eyes with preserved visual acuity and diffuse diabetic macular edema on optical coherence tomography. Diabetic macular edema has several patterns on optical coherence tomography. This retrospective study aimed to assess which retinal layers show thickness changes in type 1 diffuse diabetic macular edema with preserved vision. Eleven eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema on optical coherence tomography and eight control eyes with 20/20 best-corrected visual acuity were enrolled. Optical coherence tomography images were segmented using an algorithm of the authors' design (OCTRIMA): regional thickness data in the central area, pericentral rings, and peripheral rings were obtained for the retinal cellular layers. The retinal nerve fiber layer showed no changes, the ganglion cell and inner plexiform composite layer and the ganglion cell complex were thicker only in the pericentral regions, and all other layers were thicker in all regions in diffuse diabetic macular edema. Macular thickness was normal in the peripheral region. The results show that the outer retina in the foveal area is the most affected in diffuse diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "20838357", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab and/or macular photocoagulation as a primary treatment for diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab and/or macular photocoagulation as a primary treatment for diffuse diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the efficacy of intravitreal injection of bevacizumab (IVB) followed by modified grid laser photocoagulation (MGP) versus each alone as a primary treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema. A randomized 3-arm clinical trial in which 62 eyes of 48 patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema were enrolled. Eyes were randomly distributed to 1 of 3 study groups: 19 eyes underwent MGP (MGP group), 21 eyes received 1.25 mg of IVB (IVB group), and 22 eyes received IVB followed by MGP (combined group). All eyes underwent a complete ophthalmic examination including fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography at baseline and at 1, 3, and 6 months, after treatment. Fluorescein angiography was performed at the 3 and 6 months follow up visits. The outcome measures were the change compared with baseline in central macular thickness (CMT), changes in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), changes in fluorescein angiography leakage, and any reported complication. A P value less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant. One month after treatment, the reduction in the mean CMT versus baseline was 49.88 \u03bcm (10.45%) in MGP group, 150.92 \u03bcm (31.30%) in IVB group, and 110.30 \u03bcm (23.77%) in the combined group, with a corresponding improvement in the mean BCVA. At 1 month, the improvement in CMT was better than baseline in all groups, yet only significant in the IVB group (P < 0.05) and the combined group (P < 0.05). The improvement in mean BCVA was significant in the IVB (P < 0.05) and the combined groups at 1 month (P < 0.05). At 3 months, the mean CMT was still better than baseline in all groups but this improvement was significant only in the combined group (P < 0.05). The improvement in the mean BCVA was significant only in the IVB and the combined groups (P < 0.05). Six months after treatment, the reduction in the mean CMT was significant in the combined group only (P < 0.05) and there was no significant improvement in the mean BCVA in all groups (P > 0.05). The BCVA did not deteriorate below baseline in all eyes included in the study, except three eyes in the MGP group. No complication related to the intravitreal injection was reported in the injected eyes. Combined therapy with IVB and sequential MGP 3 weeks later appeared to be superior to MGP or IVB alone in reducing macular thickening and improving visual acuity. However, no significant improvement in BCVA occurs 6 months after treatment. A combination of IVB and sequential MGP could be used as an initial treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "20837798", "title": "Efficacy of sustained topical dorzolamide therapy for cystic macular lesions in patients with retinitis pigmentosa and usher syndrome.", "content": "Efficacy of sustained topical dorzolamide therapy for cystic macular lesions in patients with retinitis pigmentosa and usher syndrome. To determine the efficacy of sustained topical therapy with dorzolamide hydrochloride, 2%, on visual acuity and cystic macular lesions in patients with retinitis pigmentosa and Usher syndrome. In a retrospective case series at a university hospital, 64 eyes of 32 patients with retinitis pigmentosa or Usher syndrome receiving treatment with the topical dorzolamide formulation for 6 to 58 months were enrolled. Changes in visual acuity on the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study chart and central foveal zone thickness on optical coherence tomography were measured during follow-up for the duration of treatment. Among the study cohort, 20 of 32 patients (63%) showed a positive response to treatment in at least 1 eye and 13 patients (41%) showed a positive response in both eyes. Four patients (20%) showed an initial response and a subsequent rebound of macular cysts. In 8 patients (25%), there was no response to treatment and the macular cysts worsened when compared with the pretreatment level. Ten patients (31%) had improvement in visual acuity by 7 or more letters in at least 1 eye at the most recent follow-up visit. Sixteen patients (67%) showed a reduction of more than 11% in the central foveal zone thickness in at least 1 eye when compared with the pretreatment level. Patients with either retinitis pigmentosa or Usher syndrome who received treatment of cystoid macular edema with topical dorzolamide followed by an optical coherence tomography-guided strategy showed a decrease in central foveal zone thickness in most cases. Visual acuity improved in almost one-third of the cases, suggesting a potential corresponding visual benefit."}
{"id": "20827919", "title": "[Panretinal photocoagulation with or without focal photocoagulation--the effect on central retinal thickness].", "content": "[Panretinal photocoagulation with or without focal photocoagulation--the effect on central retinal thickness]. To assess the effect of panretinal photocoagulation (with or without focal macular photocoagulation) on central retinal thickness measured by OCT METHOD: Prospective, interventional, non-comparative case series. Panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) was performed in 3 sessions in 28 eyes with proliferative diabetic retinopathy In 9 eyes who had also initial macular edema we have associated focal macular laser treament concomitant with the first PRP session. Macular thickness was assessed by optical coherence tomography at baseline and after 4 and 10 weeks. Baseline mean central retinal thickness was 252 +/- 95 microm. It was modified to 260 +/- 105 microm at 4 weeks, then to 232 +/- 49 microm at 10 weeks. There was no statistical significance of these variations. In 2 eyes (7, 14%) we have noticed an increase of more than 100 microm in central retinal thickness. In the subgroup of 9 eyes with associated initial macular edema, combined PRP-focal treatment resulted in the decrease of central retinal thickness from 306 +/- 123 microm to 236 +/- 49 microm at 10 weeks. Panretinal photocoagulation can be associated with a significant increase of central retinal thickness in a small percentage of eyes. The PRP-focal macular laser combination is effective in eyes who present with proliferative diabetic retinopathy and macular edema."}
{"id": "20825070", "title": "Optical coherence tomography in imaging of macular diseases.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography in imaging of macular diseases. OCT (opitcal coherence tomography), is a diagnostic method that enables the analysis of the retinal structures by means of high-resolution tomographic cross-sections of the retina. Whereas fluorescein and indocyanine angiography allow visualization of the retinal epithelium layer and chorioretinal vessels, OCT may help in diagnosing and monitoring the condition of many internal retinal layers. Ultrasound B-mode examinations have a resolution of about 150 microm while OCT provides a resolution of 10 microm. OCT makes it possible to detect and measure morphological changes, retinal thickness, retinal volume, thickness of retinal nerve fiber layer and various parameters of the optic disc. We use OCT in the analysis of the retinal structures in various pathologies such as macular holes and pseudo-holes, epiretinal membranes, macular edemas of various origins, including vasooclusive disease and diabetic macular edema, lesions of vitreoretinal interface and vitreoretinal traction, serous and hemorrhagic detachments of the retina and of pigment epithelium, age related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma. OCT is an examination that is fast, sensitive, reproducible, non-invasive, non-contact and easy to perform and interpret for a retinologist. The aim of this article is to present OCT principles and techniques as well as OCT interpretation and images of most common retinal diseases: age related macular degeneration--dry and wet form, retinal angiomatous proliferation (RAP), central serous chorioretinopathy, epiretinal membranes, macular holes, diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "20723993", "title": "Optical coherence tomographic evaluation of foveal hard exudates in patients with diabetic maculopathy accompanying macular detachment.", "content": "Optical coherence tomographic evaluation of foveal hard exudates in patients with diabetic maculopathy accompanying macular detachment. To study morphologic changes of serous retinal detachment (SRD) and hyperreflective dots, which have been reported to be precursors of hard exudates, detectable in SRD using optical coherence tomography (OCT) to assess whether or not the OCT findings are correlated with the subfoveal deposition of hard exudates in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME) accompanied by SRD. Retrospective chart review. Twenty-eight eyes of 19 patients with DME accompanied by SRD. We imaged SRD and the hyperreflective dots in SRD using spectral domain OCT (SD-OCT). The number and distribution of the hyperreflective dots in SRD were evaluated before the initial treatment at our hospital for DME accompanied by SRD. Based on a difference in the SD-OCT findings, the study eyes were divided into 2 groups: eyes with a few dots and those with many dots. We studied the clinical course of these 2 groups to assess whether or not the findings of SRD and hyperreflective dots on the SD-OCT images were correlated with deposition of hard exudates in the subfoveal space during follow-up. Correlation of the SD-OCT findings of SRD and hyperreflective dots with deposition of hard exudates in the subfovea of patients with DME accompanied by SRD. Subfoveal deposition of hard exudates was seen in 11 of the 28 eyes at the final examination. Before initial treatment at our hospital, 14 eyes had a few hyperreflective dots SRD and 14 eyes had many hyperreflective dots. Whereas no deposition of hard exudates in the subfoveal space was seen in the former eyes, it was seen in 11 of the latter 14 eyes (P < 0.0001). In addition, using SD-OCT, we found discontinuity of the outer border of detached neurosensory retina in 9 of the 28 eyes. Of these 9 eyes, 1 was in the group with few hyperreflective dots and eight were in the group with many hyperreflective dots (P = .0046). In patients with DME accompanied by SRD, SD-OCT revealed that hyperreflective dots may be associated with the subfoveal deposition of hard exudates during follow-up."}
{"id": "20712253", "title": "[Diabetic macular edema--modern diagnostics and treatment].", "content": "[Diabetic macular edema--modern diagnostics and treatment]. Diabetic macular edema is very important medical and social problem and major cause of severe and permanent visual acuity depression in the working-age population. Rapid diagnostics with optical coherence tomography, color fundus photography, fluorescein angiography and appropriate treatment in patients with diabetes stops or retards progress of diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "20706964", "title": "[Detection and evaluation of OCT findings in macular diseases].", "content": "[Detection and evaluation of OCT findings in macular diseases]."}
{"id": "20706173", "title": "Association of fluorescein angiographic features with visual acuity and with optical coherence tomographic and stereoscopic color fundus photographic features of diabetic macular edema in a randomized clinical trial.", "content": "Association of fluorescein angiographic features with visual acuity and with optical coherence tomographic and stereoscopic color fundus photographic features of diabetic macular edema in a randomized clinical trial. Fluorescein angiography (FA) has been performed as part of the management of diabetic macular edema for many years. Its current role relative to the role of optical coherence tomography (OCT) is not well defined. To evaluate the associations of FA features with visual acuity (VA) and with OCT and fundus photographic characteristics in eyes with diabetic macular edema. In a clinical trial, conducted by the Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical Research Network to compare two methods of laser photocoagulation to treat diabetic macular edema, FA (film and digital), color photographs, OCT, and VA measurements were obtained at baseline and at 1 year. Grading of morphologic features was performed at a reading center. Reproducibility of FAs was assessed, and the correlations of FA features with VA, OCT, and color photograph features were computed. From 79 clinical sites, data of 323 study eyes and 203 fellow nonstudy eyes were analyzed. Fluorescein leakage area at baseline was associated with reduced VA, increased OCT measures of retinal thickness and volume, and color photographic measurements of retinal thickening (r = 0.33-0.58). No important associations were found with changes from baseline to 12 months in these parameters or with any of the other variables analyzed. Fluorescein leakage is associated with VA and some OCT and color photographic variables. We did not identify any unique FA variables that had a stronger association with VA than OCT measures of retinal thickness. These data may be useful to investigators planning future diabetic macular edema clinical trials."}
{"id": "20703051", "title": "Macular edema. Miscellaneous.", "content": "Macular edema. Miscellaneous. This chapter provides the reader with practical information to be applied to the various remaining causes of macular edema. Some clinical cases of macular edema linked to ocular diseases like postradiotherapy for ocular melanomas remained of poor functional prognosis due to the primary disease. On the contrary, macular edema occurring after retinal detachment or after diverse systemic or local treatment use is often temporary. Macular edema associated with epiretinal membranes or vitreomacular traction is the main cause of poor functional recovery. In other cases, as in tractional myopic vitreoschisis, the delay to observe a significant improvement of the vision after surgery should be long. Finally, macular edema associated with hemangiomas or macroaneurysms should be treated, if symptomatic, using the same current treatment as in diabetic macular edema or exudative macular degeneration."}
{"id": "20703049", "title": "Retinitis pigmentosa and other dystrophies.", "content": "Retinitis pigmentosa and other dystrophies. Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is an inherited retinal degeneration that affects predominantly peripheral visual fields. Macular edema may cause additional central visual acuity decrease. Fluorescein angiography and/or optical coherence tomography detect the presence of macular edema in 10-20% of RP patients. Macular edema can manifest at any stage of the disease and may be unilateral or bilateral. In X-linked forms, macular edema is very rare. The origin of macular edema in RP patients still remains poorly understood. The possible pathophysiological role of autoantibodies has been suggested (retinal, carbonic anhydrase, and enolase antibodies). Drug therapy is the primary treatment for macular edema in patients with R P. Systemic carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as oral acetazolamide or topical dorzolamide, still are the mainstay of initial therapy. If cystoid macular edema is refractory to acetazolamide, intravitreal corticosteroid injections could be administered. Intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor therapy has also been used in cases of macular edema persistence after oral acetazolamide therapy, though with uncertain results. Vitrectomy can also be proposed, but its role is not clear yet. Autoimmune retinopathies (AIRs) are a group of rare diseases characterized by acute or subacute progressive vision loss and are thought to be mediated by autoantibodies specific to retinal antigens. The AIRs encompass paraneoplastic syndromes, such as cancer-associated retinopathy and melanoma-associated retinopathy, and a larger group of AIRs that have similar clinical and immunological findings but without underlying malignancy. These diseases may also be complicated by macular edema."}
{"id": "20703048", "title": "Postsurgical cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Postsurgical cystoid macular edema. Cystoid macular edema (CME) is a primary cause of reduced vision following both cataract and successful vitreoretinal surgery. The incidence of clinical CME following modern cataract surgery is 0.1-2.35%. Preexisting conditions such as diabetes mellitus and uveitis as well as intraoperative complications can raise the risk of developing CME postoperatively. The etiology of CME is not completely understood. Prolapsed or incarcerated vitreous and postoperative inflammatory processes have been proposed as causative agents. Pseudophakic CME is characterized by poor postoperative visual acuity. Fluorescein angiography is indispensable in the workup of CME, showing the classical perifoveal petaloid staining pattern and late leakage of the optic disk. Optical coherence tomography is a useful diagnostic tool, which displays cystic spaces in the outer nuclear layer. The most important differential diagnoses include age-related macular degeneration and other causes of CME such as diabetic macular edema. Most cases of pseudophakic CME resolve spontaneously. The value of prophylactic treatment is doubtful. First-line treatment of postsurgical CME should include topical nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and corticosteroids. Oral carbonic anhydrase inhibitors can be considered complementary. In cases of resistant CME, periocular or intraocular corticosteroids present an option. Antiangiogenic agents, though experimental, should be considered for nonresponsive persistent CME. Surgical options should be reserved for special indications."}
{"id": "20703045", "title": "Diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema. Diabetic macular edema (DME), defined as a retinal thickening involving or approaching the center of the macula, represents the most common cause of vision loss in patients affected by diabetes mellitus. In the last few years, many diagnostic tools have been proven useful in the detection and the monitoring of the features characterizing DME. On the other hand, several therapeutic approaches can now be proposed on the basis of the DME-specific characteristics. The aim of the present chapter is to thoroughly delineate the clinical and morpho functional characteristics of DME and its current treatment perspectives. The pathogenesis and the course of DME require a complex approach with multidisciplinary intervention both at the systemic and local levels."}
{"id": "20703041", "title": "Macular edema. General pathophysiology.", "content": "Macular edema. General pathophysiology. Macular edema represents a common final pathway for many disease processes. Related ocular disorders include diabetic retinopathy, vascular occlusions, post surgical situations and inherited disorders. The pathophysiology includes breakdown of the blood ocular barrier, release of various cytokines and significant inflammations. These mechanisms may be complicated by ischemic processes. The various pathogenetic mechanisms and their contribution to the edema process are described in detail in this chapter."}
{"id": "20703037", "title": "Antivascular endothelial growth factor as an approach for macular edema.", "content": "Antivascular endothelial growth factor as an approach for macular edema. Macular edema is an abnormal thickening of the macula associated with the accumulation of excess fluid in the extracellular space of the neurosensory retina. The following chapter looks at the basic pathomechanisms of macular edema as well as major pathologic conditions leading to it: special focus is on diabetic retinopathy, retinal venous occlusions and a number of inflammatory disorders. Currently available data on up-to-date pharmacologic treatment options such as steroids and anti-VEGF compounds is presented and discussed."}
{"id": "20689191", "title": "Comparison of serum glycosylated hemoglobin levels in patients with diabetic cystoid macular edema with and without serous macular detachment.", "content": "Comparison of serum glycosylated hemoglobin levels in patients with diabetic cystoid macular edema with and without serous macular detachment. A clinical comparative trial was conducted to compare the levels of glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) in patients with diabetic cystoid macular edema (CME) with and without serous macula detachment (SMD). Thirty patients (group 1) with diabetic CME in both eyes, but without SMD, and 30 patients (group 2) with diabetic CME and SMD in both eyes documented by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA), were included in the study. In addition to the measurement of central macular thickness by OCT and visual acuity (VA) (as logMAR) using the the early treatment diabetic retinopathy study (ETDRS) chart, the concentrations of HbA1c were measured by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Statistical analysis was done by independent samples t test. The mean logMAR VA was 0.8 +/- 0.22 (1.0-0.5) in group 1 and 0.7 +/- 0.16 (1.0-0.6) in group 2. The mean central macular thickness, as determined by OCT, was 468.70 +/- 70.44 microm (344-602 microm) in group 1 and 477.80 +/- 73.34 microm (354-612 microm) in group 2. The difference between the groups was not statistically significant (P = 0.626). The mean HbA1c levels were 8.16 +/- 0.99% in group 1 and 10.05 +/- 1.66% in group 2. The difference between the groups was statistically significant (P < 0.001). The presence of SMD and high HbA1c levels in the patients with diabetic CME may be indirectly suggestive of retinal pigment epithelium dysfunction."}
{"id": "20689190", "title": "Increased levels of vascular endothelial growth factor in the aqueous humor of patients with diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Increased levels of vascular endothelial growth factor in the aqueous humor of patients with diabetic retinopathy. This study aims to investigate the levels of aqueous vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in diabetic patient groups in comparison to normal subjects, and to correlate elevated VEGF with the severity of diabetic retinopathy (DR). Aqueous samples were obtained from 78 eyes of 74 patients undergoing intraocular surgery and they were examined by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Color photographs, optical coherence tomography scans, and fluorescein angiography were used to evaluate patients preoperatively. A strong statistical correlation was found to exist between the level of aqueous VEGF and the severity of DR ( P < 0.001), whereas, the VEGF levels in a control group and a diabetic group without DR were not significantly different ( P = 0.985). Aqueous VEGF levels were significantly elevated in patients with proliferative DR (PDR) as compared to the control group ( P < 0.001), to diabetic patients without retinopathy (NDR) ( P < 0.001), and to diabetic patients with nonproliferative DR (NPDR) ( P < 0.001). The aqueous VEGF levels were significantly higher in patients with active PDR than in those with quiescent PDR ( P = 0.001). On the other hand, a statistically insignificant ( P = 0.065) correlation was found between elevated aqueous VEGF and the presence of macular edema in the NPDR group. VEGF was elevated in the aqueous humor of patients with DR compared to that in normal eyes. The aqueous VEGF level had a strong correlation with the severity of retinopathy along with a statistically insignificant difference in macular edema."}
{"id": "20658139", "title": "[Diabetic maculopathy. Diagnosis and treatment].", "content": "[Diabetic maculopathy. Diagnosis and treatment]. Due to demographic change the incidence of diabetic retinopathy has risen in spite of new facilities and prevention campaigns and is still one of the leading causes of blindness in Germany. The combination of focal/grid laser photocoagulation and an intravitreal anti-VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) regimen is the first line approach for clinically significant macular edema with foveal involvement and is evidence-based. Vitreomacular interface abnormalities can be effectively treated by modern vitreomacular surgery. Unfortunately, no proven treatment modality can be provided for ischemic maculopathy. The management of systemic risks factors, such as hyperglycemia and arterial hypertension, remains a task of great importance despite all modifications and increase of knowledge during recent years. Innovative developments in the field of intravitreal pharmacotherapy have opened up new vistas. There are good prospects that modern ophthalmology will not be limited to preserving visual function but to allow improvements and consequently enhance health-related quality of life for diabetic patients."}
{"id": "20616686", "title": "Correlation of visual acuity and macular thickness measured by optical coherence tomography in patients with persistent macular edema.", "content": "Correlation of visual acuity and macular thickness measured by optical coherence tomography in patients with persistent macular edema. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the correlation between best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and macular thickness in patients with persistent macular edema treated with a dexamethasone intravitreal drug delivery system (dexamethasone DDS). In a randomized, multicenter, controlled, parallel-group, dose-ranging study, patients with macular edema lasting at least 90 days despite treatment were randomized to observation or treatment with 350- or 700-microg dexamethasone DDS. Macular thickness was assessed in 80 patients using optical coherence tomography. Best-corrected visual acuity was measured using Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study methodology. At baseline, macular thickness was significantly inversely correlated with BCVA (r = -0.406, P < 0.001). Patients treated with 350- or 700-microg dexamethasone DDS showed a significant decrease in macular thickness from baseline to Day 90 (P = 0.002). In the 700-microg dexamethasone DDS treatment group, there was a modest inverse correlation between changes in macular thickness from baseline to Day 90 and improvement in BCVA (r = -0.530, P = 0.009). In the 350-microg dexamethasone DDS treatment group, the correlation was weaker and not statistically significant (r = -0.206, P = 0.304). The correlation between baseline BCVA and macular thickness in patients with persistent macular edema was modest. Improvement in BCVA after treatment with 700-microg dexamethasone DDS was consistent with changes in macular thickness measured using optical coherence tomography."}
{"id": "20616685", "title": "Effect of macular edema on optical coherence tomography signal strength.", "content": "Effect of macular edema on optical coherence tomography signal strength. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of macular edema (ME) on Stratus optical coherence tomography (OCT) (Stratus OCT, Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA) signal strength (SS). Part 1: Macular OCT was performed in 57 eyes with ME, at 2 different time points with different degrees of ME. The relationships between SS change and change in center point thickness and total macular volume in two scans were examined. Part 2: In 54 eyes with ME, Stratus OCT examinations with macular thickness mapping and retinal nerve fiber layer analysis protocols were performed. The paired values of SS obtained with two scan protocols were compared. The relationship between SS difference between two test protocols with center point thickness and total macular volume was evaluated. Part 1: There was a significant correlation between SS change and the change in center point thickness and total macular volume in 2 consecutive scans. Part 2: Maximum SS obtained during macular OCT examination was significantly less than that obtained during retinal nerve fiber layer OCT. Significant correlations were observed between the difference in SS obtained in two scan protocols and center point thickness as well as total macular volume. Macular edema decreases macular OCT SS. In patients with ME, SS obtained during macular OCT examination was significantly lower than that obtained during retinal nerve fiber layer OCT examination."}
{"id": "20616679", "title": "Comparison of two doses of intravitreal bevacizumab as primary treatment for macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion: results of the pan American collaborative retina study group at 24 months.", "content": "Comparison of two doses of intravitreal bevacizumab as primary treatment for macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion: results of the pan American collaborative retina study group at 24 months. The purpose of this study was to compare the injection burden, central macular thickness (CMT), and change in best-corrected visual acuity after injecting 1.25 mg or 2.5 mg bevacizumab as needed in patients with primary macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion. This is an interventional, retrospective, comparative multicenter study of 86 eyes with macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion that were treated primarily with intravitreal bevacizumab (44 eyes, 1.25 mg; 42 eyes, 2.5 mg). The main outcome measures were the CMT and the change of best-corrected visual acuity at 24 months. All patients completed at least 24 months of follow-up. The mean number of injections per eye were 7.2 for the 1.25-mg dose group and 8.1 for the 2.5-mg dose group (P = 0.4492). At 24 months, in the 1.25-mg dose group, the logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution best-corrected visual acuity improved from baseline 0.35 +/- 0.57 units (P < 0.0001) versus 0.27 +/- 0.68 units for the 2.5-mg dose group (P < 0.0001). These differences were not statistically significant between both dose groups. In the 1.25-mg dose group, 25 (56.8%) eyes gained >or=3 lines of Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity and 6 (13.6%) lost >or=3 lines of Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity. In the 2.5-mg dose group, 24 (57.1 %) eyes improved >or=3 lines of Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity and 7 (16.7%) lost >or=3 lines of Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity. The CMT in the 1.25-mg dose group improved from 635 +/- 324 microm to 264 +/- 160 microm (P < 0.0001) versus 528 +/- microm to 293 +/- 137 microm in the 2.5-mg dose group (P < 0.0001). There was no statistically significant difference between both dose groups with regard to the CMT reduction. Intravitreal bevacizumab at doses up to 2.5 mg seems to be effective in improving visual acuity and reducing CMT in macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion. There were no statistically significant differences between the two dose groups with regard to the number of injections, CMT, and change in visual acuity."}
{"id": "20594160", "title": "Intravitreal Bevacizumab (Avastin(\u00ae)) for Diabetic Retinopathy at 24-months: The 2008 Juan Verdaguer-Planas Lecture.", "content": "Intravitreal Bevacizumab (Avastin(\u00ae)) for Diabetic Retinopathy at 24-months: The 2008 Juan Verdaguer-Planas Lecture. Diabetic retinopathy (DR) remains the major threat to sight in the working age population. Diabetic macular edema (DME) is a manifestation of DR that produces loss of central vision. Proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) is a major cause of visual loss in diabetic patients. In PDR, the growth of new vessels is thought to occur as a result of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) release into the vitreous cavity as a response to ischemia. Furthermore, VEGF increases vessel permeability leading to deposition of proteins in the interstitium that facilitate the process of angiogenesis and macular edema. This review demonstrates multiple benefits of intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) on DR including DME and PDR at 24 months of follow up. The results indicate that IVB injections may have a beneficial effect on macular thickness and visual acuity (VA) in diffuse diabetic macular edema. Therefore, in the future this new therapy could replace or complement focal/grid laser photocoagulation in DME. In PDR, this new option could be an adjuvant agent to pan-retina photocoagulation so that more selective therapy may be applied. In addition, we report a series of patients in which tractional retinal detachment developed or progressed after adjuvant preoperative IVB in severe PDR."}
{"id": "20585799", "title": "Ranibizumab for diabetic macular edema difficult to treat with focal/grid laser.", "content": "Ranibizumab for diabetic macular edema difficult to treat with focal/grid laser. To evaluate the efficacy of intravitreal injections of ranibizumab in patients with diabetic clinically significant macular edema (CSME), when further focal or grid laser was considered to be unsafe. In this retrospective, interventional case study, intravitreal injections of ranibizumab were performed in 16 eyes (ten patients) suffering from diabetic retinopathy with CSME. All patients had been treated in the past with focal or grid laser. Additional photocoagulation could not be performed because the leaking points were very close to the avascular zone, and there was also a perifoveal capillary dropout. The patients underwent three injections (months 0, 1 and 2) and were followed monthly. Reinjection was performed if central retinal thickness (CRT) was \u2265250 \u03bcm associated with fluorescein leakage involving the center of the macula. The patients underwent a median of seven injections (range 6-9) and the median follow-up time was 11 months (range 9-15). The median best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was 0.85 logMAR at baseline and 0.54 logMAR at the end of the follow-up time (p = 0.018). BCVA improved in seven eyes (43.75%), remained stable in eight (50%) and decreased in one eye (6.25%). The median CRT decreased from 409.5 \u03bcm at baseline to 272 \u03bcm at the end of the follow-up time (p = 0.0002). No ocular or systemic adverse events were reported. For a median follow-up time of 11 months, the treatment with intravitreal injections of ranibizumab resulted in stabilization or improvement of the visual acuity in the vast majority of patients with diabetic maculopathy and CSME, when further focal or grid laser was considered to be unsafe."}
{"id": "20578202", "title": "Effect of intensive insulin therapy on macular biometrics, plasma VEGF and its soluble receptor in newly diagnosed diabetic patients.", "content": "Effect of intensive insulin therapy on macular biometrics, plasma VEGF and its soluble receptor in newly diagnosed diabetic patients. To evaluate whether intensive insulin therapy leads to changes in macular biometrics (volume and thickness) in newly diagnosed diabetic patients with acute hyperglycaemia and its relationship with serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its soluble receptor (sFlt-1). Twenty-six newly diagnosed diabetic patients admitted to our hospital to initiate intensive insulin treatment were prospectively recruited. Examinations were performed on admission (day 1) and during follow-up (days 3, 10 and 21) and included a questionnaire regarding the presence of blurred vision, standardized refraction measurements and optical coherence tomography. Plasma VEGF and sFlt-1 were assessed by ELISA at baseline and during follow-up. At study entry seven patients (26.9%) complained of blurred vision and five (19.2%) developed burred vision during follow-up. Macular volume and thickness increased significantly (p = 0.008 and p = 0.04, respectively) in the group with blurred vision at day 3 and returned to the baseline value at 10 days. This pattern was present in 18 out of the 24 eyes from patients with blurred vision. By contrast, macular biometrics remained unchanged in the group without blurred vision. We did not detect any significant changes in VEGF levels during follow-up. By contrast, a significant reduction of sFlt-1 was observed in those patients with blurred vision at day 3 (p = 0.03) with normalization by day 10. Diabetic patients with blurred vision after starting insulin therapy present a significant transient increase in macular biometrics which is associated with a decrease in circulating sFlt-1."}
{"id": "20577866", "title": "Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy following intravitreal bevacizumab.", "content": "Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy following intravitreal bevacizumab."}
{"id": "20561684", "title": "Relationship between optical coherence tomography retinal parameters and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Relationship between optical coherence tomography retinal parameters and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema. To investigate the relationship between optical coherence tomography (OCT)-derived measurements of retinal morphology and visual acuity in patients with diabetic macular edema. Retrospective cross-sectional study. A total of 67 consecutive patients (67 eyes) with diabetic macular edema (DME) who underwent Stratus OCT imaging (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc., Dublin, CA). Best-corrected Snellen visual acuity was recorded for each patient. Raw exported Stratus OCT images for each patient were analyzed using custom software entitled \"OCTOR,\" which allows the precise positioning of prespecified boundaries on individual B-scans. Thickness, volume, and intensity were calculated for neurosensory retina and subretinal fluid. In addition, photoreceptor outer segment (POS) thickness was quantified. Optical coherence tomography-derived measurements of retinal morphology and visual acuity. The Spearman coefficient values (r) of the correlation between OCTOR-derived measurements of central subfield thickness, intensity, subretinal fluid volume, and POS thickness and the logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution visual acuities were 0.3428 (P = 0.005), -0.2658 (P = 0.03), -0.2683 (P = 0.38), and -0.3703 (P = 0.002), respectively. Multivariate models with stepwise selection revealed a cumulative R(2) of 0.4305 in the total study population, with R(2) of 0.4999 and 0.7628 in the untreated and prior focal laser groups, respectively. Subanalysis and quantification of OCT features in eyes with DME seem to be of value. In particular, POS thickness seems to be an important predictor of function and visual acuity in patients with DME."}
{"id": "20556548", "title": "Optical coherence tomography imaging for diabetic retinopathy and macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography imaging for diabetic retinopathy and macular edema. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a noninvasive imaging modality that uses low-coherent interferometry to visualize an optical cross-section of biological tissues. Over the past two decades, the ability to perform OCT imaging of the neural retina has afforded clinicians and researchers a highly reproducible method of diagnosing and following diabetic macular edema (DME) that compares favorably to other methods of DME assessment such as clinical examination and fundus photography. Although central subfield mean thickness has been the OCT parameter most commonly used to evaluate DME in clinical research trials, OCT also allows evaluation of morphologic changes that occur in DME, including compact retinal thickening, intraretinal cystic changes, subretinal fluid, and vitreomacular traction. OCT parameters have been shown to be only moderately correlated with visual acuity. However, improvements in technology leading to higher resolution, faster acquisition speed, image registration, and three-dimensional imaging that are available with newer spectral domain OCT models may allow future identification of valid OCT-derived surrogate markers for visual function in patients with diabetes."}
{"id": "20547944", "title": "Triamcinolone-associated crystalline maculopathy.", "content": "Triamcinolone-associated crystalline maculopathy. To describe the findings of a new crystalline maculopathy exclusively affecting individuals who have previously received intravitreous triamcinolone acetonide injections. In a retrospective, observational, noncomparative case series, 21 eyes of 13 patients referred over a 9-year period were identified as having a characteristic crystalline maculopathy. Each patient underwent detailed historical questioning and comprehensive ocular evaluation, including formal retinal examination, fundus photography, fluorescein angiography, and optical coherence tomography. Each of the 21 eyes was treated with intravitreous triamcinolone (preserved in all but 2 eyes) for macular edema (18 eyes due to diabetes, 2 due to pseudophakic cystoid macular edema, and 1 due to a vein occlusion). The crystals were superficial, refractile, white or yellow-green, asymmetric in distribution, and deposited as a cluster in the central macula or in a perifoveal distribution. The crystals were benign and unassociated with visual deficit. Preretinal hyperreflective deposits were noted with optical coherence tomography. Two eyes underwent vitrectomy with membrane peeling, and the crystals were no longer present postoperatively. We describe a novel syndrome of crystalline maculopathy associated with a history of intravitreous triamcinolone injections. The crystals are refractile, multicolored, located in the posterior pole, and unassociated with obvious visual deficit or retinal sequelae. The predominantly white color and superficial location of the crystals indicate that they may result from aggregation and clumping of insoluble components of triamcinolone."}
{"id": "20542983", "title": "Insulin resistance and diabetic macular oedema in type 2 diabetes mellitus.", "content": "Insulin resistance and diabetic macular oedema in type 2 diabetes mellitus. To evaluate the association between insulin resistance and diabetic macular oedema in type 2 diabetes. Patients with type 2 diabetes who agreed to undergo blood sampling were enrolled into this cross-sectional study. Patients who had received treatment for macular oedema within the past 3 months and those with other retinal diseases were excluded. The following data were recorded: age, sex, time of diabetes evolution, HbA1c, ophthalmologic and systemic treatment, and lens status. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) was performed to determine the morphological patterns of macular oedema. Insulin resistance was established by a McAuley index of <6.3 and fasting insulin levels of >16 mU/l. A total of 177 eyes from 90 patients were included; 27.1% of eyes were from insulin-resistant patients. There were no differences in age, time of evolution, sex, HbA1c level or lens status between insulin-resistant and non-resistant patients. Insulin-resistant patients were more likely to have exogenous insulin therapy (p<0.05; OR=3.8). An association was found between diabetic cystoid macular oedema and insulin resistance (Fisher exact test p=0.007; OR=2.53, 95% CI 1.52 to 4.2). There were no associations between insulin resistance and the other morphological patterns of oedema. Patients undergoing insulin therapy were found to have an association with a diffuse retinal thickening pattern on OCT (p=0.036; OR=1.4). However, no association was found between insulin therapy and the presence of cystoid macular oedema. The findings of this study indicate a relationship between insulin resistance and cystoid macular oedema that unrelated to the use of insulin. Insulin treatment was associated with diffuse macular oedema."}
{"id": "20537310", "title": "Retinal pseudocysts in age-related geographic atrophy.", "content": "Retinal pseudocysts in age-related geographic atrophy. To report the presence of pseudocysts in retinal layers of eyes with geographic atrophy (GA) attributable to age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and to estimate their prevalence. Retrospective study. setting: Clinical practice. patients: Consecutive patients with GA, assessed by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT). main outcome measures: Assessment of pseudocyst prevalence in retinal layers. Statistical analysis by the chi(2) test, Fisher exact test, Mann-Whitney U test, and Cramer test, performed to explore links between the presence of pseudocysts and demographic features and/or pattern of atrophy, ie, horseshoe, homogeneous area, homogeneous area or patchy atrophy with foveal sparing, and patchy atrophy. Eighty-eight eyes of 68 GA patients aged between 61 and 94 years (mean: 79.8) were examined. In 20 patients, GA was bilateral. Twenty-four eyes (27.2%) exhibited pseudocysts corresponding to small cystoid spaces frequently located in the inner nuclear layer of the retina. There was no macular edema. Fluorescein angiography, performed in 71 eyes (80%), ruled out possible choroidal neovascularization. No correlation was found between 1) patients' age (P = .7) or gender (P > .99) and the presence of pseudocysts or 2) patterns of atrophy (Cramer test: V = 0.183) and the presence of pseudocysts. Pseudocysts seemed to be frequent in atrophic AMD. They might correspond to M\u00fcller cell degeneration, as suspected in other degenerative retinal disorders like tamoxifen retinopathy or group 2A idiopathic juxtafoveolar retinal telangiectasis. The present results indicate that pseudocysts are frequently seen on OCT in eyes with atrophic AMD and their presence should not be considered as a manifestation of neovascular AMD that requires prompt treatment."}
{"id": "20531142", "title": "Intravitreal ranibizumab (Lucentis) for branch retinal vein occlusion-induced macular edema: nine-month results of a prospective study.", "content": "Intravitreal ranibizumab (Lucentis) for branch retinal vein occlusion-induced macular edema: nine-month results of a prospective study. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of individualized repeated intravitreal injections of ranibizumab (Lucentis, Genentech, South San Francisco, CA) on visual acuity and central foveal thickness (CFT) for branch retinal vein occlusion-induced macular edema. This study was a prospective interventional case series. Twenty-eight eyes of 28 consecutive patients diagnosed with branch retinal vein occlusion-related macular edema treated with repeated intravitreal injections of ranibizumab (when CFT was >225 microm) were evaluated. Optical coherence tomography and fluorescein angiography were performed monthly. The mean best-corrected distance visual acuity improved from 62.67 Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study letters (logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution = 0.74 +/- 0.28 [mean +/- standard deviation]) at baseline to 76.8 Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study letters (logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution = 0.49 +/- 0.3; statistically significant, P < 0.001) at the end of the follow-up (9 months). The mean letter gain (including the patients with stable and worse visual acuities) was 14.3 letters (2.9 lines). During the same period, 22 of the 28 eyes (78.6%) showed improved visual acuity, 4 (14.2%) had stable visual acuity, and 2 (7.14%) had worse visual acuity compared with baseline. The mean CFT improved from 349 +/- 112 microm at baseline to 229 +/- 44 microm (significant, P < 0.001) at the end of follow-up. A mean of six injections was performed during the follow-up period. Our subgroup analysis indicated that patients with worse visual acuity at presentation (<or=50 letters in our series) showed greater visual benefit from treatment. \"Rebound\" macular edema was observed in 5 patients (17.85%) at the 3-month follow-up visit and in none at the 6- and 9-month follow-ups. In 18 of the 28 patients (53.6%), the CFT was <225 microm at the last follow-up visit, and therefore, further treatment was not instituted. No ocular or systemic side effects were noted. Individualized repeated intravitreal injections of ranibizumab showed promising short-term results in visual acuity improvement and decrease in CFT in patients with macular edema associated with branch retinal vein occlusion. Further studies are needed to prove the long-term effect of ranibizumab treatment on patients with branch retinal vein occlusion."}
{"id": "20530184", "title": "Central retinal thickness measured with HD-OCT shows a weak correlation with visual acuity in eyes with CSME.", "content": "Central retinal thickness measured with HD-OCT shows a weak correlation with visual acuity in eyes with CSME. To investigate the correlation between increased retinal thickness (RT) measured with spectral domain high-definition optical coherence tomography (OCT) (Cirrus HD-OCT (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, California, USA)) and best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) in eyes with clinically significant macular oedema (CSME) and type 2 diabetes. Seventy eyes with CSME were included in this observational study. Sixty-two eyes were considered for analysis and were classified as having/not having retinal thickening in the central fovea (central 500-microm-diameter circle) by Cirrus HD-OCT. RT measurements were computed and correlated with BCVA. For comparison purposes, the Stratus OCT (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, California, USA) central point thickness was also obtained in these eyes. In the 19 eyes with CMSE identified by Cirrus HD-OCT without increased RT in the central fovea (500-microm-diameter circle), no correlation was found between RT and BCVA (R=0.062; 95% CI -0.404 to 0.502). In the 43 eyes where the Cirrus HD-OCT identified an increased RT in the central fovea (central 500-microm-diameter circle), only a moderate correlation between RT and BCVA was found (R=-0.459; 95% CI -0.667 to -0.184). Correlations between RT and BCVA in CSME are only present when the central 500-microm-diameter circle is involved. However, even in this circumstance, a correlation was found in only 48.8% of the cases. RT cannot, therefore, be used as a surrogate outcome for visual acuity changes."}
{"id": "20528977", "title": "Triamcinolone-induced cataract in eyes with diabetic macular oedema: 3-year prospective data from a randomized clinical trial.", "content": "Triamcinolone-induced cataract in eyes with diabetic macular oedema: 3-year prospective data from a randomized clinical trial. To describe the 3-year risk of cataract after intravitreal triamcinolone (IVTA) injections for diabetic macular oedema and the outcomes of cataract surgery. Prospective data from a randomized clinical trial were analysed. At baseline, 27 phakic eyes with diabetic macular oedema were randomized to receive IVTA and 25 to receive sham injection. After 2 years, initial sham-treated eyes were eligible to receive IVTA as the study became open label for the third year. The cumulative incidence of cataract surgery was the primary outcome of the study. Other outcomes assessed included progression of cataract, best-corrected logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution visual acuity before and after surgery and central macular thickness. Over the 3 years of the study, 15/27 (56%) phakic eyes in the IVTA treated group underwent cataract surgery as compared with 2/25 (8%) initial sham-treated eyes (P < 0.001). Mean visual acuity 6 months after cataract surgery was better than at entry into the trial. Two (15%) of the eyes in the IVTA-treated group undergoing cataract surgery had a loss of >15 letters. In the IVTA-treated group, 10/15 (67%) eyes that had three or more injections had progression of posterior subcapsular cataract by > or = 2 grades as compared with only 2/12 (17%) eyes that had fewer than three injections (P = 0.009). Over half of the eyes receiving IVTA injections for diabetic macular oedema required cataract surgery within 3 years. In eyes with three or more IVTA injections, two-thirds had progression of posterior subcapsular cataract. Visual outcomes after cataract surgery were generally good, although a small proportion of eyes lost greater than 15 letters over the course of the study."}
{"id": "20526763", "title": "Capillary pressure may predict preclinical changes in the eye.", "content": "Capillary pressure may predict preclinical changes in the eye. Microvascular dysfunction is associated with end-organ damage. Macular oedema is an important component of diabetic retinopathy. Macular thickness can be accurately quantified by optical coherence tomography (OCT), enabling accurate assessment of the macular prior to clinically apparent abnormalities. We investigated whether macular (fovea) thickness in non-diabetic individuals is related to the microvascular variables controlling fluid filtration across a blood vessel wall, in particular capillary pressure and the microvascular filtration capacity (Kf). We recruited 50 non-diabetic individuals (25 men, 25 women; age range: 26-78 years; BMI range: 20-46 kg/m(2)). Fovea thickness was assessed by OCT. Microvascular assessments included: finger nailfold capillary pressure; Kf; microvascular structural assessments, i.e. skin vasodilatory capacity, minimum vascular resistance (MVR) and microvascular distensibility; and endothelial function. At 214.6 (19.9) microm (mean [SD]), fovea thickness was within normal range. Capillary pressure, adjusted for BMI, was associated with fovea thickness (standardised beta 0.573, p = 0.006, linear regression). Fovea thickness was not associated with Kf, microvascular structural assessments or endothelial function. Capillary pressure was still associated with fovea thickness when adjusted for microvascular variables (Kf, vasodilatory capacity, MVR, microvascular distensibility or endothelial function), or for risk factors for diabetes (systemic blood pressure, insulin sensitivity, inflammation, glycaemic status and lipids) and age. Capillary pressure, a key determinant of movement of fluid across a blood vessel wall, is associated with fovea thickness in non-diabetic individuals. This suggests that with regard to potential preventative or therapeutic targets, attention should be directed at the mechanisms determining retinal microvascular pressure."}
{"id": "20523361", "title": "Vitreous traction and epiretinal membranes in diabetic macular oedema using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Vitreous traction and epiretinal membranes in diabetic macular oedema using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. The purpose of this study was to present an association between diabetic macular oedema (DME) and vitreoretinal interface abnormalities using 3D spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). In a retrospective study, charts and SD-OCT of consecutive patients with diffuse or focal DME were reviewed. Only one randomly chosen eye per patient with DME was included, and eyes that had another retinopathy that could affect the study analysis or that underwent vitreoretinal surgery were excluded. Out of 58 eyes (58 patients) with DME, 11 eyes (19.0%) had vitreofoveal traction (Group A), either unifocally (n=6) or multifocally; that is, associated with additional extrafoveal traction site(s). Group B comprised 20 eyes (34.5%) that had sole extrafoveal vitreous traction, at either retinal and/or papillary sites. In each, the retinal oedema underlying extrafoveal traction was in continuum in at least one site with that at the central macula, as verified by the macular maps, thus presented as diffuse macular oedema. In Group C, 13 eyes (22.4%) had an epiretinal membrane (ERM), 1.5 \u00d7 3\u2009mm to \u22656 \u00d7 6\u2009mm in size that overlaid diffuse oedematous macula. Group D included 14 eyes (24.1%) that had neither vitreous traction nor ERM; 12 (20.7%) of them had DME secondary to leaking microaneurysms with or without leaking capillary beds, and the remaining two had leakage from non-microaneurysms sources. DME was detected by the SD-OCT to be associated with sole extrafoveal vitreous traction in one-third of the patients. Further studies are required to evaluate the clinical consequences of these observations."}
{"id": "20522019", "title": "Optical coherence tomography for complete management of patients with diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography for complete management of patients with diabetic retinopathy. Diabetic retinopathy is a major complication of patients with diabetes mellitus and can lead to a decrease in vision. The precise mechanisms leading to the development of diabetic retinopathy and the progressive decrease of vision are still undetermined. Recent studies have shown that not only vascular but also neuronal abnormalities are associated with the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy. Because neuronal cell death leads to an irreversible decrease in visual function, early changes in the morphology and physiology of the neural retinas of diabetic patients are important. The alterations of the morphology of the retina can be obtained by high-resolution B-scan optical coherence tomography (OCT). The thickness of the macular area and retinal nerve fiber layer can be measured reliably and accurately by the installed software of OCT instruments. The high-resolution images can be used to evaluate diabetic macular edema and optic nerve damage quantitatively in patients with diabetic retinopathy. This review describes how the OCT measurements can be used to manage patients with diabetic retinopathy. We also present the early retinal changes involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "20521508", "title": "[The possibility of the treatment of bilateral macular edema without the anti VEGF treatment--a case report].", "content": "[The possibility of the treatment of bilateral macular edema without the anti VEGF treatment--a case report]. Aim of this case report is to present a case of a female patient with bilateral macular edema successfully treated by the systemic antibiotic. The authors present a case of 58 years old female with bilateral cystoid macular edema. In this patient, the central retinal thickness of the right eye was 550 microm, and 600 microm of the left eye. The best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) of the right eye was 4/10 (0.4) and 4/12 (0.33) of the left eye. The patient underwent complex ophthalmologic examination. During the examination of the posterior pole, there were found no signs of the diabetic changes, or signs of the uveitis. The fluorescein angiography did not prove the presence of the choroidal neovascular membrane or vasculitis. The serological tests (toxoplasmosis, toxocariasis, borreliosis, syphilis--TPHA, RRR), and immunologic tests were performed as well. Toxoplasma positive IgG antibodies were found. According to these serological results, the systemic oral antibiotic treatment was started: clindamycin 300 mg three times daily for 14 days. After the termination of the treatment, improvement of the BCVA to 4/5 (0.8) in both eyes occurred. The OCT examination showed the foveolar depression in both eyes. Two months after the termination of the antibiotic treatment, the relapse of the macular edema occurred (BCVA 4/6 (0.66) in both eyes). According to the consultation with the doctor from the Department of Infectious Diseases, the treatment with clindamycin was started again (300 mg three times daily) for three weeks. After termination of this treatment, the foveolar depression on the OCT examination was evident and the BCVA was 4/4 (1.0) in both eyes (central retinal thickness of the right eye was 215 microm, and of the left eye it was 225 microm). This condition is stable and lasts for more than one year. In the differential diagnosis of the bilateral macular edema also the inflammatory etiology should be always considered. According to our experience, the bilateral macular edema may be the only presentation of toxoplasmosis."}
{"id": "20510687", "title": "Barely visible 10-millisecond pascal laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema: observations of clinical effect and burn localization.", "content": "Barely visible 10-millisecond pascal laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema: observations of clinical effect and burn localization. To investigate the morphologic features and clinical efficacy of barely visible Pascal (Optimedica Corporation) photocoagulation burns in diabetic macular edema (DME) using Fourier-domain optical coherence tomography (FD OCT) and fundus autofluorescence (AF). Interventional case series. Retrospective evaluation of 10 eyes with newly diagnosed DME that underwent barely visible Pascal photocoagulation using an array of 10-microm, 10-millisecond photocoagulation burns. FD OCT and camera-based AF was performed at baseline and at 1 hour, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and 12 weeks after laser. Changes in retinal thickening after laser treatment were measured using retinal thickness maps within the treated sector and the central foveal subfield. At 1 hour after treatment, burns were visualized partially with clinical biomicroscopy. AF demonstrated spots lacking autofluorescence that confirmed effective laser uptake within the Pascal arrays. Sequential changes in hyperreflectivity on FD OCT correlated with morphologic alterations seen on AF. Burns became increasingly hyperautofluorescent between 2 and 4 weeks. There were significant reductions in the retinal thickness within treated sectors on FD OCT at 2 weeks (26 +/- 32 microm; P = .012) and 3 months after laser (20 +/- 21 microm; P = .02) compared with baseline. Clinical biomicroscopic reduction of DME was the most common finding in 80%. Barely visible 10-millisecond Pascal laser seems to produce an effect at the level of the inner and outer photoreceptor segments and apical retinal pigment epithelium, with minimal axial and lateral spread of burns. FD OCT confirmed spatial localization of AF signal changes that correlated with laser burn-tissue interactions over 3 months. The technique of lower-fluence barely visible 10-millisecond laser may reduce retinal edema within affected sectors and effectively treat DME with minimization of scar formation."}
{"id": "20508046", "title": "Association of systemic health and functional outcomes with changes in hard exudates associated with clinically significant macular oedema over the natural course of the disease.", "content": "Association of systemic health and functional outcomes with changes in hard exudates associated with clinically significant macular oedema over the natural course of the disease. Hard exudates associated with clinically significant macular oedema (CSMO) do not always increase without laser photocoagulation and can generally be classified as regressing or progressing. We studied the systemic differences and functional outcomes between the two groups. In this retrospective observational controlled study, we compared blood pressure, biochemical parameters and best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) between 26 patients with regressed hard exudates with CSMO (group A) and 27 patients with progressing hard exudates with CSMO (group B). The eyes had no history of ophthalmic treatments including laser therapy for diabetic retinopathy or maculopathy until the end of the study. Group B had significant increases in the mean total cholesterol (TC) (p=0.0194) and mean low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (p=0.0147) after at least 6 months of follow-up compared with group A. The final mean BCVA was significantly (p=0.0189) higher in group A than group B. A separate within-group analysis showed a significant (p=0.0015) decrease in BCVA from baseline in group B at the final visit. For hard exudates associated with CSMO, strict lipid-lowering therapy, especially regulation of elevated TC and LDL, before a decrease in visual acuity might result in better macular anatomical outcomes and visual preservation through the natural course of the disease."}
{"id": "20507016", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for the treatment of refractory diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for the treatment of refractory diabetic macular edema. To report the effect of intravitreal bevacizumab on visual acuity and central retinal thickness (CRT) in refractory diabetic macular edema. Records of 60 eyes of 54 consecutive patients who underwent intravitreal bevacizumab therapy for refractory diabetic macular edema were reviewed. All eyes received intravitreal bevacizumab 1.25 mg/0.05 mL, and 36 eyes underwent pretreatment and post-treatment optical coherence tomography. Mean follow-up was 7.4 months. Pretreatment mean visual acuity plus or minus standard deviation was 0.71 +/- 0.28 logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (LogMAR) Snellen letters. At final follow-up, mean visual acuity had improved to 0.66 +/- 0.30 LogMAR (P = .0543). Mean baseline CRT was 440 +/- 106 microm, and follow-up mean CRT was 386 +/- 129 microm (P = .008). Vitrectomized eyes had worse visual acuity and CRT outcomes (P = .002 and P = .028, respectively) compared with nonvitrectomized eyes. Intravitreal bevacizumab may provide a functional and anatomic benefit in eyes with persistent diabetic macular edema despite previous treatments."}
{"id": "20494761", "title": "Effect of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection on central macular thickness in diabetic patients having phacoemulsification.", "content": "Effect of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection on central macular thickness in diabetic patients having phacoemulsification. To assess the effect of intraoperative intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide on the central macular thickness, visual outcomes, and development of cystoid macular edema (CME) after phacoemulsification in diabetic patients. Farabi Eye Hospital, Tehran, Iran. In this prospective randomized controlled study, patients with diabetes were randomly assigned to a treatment group, which received an intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide at the end of phacoemulsification, and a control group, which had routine phacoemulsification. Visual acuity, center-point thickness, central 1.0 mm subfield mean thickness, CME development, and diabetic retinopathy progression were compared between the 2 groups 1, 3, and 6 months postoperatively. The treatment group comprised 20 eyes and the control group, 21 eyes. There was no statistically significant difference between the 2 groups in the mean corrected distance visual acuity at any follow-up examination (P>.05). The mean change in center-point thickness and central 1.0 mm subfield mean thickness was statistically significantly lower in the treatment group than in the control group at all follow-up visits (P<.05). Four eyes in the control group and no eye in the treatment group developed CME (P = .059). Three eyes (15%) in the treatment group developed an intraocular pressure rise that was managed by topical medication. Intravitreal injection of triamcinolone reduced the amount of increase in center-point thickness and central 1.0 mm subfield mean thickness after phacoemulsification in eyes of diabetic patients. Although it also reduced the incidence of CME, it had no effect on visual acuity gain."}
{"id": "20484587", "title": "A systematic correlation between morphology and functional alterations in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "A systematic correlation between morphology and functional alterations in diabetic macular edema. The aim of this study was to correlate different types of retinal morphologic alterations secondary to diabetic macular disease with their characteristic impact on retinal function. In the present cross-sectional study, 26 eyes of 26 diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema were examined. All patients underwent complete standardized ophthalmologic examination, including SD-OCT and microperimetry. Microperimetric values were projected over the scanning laser ophthalmoscope image of the OCT device, allowing direct correlation of functional and morphologic parameters. Results over all 1066 individual areas were analyzed using a general linear model. All the characteristic morphologic alterations demonstrated a significant effect on retinal function (P < 0.0002), except for outer nuclear layer (ONL) hyporeflectivity and small ONL cysts. Large ONL cysts (>220 \u03bcm) and serous retinal detachment had the greatest estimated negative effect on retinal sensitivity (-3.86 and -3.66 dB), followed by medium-sized ONL cysts, hard exudates associated with an extinction of the scan signal, and inner nuclear layer cysts. In diabetic macular edema, serous retinal detachment and large ONL cysts are the two morphologic changes with the greatest negative impact on retinal function."}
{"id": "20466427", "title": "Outcomes of iris-claw anterior chamber versus iris-fixated foldable intraocular lens in subluxated lens secondary to Marfan syndrome.", "content": "Outcomes of iris-claw anterior chamber versus iris-fixated foldable intraocular lens in subluxated lens secondary to Marfan syndrome. To compare the outcome of phacoemulsification using 2 different iris-fixation techniques for intraocular lens (IOL) replacement, a foldable posterior chamber IOL (PCIOL; AcrySof MA60AC, Alcon Laboratories Inc, Fort Worth, TX) and an iris-claw anterior chamber IOL (ACIOL; Artisan, Ophtec BV), for treatment of subluxated lenses in patients with Marfan syndrome (MFS). Randomized, controlled trial. A total of 31 eyes of 16 patients with subluxated lenses associated with MFS and a preoperative corrected visual acuity (CVA) < or =20/40 based on the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study chart. Patients were enrolled and the eye with worse visual acuity was randomly assigned to 1 of 2 study arms: phacoemulsification and iris-fixated PCIOL or phacoemulsification and iris-claw ACIOL; the second eye of the same patient received the other IOL type. Preoperative and postoperative ophthalmologic examination, optical coherence tomography, and endothelial cell counts were performed. We recorded CVA results at 3, 6, and 12 months, complications, endothelial cell loss, and central retinal thickness. In the iris-fixated PCIOL group, CVA was significantly improved at 3 (P = 0.011; n = 16), 6 (P = 0.006; n = 16), and 12 months (P = 0.002; n = 16). In the iris-claw ACIOL group, CVA was significantly improved at 3 (P = 0.001; n=15), 6 (P = 0.001; n = 15), and 12 months (P = 0.009; n = 12). The CVA results did not differ significantly between groups. Dislocation of the IOL occurred in 3 of 16 (18.75%) eyes in the PCIOL group. Retinal detachment occurred in 3 eyes (2 in the PCIOL group and 1 in the ACIOL group) and was successfully repaired. Postoperative foveal tomograms in both groups revealed a decrease in the mean foveal thickness (MFT; < or =172 microm) in 54.16% of the patients. The iris-sutured PCIOL and iris-claw ACIOL produced comparable improvements in CVA at 3, 6, and 12 months postoperatively. Although IOL dislocation tended to occur more frequently in the iris-fixated PCIOL group, the difference was not significant. At 6 months postoperatively, all study patients tended to have a thinner MFT. None of the patients in either group developed cystoid macular edema."}
{"id": "20465107", "title": "[Angiopathy and the eye].", "content": "[Angiopathy and the eye]. Diabetic retinopathy is an important microvascular complication of diabetes as it threatens the vision. Diabetic maculopathy is the main cause of legal blindness in the adult population in western countries. The examination method involves digital fundus photography that enables comparison of the incidence, number as well as the size and the shape of pathological foci on the retina during patient visits. It, however, does not depict one important change--chronic retinal ischemia. This is identified using contrast imaging--fluorescein angiography (FAG). Administration of a contrast medium--fluorescein--into cubital vein enables depiction of non-perfused regions of the retina that form the basis for laser therapy indication as part of the prevention of proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Optical coherence tomography (OCT), during which an optical beam makes a cross-section through all 10 layers of the retina, is an important advance in the diagnostics of diabetic macular oedema. The spectral OCT (S-OCT) in particular is an analogy of a histological examination of retina but on a living tissue. Owing to the advances in examination techniques and treatment methods, diabetic neuropathy can now be diagnosed and treated. Early diagnosis of vascular and, consequently, tissue changes in the retina, and in its midsection in particular, is a prerequisite. Tight control of diabetes and the risk factors is sufficient to maintain good visual acuity in patients with intact inner blood-retinal barrier. In collaboration with a diabetologist, fenofibrates are used as the first line treatment when the inner blood-retinal barrier is disturbed (damaged tight junctions between endothelial cells of retinal vessels). To reduce focal macular oedema, the sources of fluid leakage into central retina are occluded using laser interventions on microaneurysms. In diffuse macular oedema, a more intensive laser technique using grid laser coagulation is applied to the central region as well as the surrounding areas of non-perfused retina. It is our view that major macular oedemas often result from an occlusion of a branch of retinal or macular venule. This is why we recommend complementing, in collaboration with a diabetologist, laser treatment of macular oedema with trombolytics. The aim of diabetic macular oedema treatment is its early elimination to avoid irreversible damage to the outer segments and later to photoreceptor cells. These changes are the main cause of the previously mentioned legal blindness in diabetic patients and are well identifiable on S-OCT. Laser therapy is the gold standard in the treatment of diabetic macular oedema as well as diabetic retinopathy. However, efficacy is lacking if diabetes and the risk factors are not tightly controlled. Instead of laser therapy to treat diabetic macular oedema with or without macular traction, some authors use a more expensive and more complicated surgery technique (pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane peeling) performed at early stages of the disease. Prevention of microangiopathy of retinal vessels through tight compensation of diabetes and the risk factors form the basis of successful treatment of diabetic retinopathy and maculopathy. At present, we are able to successfully treat developed diabetic retinopathy as well as maculaopathy, including stabilisation of visual function, subject to early diagnosis of retinal changes."}
{"id": "20454812", "title": "OCT is not useful for detection of minimal diabetic retinopathy in type 1 diabetes.", "content": "OCT is not useful for detection of minimal diabetic retinopathy in type 1 diabetes. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) has been proven useful in measuring retinal thickness (RT) in patients with diabetes, although with discordant results in different studies. We examined RT in patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) with or without minimal diabetic retinopathy (MDR) to test whether OCT is able to identify early retinal changes and potential correlations with metabolic parameters. RT of 102 patients with T1D (53 females, 49 males, aged 27.03 +/- 7.4 years) and of 42 healthy controls was examined, with analysis of nine different sectors (fovea, four pericentral and four peripheral sectors). According to the results of basal fundus photography, patients were divided into two groups, without MDR (48 cases) and with MDR (54 cases). Patients with proliferative DR or macular edema were excluded. No difference was found between patients with or without MDR and the control group for all OCT parameters investigated. Mean HbA1c of the last 5 years (P < 0.001), microalbuminuria (P = 0.002), total (P = 0.046) and LDL cholesterol (P = 0.007) and triglyceride (P < 0.001) levels were higher in patients with MDR, along with higher prevalence of hypertension (P = 0.013), younger age at diagnosis (P = 0.018) and longer diabetes duration (P < 0.001) with regard to the patients without MDR and controls, although no significant correlation between these parameters and RT was found. Our study suggests that MDR without macular edema in patients with T1D cannot be detected with OCT. Therefore, the conventional diagnostic methods are mandatory to detect early DR."}
{"id": "20453801", "title": "Changes in macular thickness after panretinal photocoagulation in patients with severe diabetic retinopathy and no macular edema.", "content": "Changes in macular thickness after panretinal photocoagulation in patients with severe diabetic retinopathy and no macular edema. The purpose of this study was to investigate changes in macular thickness after panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) in patients with severe diabetic retinopathy (DR) without macular edema and to compare the visual acuity outcomes. This prospective cohort study included 30 patients with severe nonproliferative DR or non-high-risk proliferative DR whose visual acuity was > or =0.8 before PRP. Sixty eyes of 30 patients with severe nonproliferative DR or non-high-risk proliferative DR received biweekly PRP treatment in 4 sessions. Macular thickness and visual acuity were measured before and at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after PRP. The visual acuities were 0.02 +/- 0.11 before PRP and 0.04 +/- 0.11, 0.04 +/- 0.07, 0.02 +/- 0.07, and 0.04 +/- 0.08 at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after PRP, respectively (P > 0.05 for each). Central macular thickness was increased at 1 (223.3 +/- 40.6 microm), 3 (216.8 +/- 23.5 microm), 6 (219.4 +/- 33.1 microm), and 12 months (220.4 +/- 17.3 microm) after PRP compared with that before PRP (199.0 +/- 20.9 microm; P < 0.05 for each). Biweekly PRP (1,200-1,600 spots) had no effect on visual acuity in patients with severe DR without macular edema, which was determined by clinical and optical coherence tomography examination, although mild macular thickening frequently persists."}
{"id": "20453545", "title": "Features of optical coherence tomography are predictive of visual outcomes after intravitreal bevacizumab injection for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Features of optical coherence tomography are predictive of visual outcomes after intravitreal bevacizumab injection for diabetic macular edema. To identify optical coherence tomography (OCT) patterns of diabetic macular edema (DME) predictive of visual outcomes after intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB; Avastin\u00ae) injection. We retrospectively examined 56 consecutive eyes that were given IVB injections for DME alongside the preoperative macular OCT data. Using this information, we categorized the eyes into 2 groups: group 1 showing diffuse patterns; group 2 demonstrating cystoid macular edema (CME). The mean follow-up period was 11.66 \u00b1 3.98 months. Group 1 eyes gained 0.04 \u00b1 9.27 ETDRS letters (p = 0.984), while group 2 eyes gained 5.79 \u00b1 9.98 ETDRS letters (p = 0.005). Mean macular thickness decreased by 72.79 \u00b1 145.74 \u03bcm in group 1 (p = 0.014) and by 223.71 \u00b1 224.52 \u03bcm in group 2 (p< 0.001). Patients showing CME upon OCT achieved greater improvements in visual acuity and macular thickness after IVB injection than patients with diffuse macular edema. The type of macular edema shown by OCT may provide an objective guideline in predicting the response of DME to IVB injection."}
{"id": "20453539", "title": "Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography use in macular diseases: a review.", "content": "Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography use in macular diseases: a review. The introduction of spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) has improved the clinical value for assessment of the eyes with macular disease. This article reviews the advances of SD-OCT for the diagnostic of various macular diseases. These include vitreomacular traction syndrome, cystoid macular edema/diabetic macular edema, epiretinal membranes, full-thickness macular holes, lamellar holes, pseudoholes, microholes, and schisis from myopia. Besides offering new insights into the pathogenesis of macular abnormalities, SD-OCT is a valuable tool for monitoring macular disease."}
{"id": "20451897", "title": "The association between percent disruption of the photoreceptor inner segment-outer segment junction and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "The association between percent disruption of the photoreceptor inner segment-outer segment junction and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the integrity of the photoreceptor inner segment/outer segment (IS/OS) junction using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD OCT) in patients with diabetic macular edema and to correlate the relationship between the integrity of the IS/OS junction and visual acuity. Retrospective, comparative, consecutive case series. Sixty-two eyes from 38 patients with diabetic macular edema underwent SD OCT imaging. For each patient, 2 experienced observers masked to visual acuity measured several SD OCT variables, including central macular thickness, retinal volume, global disruption scale of outer retina, percentage disruption of the outer retina, and history of previous treatments. Visual acuity recorded as number of Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study letters was used as the outcome variable in univariate and multivariate analysis testing the measured SD OCT variables as predictors. A statistically significant correlation between percentage disruption of the IS/OS junction and visual acuity was found (P = .0312). Additionally, there was a strong trend suggesting a relationship between macular volume and visual acuity, although borderline significance was found (P = .07). Disruption of the photoreceptor IS/OS junction is an important predictor of visual acuity among diabetic macular edema patients."}
{"id": "20445985", "title": "Prediction of postoperative visual outcome after pars plana vitrectomy based on preoperative multifocal electroretinography in eyes with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Prediction of postoperative visual outcome after pars plana vitrectomy based on preoperative multifocal electroretinography in eyes with diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the role of preoperative optical coherence tomography (OCT), multifocal electroretinography (mfERG), and fluorescein angiography (FA) as prognostic factors for vision after pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) in diabetic macular edema (DME). Thirty-five eyes of 34 patients who underwent PPV were retrospectively reviewed. Best-corrected visual acuity (VA) was measured at baseline, and at 3, 6, and 9 months after surgery. Patients were categorized into two groups according to the final VA. Group 1 consisted of eyes with 0.2 or more logMAR lines of visual recovery, the rest of the eyes being placed in group 2. Preoperative FA findings, central macular thickness and mfERG responses at the central macula were evaluated to determine their effect on visual outcome. Eighteen eyes showed improved VA after PPV, and were classified into group 1. Seventeen eyes were placed in group 2. The presence of macular ischemia did not affect the postoperative visual outcome between the groups, although a trend was noted toward macular ischemia with delayed implicit time. P1 implicit time at the central seven hexagons (eccentricity of 0-5 degrees ) was the only statistically significant factor predicting unfavorable visual outcome. There was significantly delayed implicit time in group 2 patients compared with those of group 1. MfERG responses at other retinal eccentricities and central macular thickness did not show significant association with visual prognosis. Preoperative mfERG parameters, especially the implicit time, can be useful indicators for predicting functional visual prognosis after PPV in DME."}
{"id": "20431612", "title": "Functional outcome of subthreshold versus threshold diode laser photocoagulation in diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Functional outcome of subthreshold versus threshold diode laser photocoagulation in diabetic macular oedema. To compare the efficacy of subthreshold diode laser photocoagulation with conventional threshold diode laser in clinically significant macular oedema (CSME) in diabetics. Prospective randomised controlled trial. Thirty eyes of 20 patients with CSME having central macular thickness (CMT) >or=250 microm on optical coherence tomography (OCT) and best corrected Snellen visual acuity (BCVA) of 20/80 or better were randomly assigned to receive subthreshold diode laser (group A) or threshold laser (group B). The clinical course of BCVA, CMT on OCT, photo stress recovery time (PSRT), contrast sensitivity (CS) using Pelli Robson chart, and central visual field (10-2 VF, Humphrey Field Analyser II) were monitored regularly for 18 weeks after intervention. Both groups showed significant (P=0.03) and comparable improvement in mean BCVA at 18 weeks visit. There were also significant and comparable reductions (P<0.01) in mean CMT at all visits compared with baseline in both groups. PSRT and CS (75+/-16 (mean+/-SD) and 0.72+/-0.3 in group A and 81+/-12 and 0.68+/-0.2 in group B pre-laser) were significantly better in group A at the final visit (66+/-17 and 1.04+/-0.3) as compared to group B (78+/-11 and 0.73+/-0.3). One patient in group B showed a paracentral scotoma on 10-2 VF after the laser, which persisted till the end of follow-up. Subthreshold diode laser photocoagulation is as effective as conventional threshold laser in reducing or eliminating diabetic macular oedema (on OCT) and in improving BCVA. Recovery of macular function as assessed by CS and PSRT maybe better with subthreshold laser."}
{"id": "20415296", "title": "Repeatability of retinal thickness measurements between spectral-domain and time-domain optical coherence tomography images in macular disease.", "content": "Repeatability of retinal thickness measurements between spectral-domain and time-domain optical coherence tomography images in macular disease. To evaluate and compare the intra-session repeatability of retinal thickness measurements from the Topcon 3D OCT 1000 (Topcon Medical Systems; Paramus, NJ), a spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) system, with the Stratus (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc., Dublin, CA), a time-domain OCT (TD-OCT) system, in eyes with retinal diseases. Repeated scans with both SD-OCT and TD-OCT were taken. Thickness measurements from high-quality scans were used to assess repeatability and compare measurements between the two instruments. Paired scans from 127 eyes were evaluated, of which 63 pairs were of high quality. Coefficients of repeatability and variation for the central subfield were 20.1 \u03bcm (2.6%) with SD-OCT and 27.4 \u03bcm (4%) with TD-OCT (P = .38). The mean difference in central subfield thickness between the two instruments was 24.5 \u03bcm (standard deviation = 20.9). Repeatability of retinal thickness measurements with the Topcon 3D OCT 1000 is comparable to the Stratus. The measurements of the two machines differ significantly and cannot be used interchangeably."}
{"id": "20408067", "title": "[Focal laser photocoagulation in patients with diabetic macular edema after pretreatment with triamcinolone: 6-month results].", "content": "[Focal laser photocoagulation in patients with diabetic macular edema after pretreatment with triamcinolone: 6-month results]. The aim of this study was to analyse the 6-months results of focal laser photocoagulation (LC) applied after previous intravitreal injection of triamcinolone in eyes with non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy and clinically significant diabetic macular edema (DME). 32 eyes (32 patients) with DME were included in this study. The number of laser treatments was: 1 in 14 eyes, 2 in 11, 3 in 4 eyes, 4 in 2 and 5 in 1 eye. The first LC was performed at a median of 17 days (mean: 20.3 +/- 6.5, range: 14 - 42 days) after triamcinolone injection. The second, if necessary, at a median of 32.5 (mean: 45.6 +/- 36.6, range: 22 - 144) days after injection. Mean logMAR visual acuity improved from baseline 0.56 (median: 0.48; 95 %-confidence interval [CI]: 0.41 - 0.71) to 0.47 (median: 0.40, CI: 0.36 - 0.58) after 1 month, and 0.49 (median: 0.40, CI: 0.38 - 0.61) at 3 months, and 0.47 (median: 0.40, CI: 0.36 - 0.58) at 6 months (p < 0.0065). Mean central retinal thickness (OCT-CRT) of optical coherence tomography measurements improved from 417 microm (median: 402.5, CI: 375 - 460 microm) at baseline to 301 microm (median: 280, CI: 271 - 331) at 1 month, 318 microm (median: 305, CI: 276 - 360) at 3 months and 348 microm (median: 329.5, CI: 299 - 398 microm) at 6 months (p = 0.0256). A second combination therapy was performed in 1 eye 3 months after the first injection. In 7 / 32 eyes (22 %) further injections and LC were indicated after 6 months. 8 / 32 eyes received newly prescribed antiglaucomatous medication and 4 / 32 eyes cataract surgery during follow-up. Focal LC after previous injection of triamcinolone results in an early and in most cases persistent functional improvement in eyes with DME."}
{"id": "20393742", "title": "Selective retina therapy (SRT) for clinically significant diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Selective retina therapy (SRT) for clinically significant diabetic macular edema. To test selective retina therapy (SRT) as a treatment of clinically significant diabetic macular edema (DME). Prospective two-center interventional uncontrolled phase II pilot study. Thirty-nine eyes of 39 patients with previously untreated non-ischemic DME were treated with focal laser treatment using a Q-switched frequency doubled Nd:YLF laser which selectively affects the retinal pigment epithelium while sparing the photoreceptor layer. Optoacoustic measurements, fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA), and funduscopy were used to determine the individual threshold of RPE damage of each patient. The pulse energy was adjusted to apply angiographically visible but funduscopically invisible effects. Optoacoustic measurements were correlated with funduscopy and FFA. Follow-up examinations at 3 and 6 months post-treatment included best-corrected ETDRS visual acuity (BCVA), FFA, fundus photography, and retinal thickness measured by optical coherence tomography. The primary outcome measure was change of BCVA. Other outcome measures were change of retinal thickness, presence of hard exudates, leakage in FFA, accuracy of optoacoustic measurements, and correlation of BCVA with change of anatomical and systemic parameters. Mean BCVA improved from 43.7 letters (standard deviation, SD=9.1) at baseline to 46.1 letters (SD=10.5) at the 6-month follow-up (p=0.02). BCVA improved (>5 letters) or remained stable (+/-5 letters) in 84% of eyes. Thirteen percent of eyes improved by > or =10 letters, while 16% of eyes lost more than 5 letters. There was no severe loss of vision (> or =15 letters). Overall, retinal thickness, hard exudates, and leakage in FFA did not change significantly (p> 0.05), while improvement of BCVA correlated with a reduction of hard exudates (p=0.01) and central retinal thickness (p=0.01). Specificity and sensitivity of detecting the angiographic visible threshold of RPE damage by optoacoustic measurements were 86% and 70% respectively. No adverse effects or pain were noted during or after treatment. Conclusions Functional and anatomical improvement or stabilization was observed in most patients. SRT appears to be safe. Optoacoustic measurements accurately detect the individual threshold of RPE damage. A randomized trial is required to further test efficacy and safety of SRT as a treatment of clinically significant diabetic macular edema (DME)."}
{"id": "20393723", "title": "[Unusual symptoms for tamoxifen-associated maculopathy].", "content": "[Unusual symptoms for tamoxifen-associated maculopathy]. In approximately 0.6-12% of patients systemic tamoxifen therapy is complicated by ocular toxicity. Classical findings include severe loss of visual acuity combined with crystalline retinal deposits in the macula and macular edema or crystalline deposits in the peripheral retina. We report the case of a 55-year-old female patient with known breast cancer and osseous metastases who presented with bilateral visual loss lasting over 10 months (OD et OS cc 0.2). The patient had received a systemic therapy with tamoxifen (20 mg per day) 7 years ago. The biomicroscopic examination showed a cup-disc-ratio of 0.5 in both eyes due to primary open angle glaucoma. Optic coherence tomography (OCT) of the right eye revealed a cystoid foveal area with focal lamellar disruption of the photoreceptor layer without evidence of macular edema or thickening. The 30-2 Humphrey visual field of the right eye revealed a mean deviation (MD) of 6.2 dB and a glaucoma-specific absolute scotoma without connection to the blind spot. The visual field of the left eye was inconspicuous (MD 1.1 dB). The left eye showed a perifoveolar area of increased autofluorescence where there was a slight increase of staining in the early phase of fluorescein angiography. The full-field electroretinography was inconspicuous for both eyes. Although tamoxifen-associated retinopathy is a rare complication of breast cancer therapy it is one of the primary differential diagnoses in a patient presenting with loss of visual acuity and a history of a long standing tamoxifen therapy. Because of the rareness of this disease there are classical examples of tamoxifen-associated ocular toxicity in the literature, but also transient forms which complicate the differential diagnosis. The differentiation from carcinoma-associated retinopathy is particularly important because of the different therapeutic options"}
{"id": "20393116", "title": "The PROM1 mutation p.R373C causes an autosomal dominant bull's eye maculopathy associated with rod, rod-cone, and macular dystrophy.", "content": "The PROM1 mutation p.R373C causes an autosomal dominant bull's eye maculopathy associated with rod, rod-cone, and macular dystrophy. To characterize in detail the phenotype of five unrelated families with autosomal dominant bull's eye maculopathy (BEM) due to the R373C mutation in the PROM1 gene. Forty-one individuals of five families of Caribbean (family A), British (families B, D, E), and Italian (family C) origin, segregating the R373C mutation in PROM1, were ascertained. Electrophysiological assessment, fundus autofluorescence (FAF) imaging, fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA), and optical coherence tomography (OCT) were performed in available subjects. Mutation screening of PROM1 was performed. The R373C mutant was present heterozygously in all affected patients. The age at onset was variable and ranged between 9 and 58 years, with most of the individuals presenting with reading difficulties. Subjects commonly had a mild to moderate reduction in visual acuity except for members of family C who experienced markedly reduced central vision. The retinal phenotype was characterized by macular dystrophy, with retinal pigment epithelial mottling in younger subjects, progressing to typical BEM over time, with the development of macular atrophy in older patients. In addition, all members of family C had typical features of RP. The electrophysiological findings were variable both within and between families. Mutations in PROM1 have been described to cause a severe form of autosomal recessive RP in two families of Indian and Pakistani descent. The results of this study have demonstrated that a distinct redundant PROM1 mutation (R373C) can also produce an autosomal dominant, fully penetrant retinopathy, characterized by BEM with little inter- and intrafamilial variability, and retinal dystrophy with variable rod or rod-cone dysfunction and marked intra- and interfamilial variability, ranging from isolated maculopathy without generalized photoreceptor dysfunction to maculopathy associated with very severe rod-cone dysfunction."}
{"id": "20380286", "title": "Optical coherence tomography for the detection of early macular edema in diabetic patients with retinopathy.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography for the detection of early macular edema in diabetic patients with retinopathy. To compare the retinal thickness measurements with spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT) in healthy subjects with those of type 2 diabetes patients with or without diabetic retinopathy (DR) and with no clinical evidence of diabetic macular edema (DME). The present prospective study included 29 diabetic patients (57 eyes) with no DR (group 1), 32 diabetic patients (63 eyes) with DR (group 2) and 25 healthy volunteers (39 eyes, control group). Eyes showing macular edema on slit-lamp biomicroscopy or leakage on fluorescein angiography were not included in the study. The mean retinal thickness at the central fixation point (CFP) and the 9 ETDRS macular regions were compared in subgroups of healthy volunteers by age, sex and right or left eye. These mean retinal thickness values were also compared in the control group, group 1 and group 2. Early DME was diagnosed with OCT if it exceeded the mean thickness +2.SD (standard deviation) in healthy subjects. Mean retinal thickness at the CFP and fovea in healthy eyes was 176 +/- 16.8 microm and 198.3 +/- 21.4 microm, respectively. It was significantly greater in men than in women (p < 0.05), decreased with age and showed no statistically significant difference between right and left eyes. Differences in retinal thickness were found to be significant for the CFP and all ETDRS regions (controls vs. group 1 and controls vs. group 2) and for the CFP, fovea, superior inner, temporal inner and nasal inner ETDRS regions (group 1 vs. group 2, group 2 having greater thickness). Early DME was diagnosed at retinal thickness exceeding 209.6 microm at the CFP and 241.1 microm at the fovea in 13 eyes of diabetic patients from group 2. Twelve eyes with early DME had mild non-proliferative DR and one--moderate non-proliferative DR. In the present study, mean retinal thickness was greater in diabetic patients (with and without DR) than in healthy subjects. Patients with DR had thicker retinas than patients without DR. Spectral-domain OCT seemed to be useful for the detection of early DME in patients with retinopathy and no clinical evidence of macular edema. Patients with early DME should have a closer follow-up"}
{"id": "20363505", "title": "A proposed method of logarithmic transformation of optical coherence tomography data for use in clinical research.", "content": "A proposed method of logarithmic transformation of optical coherence tomography data for use in clinical research. To evaluate a logarithmic transformation of retinal thickness measurements from optical coherence tomography as a new approach to assess clinically meaningful changes in retinal thickness. Methodologic, evidence-based review. Standard published approaches for assessing change in retinal thickness over time, as measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT), were compared with a new approach based on a logarithmic transformation of the retinal thickness data. Comparative examples were derived using published data from a clinical trial comparing intravitreal corticosteroid injections for diabetic macular edema with standard laser treatment. Comparative examples using Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical Research Network data. Logarithmic transformation of retinal thickness data results in a more normalized distribution of OCT data and allows for data analyses assessing proportionate changes in retinal thickness during follow-up. For analysis of grouped data, a logarithmic transformation of the OCT retinal thickness measurements (logOCT) provides several analytic advantages. Distributions of retinal thickness in groups of eyes with diabetic macular edema, and many other causes of macular thickening, tend to be skewed to the right; the logOCT transformation tends to normalize these distributions, which has value for statistical comparisons. For assessing whether the observed OCT change in a patient is real (and not due to testing variability), a 1-step log scale change exceeds the measurement error for all degrees of retinal thickness in current instruments. In addition, this log scale is similar to the logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) scale used for visual acuity. Steps on the log scale for change in thickness seem to be better related to clinical importance than the actual change in microns because each step on the log scale is the same proportionate change in thickness, with a 3-step change equaling a halving or doubling of thickness, regardless of the baseline value. Transformation of OCT retinal thickness data to logOCT may assist in the assessment of clinically meaningful changes in retinal thickness just as use of the logMAR scale has helped to assess clinically meaningful changes in visual acuity."}
{"id": "20346827", "title": "OCT and cataract.", "content": "OCT and cataract."}
{"id": "20309573", "title": "Idiopathic maculopathy in eyes with regressed retinopathy of prematurity.", "content": "Idiopathic maculopathy in eyes with regressed retinopathy of prematurity. To describe idiopathic maculopathy in eyes with regressed retinopathy of prematurity, which differs from cicatricial changes in retinopathy of prematurity. institutional. patients were former preterm infants who had undergone fundus examinations for retinopathy of prematurity between December 1993 and May 2002. Posterior polar cicatricial change was excluded. The medical records of eight eyes (four patients) with photo-documented idiopathic maculopathy were reviewed retrospectively. complete ophthalmologic examinations including best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), refractive error, funduscopic examination, fluorescein angiography (FAG), and optical coherence tomography (OCT). Maculopathy was characterized by depigmented geographic atrophy. FAG showed window defects due to atrophy of retinal pigment epithelium. OCT showed depression in the fovea with retained internal architecture. In all cases patients had retinopathy of prematurity, and all except one had been treated with laser photocoagulation. In the case without laser photocoagulation, maculopathy was observed on the first exam. In the other cases, no maculopathy was observed on the first exam, but was detected after laser photocoagulation. No patient had a family history of hereditary retinal dystrophy. In all cases, maculopathy was noted in both eyes with myopia. BCVA was variable (0.0 approximately 0.82, 0.32 +/- 0.32 logMAR). No progression was observed over the course of 8 years. Idiopathic maculopathy is a rare posterior polar change that differs from the cicatricial changes seen in retinopathy of prematurity, and is independent of prior laser photocoagulation. No progression was observed, and visual prognosis was fair."}
{"id": "20300127", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab vs intravitreal triamcinolone combined with macular laser grid for diffuse diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab vs intravitreal triamcinolone combined with macular laser grid for diffuse diabetic macular oedema. To evaluate the 12-month clinical outcome of patients with persistent non-ischaemic diffuse diabetic macular oedema (DME) treated with intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) or with intravitreal injection of triamcinolone combined with macular laser grid (IVTA-MLG) from September 2005 to February 2008. Retrospective interventional comparative study. Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA, ETDRS LogMAR scale) and foveal thickness (FT) at optical coherence tomography (OCT) were obtained at baseline and during 12 months after first treatment. Re-treatment was based on clinical or OCT-based evidence of persistent macular oedema or deterioration in visual acuity. Forty-three eyes (32 patients) with DME were treated with IVB. Ninety-six eyes (52 patients) with DME were treated with combined laser grid treatment and intravitreal triamcinolone. At baseline, mean BCVA and FT were 0.92+/-0.34 LogMAR and 372+/-22 microm in the IVTA-MLG group, and 1.07+/-0.49 LogMAR and 423+/-33 microm in the IVB group, respectively. At 1- and 3-month visits, BCVA and FT had significantly improved in both groups. After 6 and 12 months, the IVB group experienced a statistically significant improvement in visual acuity (0.83+/-0.21 LogMAR, P<0.001 at 6 months; BCVA 0.86+/-0.24 LogMAR, P<0.001 at 12 months) and FT (248+/-18 microm, P<0.001 at 6 months; 262+/-28 microm, P=0.001 at 12 months) when compared with baseline, whereas the IVTA-MLG group did not show statistically significant improvement in vision and FT. An increase in intraocular pressure (IOP) was present in 10 of 96 (10.4%) eyes treated with IVTA-MLG, and in two cases it was resistant to topical treatment. No significant side effects were reported in the IVB group. At 6 and 12 months after first treatment for chronic DME IVB provided significant improvement of BCVA and FT, whereas improvement after IVTA-MLG was not significant. Increased IOP occurred in 10.4% of patients who received IVTA, with two patients requiring trabeculectomy."}
{"id": "20224402", "title": "Optical coherence tomography in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography in diabetic macular edema. Because optical coherence tomography (OCT) has developed quite rapidly in recent years, the purpose of this review is to synthesize much of the recent literature on the use of OCT in the diagnosis and management of diabetic macular edema (DME). OCT has become increasingly utilized in clinical management and in research protocols in the approach to DME. Spectral domain OCT has given clinicians and researchers an even greater pathophysiologic understanding of DME. OCT has now added another quantitative dimension in the assessment of DME and could lead to better visual outcomes via earlier detection and more targeted therapeutic approaches. Arguably, OCT is the single most important diagnostic and prognostic tool in the management of DME."}
{"id": "20221984", "title": "[Comparison of pars plana vitrectomy with ILM peeling and intravitreal triamcinolone in diffuse diabetic macular oedema].", "content": "[Comparison of pars plana vitrectomy with ILM peeling and intravitreal triamcinolone in diffuse diabetic macular oedema]. Visual outcome and anatomic results in patients with diffuse diabetic macular oedema (DDME) were evaluated after vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling versus intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (TA). A prospective, non-randomised pilot study included 41 eyes (35 patients) with clinically significant DDME. In 24 eyes (group A) we performed pars plana vitrectomy with ILM peeling. Seventeen eyes (group B) received an injection of 10 mg TA. Best corrected visual acuity and central macular thickness (measured with OCT) were determined preoperatively as well as 1 and 4 months postoperatively. In group A, OCT showed a macular thickness of 403 +/- 142 microm preoperatively. Best corrected visual acuity was 0.24 +/- 0.18. One month after surgery, macular thickness decreased to 311 +/- 62 microm (p = 0.06 ns) and visual acuity was 0.17 +/- 0.14 (ns). Four months after surgery, macular thickness remained significantly lower compared with preoperative values, at 307 +/- 161 microm (p = 0.012). There was a tendency towards a higher visual acuity of 0.30 +/- 0.26 (p = 0.32 ns). Before TA injection, macular thickness in group B was 551 +/- 180 microm and visual acuity was 0.19 +/- 0.14. One month after TA, macular thickness decreased to 242 +/- 82 (p = 0.001) microm while visual acuity increased to 0.31 +/- 0.21 (p = 0.005). At 4 months follow-up, group B showed recurrence of macular oedema. Compared with the preoperative findings macular thickness was significantly lower (368 +/- 159 microm; p = 0,001). Best corrected visual acuity after 4 months was 0.27 +/- 0.17 and did not differ significantly from the preoperative visual acuity (p = 0.033 ns). Intravitreal TA as a single treatment reduces the extent of DDME within a short time after surgery. These promising results may not be stable during long-term follow-up, necessitating in many cases a re-injection of TA. Macular oedema reduction after vitrectomy with ILM peeling, however, remains stable for more than 4 months and, therefore, offers more permanent results. However, none of these treatments facilitated a significant visual acuity restoration 4 months postoperatively."}
{"id": "20216291", "title": "Correlation between morphologic features on spectral-domain optical coherence tomography and angiographic leakage patterns in macular edema.", "content": "Correlation between morphologic features on spectral-domain optical coherence tomography and angiographic leakage patterns in macular edema. The purpose of this study was to determine the morphologic patterns of angiographic macular edema using simultaneous colocalization of fluorescein angiography and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) images in diabetes, epiretinal membrane, uveitic and pseudophakic cystoid macular edema, and vein occlusion. Eighty-seven consecutive patients (107 eyes) with macular edema from 5 different etiologies were imaged by simultaneous scanning laser ophthalmoscopy/OCT to study the morphologic patterns of edema on SD-OCT and then correlated/colocalized with the fluorescein angiographic patterns of leakage. Statistical analysis was done to analyze the differences in the morphologic OCT pattern by different diseases. Spectral-domain OCT characteristics of macular edema showed a significant difference across different diseases (P = 0.037). Cystic fluid pockets were found to be more commonly seen in patients with diabetic macular edema and retinal vein occlusions, whereas those cases with macular edema secondary to epiretinal membrane showed noncystic changes on OCT. Seventy of the 107 eyes had diffuse angiographic leakage, and the remaining 37 eyes had cystoid leakage on angiography. Of the 70 eyes with diffuse leakage, 24.28% showed microcysts on SD-OCT in the area of edema, and 70% eyes had diffuse thickening or distorted architecture without cyst. All 37 eyes with cystoid leakage showed cysts in the area of edema by SD-OCT. A total of 3.73% of eyes with fluorescein angiographic leakage had no abnormalities on SD-OCT. Eyes with diabetic macular edema and retinal vein occlusions have a significantly higher incidence of cyst formation on SD-OCT. There was no correlation between visual acuity and cyst formation. Diffuse noncystoid angiographic macular edema may show microcysts on SD-OCT, but diffuse edema is more commonly associated with thickening or distortion of the retinal layers without cyst formation. Cystoid leakage on fluorescein angiography is always associated with cystic changes on SD-OCT."}
{"id": "20202684", "title": "Sustained ocular delivery of fluocinolone acetonide by an intravitreal insert.", "content": "Sustained ocular delivery of fluocinolone acetonide by an intravitreal insert. To compare Iluvien intravitreal inserts that release 0.2 or 0.5 microg/day of fluocinolone acetonide (FA) in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). Prospective, randomized, interventional, multicenter clinical trial. We included 37 patients with DME. Subjects with persistent DME despite > or = 1 focal/grid laser therapy were randomized 1:1 to receive an intravitreal insertion of a 0.2- or a 0.5-microg/day insert. The primary end point was aqueous levels of FA throughout the study with an important secondary outcome of the change from baseline in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) at month 12. The mean aqueous level of FA peaked at 3.8 ng/ml at 1 week and 1 month after administration of a 0.5-microg/day insert and was 3.4 and 2.7 ng/ml 1 week and 1 month after administration of a 0.2-microg/day insert. For both inserts, FA levels decreased slowly thereafter and were approximately 1.5 ng/ml for each at month 12. The mean change from baseline in BCVA was 7.5, 6.9, and 5.7 letters at months 3, 6, and 12, respectively, after administration of a 0.5 microg/day-insert and was 5.1, 2.7, and 1.3 letters at months 3, 6, and 12, respectively, after administration of a 0.2-microg/day insert. There was a mild increase in mean intraocular pressure after administration of 0.5-microg/day inserts, but not after administration of 0.2-microg/day inserts. The FA intravitreal inserts provide excellent sustained intraocular release of FA for > or = 1 year. Although the number of patients in this trial was small, the data suggest that the inserts provide reduction of edema and improvement in BCVA in patients with DME with mild effects on intraocular pressure over the span of 1 year. Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references."}
{"id": "20195039", "title": "Cystoid macular edema and visual loss as sequelae to interferon alpha treatment of systemic hepatitis C.", "content": "Cystoid macular edema and visual loss as sequelae to interferon alpha treatment of systemic hepatitis C. Hepatitis C virus infection and interferon treatment may be associated with retinopathy but visual function is generally unaffected. This paper reports the rare occurrence of unilateral macular edema with visual loss. We present an interventional case report with fundus photograph and optical coherence tomography (OCT). A 48-year-old white male with hepatitis C, treated with a six-month course of pegylated interferon alpha and ribavirin, complained of gradual reduction in the vision of his left eye. Visual acuities were 20/16 right and 20/400 left with clinical examination and OCT confirming cystoid macular edema. This report shows that cystoid macular edema may rarely occur in association with hepatitis C infection and/or interferon therapy. Physicians and ophthalmologists should be alert to this potential but infrequent association as the resultant visual loss is a significant potential complication that should be discussed when obtaining informed consent for interferon treatment."}
{"id": "20182403", "title": "Intravitreal injection versus subtenon infusion of triamcinolone acetonide during cataract surgery in patients with refractory diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal injection versus subtenon infusion of triamcinolone acetonide during cataract surgery in patients with refractory diabetic macular edema. The purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of intravitreal injection (IVT) versus posterior subtenon infusion (STI) of triamcinolone acetonide performed during phacoemulsification cataract surgery in eyes with refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema. Twenty-four eyes of 24 patients with refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema scheduled to undergo phacoemulsification cataract surgery were randomly assigned to receive either a 4-mg IVT (n = 12) or a 40-mg STI (n = 12) of triamcinolone acetonide during cataract surgery. Comprehensive ophthalmic evaluation, including best-corrected visual acuity, intraocular pressure, and central macular thickness measured with optical coherence tomography, was performed at baseline and at 1, 4, 8 +/- 1, 12 +/- 2, and 24 +/- 2 weeks postoperatively. Ten patients from the IVT group and 9 patients from the STI group completed the 24-week study visit. Mean baseline best-corrected visual acuity (logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution) was 20/259 and 20/222 in the IVT and STI groups, respectively (t = 0.41; P = 0.3407). A significant improvement in best-corrected visual acuity was observed only in the IVT group at 4 weeks (mean difference +/- standard error, improved to 20/116; P = 0.0437), 8 weeks (20/110; P = 0.0355), and 12 weeks (20/121; P = 0.0471) postoperatively. There was no significant change from baseline in mean intraocular pressure in either group. Mean +/- standard error baseline central macular thickness was 474.1 +/- 42.4 microm and 490.8 +/- 70.8 microm in the IVT and STI groups, respectively (t = 0.21; P = 0.5807). The central macular thickness reductions after surgery at all study follow-up visits were significantly greater in the IVT group than in the STI group (P < 0.05). These data suggest that IVT is more effective than STI of triamcinolone acetonide for the management of refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema in eyes undergoing phacoemulsification. Further investigation of a larger number of patients with longer follow-up is necessary to confirm these findings."}
{"id": "20180131", "title": "Steroid eye drop treatment (difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion) is effective in reducing refractory diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Steroid eye drop treatment (difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion) is effective in reducing refractory diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the efficacy of treatment of refractory diabetic macular edema (DME) after vitrectomy with difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion 0.05% (Durezol(TM)), and to compare this treatment with sub-Tenon's injection of triamcinolone (STTA). This study enrolled patients with refractory diabetic macular edema that persisted despite pars plana vitrectomy in our clinic. In all subjects, more than 3 months had passed since prior treatment. Eleven eyes in ten subjects were treated with STTA (STTA group), and 11 eyes in seven subjects were treated with difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion 0.05% (Durezol(TM), Sirion Therapeutics Inc., USA) 4 times daily for the first month and then twice daily for 2 months (eye drop group). In the eye drop group, mean VA (+/- SD) was 0.67 +/- 0.35 logMAR and mean retinal thickness was 500.6 +/- 207.7 mum at baseline. After 3 months of treatment, mean VA was 0.67 +/- 0.29 and mean retinal thickness had decreased to 341.2 +/- 194.8 mum. The mean minimum value of RT during the treatment period was 300.6 +/- 123.2 mum, and significantly lower than that at baseline (Mann-Whitney U test: P = 0.003). In the STTA group, mean VA (+/- SD) was 0.67 +/- 0.35 logMAR, and mean retinal thickness was 543.3 +/- 132.6 mum at baseline. After 3 months of treatment, mean VA was 0.49 +/- 0.67, and mean retinal thickness had decreased to 378.6 +/- 135 mum. The mean minimum value of RT during the treatment period was 349.9 +/- 113.8 mum, and significantly lower than at baseline (Mann-Whitney U test: P = 0.003). The rate of effective improvement in RT did not differ between the eye drop group (73%) and STTA group (84%) (Fisher's exact test: P = 1). Comparable improvements of retinal thickness were observed in the STTA and eye drop groups. Instillation of difluprednate ophthalmic emulsion 0.05% is a safe and effective treatment that does not require surgical intervention and does not produce severe side-effects."}
{"id": "20168272", "title": "Microperimetry and fundus autofluorescence in diabetic macular edema: subthreshold micropulse diode laser versus modified early treatment diabetic retinopathy study laser photocoagulation.", "content": "Microperimetry and fundus autofluorescence in diabetic macular edema: subthreshold micropulse diode laser versus modified early treatment diabetic retinopathy study laser photocoagulation. The purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare microperimetry and fundus autofluorescence (FAF) after subthreshold micropulse diode laser versus modified Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study photocoagulation for clinically significant diabetic macular edema. A prospective randomized clinical trial including 62 eyes (50 patients) with untreated, center-involving, clinically significant diabetic macular edema was performed. All patients underwent best-corrected visual acuity determination (logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution), slit-lamp biomicroscopy, FAF, optical coherence tomography, microperimetry (macular sensitivity), and fluorescein angiography before and after treatment. Best-corrected visual acuity, optical coherence tomography, microperimetry, and FAF were repeated at 1-, 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-month follow-up examinations. Fluorescein angiography was performed at baseline and at 6 and 12 months. Before treatment, demographic and macular parameters were not different between the two treatment groups. At 12 months, best-corrected visual acuity remained stable in both groups (P = 0.41 and P = 0.82), mean central retinal thickness decreased in both groups (P = 0.0002 and P < 0.0001), and mean central 4 degrees and 12 degrees retinal sensitivity increased in the micropulse diode laser group (P = 0.02 and P = 0.0075) and decreased in the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study group (P = 0.2 and P = 0.0026). There was no significant difference in either best-corrected visual acuity or central retinal thickness between the 2 treatment groups (P = 0.48 and P = 0.29), whereas there was a significant difference in 4 degrees and 12 degrees retinal sensitivity (P = 0.04 and P < 0.0001). Fundus autofluorescence never changed in the micropulse diode laser group even after retreatment. In the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study group, FAF increased up to 9 months and decreased in 6 eyes (20%) at 12 months. Micropulse diode laser seems to be as effective as modified Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study laser photocoagulation in the treatment of clinically significant diabetic macular edema. Micropulse diode laser treatment does not determine any change on FAF showing (at least) nonclinically visible damage of the retinal pigment epithelium. Microperimetry data encourage the use of a new, less aggressive laser therapeutic approach in the treatment of clinically significant diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "20168270", "title": "Cystoid macular edema without macular thickening: a retrospective optical coherence tomographic study.", "content": "Cystoid macular edema without macular thickening: a retrospective optical coherence tomographic study. This is a retrospective observational case series of 37 eyes of 32 patients meeting the inclusion criteria intended to describe the appearance, prevalence, and associated risk factors for cystoid macular edema in eyes with normal foveal thickness and contour as determined by optical coherence tomography (OCT). A retrospective review of all patients with macular disease who underwent OCT evaluation at the New England Eye Center from January to March 2007 and met the study inclusion criteria was performed. Optical coherence tomography scans were evaluated for the presence of intraretinal cystic fluid or cystoid macular edema but with normal retinal thickness and foveal contour. Retinal thickness and contour were evaluated using OCT mapping software. The main outcome measures were as follows: OCT-defined entity based on the presence of cystoid spaces within the fovea, \"normal\" foveal thickness (<252 microm), normal foveal contour, and best-corrected visual acuity on the date of examination. Thirty-seven eyes of 32 patients were determined to have cystoid macular edema with normal foveal thickness and contour on OCT. The overall prevalence within our patient population was 4.9%. Mean foveal thickness (standard deviation) for these patients was 201.4 microm (28.9) compared with normal mean foveal thickness (standard deviation) of 212 microm (20.0). Of the 32 patients, 17 (53.1%) had a primary diagnosis of age-related macular degeneration. The mean visual acuity (Snellen; logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution) was 20/80 (0.60). Cystoid macular edema in the setting of normal foveal thickness and contour as determined by OCT has not been extensively described. This entity is not pathognomonic of a single diagnosis and can occur in the setting of several disparate diagnoses as seen in our cohort. Chief among these were age-related macular degeneration and diabetic retinopathy. Acute postcataract cystoid macular edema was absent."}
{"id": "20168267", "title": "Secondary macular hole formation after vitrectomy.", "content": "Secondary macular hole formation after vitrectomy. The purpose of this study was to report the incidence and the underlying ocular pathology of a macular hole (MH) that develops in vitrectomized eyes and to evaluate its prognosis. A retrospective chart review was performed in patients who underwent vitrectomy between March 2004 and June 2009. Cases that developed an MH in vitrectomized eyes were identified, and the data from all ophthalmology examinations were collected. Patients with recurrent MHs after the initial MH surgery were excluded. We identified 10 cases of secondary MH during a period of 64 months (incidence, 8 of 3,279 [0.24%]). Two cases of secondary MHs were not included in the calculations because the initial vitrectomies were performed before March 2004. The initial vitrectomy was performed on four eyes with vitreous hemorrhage caused by proliferative diabetic retinopathy, three eyes with retinal detachment from high myopia, one eye with combined retinal detachment with uveitis, one eye with rhegmatogenous retinal detachment, and one eye with an epiretinal membrane. The macular pathology identified before MH formation included cystoid macular edema in two eyes, epiretinal membrane in four eyes, and no specific lesion in another four eyes. The secondary MHs were managed by additional vitrectomy, peeling of the internal limiting membrane, and intravitreal gas tamponade. Nine of 10 eyes achieved hole closure after the secondary surgery, and 8 eyes recovered their previous visual acuity; the other 2 eyes had visual loss within 2 Snellen chart lines, and none of the 9 patients had a recurrence during a mean follow-up of 20.7 months (range, 4-31 months). The development of secondary MHs after vitrectomy is rare. Pathogenic mechanisms other than idiopathic MH may be involved in these cases. The anatomical and functional outcome of the secondary MHs that developed after vitrectomy was good, although the final visual acuity was dependent on the underlying ocular pathology."}
{"id": "20160463", "title": "Comparison of intravitreal bevacizumab versus triamcinolone for the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Comparison of intravitreal bevacizumab versus triamcinolone for the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema. Our purpose was to compare the effect of triamcinolone and bevacizumab (Avastin) on the retinal thickness and functional outcome in patients with diabetic macular edema. A collective of 32 patients, who had been treated by a single 4.0-mg intravitreal triamcinolone injection (group 1), was matched to 32 patients ('matched pairs'), who had received 3 injections of 1.25 mg of bevacizumab within 3 months in 4-week intervals (group 2). The outcome variables were changes in best corrected visual acuity (VA) and central retinal thickness 3 months after therapy. Both groups did not differ regarding preoperative VA and central retinal thickness measured by optical coherence tomography. The baseline mean VA was 0.72 +/- 0.39 logMAR in group 1 and 0.73 +/- 0.39 logMAR in group 2 (p = 0.709). The mean central retinal thickness measured by optical coherence tomography was 548 +/- 185 mum in group 1 and 507 +/- 192 mum in group 2. While the patients in group 1 experienced a slight increase in VA of on average 0.7 lines following a single triamcinolone injection to a mean of 0.64 +/- 0.40 logMAR (p = 0.066) after 3 months, the patients in group 2 showed almost no effect on VA with an average increase of 0.2 lines to a mean VA of 0.72 +/- 0.30 logMAR (p = 0.948) following 3 intravitreal injections of bevacizumab. Comparing the effect on VA between both groups no statistically significant difference (p = 0.115) was noted. Concerning decrease in central retinal thickness both therapies were highly effective (p < 0.001 each), again, without statistically significant difference between the groups (p < 0.128). Our data suggest that a single triamcinolone injection may be as effective as a 3 times repeated intravitreal administration of bevacizumab for the treatment of diabetic macular edema. Further prospective trials should be performed."}
{"id": "20142560", "title": "Diabetic macular edema following panretinal photocoagulation.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema following panretinal photocoagulation."}
{"id": "20128571", "title": "Boundary detection errors on optical coherence tomography images in patients with diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Boundary detection errors on optical coherence tomography images in patients with diabetic retinopathy. To study the incidence of boundary detection errors produced by optical coherence tomography measurements in patients with diabetic retinopathy. One hundred sixteen eyes with diabetic retinopathy of 64 consecutive patients with diabetes mellitus were included in this retrospective study. The StratusOCT instrument (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA) with the macular thickness map protocol was used for the examinations. After data acquisition, each scan was analyzed using the retinal thickness (single eye) protocol to evaluate whether there was any misdetection of the retinal boundaries. Boundary detection errors were found in 35.3% of eyes. The majority of artifacts were those caused by hard exudates (41.5%), followed by cystoid macular edema (31.7%) and proliferation (17.0%). Occurrence of artifacts with optical coherence tomography measurements in cases of diabetic retinopathy is not a rare phenomenon and verification of quantitative measurements is strongly recommended."}
{"id": "20128566", "title": "Intravitreal dexamethasone for diabetic macular edema: a pilot study.", "content": "Intravitreal dexamethasone for diabetic macular edema: a pilot study. To determine the response and safety profile of intravitreal dexamethasone in treating diabetic macular edema. In this prospective pilot study, 12 eyes of 12 patients with diabetic macular edema were randomized to receive a single injection of 0.4 mg (n = 6) or 0.8 mg (n = 6) of intravitreal dexamethasone. The outcome measures were changes in best-corrected visual acuity and central foveal thickness on optical coherence tomography. Side effects were monitored. The 3-month results were reported. In both dosage groups, there were transient improvements in best-corrected visual acuity and central foveal thickness, but the changes were not significant at any time point (best-corrected visual acuity: P > or = 0.14; central foveal thickness: P > or = .08). No significant side effects were observed, except one eye developed a peak intraocular pressure of greater than 21 mm Hg. A single injection of intravitreal dexamethasone (0.4 or 0.8 mg) did not have significant beneficial effects on diabetic macular edema within 3 months from injection in this small pilot study."}
{"id": "20128565", "title": "Effects of intravitreal erythropoietin therapy for patients with chronic and progressive diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Effects of intravitreal erythropoietin therapy for patients with chronic and progressive diabetic macular edema. To determine the effects of intravitreal injections of erythropoietin in eyes with severe, chronic diabetic macular edema, 5 eyes of 5 patients underwent injections of rHuEPO alpha (EPO). All eyes had progressive vision loss and persistent or worsening edema with prior multi-modal treatment. EPO (5U/50 microL) was injected intravitreally every 6 weeks for three doses and followed for an additional 6 weeks with complete ocular examinations, fluorescein angiography, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and central field acuity perimetry. Visual acuity of all patients was subjectively improved by 3 or more lines in 3 eyes and 1 line in 2 eyes. Visual acuity improved to a larger extent than anatomic improvement by OCT. Clearing of hard exudates but only minor improvement in leakage on fluorescein angiography was observed. Improvement in vision occurred within 1 week after the first injection and was maintained until the end point of the current case series (at 18 weeks after the first injection). This case series seems to show a short-term positive response to EPO for a specific group of patients with chronic diabetic macular edema who were unresponsive to currently available therapies."}
{"id": "20122739", "title": "Factors associated with improvement and worsening of visual acuity 2 years after focal/grid photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Factors associated with improvement and worsening of visual acuity 2 years after focal/grid photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema. To identify factors associated with the visual acuity outcome after focal/grid photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema (DME) among eyes randomized to the focal/grid photocoagulation treatment group within the Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical Research Network (DRCR.net) trial comparing triamcinolone with focal/grid laser. Multicenter, randomized, clinical trial. Three hundred thirty eyes with DME assigned to the focal/grid photocoagulation group, visual acuity 20/40 to 20/320, and optical coherence tomography (OCT) central subfield thickness > or =250 microns. Eyes were treated with a protocol-defined photocoagulation technique, which was repeated at 4-month intervals for persistent or recurrent edema. Separate logistic regression models were used to evaluate the associations of demographic, clinical, OCT, and fundus photographic variables with visual acuity improvement or worsening of > or =10 letters from baseline to 2 years. The association of the initial visual acuity outcome after treatment with the subsequent visual acuity course also was evaluated. Visual acuity measured with the electronic Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study method. Worse baseline visual acuity was the only factor found to be associated with more frequent visual acuity improvement (P<0.001), and both greater baseline OCT-measured retinal volume (P = 0.001) and better baseline visual acuity (P = 0.009) were found to be associated with more frequent visual acuity worsening. Visual acuity outcomes were similar in eyes with and without prior macular or panretinal photocoagulation. The initial visual acuity outcome at 4 months was not generally predictive of the subsequent course. Many eyes that worsened > or =10 letters from baseline to 4 months subsequently improved, and many eyes that initially improved, subsequently worsened. At this time, focal/grid photocoagulation remains the standard management for DME and these results do not alter this paradigm."}
{"id": "20099242", "title": "Extrafoveal vitreous traction associated with branch retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Extrafoveal vitreous traction associated with branch retinal vein occlusion. To present patients with extrafoveal vitreous traction associated with diffuse macular edema secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). A retrospective study on consecutive patients with BRVO using optical coherence tomography (OCT)-2000 is reported. Excluded were patients with eyes with other retinopathies that could affect analysis and eyes following pars plana vitrectomy (PPV). A control group of 30 age-matched patients allowed for normal OCT 6-mm macular maps. Vitreous traction was detected in 4 of 17 eyes (17 patients, 23.5%). The traction was located extrafoveally in each of the 4 eyes. In one eye there was a simultaneous central macular traction. Only the manually controlled OCT-Line group program, but not the central automatic 6-radial lines program, confirmed vitreous traction in each case. Retinal edema (n = 4) and serous retinal detachment (n = 2) underlining the traction sites were in continuum with the central macula in 3 eyes, presenting either as diffuse macular edema or combined with serous macular detachment, respectively. In one eye the edema subsided after PPV, and visual acuity stabilized during 7 postoperative months of follow-up. Macular thickness and visual acuity of another eye improved temporarily in repeated conventional treatments after PPV was discarded, but its fovea markedly atrophied 12 months later. Extrafoveal vitreous traction may be apparent following BRVO. Further studies are required to assess whether such traction membranes may play a role in the persistence of diffuse macular edema."}
{"id": "20079541", "title": "Effect of retinal photocoagulation on intraretinal lipid exudates in diabetic macular edema documented by optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Effect of retinal photocoagulation on intraretinal lipid exudates in diabetic macular edema documented by optical coherence tomography. To study the changes in the distribution and morphologic features of intraretinal microexudates after macular photocoagulation. Prospective cohort study. Thirteen treatment-na\u00efve patients with clinically significant macular edema in type 2 diabetes. Patients were treated with focal macular photocoagulation. Changes in the localization of hyperreflective foci were analyzed by spectral domain (SD) optical coherence tomography (OCT) during follow-up at day 1, week 1, and months 1, 2, 3, and 4 in defined areas. Further, fundus photography and infrared imaging were performed at all visits and findings were correlated to OCT results. Changes in retinal morphologic features detected in OCT. A dynamic change in the distribution pattern of hyperreflective foci was observed over 4 months after the photocoagulation. With the decrease of retinal thickness, the dots either resolved completely or became confluent at the apical border of the outer nuclear layer, and finally formed ophthalmoscopically detectable hard exudates during extended follow-up. In the event of retinal thickening despite laser treatment, the hyperreflective dots maintained their previous distribution throughout all retinal layers. As a fourth response, dissemination of plaques of hard exudates into multiple, separate, hyperreflective foci were detected. Hyperreflective foci in the retina seem to represent precursors or components of hard exudates. Their specific localization depends greatly on the presence of microvascular extravasation and intraretinal fluid accumulation. Retinal photocoagulation has a major impact on retinal edema and subsequently on the distribution of intraretinal lipid deposits. The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article."}
{"id": "20057344", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone as an adjunct to standard laser therapy in coexisting high-risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy and clinically significant macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone as an adjunct to standard laser therapy in coexisting high-risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy and clinically significant macular edema. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of combined intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) injection plus panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) and macular photocoagulation (MPC) in comparison with PRP and MPC in eyes with coexisting high-risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) and clinically significant macular edema (CSME). Twenty-three patients diagnosed with both high-risk PDR and CSME were enrolled in our prospective, randomized clinical trial study. One eye of each patient was selected to undergo IVTA injection one week before initial PRP and MPC (IVTA eye), and the other eye was treated with PRP and MPC (control eye) based on block randomization. Panretinal photocoagulation was performed in 3 sessions at 1 week intervals. Baseline characteristics included best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) using Snellen charts, intraocular pressure and patients were observed at 1, 4, and 6 months of treatment. Main outcome measures included change in central macular thickness (CMT) as measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT), logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution BCVA (logMAR), and complications occurring within the follow-up period. Of 23 enrolled patients, 5 patients did not complete follow-up visits due to dense vitreous hemorrhage, tractional retinal detachment and loss of future follow-up. Mean baseline logMAR BCVA was 0.46 +/- 0.29 and 0.56 +/- 0.27 in IVTA eyes and controls. Final mean logMAR BCVA was 0.39 +/- 0.29 (IVTA eyes) and 0.55 +/- 0.33 (control eyes), which was not significantly different (P = 0.08). Mean baseline CMT was 319.2 +/- 79.1 microm (IVTA eyes) and 345.9 +/- 100.6 microm (control eyes). Significant reduction of CMT in IVTA eyes was observed at 1 month (P = 0.024), which had not remained stable after 6 months showing no significant difference as compared with baseline CMT (P = 0.06). In control eyes, CMT was not significantly reduced at 1 and 6 months of treatment. The standardized change in macular thickening (SCMT) was 29.4 +/- 52.2 (IVTA group) versus 5.66 +/- 31.5 (control group) (P = 0.12) at 1 month. At 6 months, SCMT was 16.8 +/- 55.8 (IVTA group) versus 5.03 +/- 47.4 (control group) (P = 0.51). Combined IVTA plus PRP and MPC in coexisting high-risk PDR and CSME eyes do not have a significant beneficial effect on BCVA improvement and CMT reduction compared with standard treatment."}
{"id": "20045563", "title": "In vivo retinal morphology after grid laser treatment in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "In vivo retinal morphology after grid laser treatment in diabetic macular edema. To analyze immediate in vivo intraretinal morphologic changes secondary to standardized grid photocoagulation using spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD OCT). Prospective clinical trial. Thirteen consecutive patients with treatment-na\u00efve clinically significant diabetic macular edema (DME). Before and 1 day after standardized grid photocoagulation using the PASCAL system (Pattern Scan Laser, OptiMedica Corporation, Santa Clara, CA), Spectralis OCT (Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany) examinations based on an eye-tracking system, infrared fundus imaging, color fundus photography, and biomicroscopy were performed. A standardized visual acuity assessment (Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study protocol) and fluorescein angiography were performed at baseline. Morphologic changes secondary to grid laser treatment. One day after laser therapy, immediate morphologic alterations of only the outer retinal layers, that is, the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), the photoreceptor layer (PRL), and the outer nuclear layer (ONL), were observed. The shape of the laser-induced lesions did not show a sagittal alteration pattern throughout all 3 of the layers, however, but rather seemed to follow an oblique pathway throughout the ONL, changing direction at the level of the external limiting membrane and proceeding sagittally through the PRL and RPE. These morphologic changes also induced biometric changes, such as a decrease in central retinal thickness combined with local thickening at the lesion site, especially in the PRL. Spectral domain optical coherence tomography provides new insight into the immediate morphologic changes after laser treatment using the PASCAL laser system. Standardized grid photocoagulation induces characteristic homogenous alteration in the neurosensoric retinal layers. Biometric changes, indicating an immediate effect, were observed within 1 day after treatment."}
{"id": "20042642", "title": "Blood-retinal barrier glycerol permeability in diabetic macular edema and healthy eyes: estimations from macular volume changes after peroral glycerol.", "content": "Blood-retinal barrier glycerol permeability in diabetic macular edema and healthy eyes: estimations from macular volume changes after peroral glycerol. To compare the changes in macular volume (MV) between healthy subjects and patients with diabetic macular edema (DME) after an osmotic load and to determine the glycerol permeability (P(gly)) of the blood-retinal barrier (BRB). In this unmasked study, 13 patients with DME and 5 healthy control subjects ingested a glycerol solution (0.57 g/mL) of 3 mL/kg body weight (maximum, 250 mL). Subsequently, the MV determined by the retinal maps provided by the optical coherence tomography (OCT) fast macular thickness protocol was monitored at 12 time points for 180 minutes. A mathematical model of glycerol and osmotic water movements across the BRB was constructed to estimate P(gly). Median MV decreased from 7.30 mm(3) (range, 6.68-7.35) to the maximum median DeltaMV of -0.30 mm(3) (25%-75% quartile: -0.34 to -0.25) in the healthy volunteers and from 7.97 mm(3) (range, 6.85-9.89) to DeltaMV of -0.14 mm(3) (25%-75% quartile: -0.19 to -0.08) in the diabetic group (intergroup difference: P < 0.05). P(gly) was 6.1 x 10(-6) (SE 1.8 x 10(-6)) and 74 x 10(-6) (SE 42 x 10(-6)) cm/s in the healthy and diabetic participants, respectively (P < 0.0001). No rebound phenomenon was observed in either group. The maximum reduction in MV was doubled in the healthy group compared with the diabetic group, whereas the glycerol permeability was 12 times higher in the diabetic participants. These findings confirm the paradigm of BRB breakdown in DME, but also suggest a novel procedure for the determination of retinal permeability to various agents, which is independent of the vitreous condition (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00333671)."}
{"id": "20038863", "title": "Preliminary assessment of celecoxib and microdiode pulse laser treatment of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Preliminary assessment of celecoxib and microdiode pulse laser treatment of diabetic macular edema. Inflammation may play an important role in the pathogenesis of diabetic macular edema, a major cause of vision loss in persons with diabetes. The purpose of this study was to evaluate combined antiinflammatory therapy and laser approaches for treating patients with diabetic macular edema. In this prospective, factorial, randomized, multicenter trial, we compared cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitor (celecoxib) with placebo and diode grid laser with standard Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study focal laser treatment in 86 participants with diabetic macular edema. The primary outcome is change in visual acuity of > or = 15 letters from baseline, and the secondary outcomes include a 50% reduction in the retinal thickening of diabetic macular edema measured by optical coherence tomography and a 50% reduction in leakage severity on fluorescein angiography. Visual acuity and retinal thickening data from >2 years of follow-up did not show evidence of differences between the medical and laser treatments. However, participants assigned to the celecoxib group were more likely to have a reduction in fluorescein leakage when compared with the placebo group (odds ratio = 3.6; P < 0.01). This short-term study did not find large visual function benefits of treatment with celecoxib or diode laser compared with those of standard laser treatment. A suggestive effect of celecoxib in reducing fluorescein leakage was observed."}
{"id": "19996827", "title": "Adverse events after intravitreal infliximab (Remicade).", "content": "Adverse events after intravitreal infliximab (Remicade). To determine the tolerability of intravitreal infliximab (Remicade) in patients with refractory diabetic macular edema or choroidal neovascularization secondary to age-related macular degeneration. This is a prospective, interventional, noncomparative, open-label, 12-week pilot study of intravitreal infliximab in four patients who failed conventional therapies. Two had diabetic macular edema and two had choroidal neovascularization secondary to age-related macular degeneration. All patients received 0.5 mg/0.05 mL intravitreal infliximab and were eligible for a second injection at 6 weeks if reinjection criteria were met. Outcome measures were best-corrected visual acuity using standard Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study refraction, central retinal thickness on optical coherence tomography, fluorescein angiography, standard electroretinography, and microperimetry. Patients were evaluated at Days 0 and 1 and Weeks 2, 6, and 12. Six months after study completion, all patients were tested for human antimouse and human antichimeric antibodies. At Week 12, visual acuity scores had declined in three patients. All patients had persistence of cystoid macular edema on optical coherence tomography, although two had a decrease in central retinal thickness. Three patients had an overall worsened appearance on angiography. On the final electroretinography, all patients had a decrease in maximal combined responses, from 7% to 24% from baseline, which may have been within expected variability of electroretinography data. To photopic flicker stimulus, three patients had slower latency of response, and all had decreased amplitudes. All patients declined on microperimetry. The first patient entered in the study met the criteria for a second injection because of improved standard electroretinography and microperimetry at Week 6. However, 2 weeks after the second injection, he developed panuveitis. Two other patients, after one injection only, had evidence of inflammation (vitritis or panuveitis) on examination at Week 6. Three patients developed systemic antibodies against infliximab (human antichimeric antibodies). Low-dose intravitreal infliximab was not well tolerated in this small group of patients and was both immunogenic and probably retinotoxic."}
{"id": "19996821", "title": "Correlation between visual acuity and foveal microstructural changes in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Correlation between visual acuity and foveal microstructural changes in diabetic macular edema. The purpose of this study was to investigate the correlation between best-corrected visual acuity and foveal microstructural changes of the external limiting membrane and the junction between the inner and outer segments of the photoreceptors in diabetic macular edema. The authors performed spectral-domain optical coherence tomography in all eyes. The authors defined central subfield thickness as the average retinal thickness of the 1-mm central scanned area. The length of disruption of the external limiting membrane and the inner and outer segments of the photoreceptors in the fovea (1.8 mm in diameter) were measured and graded according to their length as follows: 1) >1.4 mm; 2) >0.4 mm but <1.4 mm; or 3) <0.4 mm. The best-corrected visual acuity was strongly associated with the external limiting membrane (r = 0.66) and inner and outer segments of the photoreceptor (r = 0.68) scores, whereas best-corrected visual acuity was weakly and negatively correlated with central subfield thickness (r = -0.23). Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography showed that the integrity of the external limiting membrane and inner and outer segments of the photoreceptors was more strongly correlated with best-corrected visual acuity when compared with central subfield thickness in diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "19965832", "title": "Correlation between fluorescein angiography and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography in the diagnosis of cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Correlation between fluorescein angiography and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography in the diagnosis of cystoid macular edema. To compare the ability to detect cystoid macular edema (CME) and its late complications between spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) and fluorescein angiography (FA). Retrospective, observational, case series. 85 Eyes who had FA and SD-OCT performed on the same day at first visit and/or at follow-up visits were included. FA and SD-OCT images were evaluated for the evidences associated with CME and other structural changes of macula. FA and SD-OCT images were then superimposed to determine the relationships of diagnostic features between the two images. Main outcome measure was the correlation between FA and SD-OCT findings of macula in patients with CME. The common causes of CME in our study were retinal vein occlusion (RVO, 63%), diabetic retinopathy (DR, 21.18%) and posterior uveitis (3.53%). CME associated with RVO, age-related macular degeneration and DR were missed by FA in 18.52%, 33.33% and 33.33% of cases, respectively. Subretinal fluid was undetectable by FA in 54.55%, which mainly were in the RVO group. SD-OCT gave earlier CME diagnosis than FA in three (3.53%) eyes. Residual CME at follow-up visits were missed by FA in one (1.18%) eye. Late complications of long-standing CME (secondary macular hole (two eyes), secondary subretinal fluid (five eyes), retinal pigment epithelium detachment (one eye) and photoreceptor atrophy (one eye)) were detectable only by SD-OCT. SD-OCT demonstrated greater sensitivity than FA in detecting CME, particularly those associated with RVO, DR and age-related macular degeneration. SD-OCT was also more sensitive than FA for detecting subretinal fluid and late complications of long-standing CME."}
{"id": "19952996", "title": "Relationship between photoreceptor outer segment length and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Relationship between photoreceptor outer segment length and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema. The purpose of this study was to quantify photoreceptor outer segment (PROS) length in 27 consecutive patients (30 eyes) with diabetic macular edema using spectral domain optical coherence tomography and to describe the correlation between PROS length and visual acuity. Three spectral domain-optical coherence tomography scans were performed on all eyes during each session using Cirrus HD-OCT. A prototype algorithm was developed for quantitative assessment of PROS length. Retinal thicknesses and PROS lengths were calculated for 3 parameters: macular grid (6 x 6 mm), central subfield (1 mm), and center foveal point (0.33 mm). Intrasession repeatability was assessed using coefficient of variation and intraclass correlation coefficient. The association between retinal thickness and PROS length with visual acuity was assessed using linear regression and Pearson correlation analyses. The main outcome measures include intrasession repeatability of macular parameters and correlation of these parameters with visual acuity. Mean retinal thickness and PROS length were 298 mum to 381 microm and 30 microm to 32 mum, respectively, for macular parameters assessed in this study. Coefficient of variation values were 0.75% to 4.13% for retinal thickness and 1.97% to 14.01% for PROS length. Intraclass correlation coefficient values were 0.96 to 0.99 and 0.73 to 0.98 for retinal thickness and PROS length, respectively. Slopes from linear regression analyses assessing the association of retinal thickness and visual acuity were not significantly different from 0 (P > 0.20), whereas the slopes of PROS length and visual acuity were significantly different from 0 (P < 0.0005). Correlation coefficients for macular thickness and visual acuity ranged from 0.13 to 0.22, whereas coefficients for PROS length and visual acuity ranged from -0.61 to -0.81. Photoreceptor outer segment length can be quantitatively assessed using Cirrus HD-OCT. Although the intrasession repeatability of PROS measurements was less than that of macular thickness measurements, the stronger correlation of PROS length with visual acuity suggests that the PROS measures may be more directly related to visual function. Photoreceptor outer segment length may be a useful physiologic outcome measure, both clinically and as a direct assessment of treatment effects."}
{"id": "19952983", "title": "Retinal nerve fiber layer thickness evaluation after trypan blue-assisted macular surgery.", "content": "Retinal nerve fiber layer thickness evaluation after trypan blue-assisted macular surgery. The purpose of this study was to evaluate retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness changes in eyes undergoing trypan blue-assisted macular surgery using optical coherence tomography-3. This is a prospective noncomparative, interventional, and observational case series of 35 eyes of 35 consecutive patients (15 eyes with macular hole, 14 eyes with idiopathic macular pucker, and 6 eyes with tractional diabetic macular edema) who underwent pars plana vitrectomy and peeling of the epiretinal membrane and/or internal limiting membrane assisted with 0.1 mL of 0.15% trypan blue. The quantitative analysis of the peripapillary RNFL by optical coherence tomography was performed before surgery and 6 months postoperatively in both eyes of the same patient. The main outcome measures were significant changes in RNFL thickness (overall and by quadrant). Optical coherence tomography assessment of the macular status at 6 months postoperatively showed closure of all macular holes and improvement in foveal contour in all cases of macular pucker or most cases of diabetic macular edema. Dissociated RNFL at the area of internal limiting membrane removal was observed in 9 eyes. No statistical significant changes in the mean RNFL thickness overall or by quadrant were observed after surgery. Trypan blue-assisted peeling of macular epiretinal membranes and/or internal limiting membrane does not induce significant changes in RNFL thickness as measured by optical coherence tomography-3. Internal limiting membrane peeling may induce visible changes of the inner retinal surface possibly because of microdefects on macular nerve fiber layers."}
{"id": "19940530", "title": "Autofluorescence imaging of cystoid macular edema in diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Autofluorescence imaging of cystoid macular edema in diabetic retinopathy. Our purpose was to assess fundus autofluorescence (FAF) images in patients with diabetic retinopathy and cystoid macular edema (CME) and their correlation with fluorescein angiography (FA) and optical coherence tomography (OCT) findings. Sixty-eight eyes of 34 consecutive patients with diabetic retinopathy were examined with autofluorescence imaging using a confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope, FA and OCT. The eyes were divided into 2 groups, group 1 with CME and group 2 without. In the 44 eyes of group 1 (65% of the series), we identified 3 patterns of FAF: (1) multicystic increased FA (57%), (2) a single cyst of increased FAF (16%), (3) combined single- and multicystic increased FAF (27%). FA and OCT gave a positive correlation between cystic increased FAF and CME (r = 0.95; p = 0.001). Visual acuity loss was not correlated with the size of the cystic area (p = 0.83), but it was related to significant macular thickening (p = 0.007). Confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy can selectively visualize autofluorescent, multilobulated spaces in eyes with diabetic CME. Even if OCT remains preferable for evaluating macular thickening and cysts, FAF might be another useful easy test to rapidly distinguish this entity noninvasively and with no risk."}
{"id": "19924672", "title": "Macular thickness changes after phacoemulsification combined with primary posterior curvilinear capsulorhexis.", "content": "Macular thickness changes after phacoemulsification combined with primary posterior curvilinear capsulorhexis. To evaluate the changes in central macular thickness measured with optical coherence tomography (OCT) after cataract surgery combined with primary posterior continuous curvilinear capsulorhexis (PCCC). Forty-six eyes of 40 consecutive patients who had uneventful phacoemulsification and in-the-bag intraocular lens implantation surgery with primary PCCC, taking place between August 2005 and January 2006 in Beyoglu Eye Training and Research Hospital, were enrolled. Patients with a history of previous ocular surgery, eye trauma, uveitis, or glaucoma, or any systemic disease such as diabetes mellitus, were excluded from the study. None of the cases had macular pathology before surgery. OCT was performed in all patients preoperatively and postoperatively on the first day, first week, and first, third, and sixth months. Significant quantitative changes from the preoperative examination were observed in the postoperative first week, first month, and third month (p<0.05). The difference between the mean preoperative and postoperative sixth month central macular thickness was not statistically significant (p=0.20). The greatest change in mean macular thickness was noted in the first month visit. No patient developed cystoid macular edema. Because primary PCCC does not have an adverse effect on macular integrity, this procedure may be preferred especially in patients with a high risk of posterior capsular opacification."}
{"id": "19878106", "title": "Associations between chronic glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) level and macular volume in diabetes patients without macular oedema.", "content": "Associations between chronic glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) level and macular volume in diabetes patients without macular oedema. This study aimed to examine the correlation between glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) level and macular volume in diabetes patients without diabetic macular oedema (DMO). We carried out an observational, cross-sectional study. Patients who had diabetes mellitus (DM) of \u2265 10 years duration without DMO were included. Only one eye of each patient was selected for analysis. Eyes with proliferative diabetic retinopathy were excluded. Central subfield thickness (CST), central subfield volume (CSV) and total macular volume (TMV) were measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT). Chronic HbA1c level was defined as the mean HbA1c value in the year prior to enrolment. We included 97 eyes from 97 patients (47 women, 50 men; mean age 62.2 years). They included eight type 1 and 89 type 2 DM patients. The mean duration of DM was 15.5 years. Forty-two (43%) eyes had no diabetic retinopathy and 55 (57%) eyes had non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy. In statistical analysis, CST (mean 188.80 \u00b1 27.64 \u03bcm; r = 0.220, p = 0.030), CSV (mean 0.149 \u00b1 0.021 mm(3) ; r = 0.213, p = 0.036) and TMV (mean 6.497 \u00b1 0.715 mm(3) ; r = 0.299, p = 0.003) positively correlated with chronic HbA1c level (7.95 \u00b1 1.29%). The linear regression model showed that chronic HbA1c level (standardized coefficient 0.253; p = 0.013) and age (standardized coefficient - 0.206; p = 0.040) were factors significantly related to TMV. Chronic HbA1c level positively correlates with macular thickness and volume in patients with DM of \u2265 10 years duration without DMO. Our results suggest that subclinical macular volume and thickness changes may occur before DMO becomes clinically evident. Early tight glycaemic control prior to the onset of DMO may play an important role in preventing the deterioration of macular function by altering macular haemodynamics."}
{"id": "19875091", "title": "Subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema in Japanese patients.", "content": "Subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema in Japanese patients. To assess the efficacy and safety of subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema (ME). Prospective, nonrandomized interventional case series. Institutional. Thirty-six consecutive diabetic patients (43 eyes) with clinically significant ME and a central macular thickness (CMT) <600 microm by optical coherence tomography. Subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation was done with a 15% duty cycle (0.2 to 0.3 sec; 200 microm) at 50% to 90% of the burn threshold energy. The treated area was monitored on color images for 12 months. CMT, best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), and total macular volume at 3 months. After 3 months, there was a significant reduction of CMT (P = .05, paired t test), but the changes of BCVA and macular volume were not significant. The preoperative CMT, BCVA (logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution; logMAR), and macular volume were 341.8 +/- 119.0 microm, 0.12 +/- 0.20, and 8.763 +/- 1.605 mm(3) respectively, vs 300.7 +/- 124.1 microm, 0.12 +/- 0.21, and 8.636 +/- 1.408 mm(3) at 3 months. CMT decreased significantly from 1 month (P = .015, Friedman test). Visual acuity was improved or maintained within 0.2 logMAR for 12 months in 94.7% of the patients. No obvious laser scars were detected in any patient. In patients with moderate diabetic ME, subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation controls ME and maintains visual acuity with minimal retinal damage. These findings confirm the efficacy of this method for Japanese patients."}
{"id": "19875087", "title": "Pegaptanib sodium for macular edema secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Pegaptanib sodium for macular edema secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion. To assess the efficacy and safety of intravitreous pegaptanib sodium (Macugen; EyeTech Pharmaceuticals/Pfizer Inc, New York, New York, USA) for macular edema secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). Prospective, randomized, dose-finding study. Twenty subjects from three clinical practices in the United States with BRVO of more than 1 month's and fewer than 6 months' duration; best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) 70 to 25 Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study letters inclusive (approximately 20/40 to 20/320 Snellen); and central foveal thickness of 250 microm or more were included. Subjects were randomized 3:1 to intravitreous injections of pegaptanib 0.3 or 1 mg at baseline and at weeks 6 and 12 with subsequent injections at 6-week intervals at investigator discretion until week 48. Principal efficacy outcomes were change from baseline to week 54 in BCVA, center point thickness, central subfield thickness, and macular volume as measured by optical coherence tomography. Fifteen subjects received pegaptanib 0.3 mg and 5 received pegaptanib 1 mg. Eighteen subjects completed the 54-week follow-up. Results were similar in both the 0.3- and 1-mg groups. Overall improvements from baseline to week 54 occurred in mean BCVA (+14 +/- 13 letters), center point thickness (-205 +/- 195 mum), central subfield thickness (-201 +/- 153 mum), and macular volume (-2.2 +/- 1.6 mm(3)). The response was rapid after the first injection, with a mean BCVA improvement of 11 +/- 7 letters at 1 week from the baseline of 56 +/- 12 letters (approximately 20/80 Snellen). One retinal detachment and no cases of endophthalmitis or traumatic cataract were seen. Intravitreous pegaptanib offers a promising alternative as a treatment for macular edema secondary to BRVO."}
{"id": "19725815", "title": "Efficacy of bromfenac sodium ophthalmic solution in preventing cystoid macular oedema after cataract surgery in patients with diabetes.", "content": "Efficacy of bromfenac sodium ophthalmic solution in preventing cystoid macular oedema after cataract surgery in patients with diabetes. To compare the efficacy of bromfenac sodium ophthalmic solution (BF) and a steroidal solution (ST) administered prophylactically against cystoid macular oedema and anterior-chamber inflammation after phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implantation and to assess macular thickness changes using optical coherence tomography (OCT). In this prospective study, 62 eyes of 62 patients were randomized to either the BF group (n=31) or the ST group (n =31). The average perifoveal thickness (AFT) was measured by OCT preoperatively, and 1 day and 1, 2, 4 and 6\u2003weeks postoperatively. The best-corrected visual acuity, intraocular pressure and flare in the anterior chamber were recorded at each visit. The same method was used to compare patients with non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) in the BF (n = 16) and ST (n\u2003=11) groups. In the analysis of all patients, flare in the anterior chamber was significantly (p = 0.007) lower in the BF group 2 weeks postoperatively. In patients with NPDR, the anterior chamber flare values were significantly lower in the BF group at 4 weeks (p\u2003= 0.0009) and 6 weeks (p = 0.005). The AFT values were significantly lower in the BF group at 4 weeks (p\u2003<\u20030.0001) and 6 weeks (p < 0.0001). No adverse events occurred in either group. BF suppressed anterior chamber inflammation and increasing retinal thickening after cataract surgery in patients with NPDR."}
{"id": "19701812", "title": "Imaging of macroaneurysms occurring during retinal vein occlusion and diabetic retinopathy by indocyanine green angiography and high resolution optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Imaging of macroaneurysms occurring during retinal vein occlusion and diabetic retinopathy by indocyanine green angiography and high resolution optical coherence tomography. Macular edema occurring after retinal vein occlusion (RVO) or diabetic retinopathy (DR) may be due to the development of capillary and/or venous macroaneurysms (MAs). Here, we investigated the respective contribution of fluorescein angiography (FA), of indocyanine green angiography (ICGA) and of high-resolution optical coherence tomography (HR-OCT) to their detection. Review of the charts of six consecutive patients with MAs secondary to RVO (n = 4) or DR (n = 2). For each patient, FA, ICGA and HR-OCT data were analyzed and compared. All detectable MAs were detected by ICGA, while in three eyes FA failed to show them. Overall, ICGA provided a better delineation of MAs than FA. In all cases, HR-OCT identified MAs under the form of a vascular structure with a reflective wall surrounding a lumen containing variably reflective material. MAs can develop during the course of RVO and DR. ICGA and HR-OCT improves the identification of capillary and venous MAs, and may thus be of interest to better identify sites of blood-retinal barrier rupture during chronic macular edema due to RVO or DR."}
{"id": "19680274", "title": "Functional and morphological changes of macula after subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Functional and morphological changes of macula after subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular oedema. To examine the early changes of retinal sensitivity by fundus-related microperimetry after subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation (SMDLP) for diabetic macular oedema (DMO). Twenty-eight eyes of 28 patients with diffuse DMO were treated with SMDLP. The mean retinal sensitivity within the central 10 degrees measured with a fundus-related microperimeter, MP1, best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) in logarithm of minimum angle of resolution units, and optical coherence tomography-determined foveal thickness (FT) were examined before and 3 months after SMDLP. The pretreatment values of the retinal sensitivity, FT, BCVA, and funduscopic findings were compared with the corresponding values at 3 months after SMDLP. At 3 months, the BCVA was significantly improved (P=0.03), and the FT was significantly reduced (P=0.0043). The mean retinal sensitivity within the central 10 degree, however, did not change significantly (P=0.70). The correlation between the changes in the retinal sensitivities and the decrease in the FT was not significant. The correlation between the changes in the retinal sensitivities and the BCVA was also not significant. Significant improvements in retinal sensitivities within the central 10 degrees were not observed even though the decrease in FT and the improvement of BCVA were significant. On account of this difference of changes in retinal sensitivity and BCVA, the combination of retinal sensitivity by MP1 and BCVA may be beneficial in assessing the visual function from various angles after SMDLP for eyes with DMO."}
{"id": "19639264", "title": "Foveal neovascularisation in diabetic retinopathy: case report and review of literature.", "content": "Foveal neovascularisation in diabetic retinopathy: case report and review of literature. To report a rare case of unilateral foveal neovascularisation in an asymptomatic patient with 15-year history of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and bilateral proliferative diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema. Fundus fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography scan confirmed the presence of foveal neovascularisation. There was complete regression of the foveal neovascularisation after pan retinal laser photocoagulation. We review the literature on foveal neovascularisation in diabetic retinopathy and propose a possible pathogenic mechanism for development of foveal neovascularisation in diabetic retinopathy and the reason for the response to pan retinal laser photocoagulation."}
{"id": "19590521", "title": "OCT measurements on the foveal and perifoveal retinal thickness on diabetic patients after phacoemulsification and IOL implantation.", "content": "OCT measurements on the foveal and perifoveal retinal thickness on diabetic patients after phacoemulsification and IOL implantation. The first aim (I.) was to measure the change of macular thickness in diabetic (DM group) and nondiabetic patients (NORMAL group), the values of operated eye (OP) were compared I.A.) to the fellow, non-operated eye (CONTROL) and I.B.) to preoperative baseline value of the operated eye (PRE). The second aim (II.) was to compare postoperative macular thickening of DM group to NORMAL group eyes. Retinal thickness values of the foveal and perifoveal (fovea+3.0 mm, fovea+6.0 mm) sectors and the minimum values were measured in a prospective study using optical coherence tomography (OCT) in 18 eyes of 18 diabetic patients and 53 eyes of 53 nondiabetic patients who underwent uneventful cataract surgery. Data were collected on the preoperative day and on postoperative 1, 7, 30, and 60 days. Student's t-test was used for statistical analysis. No significant change of the thickness values could be measured one day after surgery. However, a significant increase could be detected on the postoperative 7, 30, and 60 days in the perifoveal 3.0 mm and 6.0 mm sectors either calculated alone or averaged together with the foveal values. The initial (preoperative) average value of 232.7+/-3.5 microm (mean+/-SEM, n=144) in the 6.0 mm perifoveal region increased to 246.0+/-8.2 microm (mean+/-SEM, n=120, P=0.032) one week, to 249.9+/-5.1 microm (n=112, P=0.017) one month, and to 249.5+/-6.2 microm (n=104, P=0.009) 2 months after surgery. Our results indicate that diabetes did not influence significantly the thickening of the macular regions after uncomplicated cataract surgery."}
{"id": "19444293", "title": "Extrafoveal vitreous traction associated with diabetic diffuse macular oedema.", "content": "Extrafoveal vitreous traction associated with diabetic diffuse macular oedema. To present an association between diabetic diffuse macular oedema and extrafoveal vitreous traction by optical coherence tomography (OCT). In a retrospective study, charts and OCT scans of diabetic patients with macular oedema were reviewed. Eyes with either vitreofoveal or extrafoveal traction were included. Eyes that had vitreoretinal adherence with no sign of traction, idiopathic vitreomacular traction syndrome, or vitreoretinal surgery were excluded. Macular maps were compared with normal controls (n=12). Of the 186 eyes of 122 consecutive patients, 45 eyes (41 patients) were analyzed. Vitreofoveal traction was detected in 25 eyes (56%) and extrafoveal traction in 20 (44%), either at the retina (16; 35%) or at the optic nerve head (4; 9%). Of these 20 eyes, related extrafoveal retinal oedema was in continuum with the central macular oedema, manifesting as diffuse macular oedema, in 16 (36% of all 45) eyes. Vitreous adherence was detected by the centrally fixated Automatic 6-radial lines program in 26 eyes (58%): 5 (25%) of 20 with extrafoveal traction and 21 (84%) of 25 with vitreofoveal traction. In the other 19 (42%) eyes, the vitreous traction site was detected only by the Line group OCT-2000 program, which is manually controllable during the scanning process. Diabetic diffuse macular oedema may be related to an extrafoveal vitreous traction. The traction sites were detected in a large proportion of eyes only by the OCT Line group program and not by the Automatic 6-radial lines program. Further studies are required to validate the clinical consequence of these findings."}
{"id": "19432873", "title": "Macular function after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection for diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Macular function after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection for diabetic macular oedema. We aimed to evaluate the effect of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) on macular function in patients with diabetic macular oedema (DMO). Eleven eyes in 11 patients with DMO were enrolled. In each eye, at baseline and at 30 days after IVTA injection, logMAR visual acuity (VA), macular sensitivity, fixation stability and fixation location by MP-1 microperimetry and optical coherence tomography (OCT) foveal thickness were assessed. Thirty days after IVTA injection, eyes with DMO showed a significant (p<0.001) reduction in foveal thickness and significant (p<0.01) increases in logMAR VA and MP-1 retinal sensitivity (p<0.001). There was also significant (p=0.046) improvement in fixation location and some improvement in fixation stability, although the latter was not significant (p=0.08). In eyes with DMO, short-term improvement in retinal sensitivity and fixation properties can be achieved by IVTA injection."}
{"id": "19430731", "title": "Subfoveal choroidal neovascularization in a patient with hemicentral vein occlusion.", "content": "Subfoveal choroidal neovascularization in a patient with hemicentral vein occlusion. The association between choroidal neovascularization (CNV) and retinal vein occlusive disease is uncommon. Before the introduction of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) drugs, photodynamic therapy (PDT) was used, with conflicting functional results. We report a case of a 69-year-old male patient who came to our attention for macular edema in hemiretinal vein occlusion. Fluorescein angiogram showed presence of venous collaterals, but the pattern of the edema was atypical; optical coherence tomography (OCT) and indocyanine green angiography (ICG) were used to confirm the diagnosis of CNV. A chorio-retinal shunt was demonstrated. The autofluorescence technique was used to predict the risk of CNV in the fellow eye. PDT was performed twice, but after the second cycle, patient developed choroidal ischemia and the visual outcomes were poor. The temporal course of CNV, the presence of a chorio-retinal shunt, and the autofluorescence pattern in the fellow eye let us to speculate that the CNV was related to the vascular occlusive process. We can speculate that the overexpression of VEGF induced by local ischemia and inflammation can make these patients more likely to have CNV. However, to our knowledge, there are no accurate estimates of the incidence of CNV in other retinal vascular diseases, such as diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "19220206", "title": "Multifocal electroretinography amplitudes increase after photocoagulation in areas with increased retinal thickness and hard exudates.", "content": "Multifocal electroretinography amplitudes increase after photocoagulation in areas with increased retinal thickness and hard exudates. This study aimed to evaluate local response on multifocal electroretinography (mfERG) and to assess retinal thickness with optical coherence tomography (OCT) after focal laser treatment in areas with retinal oedema and exudates in patients with diabetic retinopathy. Twelve diabetes patients (aged 60 +/- 14 years, diabetes duration 16 +/- 8 years) treated with focal or grid photocoagulation in areas with retinal oedema and/or exudates underwent mfERG and OCT before and 3 months after treatment. The average thickness (in microm) in any of the nine sectors (defined according to the ETDRS) treated with photocoagulation was measured. Amplitudes and implicit times were analysed in corresponding areas on the mfERG. Mean mfERG amplitudes increased after photocoagulation (21.5 +/- 8.0 nV/deg(2) versus 16.8 +/- 6.1 nV/deg(2); p = 0.012), whereas no difference was seen in implicit times. Mean OCT values in the treated regions were lower at follow-up (272 +/- 23 microm versus 327 +/- 79 microm; p = 0.013). No correlation was seen between changes in mfERG response and changes in OCT values. The decrease in retinal thickness was correlated with the number of laser spots applied (p = 0.002). Focal argon laser treatment is effective in reducing retinal thickness. In addition, treated areas tend to show improved retinal function as demonstrated by increased amplitudes on mfERG."}
{"id": "19094167", "title": "Macular appearance after diabetic vitrectomy for fibrovascular proliferation: an optical coherence tomography study.", "content": "Macular appearance after diabetic vitrectomy for fibrovascular proliferation: an optical coherence tomography study. To investigate morphological variations in the macular area with optical coherence tomography (OCT) after vitrectomy for diabetic fibrovascular proliferation. We reviewed 108 cases using OCT 7-15 months after vitrectomy. Of these, 32 received OCT within 3 months postoperatively. Morphological variations were categorized and correlated with visual outcome. Only 24 cases (21.4%) had no obvious abnormalities. The most frequent findings were epiretinal membrane (52.8%), macular thickening (37.0%) and macular cysts (28.7%). Multivariate regression showed that diffuse macular thickening, loss of foveal depression and diffuse retinal thinning were significantly associated with poor visual acuity. Sequential OCT (< 3 and >or= 7 months) revealed that epiretinal membrane and oedema outside of fovea changed significantly between two examinations. OCT may identify diverse morphological changes in the macular area after diabetic vitrectomy for fibrovascular proliferation. Macular appearance may change over time, and certain types of morphological changes may be associated with poor visual function."}
{"id": "19094166", "title": "Effect of acute postural variation on diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Effect of acute postural variation on diabetic macular oedema. This study aimed to study the pathophysiology of diabetic macular oedema (DMO) by analysis of concomitant changes in macular volume (MV), mean arterial blood pressure (MABP), intraocular pressure (IOP), and retinal artery and vein diameters in response to acute postural changes in patients with DMO and healthy subjects. Thirteen patients with DMO (13 eyes) and five healthy subjects (five eyes) were examined after resting in a chair for 15 mins using optical coherence tomography to measure MV and fundus photography to assess retinal vessel diameters. The patients then lay down for 60 mins, during which they were examined repeatedly before they were reseated and examined again. Intraocular pressure was measured using pulse-air tonometry, arterial blood pressure by sphygomanometry and fluid columns using rulers and a spirit level. In healthy subjects, retinal artery (p = 0.02) and vein (p = 0.001) diameters decreased when subjects lay down, whereas MV remained stable. In patients with DMO, no orthostatic variation in retinal vessel diameters could be demonstrated, whereas MV had increased by 2.4 +/- 0.6% (mean +/- standard error of the mean; p = 0.006) 50 mins after assuming a recumbent position. In both healthy subjects and DMO patients, MABP decreased and IOP increased in a recumbent position, with no significant difference between the groups. The increase in MV that occurs in DMO when changing from a seated to a recumbent position is associated with a failure of retinal artery contraction, a response seen in healthy subjects that appears to counter-regulate the increase in ocular perfusion pressure caused by assuming a recumbent position."}
{"id": "20579474", "title": "[Prognosis factors in diabetic macular edema: an OCT study].", "content": "[Prognosis factors in diabetic macular edema: an OCT study]. Macular edema is responsible for a significant degree of visual loss in diabetic patients. The prognosis factors in diabetic macular edema are varied and better documented by optical coherence tomography (OCT). We describe the patterns of diabetic macular edema demonstrated by OCT and correlate them with visual acuity. A prospective study of 297 eyes with diabetic macular edema was conducted. An OTI/OCT exam was done for all eyes. The Fisher test was used to search for a correlation between visual acuity and each feature of diabetic macular edema (macular thickness, cystoid macular edema, central cyst, tractional component, and serous retinal detachment). Visual acuity varied from 1.3 log MAR to 0 log MAR. The mean visual acuity was 0.51 log MAR. The presence of central cyst on OCT scan was significantly associated with worse vision (p<0.0001). Increased retinal thickness in all patterns was significantly correlated with worse visual acuity (p<0.0001). The OCT patterns containing a tractional component and serous retinal detachment were also associated with visual loss (p<10(-6)). OCT is a very useful objective tool to describe, classify, and manage diabetic macular edema. It provides a better analysis of different prognosis factors and therefore can assist in determining a more suitable treatment for diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "20003824", "title": "Colour vision testing for diabetic retinopathy: a systematic review of diagnostic accuracy and economic evaluation.", "content": "Colour vision testing for diabetic retinopathy: a systematic review of diagnostic accuracy and economic evaluation. To determine the diagnostic performance and cost-effectiveness of colour vision testing (CVT) to identify and monitor the progression of diabetic retinopathy (DR). Major electronic databases including MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews were searched from inception to September 2008. A systematic review of the evidence was carried out according to standard methods. An online survey of National Screening Programme for Diabetic Retinopathy (NSPDR) clinical leads and programme managers assessed the diagnostic tools used routinely by local centres and their views on future research priorities. A decision tree and Markov model was developed to estimate the incremental costs and effects of adding CVT to the current NSPDR. In total, 25 studies on CVT met the inclusion criteria for the review, including 18 presenting 2 x 2 diagnostic accuracy data. The quality of studies and reporting was generally poor. Automated or computerised CVTs reported variable sensitivities (63-97%) and specificities (71-95%). One study reported good diagnostic accuracy estimates for computerised CVT plus retinal photography for detection of sight-threatening DR, but it included few cases of retinopathy in total. Results for pseudoisochromatic plates, anomaloscopes and colour arrangement tests were largely inadequate for DR screening, with Youden indices (sensitivity + specificity - 100%) close to zero. No studies were located that addressed patient preferences relating to CVT for DR. Retinal photography is universally employed as the primary method for retinal screening by centres responding to the online survey; none used CVT. The review of the economic evaluation literature found no previous studies describing the cost and effects of any type of CVT. Our economic evaluation suggested that adding CVT to the current national screening programme could be cost-effective if it adequately increases sensitivity and is relatively inexpensive. The deterministic base-case analysis indicated that the cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained may be 6364 pounds and 12,432 pounds for type 1 and type 2 diabetes respectively. However, probabilistic sensitivity analysis highlighted the substantial probability that CVT is not diagnostically accurate enough to be either an effective or a cost-effective addition to current screening methods. The results of the economic model should be treated with caution as the model is based on only one small study. There is insufficient evidence to support the use of CVT alone, or in combination with retinal photography, as a method for screening for retinopathy in patients with diabetes. Better quality diagnostic accuracy studies directly comparing the incremental value of CVT in addition to retinal photography are needed before drawing conclusions on cost-effectiveness. The most frequently cited preference for future research was the use of optical coherence tomography for the detection of clinically significant macular oedema."}
{"id": "19934823", "title": "Comparison of a novel confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy algorithm with optical coherence tomography in measurement of macular thickness and volume.", "content": "Comparison of a novel confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy algorithm with optical coherence tomography in measurement of macular thickness and volume. To evaluate macular thickness and volume measurements using a novel Heidelberg Retinal Tomograph (HRT3) algorithm and to compare the results with optical coherence tomography (StratusOCT). This was a prospective, comparative, clinical noninterventional study. Fifty-two eyes were examined using both methods: 16 normal eyes, 12 eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME), and 24 eyes with age-related macular degeneration (AMD). The HRT3 macular thickness and volume were compared with those from the StratusOCT automated software. In addition, the distances between the retinal surface and the base of subretinal pathologic changes were measured using the StratusOCT manual-caliper technique and were compared with the HRT3 measurements in AMD eyes. No statistically significant difference in macular thickness and volume measurements was observed between the two methods for normal (P = 0.89 and P = 0.33, respectively) and DME eyes (P = 0.86 and P = 0.31, respectively). However, in AMD eyes, the differences in both measurements were statistically significant between the two methods (P < 0.0001 and P < 0.0001, respectively). The HRT3 thickness measurements were in good agreement with the manual StratusOCT measurements (P = 0.4). In normal and DME eyes, the HRT3 measurements correlated well with the automatic StratusOCT measurements. In AMD eyes, the HRT3 measurements correlated well only with the manually corrected measurements of the retinal-subretinal pathologic changes."}
{"id": "19928719", "title": "Spectral domain optical coherence tomography in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Spectral domain optical coherence tomography in diabetic macular edema. To compare the images obtained from Stratus time domain optical coherence tomography (OCT) (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc., Dublin, CA) and Cirrus spectral domain OCT (Cirrus HD-OCT 4000 model; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc.) in patients with diabetic macular edema. This observational retrospective case series was created using the charts of 20 patients with diabetes mellitus diagnosed as having diabetic macular edema. All patients had both Stratus and Cirrus OCT imaging completed on the same day. Qualitative comparisons were performed by two experienced clinicians in an unmasked fashion. Central macular thickness and central foveal thickness were recorded. Thirty-six eyes of 20 patients with diabetes mellitus were analyzed. Features such as cystoid spaces, highly reflective lesions, vitreoretinal interface, serous retinal detachment, and photoreceptors inner/outer segments were more often detected with the Cirrus OCT than with the Stratus OCT. Considering the same reference lines for evaluation of central macular thickness and central foveal thickness, the same values were obtained with both devices. Cirrus OCT enables easier observation of normal structures and retinal abnormalities than the Status OCT. Furthermore, lesions may be accurately identified and quantified by the Cirrus OCT."}
{"id": "19927486", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for myopic choroidal neovascularization: short-term and 1-year results.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for myopic choroidal neovascularization: short-term and 1-year results. To report three-month and one-year safety and efficacy results of intravitreal bevacizumab injection (IVB) for active choroidal neovascularization associated with pathological myopia (mCNV). This retrospective interventional case series of 23 patients (23 eyes) was conducted at the medical retina center in the Leuven University Hospital Department of Ophthalmology, a referral center for macular diseases in Belgium. Charts were reviewed of all patients who received 1.25 mg IVB for active mCNV. If patients had two treated eyes, the eye with the longest follow-up was selected as the study eye. Injections were repeated as needed based on a decrease in visual acuity, an increase in central macular thickness (CMT) of >100 micromm on optical coherence tomography (OCT), the recurrence of macular edema on OCT and/or leakage on fluorescein angiography (FA). For statistical analysis, patients were divided into two groups based on length of follow up: patients in Group 1 had a follow-up of > or =12 months, while those in Group 2 had <12 months of followup. Changes in visual acuity (VA), as measured by the Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) protocol, and CMT were analyzed, as were safety considerations such as intraocular inflammation and endophthalmitis. Twenty-three eyes of 23 patients with ages ranging from 20 to 84 years (mean 57.7 years) were included. Mean best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) at baseline for all patients (n=23) was 45 letters (Snellen equivalent: 20/120; 8 lines). At 3 months after initial treatment, the mean BCVA improved significantly (P < 0.05) to 58 letters (20/60(2); 10.5 lines). Eight patients had > or =12 months of follow-up (Group 1); 15 patients had > or =3 months of follow-up (Group 2). The mean BCVA for Group 1 improved significantly (P < 0.05) from 45 letters (20/120; 8 lines) to 60 letters (20/60; 11 lines), having received an average of 2.75 injections (range: 1-5) during this period and an average of one injection thereafter (mean follow-up after 12 months: 8 months). The mean BCVA for Group 2 improved significantly (P < 0.05) from 47 letters (20/120(2+); 8 lines) to 61 letters (20/60(1+); 11 lines), having received an average of 1.3 injections. CMT for all patients decreased from a mean of 266 mm at baseline to 201 mm at 1 month, 181 micromm at 3 months and 192 at 12 months (Group 1). Greater patient age was correlated with the need for more frequent injections. The oldest half of Group 1 (mean age 68.5 years) required an average of 3.75 injections, while the youngest half (mean age 39.5 years) required only 1.75. In Group 2, an inverse correlation between age and time between injections was observed. A total of 42 injections were administered. No peri- or postinjection ocular or systemic side effects were noted in either group. Short-term and twelve-month results indicate that IVB is a safe and effective method to improve visual, reduce CMT and inhibit progression of mCNV."}
{"id": "19916149", "title": "[Retinal damage by (hydroxy)chloroquine intake: published evidence for an efficient ophthalmological follow-up].", "content": "[Retinal damage by (hydroxy)chloroquine intake: published evidence for an efficient ophthalmological follow-up]. Irreversible maculopathy and retinopathy are well-known adverse effects of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine. For this article the literature was screened for relevant risk factors. The results were used for recommendations concerning the extent and frequency of ophthalmological monitoring. A systematic literature review was undertaken. Very few studies on a high evidence level could be retrieved for this problem. Most of the risk factors have not been addressed sufficiently. A higher dosage per kg body mass, long therapy duration, presence of keratopathy and renal or hepatic dysfunction are probably associated with an increased risk to develop a maculopathy/retinopathy. Additional factors such as age, genetic disposition, additional retinal disease, sunlight exposition and nature plus duration of the underlying disease have not sufficiently been demonstrated. Gender, body mass and even the accumulated dosage do not contribute as risk factors according to current knowledge. Beside patient risk factors, the spectrum of ophthalmological methodology and cost considerations have to be considered when thinking about content and frequency of monitoring for the risk of acquiring a (hydroxy)chloroquine-induced maculopathy or retinopathy. In principle, a baseline examination comprising visual acuity (near and far), 10 degree threshold perimetry, colour vision, slit lamp (cornea) and funduscopy is reasonable. One of the high investment techniques such as multifocal ERG, fundus autofluorescence and high resolution optical coherence tomography should be used depending on the existing equipment and experience but not more often than once a year. In suspicious cases or high risk-patients a flexible approach is mandatory."}
{"id": "19899970", "title": "Structural changes of the retina after conventional laser photocoagulation and selective retina treatment (SRT) in spectral domain OCT.", "content": "Structural changes of the retina after conventional laser photocoagulation and selective retina treatment (SRT) in spectral domain OCT. Spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) in patients can deliver retinal cross-sectional images with high resolution. This may allow the evaluation of the extent of damage to the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and the neurosensory retina after laser treatment. This article aims to investigate the value of SD-OCT in comparing laser lesions produced by conventional laser photocoagulation and selective retina treatment (SRT). In a retrospective study, conventional retinal laser (CRL) lesions and SRT laser lesions were evaluated with SD-OCT. One hundred seventy-five CRL lesions were investigated in 10 patients with diabetic maculopathy at timepoints between 1 hr and 4 years after treatment. Ninety-one SRT lesions were examined in 9 patients with central serous retinopathy, geographic atrophy, and diabetic maculopathy at timepoints between 1 hr and 2 years. CRL lesions were applied with an ophthalmoscopically slightly grayish-white appearance (Nd:YAG laser at 532-nm wavelength; power 100-200 mW; retinal spot diameter 100 microm; pulse duration 100 ms). SRT lesions were applied with a Nd:YLF (527 nm; pulse duration 200 ns [30 pulses at 100 Hz]; energy 100-200 microJ/pulse; retinal spot diameter 200 microm) and were visible only angiographically. All CRL lesions were characterized by high reflectivity in OCT images throughout the full thickness of the neurosensory tissue 1 hr after irradiation, suggesting complete neurosensory coagulation. Strong contraction through the full thickness of the neurosensory layers was observed within 7 days after treatment. In contrast, the neural retina appeared unaffected after SRT. For both lesion types, the RPE layer appeared to be regular or thinner immediately after treatment, whereas within a period of 4 weeks, a RPE thickening indicating RPE proliferation was observable. One year and later after treatment, CRL lesions were characterized by RPE atrophy combined with significant damage of the neurosensory tissue. SRT lesions aged one year and older revealed unaffected neurosensory structures and an intact RPE layer. Spectral domain OCT can be used clinically to follow the development of laser-induced lesions over time. Postoperative RPE proliferation was observed in both CRL and SRT laser lesions. RPE atrophy appeared subsequently only in CRL lesions, whereas the neurosensory retina appeared unaffected following SRT. These results suggest the selective effect of SRT in humans without causing adverse effects to the neurosensory retina."}
{"id": "19898181", "title": "Phacoemulsification with intravitreal bevacizumab injection in diabetic patients with macular edema and cataract.", "content": "Phacoemulsification with intravitreal bevacizumab injection in diabetic patients with macular edema and cataract. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the results of phacoemulsification with intravitreal bevacizumab injection in patients with diabetic clinically significant macular edema and cataract. The records of 31 patients with diabetic clinically significant macular edema and cataract, which would interfere with macular laser photocoagulation, who have undergone phacoemulsification with intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg bevacizumab were retrospectively evaluated. All patients had undergone focal or modified grid laser photocoagulation 1 month after the surgery. All patients were evaluated by spectral optical coherence tomography/optical coherence tomography SLO before and 1 and 3 months after the surgery beyond complete ophthalmologic examination. The best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) levels and central macular thickness (CMT) recorded at the first and third months after the surgery were compared with the initial values. Paired samples t test was used for statistical analysis. The mean initial BCVA was 0.10 +/- 0.04 (range, 0.05-0.2). The mean BCVA at the first and third months after the surgery were 0.47 +/- 0.16 (standard deviation) (range, 0.2-0.5) and 0.51 +/- 0.12 (standard deviation) (range, 0.3-0.6), respectively. The BCVA level recorded at the first and third months after the surgery were significantly higher than the initial BCVA (P = 0.004). The mean initial CMT was 387.5 +/- 109.5 microm. The mean CMT at the first and third months after the surgery were 292.7 +/- 57.2 and 275.5 +/- 40.3. The CMT recorded at the first and third months after the surgery were significantly lower than the initial CMT (P < 0.001, P < 0.001). Phacoemulsification with intravitreal injection of bevacizumab provides improvement in clinically significant macular edema with a gain in BCVA in patients with diabetes with clinically significant macular edema and cataract."}
{"id": "19882573", "title": "Is multifocal ERG a reliable index of macular function after triamcinolone acetonide injection in diffuse diabetic macular edema?", "content": "Is multifocal ERG a reliable index of macular function after triamcinolone acetonide injection in diffuse diabetic macular edema? To investigate the changes and the reliability of multifocal electroretinogram (mfERG) after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) injection in diffuse diabetic macular edema (DDME). Twenty-four eyes with DDME were treated with an intravitreal injection of 4 mg of triamcinolone acetonide. Visual acuity (VA), central macular thickness (CMT), mfERG, and intraocular pressures (IOP) were evaluated in the preinjection period and the 15th day, third month, and sixth month after IVTA injection. Age and gender of the patients were not significantly correlated to logMAR VA (p=0.888 for age, p=0.192 for gender), CMT (p=0.282 for age, p=0.625 for gender), or P1/N1 amplitudes/implicit times in mfERG at baseline (p>0.05 for age and gender). The correlation between logMAR VA and CMT at baseline also was not significant (r=0.069, p=0.750). The VA increased significantly at the 15th day (p<0.001). The VA increase persisted until the third month and decreased to preinjection values at the sixth month (p=0.324). CMT decrease was significant at the 15th day (p=0.012) but insignificant at the third and sixth months (p=1.000 for both). Correlations between logMAR VA change/CMT change at the 15th day were not significant (r=-0.043, p=0.843). Moreover, the correlation of CMT change with P1/N1 amplitude/implicit time changes was not significant (p>0.05 for all). The positive effect of IVTA injection in DDME is reversible until the sixth month. Monitoring of the improvement in visual function by mfERG is violated possibly by irreversible macular dysfunction due to long duration of macular edema and primary neurophysiologic effects of diabetes on the retina."}
{"id": "19837384", "title": "Aqueous vascular endothelial growth factor as a predictor of macular thickening following cataract surgery in patients with diabetes mellitus.", "content": "Aqueous vascular endothelial growth factor as a predictor of macular thickening following cataract surgery in patients with diabetes mellitus. To study associations between serum and aqueous vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) and macular edema measured with optical coherence tomography (OCT) following phacoemulsification in diabetic patients. Cohort study. A pilot study of 36 consecutive diabetic patients undergoing planned phacoemulsification with IOL in 1 eye by one surgeon at the University of North Carolina consented to preoperative and postoperative OCT central subfield (CSF) thickness measurements and aqueous and blood samples for VEGF and IGF-1. Four patients with clinically significant macular edema (CSME) received laser preoperatively. Spearman-rank correlations were performed between growth factors and mean CSF or a clinically meaningful percent change in CSF (>11% of preoperative measurement) at 1 and 6 months postoperatively. There were no surgical complications or new cases of CSME following surgery. Mean aqueous VEGF in patients with retinopathy, determined preoperatively, increased with increasing level of severity. Patients with preoperative CSME also had severe or worse retinopathy and the greatest mean aqueous VEGF. Significant preoperative correlations existed between aqueous VEGF and more severe retinopathy whether CSME was present or absent (r = 0.49; P = .007), and between aqueous VEGF and CSME (r = 0.41; P = .029). At 1 month postoperative, aqueous VEGF was positively correlated with >11% change from preoperative CSF regardless of CSME status (r = 0.47; P = .027). No noteworthy associations existed between CSF and IGF-1 values. Aqueous VEGF was significantly positively associated with a clinically meaningful change in CSF in diabetic patients 1 month following cataract surgery. Accounting for preoperative CSF was important. Further study is indicated."}
{"id": "19820779", "title": "Retinal thickness measurement and evaluation of natural history of the diabetic macular edema through optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Retinal thickness measurement and evaluation of natural history of the diabetic macular edema through optical coherence tomography. 1) Diagnose, through optical coherence tomography (OCT) exam, the occurrence of diabetic macular edema in patients with diabetic retinopathy and visual acuity of 20/40 or better, by measuring the foveal center point thickness, during one year. 2) Evaluate the edema natural history, during this period, associating the center point thickness with hemoglobin A1c and changes in visual acuity. 3) Correlate the obtained results with the control group. A prospective study was done, of a sample of 30 patients with diabetic macular edema and visual acuity of 20/40 or better. Measurements of the best corrected visual acuity, hemoglobin A1c level, biomicroscopy with 78-diopter lens, fluorescein angiogram and optical coherence tomography were made. The retinal thickness was selected as the main variable. Besides descriptive statistics, additional tests were applied to analyze the results and determine the correlation between these variables, such as t-Student, Chi-Square, Tukey and ANOVA. The relation of optical coherence tomography with visual acuity and hemoglobin A1c was studied through linear regression. It was found that there is no significant difference between patients and normal individuals, for the variables age and gender. The values of center point thickness found for men were greater than those for women, showing the influence of gender on that thickness. As many as 83.33% of the diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema presented moderate non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR), 10% presented mild NPDR and 6.66% severe non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Patients under combined treatment of insulin and oral hypoglycemiant presented influence on the results of center point thickness (through OCT) and visual acuity. The mean duration of diabetes was 9.63 years. Values of center point thickness were always found greater for patients than those for normal eyes. Levels of hemoglobin A1c did not have influence on the center point thickness data, whereas values of visual acuity were significantly correlated with it. This study presents the optical coherence tomography applicability in the detection and semiologic evaluation of diabetic macular edema in patients with visual acuity 20/40 or greater, during one year, showing the retinal thickening in the early stages of diabetic retinopathy. Further, it evidenced the correlation between the increase in foveal thickness and the reduction in visual acuity. Levels of hemoglobin A1c did not influence the center point thickness data. An early detection of clinically significant macular edema leads us to a redefinition of the real meaning of incipient retinopathy and can prevent further significant reduction of vision."}
{"id": "19809923", "title": "[Guidelines of clinical practice of the SERV (Spanish Retina and Vitreous Society): management of ocular complications of diabetes. Diabetic retinopathy and macular oedema].", "content": "[Guidelines of clinical practice of the SERV (Spanish Retina and Vitreous Society): management of ocular complications of diabetes. Diabetic retinopathy and macular oedema]. Diabetes mellitus is considered the most common cause of blindness in the working population of industrialized countries, with diabetic macular edema being the most common cause of decreased visual acuity and proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) being responsible for the most severe visual deficits. We have therefore tried to establish a guide for clinical intervention whose purpose is to provide orientation on the treatment of diabetic retinopathy and its complications. This is necessary at a time when many treatment options have emerged whose role is not yet fully defined. A group of expert retina specialists selected by the SERV (Vitreous-Retina Spanish Society) assessed the published results of different treatment options currently available, suggesting lines of action according to the degree of diabetic retinopathy present and the presence or absence of macular edema. PDR is primarily treated with pan-retinal photocoagulation. For clinically significant diabetic macular edema without signs of vitreomacular traction, the treatment of choice continues to be focal/grid photocoagulation. Similarly, retinovitreal surgery is indicated for both conditions. The use of antiangiogenic drugs was also analyzed but remains inconclusive. Laser therapy is effective in the management of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema. The role of antiangiogenics is not yet sufficiently defined."}
{"id": "19794940", "title": "Comparison of photocoagulation with combined intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Comparison of photocoagulation with combined intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema. To compare the efficacy between macular laser grid (MLG) photocoagulation and MLG plus intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA; MLG+IVTA) therapy in diabetic macular edema (DME) patients. A prospective, randomized, clinical trial was conducted of DME patients. A total of 60 eyes (54 patients) affected by DME were observed for a minimum of 6 months. Thirty eyes of 28 patients who received MLG treatment and 30 eyes of 26 patients who received the combined MLG+IVTA treatment were included in the study. Main outcome measures were BCVA and central macular thickness (CMT) as measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) at 1, 3, and 6 months after treatment. Additionally, the authors examined retrospectively 20 eyes of 20 patients who were treated with only IVTA and compared with the 2 groups (MLG group and MLG+IVTA group). Baseline BCVA was 0.53 + or - 0.32 and CMT was 513.9 + or - 55.1 microm in the MLG group. At 1 and 3 months after treatment, the MLG group showed no significant improvement of BCVA and CMT, although there was significant improvement after 6 months. In the MLG+IVTA group, the baseline BCVA was 0.59 + or - 0.29 and CMT was 498.2 + or - 19.8 microm. After treatment, significant improvement of BCVA and CMT was observed at all follow-up time periods. When comparing the MLG group with the MLG+IVTA group, the latter had better results after 1 and 3 months, although at 6 months, there was no significant difference of BCVA and CMT between the 2 groups. Additionally, the IVTA group showed more improvement than the MLG group at 1 and 3 months but showed no significant difference at 6 months. In addition, the IVTA group showed no significant difference with the MLG+IVTA group at all follow-up time periods. For DME patients, the combined MLG+IVTA treatment had a better therapeutic effect than the MLG treatment for improving BCVA and CMT at the early follow-up time periods. IVTA treatment alone could be an additional alternative therapeutic option to combined therapy."}
{"id": "19772271", "title": "Effectiveness of laser photocoagulation in clinically significant macular edema with focal versus diffuse parafoveal thickening on optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Effectiveness of laser photocoagulation in clinically significant macular edema with focal versus diffuse parafoveal thickening on optical coherence tomography. To evaluate whether increased foveal thickness in clinically significant diabetic macular edema responds differently to modified focal/grid laser photocoagulation in the setting of focal versus diffuse parafoveal thickening as defined by optical coherence tomography (OCT) criteria. The medical records of patients undergoing macular laser procedures for clinically significant diabetic macular edema were retrospectively reviewed. OCT, demographic, and clinical data were recorded for 62 consecutive eyes with clinically significant diabetic macular edema and foveal thickening (> 230 microns). Diffuse parafoveal thickening was defined as having all four parafoveal OCT quadrants greater than 300 microns, whereas focal thickening was defined as having fewer than four quadrants greater than 300 microns. Mean foveal thickness decreased from 331 to 311 microns with relatively stable visual acuity (20/54 vs 20/51) after a single laser treatment session. The diffuse parafoveal edema subgroup (24 eyes) had a mean foveal thickness change from 383 to 366 microns (P = .47) and mildly decreased visual acuity (20/62 vs 20/69). The focal parafoveal edema subgroup (38 eyes) experienced statistically significant foveal thinning from 299 to 276 microns (P = .018) and mildly improved visual acuity (20/48 to 20/43). Increased foveal thickening associated with clinically significant diabetic macular edema responds more favorably to modified focal/grid laser photocoagulation in the setting of focal parafoveal edema by OCT criteria. Statistically significant foveal thinning occurred following treatment in the focal group (P = .018) but not the diffuse group (P = .47). Furthermore, eyes with focal parafoveal edema experienced a more beneficial visual acuity response than those with diffuse edema (P = .049)."}
{"id": "19772269", "title": "Transconjunctival sutureless vitrectomy for the treatment of vitreoretinal complications in patients with diabetes mellitus.", "content": "Transconjunctival sutureless vitrectomy for the treatment of vitreoretinal complications in patients with diabetes mellitus. To compare the safety and effectiveness of 25-gauge transconjunctival sutureless vitrectomy (TSV) with conventional 20-gauge pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) for the treatment of vitreoretinal complications in patients with diabetic retinopathy. Forty-five eyes of 44 consecutive patients with diabetes mellitus who had undergone 25-gauge TSV for the treatment of vitreous hemorrhage, traction retinal detachment, or diabetic macular edema and 45 control patients with diabetes mellitus who had undergone conventional 20-gauge PPV were studied. The mean duration of surgery in the 25-gauge TSV group was statistically significantly shorter than that in the 20-gauge PPV group. The mean visual acuity at both 1 week and 1 month after surgery was statistically significantly better in the 25-gauge TSV group than in the 20-gauge PPV group. Complications in the 25-gauge TSV group were similar to those in the 20-gauge PPV group. A shorter operation time and faster recovery of postoperative visual acuity were the main advantages of using 25-gauge TSV. Despite its limitations, 25-gauge TSV can be safely used for the treatment of vitreoretinal complications in patients with diabetes mellitus."}
{"id": "19763022", "title": "Efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) for short-term treatment of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) for short-term treatment of diabetic macular edema. To report the efficacy of intravitreal injections of bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema (DME) in the short-term. Retrospective, noncomparative, interventional case series. Medical records of 20 eyes of 19 patients who underwent intravitreal injections of bevacizumab for persistent diabetic macular edema were reviewed retrospectively. All eyes received intravitreal injections of bevacizumab (1.25 mg/0.05 ml). The clinical course of best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) using a logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution chart, and averaged foveal retinal thickness using an optical coherence tomography (OCT) were monitored for up to four weeks after the injection. BCVA at one week improved by two lines or more in six eyes (30%) and in nine eyes (45%) at four weeks. However, no significant improvement in the mean BCVA from baseline was observed at one week (P>0.05) and four weeks (P>0.05). Mean retinal thicknesses (RT) were 411+/-170 mum at baseline, 349+/-102 microm at one week after the injection (P<0.05), and 380+/-159 microm at four weeks (P>0.05). One week after the injection, significant regression of macular edema was seen. However, recurrence occurred at four weeks. No complications such as severe vision loss, endophthalmitis, or systemic events developed. No changes in BCVA and RT were observed in the short-term observation after the intravitreal injection of bevacizumab for DME."}
{"id": "19757353", "title": "[Surgical treatment of diabetic macular oedema].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of diabetic macular oedema]. The therapy for diabetic macular oedema often remains unsatisfactory for both patient and treating physician. Therapeutic approaches comprise laser therapy as the evidence-based \"basic therapy\" and increasingly also intravitreal injections of drugs which, however, have only a limited effect. One argument for the use of vitrectomy in the treatment of diabetic macular oedema is its potentially permanent positive effect. On the one hand, removal of the adherent vitreous may facilitate the supply of the inner retina \"per diffusionem\" from the vitreous, on the other hand it may allow movement of harmful cytokines from the retina into the vitreous also by diffusion. Furthermore, from the pathophysiological standpoint, the vitreoretinal interface itself is modified by glycosylation processes and may thereby contribute to the occurrence of macular oedema. Pathological vitreofoveolar adhesions, which now can be visualised by use of ocular coherence tomography, may also add to the development of macular oedema in a mechanical-tractive manner. A critical analysis of the published clinical studies reveals that the macular retinal thickness is indeed reduced after vitrectomy, disappointingly however, this does not translate into better visual acuity in patients without detectable tractive components. But, in the case of eyes with tractive components of the diabetic macular oedema, there is good evidence for a surgical approach."}
{"id": "19744723", "title": "Association of retinal sensitivity and morphology during antiangiogenic treatment of retinal vein occlusion over one year.", "content": "Association of retinal sensitivity and morphology during antiangiogenic treatment of retinal vein occlusion over one year. Evaluation of the association between functional and anatomic retinal changes during anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) therapy with bevacizumab (Avastin) in patients with cystoid macular edema secondary to retinal vein occlusion (RVO) using microperimetry and spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). Prospective, uncontrolled study (EUDRACT NR-2005-003288-21). Twenty-eight patients with cystoid macular edema secondary to RVO. Patients initially received 3 consecutive intravitreal injections of 1.25 mg bevacizumab at 4-week intervals. Further treatment was based on morphologic (OCT) and functional best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) findings. During the 1-year follow-up, a rigorous standardized evaluation was performed monthly. Macular function was documented by microperimetry (Nidek, MP1 Microperimeter) and BCVA based on the Early Treatment in Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS). Morphologic parameters included central retinal thickness (CRT) as measured by conventional OCT (Stratus), and central subfield thickness (CST), mean retinal thickness (MRT), and retinal volume (RV) measured by SD-OCT. Imaging of retinal morphology using OCT and SD-OCT and evaluation of retinal function assessed with microperimetry and ETDRS charts during 12 months of anti-VEGF treatment. Within 6 months, the mean area of absolute scotoma was reduced from 21.4% of the central visual field to 6.4% and remained at this level until month 12 (7.4%). Mean BCVA improved from 51 to 66 letters on ETDRS charts. The CRT, CST, and MRT decreased significantly (P<0.002) and remained stable during the follow-up. The RV values did not improve significantly under therapy. Statistical analysis using a linear effects model revealed significant associations between the functional and morphologic outcomes, most notably between BCVA, macular sensitivity, CRT (Stratus OCT), CST, and MRT (Cirrus OCT) values. Central retinal morphology, especially CRT and CST measured by conventional and SD-OCT, and retinal function improved significantly during treatment of RVO with a flexible dosing regimen of intravitreal bevacizumab. Functional (central visual acuity and visual field) and morphologic parameters (retinal thickness) were significantly related. These associations highlight the value of OCT imaging for assessing this disease entity."}
{"id": "19729104", "title": "Diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "19715153", "title": "[Subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema with hard exudates].", "content": "[Subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema with hard exudates]. To examine the efficacy of subthreshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation (SMDLP) in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME) with hard exudates. Ten eyes of 10 patients with diffuse DME were treated with SMDLP (810 nm). Hard exudates had accumulated within the foveal avascular zone (FAZ) in all patients. The mean retinal sensitivity within the central 10 degrees was measured with a fundus-related microperimeter (MP 1); the best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) in logMAR units and optical coherence tomography (OCT)-determined foveal thickness (FT) were recorded before and at 3 months after SMDLP. The FT did not decrease significantly after SMDLP, but the BCVA improved significantly from 0.51 +/- 0.25 to 0.40 +/- 0.31 logMAR units (p= 0.02). There was no significant change in the mean retinal sensitivity within the central 10 degrees after SMDLP. SMDLP can improve the visual acuity even in eyes with DME and hard exudates. However, the therapeutic efficacy of SMDLP in these cases may be limited, because no significant improvement in either the foveal thickness or retinal sensitivity could be seen."}
{"id": "19702711", "title": "Factors associated with variability in response of diabetic macular oedema after intravitreal triamcinolone.", "content": "Factors associated with variability in response of diabetic macular oedema after intravitreal triamcinolone. To identify factors associated with variability in anatomical and functional response of diabetic macular oedema (DMO) after 4 mg of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (ivTA), and for recurrence of macular oedema. Pooled analysis of individual data from two randomized controlled trials. This was a multicentre study involving 107 eyes with DMO administered 4 mg ivTA. Predictive factors for response to treatment were evaluated with linear regression analysis. Factors associated with time to recurrence of oedema were studied with Cox proportional hazards modelling. Main outcome measures were maximum improvement in optical coherence tomography (OCT)-measured central foveal thickness (CFT) and best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), final CFT and BCVA at 12 months and time to oedema recurrence. Greater reduction of retinal thickening occurred in eyes with worse baseline thickening (P < 0.001). There was also greater improvement of visual acuity in eyes with poorer preoperative BCVA levels (P < 0.001). Age, duration of oedema and previous macular laser treatment had no significant effect on maximal BCVA or CFT improvement. Eyes given 4 mg triamcinolone alone were more likely to develop recurrence of oedema at 12 months than those given a combination of 4 mg triamcinolone plus sequential laser (hazard ratio 2.60 [95% confidence interval: 1.45-4.67]). Baseline OCT-measured retinal thickening and BCVA are important predictors of maximal anatomical and functional response of DMO to ivTA, respectively. Combination treatment strategy using sequential laser therapy may have a role in delaying recurrence of oedema after triamcinolone."}
{"id": "19700194", "title": "Primary End Point (Six Months) Results of the Ranibizumab for Edema of the mAcula in diabetes (READ-2) study.", "content": "Primary End Point (Six Months) Results of the Ranibizumab for Edema of the mAcula in diabetes (READ-2) study. To compare ranibizumab with focal/grid laser or a combination of both in diabetic macular edema (DME). Prospective, randomized, interventional, multicenter clinical trial. A total of 126 patients with DME. Subjects were randomized 1:1:1 to receive 0.5 mg of ranibizumab at baseline and months 1, 3, and 5 (group 1, 42 patients), focal/grid laser photocoagulation at baseline and month 3 if needed (group 2, 42 patients), or a combination of 0.5 mg of ranibizumab and focal/grid laser at baseline and month 3 (group 3, 42 patients). The primary end point was the change from baseline in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) at month 6. At month 6, the mean gain in BCVA was significantly greater in group 1 (+7.24 letters, P = 0.01, analysis of variance) compared with group 2 (-0.43 letters), and group 3 (+3.80 letters) was not statistically different from groups 1 or 2. For patients with data available at 6 months, improvement of 3 lines or more occurred in 8 of 37 (22%) in group 1 compared with 0 of 38 (0%) in group 2 (P = 0.002, Fisher exact test) and 3 of 40 (8%) in group 3. Excess foveal thickness was reduced by 50%, 33%, and 45% in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. During a span of 6 months, ranibizumab injections by the current protocol had a significantly better visual outcome than focal/grid laser treatment in patients with DME."}
{"id": "19699533", "title": "Foveal ganglion cell layer damage in ischemic diabetic maculopathy: correlation of optical coherence tomographic and anatomic changes.", "content": "Foveal ganglion cell layer damage in ischemic diabetic maculopathy: correlation of optical coherence tomographic and anatomic changes. To describe the morphologic features of ischemic diabetic maculopathy by high-resolution optical coherence tomography (OCT) and their correlation with the damaged foveal avascular zone (FAZ) on fluorescein angiography (FA). Observational case series. One hundred twenty-four eyes of 63 patients with diabetic retinopathy and acceptable FA and OCT images were studied. Twenty-three normal fellow eyes of 23 nondiabetic patients with unilateral acute central serous choroidopathy also were studied. High-speed Fourier-domain OCT was used with a speckle noise-reduction technique to obtain detailed horizontal and vertical images through the center of the fovea and horizontal raster scans every 100 microm. Foveal ganglion cell layer (GCL) damage was identified on OCT as an evident difference in foveal thickness and contour compared with a normal fovea or as asymmetry within the fovea. Fluorescein angiography was performed by confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope (HRA 2; Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany), and FAZ damage visible during the FA arterial phase was graded according to the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) FA grading system. Correlations were sought between foveal GCL damage identified on OCT and FA capillary dropout sites. Foveal GCL damage on OCT, the size of the foveola on OCT (defined as the area of GCL thickness <10 microm), ETDRS grading of FAZ on FA, and visual acuity. Among the 124 eyes with diabetic retinopathy, 62 (50%) had FA evidence of either FAZ damage higher than grade 1 or FAZ capillary loss. In these eyes, damage to the FAZ seen on FA also could be detected on OCT (positive predictive value, 84.5%; negative predictive value, 72.9%), and locations of FAZ damage seen on FA corresponded well with sites of foveal GCL damage on OCT. In nondiabetic, normal eyes, the size of the foveola on OCT matched the size of the FAZ on FA. Evidence of foveal GCL damage on OCT is a good indicator of macular ischemic damage in eyes with diabetic retinopathy. Although in this study FA was more sensitive than OCT in detecting vascular damage, OCT provides objective results and seems to be a good noninvasive substitute for FA."}
{"id": "19697841", "title": "Foveal and perifoveal retinal thickness measured by OCT in diabetic patients after phacoemulsification cataract surgery.", "content": "Foveal and perifoveal retinal thickness measured by OCT in diabetic patients after phacoemulsification cataract surgery. The aim of the study was to measure the change of the foveal and perifoveal thickness of the retina in diabetic patients after uneventful phacoemulsification and PC-IOL implantation. Retinal thickness values of the foveal and perifoveal (fovea + 3.0 mm, fovea + 6.0 mm) sectors and the minimum values were measured in a prospective study using optical coherence tomography (OCT) in 18 eyes of 18 diabetic patients who underwent cataract surgery. Phacoemulsification and \"in the bag\" implantation of a foldable posterior chamber intraocular lens (PC-IOL) was performed under topical anaesthesia. Data were collected one day before the operation, and postoperatively at 1, 7, 30, and 60 days. Contralateral eyes of each patient served as controls. Student's t-test was used for statistical analysis, and p < 0.05 value was considered significant. No significant change of the thickness values could be measured one day after surgery. However, a significant increase could be detected on the postoperative 7, 30, and 60 days in the perifoveal 3.0 mm and 6.0 mm sectors either calculated alone or averaged together with the foveal values. The initial (preoperative) average value of 232.7 +/- 3.5 microm (mean +/- SEM, n=144) in the 6.0 mm perifoveal region increased to 246.0 +/- 8.2 microm (mean +/- SEM, n=120, p < 0.05) one week, to 249.9 +/- 5 1 microm (n=112, p < 0.01) one month, and to 249.5_+6.2 pm (n=104, p < 0.01) 2 months after surgery, which proved to be significant. Our results indicate that diabetes did not influence significantly the thickening of the macular regions after uncomplicated cataract surgery. However, the postoperative perifoveal macular thickness change was found to be nonsignificantly higher in the diabetic group compared to the nondiabetic group, which might be attributed to the high sensitivity of the OCT method."}
{"id": "19696699", "title": "Short-term fluctuation of diabetic macular edema after intravitreal ranibizumab injection.", "content": "Short-term fluctuation of diabetic macular edema after intravitreal ranibizumab injection. To examine the short-term fluctuation of diabetic macular edema (DME) after one intravitreal ranibizumab injection. Twenty consecutive patients with DME received an intravitreal injection of ranibizumab (0.05 mL/0.5 mg). Assessment of best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), fundus biomicroscopy, MP-1 fundus-related perimetry using follow-up strategy (pattern macula 8 degrees 0 dB with threshold strategy 4-2), and optical coherence tomography central macular thickness (CMT),were performed at baseline and 1 hour, 24 hours, 14 days, 28 days, and 56 days after intravitreal injection of ranibizumab. A total of 18 eyes of 18 patients (9 male, 9 female; mean age, 62.28 +/- 8.08 years; range, 48-75 years) who completed the 56-day follow-up were included for analysis. Intravitreal ranibizumab was found to produce significant improvements in mean BCVA and MP-1 sensitivity, as well as reduction in mean CMT, after one injection. This anatomical and functional improvement, which compared with baseline was evident as soon as the 1-hour follow-up (mean CMT reduction: t= 1.7899, P = 0.045; mean MP-1 sensitivity improvement: t = -1.9891, P 0.0315), and lasted until the 56-day follow-up (mean BCVA improvement: t= 2.26, P < 0.05; mean CMT reduction: t = 3.61, P < 0.05; MP-1 sensitivity improvement: t = -5.21, P < 0.05). These short-term observations give insights into the physiopathology of DME treated with a intravitreal ranibizumab injection."}
{"id": "19678810", "title": "Intravitreal pegaptanib sodium (Macugen) for diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Intravitreal pegaptanib sodium (Macugen) for diabetic macular oedema. To report the functional and anatomical outcomes resulting from the use of intravitreal pegaptanib sodium (Macugen) in patients with diabetic macular oedema (DMO). We conducted a retrospective outcome analysis, by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), of eyes with DMO treated with intravitreal pegaptanib sodium. Moreover, we evaluated the foveal transverse photoreceptor (PR) band integrity in the OCT images at the time of the last follow-up visit. Sixty-three eyes of 48 patients with a minimum of 6 months of follow-up were included for analysis. Intravitreal pegaptanib was found to produce significant improvements in mean BCVA (p = 0.019) and reductions in mean central macular thickness (CMT) (p < 0.001) as soon as the 6-week follow-up. Most eyes (60/63) required a mean of 3.03 +/- 0.9 repeated treatments, over a mean follow-up period of 6.7 +/- 1.2 months, to achieve significant improvements in mean BCVA (p < 0.001) and mean CMT (p < 0.001). In our series, the lower visual acuities tended to congregate in the group with the less-defined PR band (p < 0.001) and the lower CMT tended to congregate in the group with the best-defined PR band (p = 0.04), even though the higher CMT did not tend to congregate in the group with the less-defined PR band. Our findings demonstrate that selective inhibition by intravitreal pegaptanib sodium of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-165 may produce a clinically meaningful and statistically significant benefit in the treatment of DMO."}
{"id": "19650710", "title": "Intravitreal plasmin without associated vitrectomy as a treatment for refractory diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal plasmin without associated vitrectomy as a treatment for refractory diabetic macular edema. To determine the effectiveness of a low-dose intravitreal injection of autologous plasmin enzyme (APE), without the performance of a vitrectomy, as a treatment for refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema (DDME). Prospective, comparative, interventional case series. Sixteen patients with bilateral DDME who had not responded to prior laser photocoagulation. All patients received an injection in 1 eye, while the other eye served as a control. Intravitreal 0.2 mL APE injection under topical anesthesia. The APE was obtained using a simplified method. Central macular thickness (CMT) at 1 and 6 months, determined by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and best corrected visual acuity (BCVA). All patients underwent a 1-month follow-up. Prior to injection, CMT in the eye about to receive the injection was 541 +/- 79 microm (mean +/- standard deviation [SD]) versus 535 +/- 76 microm in the control eye. One month after injection, CMT was 241 +/- 47 microm in injected eyes and 530 +/- 85 microm in control eyes (P < 0.001, bilateral Wilcoxon test for paired samples). The macular edema (ME) improved in all injected eyes (100%), with complete resolution in 7 patients (44%). The mean BCVA of treated eyes was 0.618 +/- 0.27 (mean +/- SD) at baseline and 0.45 +/- 0.24 four weeks after injection (paired samples t-test, P < 0.001). No adverse effects were observed in any of the patients. BCVA and CMT were stable when evaluated at 6-month follow-up (0.43 +/- 0.242 and 244 +/- 46 microm, respectively). Intravitreal APE injection effectively reduces macular thickening due to DDME in cases that fail to respond to conventional laser photocoagulation, and improves visual acuity in a short term, and this results remain stable in a medium term what is very important. Further investigation is warranted in order to assess long-term efficacy and safety."}
{"id": "19639332", "title": "Panretinal photocoagulation induces pro-inflammatory cytokines and macular thickening in high-risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Panretinal photocoagulation induces pro-inflammatory cytokines and macular thickening in high-risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy. To investigate whether pan-retinal photocoagulation (PRP) affects vitreous levels of cytokines and macular thickening in patients with high-risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). Fourteen patients with bilateral high-risk PDR--which requires pars plana vitrectomy (PPV)--but without a history of retinal photocoagulation participated in this study. Before PPV, one eye received PRP, and the other eye did not. The concentrations of cytokines of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), stromal derived factor-1 (SDF-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and regulated upon activation, normal T-cell expressed and secreted (RANTES) were measured in each vitreous sample obtained at PPV. Macular thickness obtained by optical coherence tomography was also monitored during clinical course. After the PRP, macular thickness in PRP-pretreated eye showed temporal increase. Vitreous levels of IL-6 and RANTES in PRP pre-treated eye were significantly higher than levels in control eyes (p = 0.013, p = 0.033). Although macular thickness in control was correlated to vitreous levels of VEGF and IL-6 (p = 0.022, p = 0.003), that in PRP-pretreated eye was closely correlated to IL-6 and RANTES (p = 0.002, p = 0.011). After the PPV, macular thickness in both eye groups improved, and there was no significant difference between both eye groups 3 months after the PPV. In patients with high-risk PDR, PRP cause temporal worsening of macular edema linked with pro-inflammatory cytokines of IL-6 and RANTES, but not with VEGF and SDF-1. Thus, PRP-induced macular edema was caused by inflammation, while visual prognosis after PPV was not influenced by pretreatment of PRP."}
{"id": "19637506", "title": "Non-diabetic diffuse macular edema associated with extrafoveal vitreous traction.", "content": "Non-diabetic diffuse macular edema associated with extrafoveal vitreous traction. The causative role of diffuse macular edema in various etiologies is often undetermined. To describe an association between extrafoveal vitreous traction and non-diabetic diffuse macular edema secondary to various ocular entities. In a retrospective study of eyes with non-diabetic diffuse macular edema, charts and optical coherence tomography scans demonstrating extrafoveal vitreous traction were analyzed. Excluded were diabetic patients and eyes that had vitreofoveal traction. A control group (n = 12) allowed for mapping of normal macular thickness. Five eyes with macular edema were associated with extrafoveal traction, each secondary to and representing a different etiology. The causes were penetrating injury, cataract extraction, branch retinal vein occlusion, central retinal vein occlusion, and idiopathic. Vitreous traction was detected either at the papillomacular bundle (n = 3), superonasally to the fovea (n = 1), and at the optic nerve head (n = 1). The associated retinal edema (all eyes) and serous retinal detachment (four eyes) at the traction sites were in continuum with the foveal edema in each eye, manifesting as diffuse macular edema. Of the two modalities--the OCT-Line group program and the OCT-Automatic central program--only the former enabled detection of extrafoveal traction in each. Diffuse macular edema secondary to various ocular diseases may be associated with extrafoveal vitreous traction. The OCT-Automatic central program may omit some of these extrafoveal traction sites. Further studies are required to validate these findings and to assess whether early vitrectomy may improve visual prognosis in these eyes."}
{"id": "19629019", "title": "Spontaneous resolution of macular edema after panretinal photocoagulation in florid proliferative diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Spontaneous resolution of macular edema after panretinal photocoagulation in florid proliferative diabetic retinopathy. To report the evolution of diabetic macular edema (DME) after extensive panretinal photocoagulation in patients with Type 1 diabetes exhibiting florid proliferative diabetic retinopathy (FPDR). This retrospective observational case series comprised 17 eyes of 10 consecutive patients (8 women and 2 men). All patients exhibited FPDR combined with severe DME, and all underwent panretinal photocoagulation. The evolution of visual acuity and progression of FPDR were evaluated. The evolution of DME during follow-up was assessed by fluorescein angiography and repeated optical coherence tomography examinations. At baseline, all eyes had diffuse DME. Mean logMAR visual acuity was 0.402 +/- 0.46. Mean central macular thickness was 468.23 +/- 113.63 microm. After panretinal photocoagulation, DME regressed spontaneously in all eyes after a mean follow-up of 7.1 +/- 2.68 months. Mean central macular thickness decreased to 268.12 +/-54.67 microm (t-test, P < 0.0001). Mean visual acuity improved significantly to 0.184 +/- 0.12 (t-test, P = 0.048). Diabetic macular edema only recurred in two eyes. In DME combined with FPDR, extensive panretinal photocoagulation and glycemic control seem effective in reducing DME and improving vision. In FPDR, DME may be caused by excessive production of vascular endothelial growth factor by the unperfused retina."}
{"id": "19619896", "title": "SCORE Study report 3: study design and baseline characteristics.", "content": "SCORE Study report 3: study design and baseline characteristics. To describe the baseline characteristics of the participants in the Standard Care versus COrticosteroid for REtinal Vein Occlusion (SCORE) Study and to compare with cohorts from other retinal vein occlusion trials. The design of the SCORE Study is also described. Two, multicenter, Phase III, randomized clinical trials, one involving participants with central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) and one involving participants with branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). A total of 682 participants, including 271 with CRVO and 411 with BRVO. Demographic and study eye characteristics are summarized and compared between the CRVO and BRVO study participants. Baseline ophthalmic characteristics, including visual acuity and duration of macular edema before enrollment, and medical history characteristics, including diabetes mellitus and hypertension. In the CRVO trial, at baseline, mean visual acuity letter score was 51 ( approximately 20/100), mean optical coherence tomography (OCT)-measured central subfield thickness was 595 microns, mean area of retinal thickening in the macular grid on color photography was 12.3 disc areas (DA), and mean area of fluorescein leakage was 11.0 DA. In the BRVO trial, at baseline, mean visual acuity letter score was 57 ( approximately 20/80), mean OCT-measured central subfield thickness was 491 microns, mean area of retinal thickening in the macular grid on color photography was 7.5 DA, and the mean area of fluorescein leakage was 6.1 DA. Differences observed in baseline visual acuity, OCT-measured retinal thickness, area of retinal thickening on color photography, and area of fluorescein leakage support the evaluation of CRVO and BRVO in separate trials. The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article."}
{"id": "19582472", "title": "Is intravitreal bevacizumab treatment effective in diffuse diabetic macular edema?", "content": "Is intravitreal bevacizumab treatment effective in diffuse diabetic macular edema?"}
{"id": "19578027", "title": "CERKL mutations cause an autosomal recessive cone-rod dystrophy with inner retinopathy.", "content": "CERKL mutations cause an autosomal recessive cone-rod dystrophy with inner retinopathy. To define the phenotype of the retinal degeneration associated with mutations in the CERKL gene. Six patients (ages, 26-54 years) from three unrelated families with CERKL mutations were studied clinically and by electroretinography, kinetic, and chromatic static perimetry, autofluorescence (AF) imaging, and optical coherence tomography (OCT). Three siblings were homozygotes for p.R257X mutation; two siblings were compound heterozygotes for p.R257X and a novel p.C362X mutation; and one patient had only p.R257X mutation identified to date. There was a spectrum of severity: from mild visual acuity loss to light perception; from full kinetic fields with relative central scotomas to remnant peripheral islands; from reduced ERGs (some with negative waveforms) to nondetectable signals. Maculopathy showed residual foveal islands or extensive central rod and cone scotomas. With AF imaging, there was evidence of hyperautofluorescence at earlier and hypoautofluorescence at later disease stages. Peripheral function was generally less affected than central function. With OCT there were small foveal islands of outer nuclear layer (ONL) in those with preserved acuity. Eccentric to an annular region with no discernible ONL, there could be ONL in the midperiphery. At early disease stages, ganglion cell layer thickness was less affected than ONL. Later disease stages were accompanied by inner nuclear layer and nerve fiber layer abnormalities. CERKL mutations are associated with widespread retinal degeneration with prominent maculopathy. The clinical presentation is that of an autosomal recessive cone-rod dystrophy. Photoreceptor loss appears at all stages of disease and inner laminopathy complicates the phenotype at later stages."}
{"id": "19568362", "title": "A case of radiation retinopathy of left eye after radiation therapy of right brain metastasis.", "content": "A case of radiation retinopathy of left eye after radiation therapy of right brain metastasis. A 37-year-old female, who had received modified radical mastectomy for cancer of her right breast, presented with decreased visual acuity in the left eye after radiation therapy for the management of the metastasis to her right brain 14 months ago. After ocular examination, we diagnosed her as radiation retinopathy. At the time of the first visit, the corrected best visual acuity was 0.4 in the left eye, and fundus examination revealed cotton wool spots and cystoid macular edema (CME). The findings in the right eye were normal except for cotton wool spots in the superior major arch. Fluorescein angiography (FA) showed marked telangiectasia and microaneurysms in her left eye but tiny microaneurysms in her right eye. Subsequent optical coherent tomography (OCT) showed CME. We injected intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (TA). Two weeks after treatment, the visual acuity was improved to 0.6 and the retinal thickness was decreased. Three months later, the visual acuity in the left eye was dropped to 0.3 due to the recurrence of CME, so we injected intravitreal TA again. Five months later, visual acuity was improved to 0.5 and OCT revealed the improvement of CME. The incidence of radiation retinopathy is higher in the side nearer to radiation, but careful radiation blocking is also required on the opposite side of irradiation site considering the possibility of radiation retinopathy and careful observation is required on both sides of the eyes when performing fundus examination."}
{"id": "19568355", "title": "Dose dependent effects of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide on diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Dose dependent effects of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide on diffuse diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the effect of different doses of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide on diffuse diabetic macular edema. In a retrospective study, 44 eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema were treated with an intravitreal injection of 4 mg (n=12 eyes), 8 mg (n=17) or 25 mg (n=15) of triamcinolone acetonide (TA). Optical coherence tomography, best-corrected logMAR visual acuity and Goldmann tonometry were performed at baseline, 1 week, and 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after treatment. Mean follow-up was 9.8 months (standard deviation=2.3) with a range of 5-12 months. The duration of intravitreal TA effects on macular thickness and visual acuity increased with increasing dosage. An observed increase in intraocular pressure induced by TA was not significantly associated with dosage. In patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema who receive intravitreal TA, effects may last longer after a dosage of 25 mg, than after lower doses of 8 mg or 4 mg."}
{"id": "19547995", "title": "Assessment of serous macular detachment in eyes with diabetic macular edema by use of spectral-domain optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Assessment of serous macular detachment in eyes with diabetic macular edema by use of spectral-domain optical coherence tomography. The introduction of optical coherence tomography (OCT) has brought new potentialities for an objective evaluation of macular diseases. The purpose of the present study was to assess the serous macular detachment (SMD) in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME) by use of spectral-domain OCT. In this prospective study were included 79 eyes of 46 patients with diabetic retinopathy and DME. All patients underwent examination of best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), non-contact slit-lamp fundus biomicroscopy, fluorescein angiography and OCT. Spectral-domain OCT (OCT/SLO Combination Imaging System, OPKO/OT Inc., Toronto, Ontario, Canada) was used to evaluate retinal morphology and the presence of macular traction (vitreomacular and/or from epiretinal membranes) on B-scans, C-scans and C-scan OCT/SLO fundus image overlays. With OCT were measured retinal thickness, volume, diameter of intraretinal cystoid spaces, diameter and height of SMD. The correlation of retinal thickness and volume with BCVA in all eyes with DME and the relation of SMD to retinal thickness, volume, BCVA, macular traction and ischemia were assessed. The SMD was diagnosed only by means of OCT in nine eyes (11.4%) of five patients. In eight of nine eyes it was combined with intermediate (300-600 microm) or severe (>600 microm) cystoid spaces, and in one eye with simple macular edema. Retinal thickness and volume correlated with BCVA (r = 0.464, P < 0.0001 and r = 0.480, P < 0.0001). The SMD height did not correlate with retinal thickness, volume or BCVA. Six eyes with SMD had macular ischemia, and five eyes had severe ischemia in retinal periphery. Macular traction was: absent in three eyes, questionable (without distortion of retinal contour from partial posterior vitreous detachment and/or epiretinal membrane) in three eyes, and definite (with distortion of retinal contour) in three eyes. Spectral-domain OCT provided valuable information on retinal morphology and was particularly useful in diagnosing sub-clinical SMD in eyes with DME. It disclosed the presence and strength of macular traction either by partially detached posterior hyaloid or by epiretinal membranes. C-scans and C-scan OCT/SLO fundus image overlays added complementary information for the extent and location of the pathological features. Larger studies which follow subjects longitudinally are needed to explain the pathogenesis and determine the prognosis of SMD."}
{"id": "19545901", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for refractory pseudophakic cystoid macular edema: the Pan-American Collaborative Retina Study Group results.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for refractory pseudophakic cystoid macular edema: the Pan-American Collaborative Retina Study Group results. To determine the feasibility, safety, and clinical effect of intravitreal (IVT) bevacizumab (Avastin; Genentech, Inc., San Francisco, CA) in patients with refractory cystoid macular edema (CME) after cataract surgery. Interventional, retrospective, multicenter study. Thirty-six eyes of 31 patients with refractory CME after cataract surgery and with a mean age of 68.2 years (range, 67-87 years). Patients were treated with at least 1 IVT injection of 1.25 or 2.5 mg bevacizumab. Patients were followed up for 12 months. Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and central macular thickness (CMT) by optical coherence tomography (OCT). Twenty-six eyes (72.2%) demonstrated improvement of BCVA (> or =2 Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study [ETDRS] lines), and no eye experienced worsening of visual acuity (> or =2 ETDRS lines). Mean baseline BCVA was 20/200 (0.96 logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution [logMAR] units), and the mean 12-month BCVA was 20/80 (0.62 logMAR units; P<0.0001). Optical coherence tomography demonstrated that mean CMT at baseline was 499.9 microm (range, 298-784 microm) and decreased to a mean of 286.1 microm (range, 168-499 microm) at 12 months (P<0.0001). Four (11%) eyes received 2 injections, 10 (27.8%) eyes received 3 injections, 10 (27.8%) eyes received 4 injections, 1 (2.8%) eye received 5 injections, and 1 (2.8%) eye received 6 injections. The mean number of injections was 2.7 (range, 1-6), and the mean interval between injections was 15.1 weeks (range, 4-45 weeks). No ocular or systemic adverse events were observed. Short-term results suggest that IVT bevacizumab is well tolerated in patients with refractory pseudophakic CME. Treated eyes had a significant improvement in BCVA and decrease in macular thickness by OCT at 12 months."}
{"id": "19545900", "title": "Primary intravitreal bevacizumab for diffuse diabetic macular edema: the Pan-American Collaborative Retina Study Group at 24 months.", "content": "Primary intravitreal bevacizumab for diffuse diabetic macular edema: the Pan-American Collaborative Retina Study Group at 24 months. To report the 24-month anatomic and Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) response after primary intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin; Genentech, Inc., San Francisco, CA; 1.25 or 2.5 mg) in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema (DDME). In addition, a comparison of the 2 different doses of intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) used is presented. Retrospective, multicenter, interventional, comparative case series. The clinical records of 115 consecutive patients (139 eyes) with DDME at 11 centers from 8 countries were reviewed. Patients were treated with at least 1 intravitreal injection of 1.25 or 2.5 mg of bevacizumab. All patients were followed up for 24 months. Patients underwent ETDRS BCVA testing, ophthalmoscopic examination, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and fluorescein angiography (FA) at the baseline, 1-, 3-, 6-, 12-, and 24-month visits. Changes in BCVA and OCT results. The mean age of the patients was 59.4+/-11.1 years. The mean number of IVB injections per eye was 5.8 (range, 1-15 injections). In the 1.25-mg group at 1 month, BCVA improved from 20/150 (0.88 logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution [logMAR] units) to 20/107, 0.76 logMAR units (P<0.0001). The mean BCVA at 24 months was 20/75 (0.57 logMAR units; P<0.0001). Similar BCVA changes were observed in the 2.5-mg group: at 1 month, BCVA improved from 20/168 (0.92 logMAR units) to 20/118 (0.78 logMAR units; P = 0.02). The mean BCVA at 24 months was 20/114 (0.76 logMAR units; P<0.0001). In the 1.25-mg group, the mean central macular thickness (CMT) decreased from 466.5+/-145.2 microm at baseline to 332.2+/-129.6 microm at 1 month and 286.6+/-81.5 microm at 24 months (P<0.0001). Similar results were obtained in the 2.5-mg group. Primary IVB at doses of 1.25 to 2.5 mg seem to provide stability or improvement in BCVA, OCT, and FA in DDME at 24 months. The results show no evident difference between IVB at doses of 1.25 or 2.5 mg."}
{"id": "19540985", "title": "Combined laser and intravitreal triamcinolone for proliferative diabetic retinopathy and macular edema.", "content": "Combined laser and intravitreal triamcinolone for proliferative diabetic retinopathy and macular edema."}
{"id": "19535358", "title": "Presumed idiopathic outer lamellar defects of the fovea and chronic solar retinopathy: an OCT and fundus autofluorescence study.", "content": "Presumed idiopathic outer lamellar defects of the fovea and chronic solar retinopathy: an OCT and fundus autofluorescence study. To examine fundus autofluorescence (FAF) findings in eyes with presumed idiopathic outer lamellar defects (OLD) at the fovea and to discuss their pathogenesis. Prospective observational case series of five eyes of four patients presenting with OLD at the fovea defined as discrete lesions of 50-100 mum in size located at the level of the outer retina on biomicroscopy and imaged on optical coherence tomography (OCT) as cylindrical, well-demarcated interruption of hyper-reflective bands corresponding to the inner/outer segments junction of photoreceptors and to the complex retinal pigment epithelium-choriocapillaris; none of the enrolled patients had any positive history for direct sungazing, welding-arc or sunbed exposure, whiplash injury, ocular trauma, macular oedema/detachment or evidence of vitreomacular traction. The corresponding FAF images were evaluated. In eyes with OLD, the neuroretina in the foveal region appeared to be thinner than in fellow, unaffected eyes. FAF revealed well-demarcated, hypoautofluorescent areas (corresponding in location to the OLD observed clinically and on OCT), surrounded by an irregular halo of relatively increased autofluorescence in the context of the greater hypoautofluorescent macular region. Biomicroscopy, OCT and FAF findings of presumed idiopathic OLD of the fovea strongly resemble those observed in association with chronic solar retinopathy. In association with OCT, FAF might represent a useful technique with which to detect subtle solar-induced injuries of the retina."}
{"id": "19534857", "title": "[Concordance of two retinal mapping techniques to detect diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Concordance of two retinal mapping techniques to detect diabetic macular edema]. Optical coherence tomography quantifies retinal thickness, localizes diabetic macular edema (DME), and determines whether it implies visual risk. Evaluation is standardized by the macular mapping technique in two versions: 6 mm and 3.45 mm. The latter version measures with greater detail the zone adjacent to the central 1000 microm but does not evaluate the entire macula. Concordance between maps was evaluated in order to define which version better evaluated DME prospectively. The rate and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) of eyes with DME, which had thickening adjacent to the central 1000 microm, was identified in fields of the 6-mm map and in the corresponding fields of the 3.45-mm map. The disparity between rates was identified using McNemar test, and concordance between fields was determined using kappa coefficient. The rate of thickening in the studied area ranged from 31.9 to 50% with overlapping 95% CI between corresponding fields. Although significant differences existed (p <0.05), there was good concordance for 3/8 comparisons and very good concordance in five. Information generated by the 6-mm macular mapping was as valid as that generated by the 3.45 mapping to identify thickening adjacent to the central 1000 microm. We recommend using the 6-mm mapping prior to surgery because it has the advantage of completely measuring the macula."}
{"id": "19516126", "title": "Correspondence.", "content": "Correspondence."}
{"id": "19491719", "title": "Lamellar macular hole formation in patients with diabetic cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Lamellar macular hole formation in patients with diabetic cystoid macular edema. To report lamellar macular hole formation in four patients with diabetic cystoid macular edema (CME). A review of the medical records of four patients with diabetic CME in whom lamellar macular hole formation was observed. The morphologic changes of CME, seen using optical coherence tomography (OCT), and best-corrected visual acuity were evaluated. Lamellar macular hole formation had occurred, as determined by slit-lamp biomicroscopy and OCT. Although the inner retinal layer had disappeared, the outer retinal layer was preserved. On OCT, the reflective line of an epiretinal membrane or a posterior hyaloid membrane was seen on the surface of juxtafoveal retina, and visual acuity remained unchanged in all four patients. In diabetic patients with CME, the CME occasionally changes spontaneously to a lamellar macular hole. Although the central cystoid space disappears and foveal thickness decreases after this transformation, visual acuity may be little affected as long as the structure of the outer retina remains intact."}
{"id": "19486803", "title": "Diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "19485306", "title": "Spectral domain optical coherence tomography imaging of retinal diseases in Singapore.", "content": "Spectral domain optical coherence tomography imaging of retinal diseases in Singapore. In this retrospective case series, the authors reviewed cases of patients with macular disorders whose eyes had been imaged using spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) (Cirrus HD-OCT; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc., Dublin, CA). SD-OCT images were obtained from patients with a variety of ocular conditions attending a tertiary retinal clinic in Singapore from August 2007 to December 2007, according to standardized protocols. Images of 428 eyes from 301 patients were reviewed. Ocular diagnoses included diabetic macular edema, exudative age-related macular degeneration, central serous chorioretinopathy, cystoid macular edema, retinal vein and artery occlusions, infective chorioretinitis, and others. The authors present four cases of particular interest to illustrate how SD-OCT was useful in complementing the clinician's assessment of macular disease."}
{"id": "19478545", "title": "Macular capillary blood flow in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema without vitreomacular traction.", "content": "Macular capillary blood flow in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema without vitreomacular traction. To evaluate macular microcirculation in patients with unilateral diffuse diabetic macular edema (DME) in order to determine whether the alteration in macular microcirculation is associated with development of diffuse DME without vitreomacular traction. According to the presence of epiretinal membrane (ERM), 27 patients having unilateral diffuse DME were divided into DME without ERM (non-ERM-DME group, n = 12) and with ERM (ERM-DME group, n = 15). Twelve patients with macular edema associated with unilateral branch vein obstruction (BVO) and 10 nondiabetic healthy subjects were enrolled as controls. Macular blood flow measured by Heidelberg retinal flowmeter was compared between the edematous eye and the nonedematous fellow eye of each patient and between groups. The macular thickness was evaluated with optical coherence tomography. The mean macular blood flow was significantly higher than that of the contralateral eyes in edematous eyes of non-ERM-DME group (798.8 vs. 379.8 AU, p < 0.001). By contrast, in the ERM-DME group, the mean macular blood flow of DME eyes was similar to that of fellow eyes (575.9 vs. 596.4 AU, p = 0.538). The macular capillary blood flow in patients with BVO was not significantly different compared with nondiabetic controls (p = 0.967). The results suggest that the alteration of macular microcirculation may play a role in the pathogenesis of diffuse DME without vitreomacular traction."}
{"id": "19455970", "title": "[Intravitreal tissue plasminogen activator for treatment of central retinal vein occlusion associated with diabetic retinopathy].", "content": "[Intravitreal tissue plasminogen activator for treatment of central retinal vein occlusion associated with diabetic retinopathy]. To evaluate the effects of intravitreal injection of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) on central retinal vein occlusion(CRVO) associated with diabetic retinopathy (DR). A retrospective study of 42 eyes of 42 patients(mean age: 68 years, female/male = 20/22, 5 eyes associated with DR) with macular edema caused by CRVO treated with tPA. Best corrected visual acuity (BVCA or logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution: logMAR), macular thickness was mea sured by optical coherence tomography (OCT), and several variables were evaluated. The mean logMAR and macular thickness improved significantly in the DR (-) group, but, no significant changes were observed in the DR (+) group. Post-operative posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) developed in 62% of the DR (-) group and none of the DR (+) group. There may be no beneficial effects of intravitreal tPA on CRVO associated with diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "19430805", "title": "Association between foveal photoreceptor status and visual acuity after resolution of diabetic macular edema by pars plana vitrectomy.", "content": "Association between foveal photoreceptor status and visual acuity after resolution of diabetic macular edema by pars plana vitrectomy. We retrospectively investigated the relationship between the appearance of IS/OS line on OCT images and visual acuity after resolution of DME by vitrectomy. Postoperative visual acuity of eyes with complete IS/OS after resolution of DME was significantly better than that without complete IS/OS, though macular edema was completely resolved in both groups. To evaluate the correlation between photoreceptor layer status following resolution of diabetic macular edema (DME) by pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) and final visual acuity (VA). We retrospectively studied a series of 69 eyes from 58 patients with DME who were treated with PPV. Of the 69 eyes, 37 that were examined by optical coherence tomography (OCT) for at least 6 months and that showed a final macular thickness of less than 250 microm were included in this study. We assessed the integrity of the photoreceptor inner and outer segments (IS/OS) line in the fovea, using OCT in relation to their VA and other characteristics. There were no differences in initial VA or in foveal thickness between eyes with or without complete IS/OS at final observation. However, final VA without complete IS/OS was significantly poorer (P = 0.004). VA had improved by more than 2 lines in eight of ten eyes with complete IS/OS and in ten of 27 eyes without complete IS/OS; the groups differed significantly with regard to this percentage (P = 0.03). The postoperative photoreceptor status of the fovea is closely related to the final VA after resolution of DME by PPV."}
{"id": "19430285", "title": "The article by Kook et al 1 on the 1-year effect of bevacizumab in patients with chronic diffuse diabetic macular edema (DME).", "content": "The article by Kook et al 1 on the 1-year effect of bevacizumab in patients with chronic diffuse diabetic macular edema (DME)."}
{"id": "19410954", "title": "Comparing retinal thickness measurements using automated fast macular thickness map versus six-radial line scans with manual measurements.", "content": "Comparing retinal thickness measurements using automated fast macular thickness map versus six-radial line scans with manual measurements. To compare automated retinal thickness values generated by the fast macular thickness maps (FMTM) and customized 6-radial line scans (RLS) versus manual retinal measurements on Stratus optical coherence tomography (OCT) (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA). Prospective, observational case series. Patients with subfoveal choroidal neovascularization (CNV) caused by age-related macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic macular edema (DME), or branch/central retinal vein occlusion (RVO). Patients were prospectively imaged using the FMTM and customized RLS patterns on Stratus OCT at the same sitting. Each scan was evaluated for errors in retinal segmentation (i.e., correct retinal boundaries [CRB]). Automated values were recorded while central retinal thickness measurements were determined manually for both patterns. The presence or absence of epiretinal phenomenon, cystoid spaces, pigment epithelial detachment, and subretinal fluid was also noted. Errors in retinal segmentation at and outside the fovea (i.e., CRB) and percentage of automated values within a clinically acceptable margin (+/-25 mum) of the manual central retinal thickness. A total of 147 eyes of 147 patients (95 eyes with exudative AMD, 41 eyes with DME, and 11 eyes with macular edema caused by RVO) were included. For wet AMD, the total number of CRB at the fovea and outside the fovea was 363 (63.7%) and 360 (63.2%), respectively, in FMTM and 428 (75.1%) and 426 (74.7%), respectively, in RLS (P<0.0001 for both). For DME and RVO, the total number of CRB at the fovea and outside the fovea was 274 (87.8%) and 256 (82.1%), respectively, in FMTM and 287 (92.0%) and 270 (86.5%), respectively, in RLS (P = 0.11, P = 0.15, respectively). Some 40% and 56% of automated foveal center point thicknesses on FMTM and RLS, respectively, were within +/-25 mum of the manual central retinal thickness for AMD (P = 0.042), versus 94% and 81% for DME and RVO, respectively (P = 0.07). For exudative AMD, the RLS protocol provides fewer segmentation errors than the FMTM protocol, and its automated retinal thickness values (e.g., foveal center point, central subfield) correlate better with manual retinal thickness measurement than FMTM. In DME and RVO, however, both protocols provide similar and low segmentation errors, and their automated results are close to manual measurements. Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references."}
{"id": "19410950", "title": "Optical coherence tomographic hyperreflective foci: a morphologic sign of lipid extravasation in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomographic hyperreflective foci: a morphologic sign of lipid extravasation in diabetic macular edema. To analyze hyperreflective foci typically seen in diabetic macular edema (DME) in optical coherence tomography (OCT). Prospective clinical trial. Twelve consecutive patients with treatment-na\u00efve, clinically significant DME. During a same-day examination, a standardized visual acuity assessment (Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study protocol), infrared fundus imaging, color fundus photography, and biomicroscopy were performed. Additionally, all patients were scanned using Stratus, Cirrus, and Spectralis OCT and results correlated. Morphologic changes secondary to DME. In all eyes with DME, distinct hyperreflective foci distributed throughout all retinal layers were found in the OCT scans of all 3 OCT devices. These deposits could not be identified by infrared imaging, fundus photography, or biomicroscopy as long as they were not confluent. Accumulations of such foci at the border of the outer nuclear and in the outer plexiform layer were recognizable clinically as hard exudates showing the same hyperreflective features in OCT. The hyperreflectivity of these foci did not correspond with intraretinal hemorrhage, nor did the lesions cause the characteristic OCT laser beam scattering phenomena typically seen secondary to intraretinal bleedings or microaneurysms. Further, they were detected within the walls of intraretinal microaneurysms. Well-demarcated, hyperreflective foci were identified in the retina of patients with DME. The deposits were located within walls of intraretinal microaneurysms and scattered throughout all retinal layers, forming confluent plaques in the outer plexiform layer. It is suggested that the foci represent extravasated lipoproteins and/or proteins being a very early subclinical barrier breakdown sign in DME."}
{"id": "19403519", "title": "Short-term response of macular oedema to intravitreal bevacizumab.", "content": "Short-term response of macular oedema to intravitreal bevacizumab. Bevacizumab has been shown to be an effective treatment of macular oedema. This study assesses the response of macular oedema to bevacizumab with specific focus on the first 24 h postinjection. Subjects with diabetic macular oedema (DMO) or exudative age-related macular degeneration (ARMD) received intravitreal bevacizumab injections. Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) visual acuity and OCT macular thickness measurements were obtained at baseline, 1, 3, 6, 24 and 48 h, 1 week and 1 month postinjection. The average baseline OCT was 452.91 microm (SD 182.96, range 249.00 to 784.00). After injection, there was a statistically significant decrease in OCT thickness within 2 h with a plateau phase out to 24 h, followed by a significant drop between 24 and 48 h, and a return towards baseline between 1 week and 1 month. Average changes in ETDRS visual acuity were not statistically significant, though many patients experienced a positive outcome. While there is an immediate pressure-related effect, it appears that the anti-VEGF effects of bevacizumab require approximately 24 h to become active and persist for 2-3 weeks. These results suggest that injections at 2-3-week intervals might provide improved clinical outcomes, compared with the currently typical 4-6-week interval of injections."}
{"id": "19395034", "title": "Correlation between spectral domain optical coherence tomography findings and fluorescein angiography patterns in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Correlation between spectral domain optical coherence tomography findings and fluorescein angiography patterns in diabetic macular edema. To study the relationship between spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) findings and fluorescein angiography (FA) patterns in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). Retrospective, observational, cross-sectional study. We included 59 eyes from 59 patients with DME that had SD-OCT/scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO) and FA performed on the same day. Eyes with macular edema owing to other ocular diseases were excluded. The relationship between SD-OCT and FA findings was evaluated by superimposing and aligning the SLO images onto the FA photos. The SLO image of the OPKO/OTI Spectral OCT/SLO (OPKO-OTI, Miami, FL) corresponds with the exact origin and orientation of the SD-OCT scan, which was then correlated with the FA image. Foveal and extrafoveal regions were studied separately. Leakage on FA and pathologic changes on OCT were graded by using standard photographs. Pathologic changes studied in the OCT images included edema and cystic spaces in the inner and outer retina, loss of retinal layers, and foveal cysts. Correlation between SD-OCT changes and corresponding FA patterns. The outer retina was the predominant location of fluid in DME. The severity of the outer retinal edema on OCT was positively correlated with the severity of leakage on FA (r = 0.735; P<0.001). Cystic changes in the inner and outer retina were also correlated with the severity of fluorescein leakage (r = 0.507 and P<0.001; r = 0.561 and P<0.001, respectively). Loss of inner retinal layers on OCT was highly correlated with capillary nonperfusion on FA (r = 0.953; P<0.001). Large foveal cysts on SD-OCT corresponded to cystoid leakage patterns on FA. Pathologic changes on SD-OCT correlated well with FA findings. Loss of inner retinal layers was specifically correlated with capillary nonperfusion and severe ischemia. Judgment of whether management of DME based on fine retinal structural changes influences clinical outcomes must be reserved pending further investigation with prospective trials. Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references."}
{"id": "19384761", "title": "[Intravitreal bevacizumab followed by focal laser for diffuse diabetic macular edema of recent progression. A clinical case].", "content": "[Intravitreal bevacizumab followed by focal laser for diffuse diabetic macular edema of recent progression. A clinical case]. We report the case of a 48-year-old man with diffuse diabetic macular edema of recent progression treated with two consecutive intravitreal injections of bevacizumab followed by focal laser therapy, with good anatomic and functional response. Diffuse diabetic macular edema is difficult to manage and frequently requires multiple therapies. We propose the use of bevacizumab as a strategy to reduce diffuse macular edema, facilitating the application of laser therapy."}
{"id": "19376589", "title": "Analysis of the effect of intravitreal bevacizumab injection on diabetic macular edema after cataract surgery.", "content": "Analysis of the effect of intravitreal bevacizumab injection on diabetic macular edema after cataract surgery. To determine the feasibility and clinical effectiveness of intravitreal bevacizumab combined with cataract surgery for management of the postoperative increase of retinal thickness in patients with diabetic maculopathy. Prospective, randomized, masked cohort study. Forty-two eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME) of 42 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either cataract surgery only (control; 21 eyes) or combined with intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg bevacizumab (21 eyes). Efficacy measures included best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) testing, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and ophthalmoscopic examination. Retinal thickness (RT) on OCT and BCVA were measured at baseline and 1 and 3 months after surgery. There were no significant differences in RT, BCVA, severity of cataract, or systemic condition between the control and bevacizumab groups at the baseline. One and 3 months after surgery, the control group showed a significant increase in RT, whereas the bevacizumab group showed a significant decrease. Although postoperatively the eyes in both groups showed a significant improvement of BCVA, bevacizumab-treated eyes showed significantly better results (mean logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution, 0.38) than the control group (0.51) at month 3. There was a significant relationship between RT and visual acuity (VA) postoperatively in the control (P = 0.0001) and bevacizumab (P = 0.0141) groups. No systemic or ocular adverse events were observed. Short-term results suggest that intravitreal bevacizumab has the potential not only to prevent the increase in RT, but also reduce the RT of eyes with DME after cataract surgery. Further improvement of VA in bevacizumab-treated eyes may be dependent on a reduction in central RT. The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article."}
{"id": "19376585", "title": "Randomized trial of intravitreal bevacizumab alone or combined with triamcinolone versus macular photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Randomized trial of intravitreal bevacizumab alone or combined with triamcinolone versus macular photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema. To compare the results of intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) injection alone or in combination with intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVT) versus macular laser photocoagulation (MPC) as a primary treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME). Randomized 3-arm clinical trial. A total of 150 eyes of 129 patients with clinically significant DME and no previous treatment. The eyes were randomly assigned to 1 of the 3 study arms: the IVB group, patients who received 1.25 mg IVB (50 eyes); the IVB/IVT group, patients who received 1.25 mg of IVB and 2 mg of IVT (50 eyes); and the MPC group, patients who underwent focal or modified grid laser (50 eyes). Retreatment was performed at 12-week intervals whenever indicated. Change in best-corrected visual acuity (VA) at week 24. VA changes among the groups were statistically significant at 6 (P<0.001) and 24 (P = 0.012) weeks. The significant treatment effect was demonstrated in the IVB group at all follow-up visits and in the IVB/IVT group at 6 and 12 weeks. VA changes +/- standard deviation at 36 weeks were -0.28+/-0.25, -0.04+/-0.33, and +0.01+/-0.27 logarithm of minimum angle of resolution in the IVB, IVB/IVT, and MPC groups, respectively (P = 0.053). Significant central macular thickness (CMT) reduction was observed in all groups only up to 6 weeks; however, CMT changes were not significant among the groups in all visits. Overall, retreatment was required for 27 eyes up to 36 weeks (14 in the IVB group, 10 in the IVB/IVT group, and 3 in the MPC group). In the IVB group, in which a greater VA improvement was observed, only 1 injection was required in 72% of the cases. VA improvement >2 Snellen lines at 36 weeks was detected in 37%, 25%, and 14.8% of patients in the IVB, IVB/IVT, and MPC groups, respectively. Intravitreal bevacizumab injection in patients with DME yielded a better visual outcome at 24 weeks compared with macular photocoagulation. A change in CMT beyond the 6-week time point that corresponded to the vision change was not detected. No adjunctive effect of IVT was demonstrated. The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article."}
{"id": "19373128", "title": "Quality issues in interpretation of optical coherence tomograms in macular diseases.", "content": "Quality issues in interpretation of optical coherence tomograms in macular diseases. To analyze the scan characteristics associated with poor-quality Stratus optical coherence tomograms submitted to a reading center for multicenter clinical trials. Data from evaluation of 6,741 fast macular thickness map reports from trials involving age-related macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic macular edema, and retinal vein occlusion were analyzed. Optical coherence tomograms with an erroneous centerpoint thickness needing manual remeasurement (MR) were categorized as being of poor quality. The frequency of MR and the artifacts associated were analyzed by disease type, underlying retinal morphology, and severity of retinal thickening. MR was performed in 2,027 (30%) optical coherence tomograms. AMD had the highest frequency of MR (54.9%), followed by retinal vein occlusion (23.9%) and diabetic macular edema (16.3%). Boundary line errors were the most common artifact across all disease types (61.3% of scans requiring MR) and increased with increasing retinal thickness. Decentration artifact was seen in 15.4% of scans requiring MR. The median absolute difference between machine and manually measured centerpoint thickness assessed in a subset of 84 scans was 75.5 microm. Artifacts causing erroneous reported centerpoint thickness are common. Identifying clues that indicate suboptimal quality of optical coherence tomography (OCT) images are important to avoid erroneous interpretation of OCT data in clinical trials."}
{"id": "19373126", "title": "Effect of focal/grid photocoagulation on visual acuity and retinal thickening in eyes with non-center-involved diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Effect of focal/grid photocoagulation on visual acuity and retinal thickening in eyes with non-center-involved diabetic macular edema. To report visual acuity and anatomic changes from baseline to 12 months after modified Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS)-style (focal/grid) photocoagulation in eyes with non-center-involved (non-CI) clinically significant macular edema. Visual acuity, optical coherence tomography, fluorescein angiography, and fundus photography data were analyzed from eyes with non-CI clinically significant macular edema treated with modified ETDRS-style (focal/grid) photocoagulation in a Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical Research Network trial. Among the 22 eyes (of 22 patients) with 12-month follow-up, median visual acuity letter score remained within 1 letter of baseline over 12 months. The median central subfield retinal thickness decreased by 10 mum, median total macular volume decreased by 0.2 mm, and median fluorescein leakage area within the grid decreased by 0.7 disk areas. We are unaware of any other systematic evaluation of eyes with non-CI clinically significant macular edema since the ETDRS. Focal/grid laser in these non-CI eyes was associated with relatively stable visual acuity and retinal thickness measurements, and decreased fluorescein leakage area at 1 year. One-year visual acuity results are consistent with those published by the ETDRS, despite the intervening significant differences in the management of diabetes. Although this was a small study without a concurrent control group, the ETDRS recommendation to consider focal/grid laser in eyes with non-CI clinically significant macular edema still seems appropriate."}
{"id": "19357559", "title": "Prevention of vision loss after cataract surgery in diabetic macular edema with intravitreal bevacizumab: a pilot study.", "content": "Prevention of vision loss after cataract surgery in diabetic macular edema with intravitreal bevacizumab: a pilot study. To determine whether an intravitreal bevacizumab injection after phacoemulsification can improve cataract surgery visual outcomes in patients with diabetic macular edema by acting on the degree of edema. Fundaci\u00f3n Oftalmol\u00f3gica del Mediterr\u00e1neo, Valencia, Spain. We selected 26 consecutive diabetic patients with nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy and macular edema who were to undergo cataract surgery, and we divided them into two randomized groups to be studied prospectively. Group I included 13 eyes that were injected with intravitreal bevacizumab upon completion of cataract surgery; Group II included 13 control eyes that were injected with balanced salt solution. Preoperative macular thickness was 282.62 microm +/- 57.64 in Group I and 310.38 microm +/- 82.99 in Group II. Preoperative Snellen best-corrected visual acuity was 0.27 +/- 0.17 and 0.24 +/- 0.16 in Groups I and II, respectively. Best-corrected visual acuity at 3 and 6 months was better in Group I--0.4 +/- 0.28 and 0.4 +/- 0.27--whereas poorer results were observed in the control group--0.21 +/- 0.13 and 0.14 +/- 0.13. These mean macular thickness values differed significantly between groups at 3 months (P = 0.040) and 6 months (P = 0.004). Optical coherence tomography measured macular thickness was also better in Group I, 292.46 +/- 104.75 microm at 3 months and 277.62 +/- 92.99 microm at 6 months. For Group II, the results were 367.62 +/- 75.24 microm at 3 months and 387.46 +/- 74.11 microm at 6 months. These mean macular thickness values differed significantly between groups at 3 months (P = 0.046) and 6 months (P = 0.002). Intravitreal bevacizumab immediately after phacoemulsification prevents exacerbation of the macular edema seen in many diabetic patients undergoing cataract surgery. In addition, this effect seems to hold in the short term."}
{"id": "19344827", "title": "Intraocular methotrexate in the treatment of uveitis and uveitic cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Intraocular methotrexate in the treatment of uveitis and uveitic cystoid macular edema. A pilot study to evaluate the use of intravitreal methotrexate (MTX) for the treatment of uveitis and uveitic cystoid macular edema (CME). Prospective, consecutive, interventional case series. Fifteen eyes of 15 patients with a unilateral exacerbation of noninfectious intermediate, posterior uveitis, or panuveitis and/or CME such that visual acuity (VA) was 20/40 or worse, together with a history of increased intraocular pressure (IOP) in response to corticosteroid administration. Intravitreal injection of 400 microg in 0.1 ml MTX. The primary outcome measure was VA (using the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study chart). Other outcome measures included ocular inflammation scores, time to relapse, levels of systemic corticosteroid and immunosuppressive therapy, and ocular coherence tomography. Potential complications of intravitreal MTX injection, including cataract progression, vitreous hemorrhage, retinal detachment, and corneal epitheliopathy, were assessed. VA improved at all time points and was statistically significant at the 3- and 6-month follow-up examinations. The mean visual improvement was 4 lines at 3 months and 4.5 lines at 6 months, with no statistical difference between the best VA obtained after MTX injection and after previous corticosteroid treatment, including intravitreal triamcinolone acetate injection. Five patients relapsed after a median of 4 months; a similar improvement was seen after re-injection. Ocular inflammation scores improved at all time points, and systemic immunosuppressive medication was reduced in 3 of 7 patients taking this at the start of the trial. In patients with uveitis and uveitic CME, intravitreal MTX can improve VA and reduce CME and, in some patients, allows the reduction of immunosuppressive therapy. Relapse occurs at a median of 4 months in some patients, but reinjection has similar efficacy."}
{"id": "19337474", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for treatment of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for treatment of diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the effect of intravitreal bevacizumab on visual function and retinal thickness in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). Thirty eyes of twenty-eight patients (mean age, 57.9+/-13.8 years) with DME were included in this study. Complete ophthalmic examination, including determination of best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), stereoscopic biomicroscopy, and retinal thickness measurement by optical coherence tomography (OCT), was done at baseline and at each follow-up visit. All patients were treated with a 0.05 mL intravitreal injection containing 1.25 mg of bevacizumab. All patients completed 3 months of follow-up with a mean follow-up period of 5.26+/-2.39 months. The mean BCVA at baseline was 0.73+/-0.36 logMAR, which significantly improved to 0.63+/-0.41 (p=0.02), 0.58+/-0.36 (p=0.003), and 0.61+/-0.40 logMAR (p=0.006) at 1 week, 1 month, and 3 months. Final BCVA analysis demonstrated that 15 eyes (50%) remained stable and 12 (40%) improved >or=2 lines on BCVA. The mean central retinal thickness was 498.96+/-123.99 microm at baseline and decreased to 359.06+/-105.97 (p<0.001), 334.40+/-121.76 (p<0.001), 421.40+/-192.76 microm (p=0.035) at 1 week, 1 month, and 3 months. No ocular toxicity or adverse effects were observed. Intravitreal bevacizumab injection resulted in significant improvement in BCVA and central retinal thickness as early as 1 week after injection in patients with DME, and this beneficial effect persisted for up to 3 months. However, the slight reduction in this improvement at 3 months suggests that repeated bevacizumab injections might be necessary. To evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy, further prospective randomized controlled clinical trials will be needed."}
{"id": "19327746", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema associated with severe capillary loss: one-year results of a pilot study.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema associated with severe capillary loss: one-year results of a pilot study. To evaluate the effects of intravitreal bevacizumab in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME) associated with severe capillary loss. Multicenter, open-label, nonrandomized study. Two tertiary ophthalmic referral centers in Brazil. Ten consecutive patients with DME and \"severe\" capillary loss. Intravitreal injection(s) of bevacizumab (1.5 mg). Standardized ophthalmic evaluation was performed at baseline and at weeks 8, 16, 24, and 54. Changes in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and in optical coherence tomography variables (central macular thickness [CMT] and total macular volume [TMV]). Significant changes in BCVA and in CMT/TMV were noted throughout the study (P < .001, P = .009, and P < .001, respectively). The mean logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study BCVA was 0.786 ( approximately 20/125(+1)) at baseline, 0.646 ( approximately 20/80(-2)) at week 8, 0.580 (20/80(+1)) at week 16, 0.574 ( approximately 20/80(+1)) at week 24, and 0.558 ( approximately 20/80(+2)) at week 54. Compared with baseline, a significant change in BCVA was noted at all follow-up visits (P <or= .008). The mean CMT/TMV values were, respectively, 472.6/10.9 at baseline, 371.4/9.9 at week 8, 359.5/9.8 at week 16, 323.9/9.4 at week 24, and 274.6/8.7 at week 54. Compared with baseline, a significant change in both CMT and TMV was noted only at 24 and 54 weeks (P <or= .007). At 54 weeks, fluorescein angiography demonstrated no change in the extent of macular capillary loss and reduced dye leakage as compared with baseline in all patients. Favorable changes in BCVA and in CMT/TMV observed throughout 1 year suggest that intravitreal bevacizumab may be a viable alternative treatment for the management of patients with DME and severe capillary loss."}
{"id": "19320299", "title": "Serous macular detachment as a predictor of resolution of macular edema with intravitreal triamcinolone injection.", "content": "Serous macular detachment as a predictor of resolution of macular edema with intravitreal triamcinolone injection. To evaluate serous macular detachment as a predictor for response of macular edema to intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide. Sixteen eyes (16 patients) with macular edema and serous macular detachment secondary to diabetic retinopathy (n = 11) or branch vein occlusion (n = 5) were prospectively enrolled. After intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection (4 mg/0.1 mL), they were reevaluated at 1 week and 1 and 3 months. The main outcome measure was change in central macular thickness. The mean baseline central macular thickness was 651.13 +/- 245.96 microm. One month after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection, central macular thickness decreased to 255.38 +/- 80.64 microm (P < .0001). After 3 months, central macular thickness increased marginally to 329.69 +/- 161.98 microm, still significantly less than baseline (P < .0001). There was a significant correlation between the height of serous macular detachment and reduction in central macular thickness at 1 (r = .827) and 3 (r = .835) months (P< .0001). When serous macular detachment coexists with vascular or microvascular macular edema, it responds to intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in direct proportion to the height of the serous macular detachment. However, the response begins to fade by 3 months."}
{"id": "19294405", "title": "Effect of vitrectomy on macular microcirculation in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Effect of vitrectomy on macular microcirculation in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema. To determine whether retinal microcirculatory changes occur after vitrectomy in eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema (DME), and whether changes in blood flow are associated with visual outcome and the resolution of macular edema. Thirty-three eyes of 30 consecutive diabetic patients who underwent pars plana vitrectomy for diffuse DME, and 16 eyes of 16 diabetic patients without macular edema, were included. Mean macular blood flows were measured using a Heidelberg Retinal Flowmeter, and central macular thicknesses (CMTs) were determined by optical coherence tomography. Visual outcomes, CMTs, and macular blood flow were evaluated before and 1, 4, 12 weeks after vitrectomy, and compared between eyes with resolved macular edema and those with persistent macular edema. Mean preoperative macular blood flow in eyes with diffuse DME was higher than in controls (606.5+/-357.9 AU vs 407.1+/-265.9 AU, P=0.021). Mean macular blood flow (422.6+/-247.5 AU) at 12 weeks after vitrectomy was significantly lower than preoperative blood flow (P=0.002), and similar to that of controls (P=0.47). In 22 of the 33 (66.7%) DME eyes, macular edema was resolved at 12 weeks after vitrectomy. The mean ratio of macular blood flow at 12 weeks postoperatively versus the preoperative level was significantly lower in eyes with resolved macular edema than in eyes with persistent macular edema (0.65 vs 1.08, P<0.001). Increased macular blood flow in diabetic macular edema was normalized after vitrectomy in eyes with resolved macular edema. Changes of macular blood flow may be associated with the resolution of macular edema in diabetic eyes."}
{"id": "19287286", "title": "Efficacy of 1.25 MG versus 2.5 MG intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema: six-month results of a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Efficacy of 1.25 MG versus 2.5 MG intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema: six-month results of a randomized controlled trial. To evaluate the efficacy of intravitreal injections of two different dosages of bevacizumab (Avastin) for treating diffuse diabetic macular edema. Fifty-two eyes of 52 patients with diabetic macular edema were randomized to receive three monthly intravitreal injections of 1.25 mg or 2.5 mg bevacizumab. Patients were observed for 6 months and optical coherence tomography central foveal thickness, logMAR best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), and adverse events were assessed. Forty-eight eyes of 48 patients completed the 6-month follow-up and were analyzed. Significant mean central foveal thickness reductions were observed in both groups at all follow-up visits (P < 0.013). Significant improvements between baseline and 6-month mean logMAR BCVAs were seen, with the mean logMAR BCVA improved from 0.63 to 0.52 in the 1.25 mg group and 0.60 to 0.47 in the 2.5 mg group. No significant difference in BCVA was observed between the two groups at any time point (P > 0.56). Subgroup analysis showed that intravitreal bevacizumab seemed to be more effective in eyes without any previous diabetic macular edema treatment. Three monthly intravitreal bevacizumab injections resulted in significant reduction in central foveal thickness and improvements in BCVA in diabetic macular edema patients. Both 1.25 mg and 2.5 mg seemed to have similar treatment efficacy."}
{"id": "19284099", "title": "[Loal and multifocal electroretinography in the diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy].", "content": "[Loal and multifocal electroretinography in the diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy]. The paper gives the results of electroretinography (ERG) in 38 patients (73 eyes) with type 2 diabetes mellitus at different stages of diabetic retinopathy (including in diabetic macular edema). The reductions in the macular ERG (M-ERG) amplitude parameters and in the retinal density of bioelectrical activity and the decreased amplitude and longer latency of multifocal ERG (mfERG) N1 and P1 components evidence the involvement of the retinal macular region into the pathological process and the magnitude of these changes depends on the presence of imaged macular edema. Despite the certain limitations of mfERG, assessment of the topography of retinal bioelectrical activity in the central field of vision is an important supplement to M-ERG results and may be a prognostic criterion for the development of a pathological process and its extent."}
{"id": "19273785", "title": "Three-year follow-up of a randomized trial comparing focal/grid photocoagulation and intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Three-year follow-up of a randomized trial comparing focal/grid photocoagulation and intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema. To report 3-year outcomes of patients who participated in a randomized trial evaluating 1-mg and 4-mg doses of preservative-free intravitreal triamcinolone compared with focal/grid photocoagulation for treatment of diabetic macular edema. Eyes with diabetic macular edema and visual acuities of 20/40 to 20/320 were randomly assigned to focal/grid photocoagulation or 1 mg or 4 mg of triamcinolone. At the conclusion of the trial, 3-year follow-up data were available in 306 eyes. Between 2 years (time of the primary outcome) and 3 years, more eyes improved than worsened in all 3 treatment groups. Change in visual acuity letter score from baseline to 3 years was +5 in the laser group and 0 in each triamcinolone group. The cumulative probability of cataract surgery by 3 years was 31%, 46%, and 83% in the laser and 1-mg and 4-mg triamcinolone groups, respectively. Intraocular pressure increased by more than 10 mm Hg at any visit in 4%, 18%, and 33% of eyes, respectively. Results in a subset of randomized subjects who completed the 3-year follow-up are consistent with previously published 2-year results and do not indicate a long-term benefit of intravitreal triamcinolone relative to focal/grid photocoagulation in patients with diabetic macular edema similar to those studied in this clinical trial. Most eyes receiving 4 mg of triamcinolone as given in this study are likely to require cataract surgery. clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00367133."}
{"id": "19266465", "title": "[Diabetic eye disease].", "content": "[Diabetic eye disease]. Diabetic retinopathy is the most common cause of blindness among the working population in the industrial world. The individual risk can be significantly reduced by early blood glucose control and treatment of vascular risk factors. Ophthalmologic screening visits in diabetics even without visual symptoms are necessary to ensure early treatment. Once visual function is impairmed, it is often irreversible. Ophthalmologic treatment is indicated when neovascularizations develop, carrying the risk of vitreous hemorrhage and tractive retinal detachment. Panretinal photocoagulation improves the balance of retinal oxygen demand and supply and therefore reduces the neovascular stimulus. In case of diabetic macular edema, focal retinal photocoagulation or intravitreal drug injections can be performed to stabilize capillary permeability in order to preserve vision. In advanced cases, the decision for surgical treatment via pars-plana-vitrectomy has to be evaluated individually."}
{"id": "19264221", "title": "DRCR Study: outcomes in focal vs diffuse edema?", "content": "DRCR Study: outcomes in focal vs diffuse edema?"}
{"id": "19264220", "title": "Diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "19264219", "title": "Diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "19254904", "title": "Optical coherence tomographic patterns in diabetic macular oedema: prediction of visual outcome after focal laser photocoagulation.", "content": "Optical coherence tomographic patterns in diabetic macular oedema: prediction of visual outcome after focal laser photocoagulation. To identify optical coherence tomography (OCT) patterns predictive of visual outcome in diabetic macular oedema (DMO) patients who undergo focal laser photocoagulation. This study involved 70 eyes (45 patients) with clinically significant macular oedema that underwent focal laser photocoagulation using the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study protocol. Preoperative macular OCT images were retrospectively examined. OCT features were classified into four patterns: diffuse retinal thickening (DRT); cystoid macular oedema (CMO), serous retinal detachment and vitreomacular interface abnormalities (VMIA). Changes in retinal thickness, retinal volume and visual acuity (VA) after focal laser photocoagulation were evaluated and compared with respect to their OCT features. After focal laser photocoagulation, changes in retinal thickness and retinal volume were significantly different for different OCT types (p = 0.002 and p<0.001). The change in VA from baseline was not significantly different between groups (p = 0.613). The DRT pattern was associated with a greater reduction in retinal thickening and better VA improvement than the CMO or VMIA patterns. Proportions of patients with persistent DMO (central macular thickness >250 microm after laser treatment) were greater for the CMO and VMIA patterns than DRT pattern. DRT patients achieved a greater reduction in retinal thickening and greater VA increases than CMO and VMIA patients. We suggest that classifying DMO structural patterns using OCT might allow visual outcome to be predicted after laser photocoagulation."}
{"id": "19253176", "title": "[Review of the protocol for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy].", "content": "[Review of the protocol for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy]. We present general guidelines to help us with the treatment of diabetic retinopathy (DR) at a time when numerous therapeutic alternatives have been developed although their role has not yet been adequately defined. This protocol is not directed at experienced retinologists but rather at general ophthalmologists who require a practical and up to date guide of a pathology as prevalent as RD. The different therapeutic options available, and their most accepted indications depending on the degree of diabetic retinopathy that patients have, are reviewed. We propose what to do in cases of mild, moderate and severe non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy as well as in cases of proliferative diabetic retinopathy (panphotocoagulation/antiangiogenic drugs/vitreorretinal surgery). The treatment of diabetic macular edema depending on its angiographic and topographic characteristics is also discussed. The importance of metabolic control of the patient is stressed (tight glycemic control, control of arterial hypertension and dyslipemia) in aiding the treatment of diabetic retinopathy. This therapeutic proposal has been discussed widely by retinologists from the four largest hospitals in the Canary Islands, and is therefore an agreed text based on recent scientific literature."}
{"id": "19232012", "title": "The combination of intravitreal bevacizumab and phacoemulsification surgery in patients with cataract and coexisting diabetic macular edema.", "content": "The combination of intravitreal bevacizumab and phacoemulsification surgery in patients with cataract and coexisting diabetic macular edema. The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of phacoemulsification combined with intravitreal (i.v.t.) bevacizumab injection in diabetics with clinically significant macular edema (CSME) and cataract. This retrospective study included diabetic patients with cataract and CSME who underwent phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implantation with a 2.5-mg bevacizumab i.v.t injection (ivBe) (15 eyes) or without ivBe (controls, 14 eyes). Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central macular thickness (CMT) measured by optic coherence tomography (OCT), and adverse events were recorded. In the ivBe group, the OCT images demonstrated that CMT (mean +/- standard deviation [SD]) decreased significantly from 466 +/- 105 at baseline to 333 +/- 107, 313 +/- 138 and 333 +/- 111 microm at 4, 8, and 12 weeks, respectively, after treatment (P < 0.05). The visual acuity in logMAR (mean +/- SD) improved significantly from 1.66 +/- 0.39 at baseline to 1.30 +/- 0.50, 1.15 +/- 0.42, 0.99 +/- 0.48, and 1.03+/- 0.44 at 1, 4, 8, and 12 weeks, respectively, after treatment (P < 0.05). However, in the control group, the CMT changed insignificantly from 443 +/- 109 at baseline to 463 +/- 106, 425 +/- 128, and 421 +/- 119 microm at 4, 8 and 12 weeks, respectively after treatment (P > 0.05). The visual acuity in logMAR improved insignificantly from 1.63 +/- 0.42 at baseline to 1.43 +/- 0.53, and 1.39 +/- 0.43 at 1, and 4 weeks (P > 0.05) and significantly to 1.24 +/- 0.45 and 1.18 +/- 0.44 at 8 and 12 weeks, respectively, after treatment (P < 0.05). None of the patients in both groups experienced injection- or surgery-related complications or any obvious systemic adverse events. The short-term results suggest that phacoemulsification with i.v.t. bevacizumab safely reduces macular edema and improves visual acuity for cataract and CSME in diabetics."}
{"id": "19205502", "title": "Acute visual acuity loss following intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Acute visual acuity loss following intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema. A 58-year-old woman with non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy presented with decreased visual acuity from chronic macular edema. She had undergone multiple treatments previously, including focal laser treatment and intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide. Within 2 days of treatment with intravitreal bevacizumab, the patient noted a significant decrease in visual acuity. Fluorescein angiogram demonstrated an enlargement of the foveal avascular zone and persistent late leakage following intravitreal bevacizumab; optical coherence tomography performed before and after treatment revealed persistent cystoid macular edema. The use of intravitreal bevacizumab in chronic, refractory diabetic macular edema may cause acute visual acuity loss by disrupting an already fragile vascular perfusion status, leading to macular ischemia."}
{"id": "19199896", "title": "Pegaptanib sodium for the treatment of proliferative diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Pegaptanib sodium for the treatment of proliferative diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema. Diabetes mellitus is a growing health concern world-wide. Patients with this disease present with a variety of health conditions, including a number of sight-threatening ocular pathologies. Proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) and diabetic macula edema (DME) are common diseases that cause substantial vision impairment in diabetic patients. There has been a strong focus on studying the epidemiology and treatment of these diseases. The recent discovery of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its role in the development of proliferative disease, has led to a movement towards treating PDR and DME with anti-angiogenic medications in conjunction with the standard of care. In this review we present a summary of the origination and progression of PDR and DME. This will be followed by a review of clinical data surrounding new anti-angiogenic treatment modalities."}
{"id": "19199894", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone in diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone in diabetic retinopathy. Diabetic macular edema is an important cause of visual loss in the developed world and may frequently lead to irreversible changes in visual acuity. The Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study showed a significant benefit in using focal laser photocoagulation for the treatment of macular edema, more specifically defined as clinically significant macular edema. However, some cases of diabetic macular edema are refractory to laser therapy and do not have a good prognosis with such treatment. Triamcinolone acetonide is glucocoticosteroid with antiangiogenic and antiedematous properties. Recently, some promising results, respect to the increases of visual acuity and decreases in foveal thickness, have been shown in different studies for the treatment of refractory diabetic macular edema with intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide."}
{"id": "19189118", "title": "Comparison of two doses of primary intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) for diffuse diabetic macular edema: results from the Pan-American Collaborative Retina Study Group (PACORES) at 12-month follow-up.", "content": "Comparison of two doses of primary intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) for diffuse diabetic macular edema: results from the Pan-American Collaborative Retina Study Group (PACORES) at 12-month follow-up. To report the 12-month anatomic and ETDRS best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) response after primary intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) (1.25 mg or 2.5 mg) in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema (DDME). In addition, a comparison of the two different doses of intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) utilized was made. We reviewed the clinical records of 82 consecutive patients (101 eyes) with DDME in this interventional retrospective multicenter study. All patients with a minimum follow-up of 12 months (mean 57.6 +/- 8.4 weeks) were included in this analysis. Patients underwent ETDRS best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) testing, ophthalmoscopic examination, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and fluorescein angiography (FA) at baseline and follow-up visits. The mean age of our patients was 59.7 +/- 9.3 years. The mean number of IVB injections per eye was three (range: one to six injections) at a mean interval of 14.1 +/- 10.5 weeks. In the 1.25 mg group at 1 month BCVA improved from 20/190, logMAR = 0.97 to 20/85, logMAR 0.62, a difference that was statistically significant (p = 0.0001). This improvement was maintained throughout the 3-, 6-, and 12-month follow-up. The mean final BCVA at 12 months was 20/76, logMAR = 0.58 (p < 0.001), a statistically significant difference from baseline BCVA. Similar BCVA changes were observed in the 2.5 mg group. In the 1.25 mg group, the mean central macular thickness (CMT) decreased from 419.1 +/- 201.1 microm at baseline to 295.11 +/- 91.5 microm at 1 month, 302.1 +/- 124.2 microm at 3 months, 313.4.1 +/- 96.3 microm at 6 months, and 268.2 +/- 95.5 microm at 12 months (p < 0.0001). Similar CMT changes were observed in the 2.5 mg group. Adverse events included transient high blood pressure in one patient (1.2%), transient increased intraocular pressure in one eye (1%), and tractional retinal detachment in one eye (1%). Primary IVB at doses of 1.25 to 2.5 mg seem to provide stability or improvement in BCVA, OCT, and FA in DDME at 12 months. There seems to be no difference in our results between intravitreal bevacizumab at doses of 1.25 mg or 2.5 mg. In addition, our results suggest the need for at least three injections a year to maintain the BCVA results."}
{"id": "19184082", "title": "Macular autofluorescence in eyes with cystoid macula edema, detected with 488 nm-excitation but not with 580 nm-excitation.", "content": "Macular autofluorescence in eyes with cystoid macula edema, detected with 488 nm-excitation but not with 580 nm-excitation. Fundus autofluorescence (AF) derives from lipofuscin in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). Because lipofuscin is a by-product of phagocytosis of photoreceptors by RPE, AF imaging is expected to describe some functional aspect of the retina. In this study we report distribution of AF in patients showing macular edema. Three eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME) and 11 with retinal vein occlusion (RVO), associated with macular edema (ME) were examined. ME was determined by standard fundus examination, fluorescein angiography (FA) and optical coherence tomography (OCT). AF was recorded using a Heidelberg confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope (cSLO) with 488 nm laser exciter (488 nm-AF), and a conventional Topcon fundus camera with halogen lamp exciter and 580 nm band-pass filter (580 nm-AF). Color fundus picture, FA image and these two AF images were analyzed by superimposing all images. All subjects presented cystoid macular edema (CME) with petaloid pattern hyperfluorescence in FA. In 488 nm-AF, all eyes (100%) showed macular autofluorescence of a similar shape to that of the CME in FA. In contrast, in 580 nm-AF only one eye (7%) presented this corresponding petaloid-shaped autofluorescence. In all cases, peripheral retinal edemas did not show autofluorescence corresponding to the leakage in FA. In eyes with CME, analogous hyperautofluorescence to the CME was always observed in 488 nm-AF, while it was rarely observed in 580 nm-AF. Moreover, this CME hyperautofluorescence was only seen in the macular area. We hypothesize that autofluorescence from CME may be considered as a \"pseudo\" or \"relative\" autofluorescence, due to macular stretching following CME that may result in lateral displacement of macular pigments (MPs) and subsequent reduction of MPs density, as MPs block 488 nm-AF more intensely than 580 nm-AF. Although this phenomenon may not directly indicate change of RPE function, it may be used as a method to assess or track CME non-invasively."}
{"id": "19174719", "title": "Association of the extent of diabetic macular edema as assessed by optical coherence tomography with visual acuity and retinal outcome variables.", "content": "Association of the extent of diabetic macular edema as assessed by optical coherence tomography with visual acuity and retinal outcome variables. To determine whether the extensiveness of diabetic macular edema using a 10-step scale based on optical coherence tomography explains pretreatment variation in visual acuity and predicts change in macular thickness or visual acuity after laser photocoagulation. Three hundred twenty-three eyes from a randomized clinical trial of two methods of laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema were studied. Baseline number of thickened optical coherence tomography subfields was used to characterize diabetic macular edema on a 10-step scale from 0 to 9. Associations were explored between baseline number of thickened subfields and baseline fundus photographic variables, visual acuity, central subfield mean thickness (CSMT), and total macular volume. Associations were also examined between baseline number of thickened subfields and changes in visual acuity, CSMT, and total macular volume at 3.5 and 12 months after laser photocoagulation. For baseline visual acuity, the number of thickened subfields explained no more variation than did CSMT, age and fluorescein leakage. A greater number of thickened subfields was associated with a greater baseline CSMT, total macular volume, area of retinal thickening, and degree of thickening at the center of the macula (r = 0.64, 0.77, 0.61-0.63, and 0.45, respectively) and with a lower baseline visual acuity (r = 0.38). Baseline number of thickened subfields showed no association with change in visual acuity (r < or = 0.01-0.08) and weak associations with change in CSMT and total macular volume (r from 0.11 to 0.35). This optical coherence tomography based assessment of the extensiveness of diabetic macular edema did not explain additional variation in baseline visual acuity above that explained by other known important variables nor predict changes in macular thickness or visual acuity after laser photocoagulation."}
{"id": "19174400", "title": "An exploratory study of the safety, tolerability and bioactivity of a single intravitreal injection of vascular endothelial growth factor Trap-Eye in patients with diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "An exploratory study of the safety, tolerability and bioactivity of a single intravitreal injection of vascular endothelial growth factor Trap-Eye in patients with diabetic macular oedema. The aim of the study was to assess the safety and bioactivity of a single intravitreal injection of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) Trap-Eye in subjects with diabetic macular oedema (DMO). Five subjects with DMO, foveal thickness > or =250 microm measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT), and best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) between 20/40 and 20/320, were enrolled. Each participant received a single intravitreal injection of 4.0 mg of VEGF Trap-Eye followed by a 6-week observation period. Outcome measures included safety and biological activity, including changes in BCVA and excess retinal thickness assessed by OCT. Injections of VEGF Trap-Eye were well tolerated with no ocular toxicity. One patient had an unrelated serious adverse event: hospitalisation for cellulitis of the left foot 27 days after injection of VEGF Trap-Eye. Median baseline BCVA was 36 ETDRS letters read at 4 m (not ETDRS visual acuity score; Snellen equivalent: 20/50) and median baseline excess central 1 mm foveal thickness (FTH) was 108 microm. At 4 weeks after injection, the median excess FTH was 59 microm and the median improvement in BCVA was nine letters. At 6 weeks after injection, four of the five patients showed improvement in excess FTH (median 74 microm; 31% reduction from baseline, p = 0.0625) and four of the five showed improvement in BCVA (median improvement of three letters). A single intravitreal injection of 4.0 mg of VEGF Trap-Eye was well tolerated and preliminary evidence of bioactivity was detected. These findings support additional studies investigating multiple injections of VEGF Trap-Eye in patients with DMO."}
{"id": "19167078", "title": "SCORE Study report 1: baseline associations between central retinal thickness and visual acuity in patients with retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "SCORE Study report 1: baseline associations between central retinal thickness and visual acuity in patients with retinal vein occlusion. To investigate the relationship between baseline center point retinal thickness measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and best-corrected visual acuity in eyes with macular edema associated with retinal vein occlusion and to investigate other factors associated with baseline visual acuity letter score. The Standard Care versus COrticosteroid for REtinal Vein Occlusion (SCORE) Study includes 2 multicenter, randomized clinical trials: one evaluating participants with central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) and the other evaluating participants with branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). After omitting 17 participants with missing or unreliable OCT measurements, analyses proceeded with 665 enrolled SCORE Study participants (665 eyes), including 262 with CRVO and 403 with BRVO. At baseline, center point thickness was measured by OCT (Stratus OCT 3 [n=663] and OCT2 [n=2]; Carl Zeiss Meditech, Dublin, CA), and visual acuity was measured by the electronic Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (E-ETDRS) methodology. Center point thickness and best-corrected E-ETDRS visual acuity letter score. The correlation coefficient for the association between baseline OCT-measured center point thickness and best-corrected E-ETDRS visual acuity letter score is -0.27 (95% confidence limit: -0.38 to -0.16) for participants in the CRVO trial and -0.28 (95% confidence limit: -0.37 to -0.19) in the BRVO trial. Regression modeling estimated the following decrease in baseline visual acuity letter score for every 100-microm increase in OCT-measured center point thickness: 1.7 letters (P=0.0007) for CRVO and 1.9 letters (P<0.0001) for BRVO. On the basis of multivariate regression models, baseline factors significantly associated (P<0.05, after adjusting for multiple testing) with baseline visual acuity letter score include age and duration of macular edema for CRVO participants and center point thickness and presence of cystoid spaces for BRVO participants. The correlation between OCT-measured center point thickness and visual acuity letter score is modest. OCT-measured center point thickness represents a useful tool for the detection and monitoring of macular edema in retinal vein occlusion, but it cannot reliably substitute for visual acuity measurements."}
{"id": "19118697", "title": "A systematic correlation of angiography and high-resolution optical coherence tomography in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "A systematic correlation of angiography and high-resolution optical coherence tomography in diabetic macular edema. To correlate leakage patterns in fluorescein angiography (FA) images and retinal morphologic features in high-definition optical coherence tomography (HD OCT) images in diabetic macular edema. Prospective pilot study and case series. Nine consecutive patients (10 eyes) with diabetic macular edema. All patients were examined using FA (HRA 2; Heidelberg Engineering) and HD OCT (Carl Zeiss Meditec; resolution, 512x128 pixels, 5.8x5.8 mm, and high-resolution scans consisting of 4096 A scans) on the same day. Using Adobe Photoshop (CS2 Version 9.0; Adobe Systems Incorporated, San Jose, CA) a grid containing 15x7 fields was superimposed on the HD OCT en face image and a late-phase FA image according to retinal landmarks. In each patient, a standardized analysis of 105 subfields was performed to provide a characterization of the type of vascular leakage in FA and the associated retinal morphologic changes in corresponding locations. Angiographic leakage type and structural alteration in retinal morphologic features in OCT. There was a high consistency between FA and OCT in the petaloid pattern of hyperfluorescence that correlated with the presence of large cystic spaces in the outer nuclear layer (ONL) and the outer plexiform layer (OPL) with or without subretinal fluid in 30.4% and 69.6% of graded fields, respectively. A honeycomblike pattern of hyperfluorescence was associated with swelling and cystic spaces in ONL, OPL, the inner nuclear, and the inner plexiform layer in 71.4% of graded fields. Diffuse patterns of hyperfluorescence did not correlate with characteristic retinal changes in HD OCT, but rather showed diversity in the type of morphologic alteration. The presence of central fluid pooling, such as subretinal fluid, could be identified only by HD OCT and not by FA. In the examined patients, a petaloid pattern and a honeycomb pattern of hyperfluorescence observed in FA were found to correlate to characteristic changes in HD OCT, whereas a diffuse leakage pattern was associated with nonuniform changes in retinal morphologic features. The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article."}
{"id": "19117937", "title": "Posterior juxtascleral infusion of modified triamcinolone acetonide formulation for refractory diabetic macular edema: one-year follow-up.", "content": "Posterior juxtascleral infusion of modified triamcinolone acetonide formulation for refractory diabetic macular edema: one-year follow-up. To evaluate prospectively the efficacy and safety of posterior juxtascleral infusion of a new formulation of triamcinolone acetonide for refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema. This was an interventional case series. Twenty-two consecutive eyes of 18 patients with refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema were included in the study. Each patient underwent a complete ophthalmic examination, including optical coherence tomography (OCT) and digital fluorescein angiography (FA). All patients received a suspension of 40 mg triamcinolone acetonide, 20 mg sodium chondroitin sulfate, and 15 mg sodium hyaluronate (1.5 mL), delivered posteriorly through a conjunctival and Tenon's incision. All patients completed the 1-year follow-up. On average, studied eyes received 1.5 treatments. Mean preoperative foveal thickness (+/-SD) and visual acuity (+/-SD) were 474.2 +/- 136.6 microm and 0.6 +/- 0.37 logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR), respectively. The central foveal thickness was significantly reduced from baseline at every follow-up visit (P < 0.001). Mean (+/-SD) reductions in macular thickness were 136 +/- 108 microm at 1 week and 128 +/- 122 microm after 1 year of follow-up. Mean (+/-SD) improvement in visual acuity at 12 months was 0.15 +/- 0.21 logMAR (P = 0.008). Visual acuity improvement of one or more lines and three or more lines were observed in 14 (63.6%) and 6 (27.3%) eyes, respectively. Seven eyes (31.8%) required topical treatment due to a significant intraocular pressure increase. Posterior juxtascleral infusion of a new formulation of triamcinolone acetonide is an effective treatment for diffuse diabetic macular edema unresponsive to conventional grid laser photocoagulation. A randomized, larger study is warranted."}
{"id": "19101420", "title": "Role of combined cataract surgery and intravitreal bevacizumab injection in preventing progression of diabetic retinopathy: prospective randomized study.", "content": "Role of combined cataract surgery and intravitreal bevacizumab injection in preventing progression of diabetic retinopathy: prospective randomized study. To evaluate the role of intravitreal bevacizumab, an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor agent, injected at the time of cataract surgery on the postoperative progression of diabetic retinopathy (DR) and diabetic maculopathy. Tertiary-care eye specialty hospital, Dhahran, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Patients were randomized to a standardized procedure of phacoemulsification with intraocular lens implantation alone (control group) or to receive 1.25 mg intravitreal bevacizumab at the end of surgery (intervention group). Diabetic retinopathy and maculopathy were assessed at each postoperative visit during a 6-month follow-up. Sixty-eight eyes (68 patients) with DR and cataract were recruited for this prospective study. Progression of DR occurred in 15 (45.45%) of 33 eyes in the control group and 4 (11.42%) of 35 eyes in the intervention group (P = .002) Progression of diabetic maculopathy occurred in 17 eyes (51.51%) in the control group and 2 eyes (5.71%) in the intervention group (P = .0001). There was no statistically significant difference in postoperative visual acuity between the 2 groups (P = .772). Two eyes in the control group and none in the intervention group progressed to neovascular glaucoma. The mean postoperative central macular thickness and mean macular thickness were not statistically significantly different between the 2 groups (P = .874 and .942, respectively). Intravitreal administration of 1.25 mg bevacizumab at the time of cataract surgery was safe and effective in preventing the progression of DR and diabetic maculopathy in patients with cataract and DR."}
{"id": "19093330", "title": "Optical coherence tomography and cataract surgery.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography and cataract surgery. To provide an unstructured review of the recent literature on the role of optical coherence tomography (OCT) in cataract surgery with specific focus on cystoid macular edema (CME) on the basis of expert opinion of the authors. OCT appears to be a useful method to reveal clinically relevant postsurgical CME and is complementary to fluorescein angiography. A majority of eyes demonstrate minimal increases in postoperative retinal thickness after cataract surgery on OCT, though those eyes that do develop clinically relevant CME show substantial increases. Using at least 40% increase in retinal thickness from baseline on OCT may be a valid, objective, and uniform method of defining CME. Preoperative and postoperative OCT evaluations in selected eyes at high risk (diabetes, uveitis) for CME may be warranted. OCT has become a useful diagnostic tool to assess CME after cataract surgery."}
{"id": "19060271", "title": "Concentration gradient of vascular endothelial growth factor in the vitreous of eyes with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Concentration gradient of vascular endothelial growth factor in the vitreous of eyes with diabetic macular edema. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) concentrations in various regions of the vitreous were examined in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME) to explore the possibility of a concentration gradient in the vitreous. Vitreous samples were collected during vitrectomy from 71 eyes of 71 patients with DME and without posterior vitreous detachment who had not undergone panretinal photocoagulation. Vitreous samples were collected from the premacular vitreous and mid-vitreous (group A, 35 eyes), and from the premacular vitreous and peripheral cortical vitreous (group B, 36 eyes). Mean foveal thickness was measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT). Ten eyes of 10 patients with stage 3 macular hole (MH) served as controls. Vitreous VEGF levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The VEGF concentration (mean +/- SD; pg/mL) was significantly higher in the premacular vitreous (1386.2 +/- 2134.1) than in the peripheral cortical vitreous (1169.7 +/- 1840.3; P = 0.0216) and mid-vitreous (1080.9 +/- 1534.1; P = 0.0017). The mean foveal thickness measured on OCT correlated significantly with VEGF concentrations in the premacular vitreous, peripheral cortical vitreous, and mid-vitreous (R > 0.62, P < 0.0001, for all). In controls, VEGF concentrations in the premacular vitreous, peripheral cortical vitreous and mid-vitreous were all below the detection limit (<20 pg/mL). In DME, vitreous VEGF concentration correlates with mean foveal thickness measured on OCT. VEGF concentration was higher in premacular vitreous than in mid-vitreous and peripheral cortical vitreous, suggesting diffusion from the macular region to the periphery, and from the posterior to the anterior globe."}
{"id": "19054831", "title": "Prospective randomised controlled trial comparing sub-threshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation and conventional green laser for clinically significant diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Prospective randomised controlled trial comparing sub-threshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation and conventional green laser for clinically significant diabetic macular oedema. The study was a prospective randomised controlled double-masked trial performed in two centres to compare sub-threshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation (MPDL) with conventional green laser photocoagulation (CGL) in the treatment of clinically significant diabetic macular oedema (CSMO). Fifty-three patients (84 eyes) with diabetic CSMO were randomly assigned to MPDL (n = 44) or CGL (n = 40) according to the modified Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) protocol. Treatments were performed after baseline and re-treatments were allowed at or after the 4 month visit if necessary. Parameters noted included the best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), colour fundus photographs, central retinal thickness using optical coherence tomography (OCT), vision contrast sensitivity with Pelli-Robson charts and presence of visible laser scars at baseline and at 4 and 12 months. The primary outcome was BCVA at 12 months. All patients completed 12 months of follow-up after treatment at baseline. There were no statistically significant differences in BCVA, contrast sensitivity and retinal thickness between the two laser modalities at 0, 4 and 12 months. We found that laser scarring was much more apparent with CGL than with the sub-threshold approach (MPDL). Laser scars were identified at the 12 month visits in 13.9% of the MPDL-treated eyes compared with 59.0% of the CGL-treated eyes (p<0.001). Sub-threshold micropulse diode laser photocoagulation is equally as effective as CGL treatment for CSMO. ISTRN 90646644."}
{"id": "19019945", "title": "Imaging vitreomacular interface abnormalities in the coronal plane by simultaneous combined scanning laser and optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Imaging vitreomacular interface abnormalities in the coronal plane by simultaneous combined scanning laser and optical coherence tomography. To describe vitreoretinal imaging of eyes with vitreomacular abnormalities using high-resolution coronal-plane optical coherence tomography (OCT) scanning combined with simultaneous scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO) imaging. A SLO-OCT (OTI, Canada) was used to scan 835 eyes in 736 patients with vitreomacular interface abnormalities including epiretinal membranes, macular hole, incomplete posterior vitreous detachment, vitreomacular traction syndromes and diabetic and cystoid macular oedema in a retrospective study. The longitudinal-B scan images and the transverse -C scan images in the coronal plane were used to describe vitreomacular interface abnormalities. The SLO-OCT simultaneously produces a confocal image of the retina. The longitudinal \"B\" scan and en-face \"C\" scan images allowed identification of tractive forces of epiretinal membrane, contour of the hyaloid membrane and changes in inner retinal surface. A simultaneously obtained OCT scan and SLO image of the fundus offered exact co-localisation of retinal structures and vitreomacular interface abnormalities. Scanning the vitreomacular interface by using combined OCT and SLO enables the visualisation and better understanding of various vitreomacular interface abnormalities, due to the ability to colocalise pathology on OCT with retinal vascular landmarks and the ability to visualise pathology from a new perspective, coronal plane parallel to retinal surface."}
{"id": "18976317", "title": "Optical coherence tomography in ophthalmology: an overview.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography in ophthalmology: an overview."}
{"id": "18973950", "title": "Prospective clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of photodynamic therapy for symptomatic circumscribed choroidal hemangioma.", "content": "Prospective clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of photodynamic therapy for symptomatic circumscribed choroidal hemangioma. To evaluate photodynamic therapy (PDT) for symptomatic circumscribed choroidal hemangioma (CCH). Prospective, multicenter, nonrandomized clinical trial. Thirty-one eyes of 31 patients with posterior pole CCH and symptoms caused by exudation into the macular area. Photodynamic therapy was applied by Zeiss laser. Intravenous verteporfin at 6 mg/m(2) body surface was administered before treatment, and light emitted at 689 nm for photosensitization. The treatment spot diameter was calculated on early-phase frames of pretreatment indocyanine green angiography. Fifteen minutes after starting the verteporfin infusion, the laser beam was applied to the retina at radiant exposure 50 J/cm(2) and exposure time 83 seconds. One to 4 treatments were applied at 12-week intervals over 1 year. Standardized evaluation was performed before and at 4-week intervals after each treatment, and at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. All patients were followed for >or=12 months. The primary outcome measure was the absence of exudative retinal detachment at the 12-month follow-up visit on ophthalmoscopy, fluorescein angiography, and optical coherence tomography. Secondary measures were the visual acuity outcome, with best-corrected visual acuity determined by the Early Treatment for Diabetic Retinopathy Study chart, tumor thickness decrease on B-scan ultrasonography, and adverse events. Among the total, 82.8% of patients required 1, 13.8% 2, and 3.4% 3 PDTs to eliminate exudative retinal detachment. Visual acuity increased from a mean of 20/60 to 20/35 (P<0.001). Sixty-nine percent of patients demonstrated visual recovery (P<0.001). Cystoid macular edema regressed in all cases and exudative macular detachment disappeared in all but 2 cases. The CCH thickness decreased in all cases from a mean of 3.0 to 1.7 mm, with the most intense effect seen after 4 weeks of treatment (P<0.001). Visual fields showed resolution of central scotomas. There were no severe adverse events. Combining PDT with the standard age-related macular degeneration protocol is an effective treatment for CCH in terms of resolution of exudative subretinal fluid and recovery of VA. The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article."}
{"id": "18952928", "title": "Simultaneous OCT/SLO/ICG imaging.", "content": "Simultaneous OCT/SLO/ICG imaging. To evaluate how information from combined coronal optical coherence tomography (OCT) and confocal laser scanning ophthalmoscopy (SLO) with integrated simultaneous indocyanine green (ICG) dye angiography can be used in the diagnosis of a variety of macular diseases. A compact chin-rest-based OCT/confocal imaging system was used to produce the OCT image and excite the fluorescence in the ICG dye. The same eye fundus area can be visualized with coronal (C-scans, en face) OCT and ICG angiography simultaneously. Fast T scanning (transverse scanning, en face) was used to build B- or C-scan OCT images along with confocal SLO views, with and without ICG filtration. The OCT, confocal SLO and ICG fluorescence images were simultaneously presented in a three-screen format. A live mixing channel overlaid the ICG sequence on the coronal OCT slices in a fourth panel for immediate comparison. Thirty eyes were imaged. The pathologic conditions studied included classic and occult neovascular membranes, vascularized RPE detachments, polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy, traumatic choroidal rupture, diabetic maculopathy, central serous retinopathy, and macular drusen. Images were evaluated with special attention toward identifying novel relationships between morphology and function revealed by the superimposition of the studies. Simultaneous visualization of an en face (coronal, C-scan) OCT image and of an ICG angiogram, displayed side by side and superimposed, permits more precise correlations between late fluorescence accumulation with structures deep to the retinal surface at the retina-choroid interface. The multiplanar scanning also permits immediate B-scan OCT cross-sectional views of regions of abnormal fluorescence. The paper demonstrates the synergy between the two types of studies, functional and anatomic, in providing a more complete view of the pathologic condition."}
{"id": "18952923", "title": "Three-dimensional optical coherence tomography (3D-OCT) image enhancement with segmentation-free contour modeling C-mode.", "content": "Three-dimensional optical coherence tomography (3D-OCT) image enhancement with segmentation-free contour modeling C-mode. To develop a semiautomated method to visualize structures of interest (SoIs) along their contour within three-dimensional, spectral domain optical coherence tomography (3D SD-OCT) data, without the need for segmentation. With the use of two SD-OCT devices, the authors obtained 3D SD-OCT data within 6 x 6 x 1.4-mm and 6 x 6 x 2-mm volumes, respectively, centered on the fovea in healthy eyes and in eyes with retinal pathology. C-mode images were generated by sampling a variable thickness plane semiautomatically modeled to fit the contour of the SoI. Unlike published and commercialized methods, this method did not require retinal layer segmentation, which is known to fail frequently in the presence of retinal pathology. Four SoIs were visualized for healthy eyes: striation of retinal nerve fiber (RNF), retinal capillary network (RCN), choroidal capillary network (CCN), and major choroidal vasculature (CV). Various SoIs were visualized for eyes with retinal pathology. Seven healthy eyes and seven eyes with retinal pathology (cystoid macular edema, central serous retinopathy, vitreoretinal traction, and age-related macular degeneration) were imaged. CCN and CV were successfully visualized in all eyes, whereas RNF and RCN were visualized in all healthy eyes and in 42.8% of eyes with pathologies. Various SoIs were successfully visualized in all eyes with retinal pathology. The proposed C-mode contour modeling may provide clinically useful images of SoIs even in eyes with severe pathologic changes in which segmentation algorithms fail."}
{"id": "18929354", "title": "Prospective study of intravitreal ranibizumab as a treatment for decreased visual acuity secondary to central retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Prospective study of intravitreal ranibizumab as a treatment for decreased visual acuity secondary to central retinal vein occlusion. To evaluate intravitreal injection of ranibizumab as a potential treatment for decreased visual acuity (VA) secondary to central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). Prospective, interventional case series. Patients with CRVO prospectively recruited from a practice were administered intravitreal ranibizumab 0.5 mg (Lucentis; Genentech Inc, South San Francisco, California, USA) at baseline and monthly for two additional doses. The patients were given additional ranibizumab if they had macular edema as determined by optical coherence tomography or any new intraretinal hemorrhage. Patients were evaluated for number of required injections, side effects, changes in VA, and macular thickness. There were 20 eyes of 20 patients who at baseline had a mean age of 72.1 years, a mean VA of 45.8 Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy letters, and a mean central macular thickness of 574.6 microm. Of the 20 eyes, five previously had received intravitreal triamcinolone and 11 had received intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin; Genentech Inc). At 12 months of follow-up, the mean VA improved to 64.3 letters and the central macular thickness decreased to 186 microm (both different than baseline values; P < .001) using a mean of 8.5 injections. The change in macular thickness was not correlated with the change in VA. In one patient with a history of transient ischemic attack, an ischemic stroke developed but no sequela resulted. In another patient, vitreomacular traction developed, but the patient had improved acuity as compared with baseline. There were no infections, retinal tears, or detachments. Intravitreal ranibizumab used over a period of one year improved mean VA, with low rates of adverse events, in patients with CRVO."}
{"id": "18929352", "title": "Combined laser and intravitreal triamcinolone for proliferative diabetic retinopathy and macular edema: one-year results of a randomized clinical trial.", "content": "Combined laser and intravitreal triamcinolone for proliferative diabetic retinopathy and macular edema: one-year results of a randomized clinical trial. To evaluate laser combined with intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) for the management of patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) and clinically significant macular edema (CSME). Randomized clinical trial. settings: Single center. study population: Twenty-two patients with bilateral treatment-na\u00efve moderate PDR and CSME. intervention: Laser (panretinal and macular) photocoagulation was performed in each eye, followed by IVTA in one randomly assigned eye. Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), fundus photography, and optical coherence tomography were performed at baseline and at months 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12. main outcome measures: Changes in BCVA, central macular thickness (CMT), and total macular volume (TMV). The mean logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution (logMAR) BCVA improved significantly, and mean CMT and TMV were significantly reduced in the IVTA group compared with the laser-only group (controls) at all study follow-up visits (P < .001). The mean logMAR BCVA (Snellen equivalent) was 0.44 (20/50(-2)) for the IVTA group and 0.38 (20/50(+1)) for the controls at baseline, and 0.12 (20/25(-1)) for the IVTA group and 0.32 (20/40(-1)) for the controls at 12 months (P < .001). The mean CMT and TMV were, respectively, 360 microm and 8.59 mm(3) for the IVTA group and 331 microm and 8.44 mm(3) for the controls at baseline, and 236 microm and 7.32 mm(3) for the IVTA group and 266 microm and 7.78 mm(3) for the controls at 12 months (P < .001). The combination of laser photocoagulation with IVTA was associated with improved BCVA and decreased CMT and TMV when compared with laser photocoagulation alone for the treatment of moderate PDR with CSME."}
{"id": "18854783", "title": "Short-term safety and efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab for pseudophakic cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Short-term safety and efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab for pseudophakic cystoid macular edema. : To determine the feasibility, safety, and clinical effect of intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) in patients with refractory cystoid macular edema after uncomplicated cataract surgery. : Ten eyes of 10 patients affected by pseudophakic cystoid macular edema refractory to medical treatment treated with at least one intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg of bevacizumab were enrolled in the study. Follow-up visits included Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity testing, optical coherence tomography imaging, and ophthalmoscopic examination. : The follow-up was 6 months. All eyes had improved best corrected visual acuity, and no eye had worse visual acuity (>/=2 Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study lines). The mean baseline best corrected visual acuity was 20/80 and the mean final best corrected visual acuity 20/32, the difference was statistically significant (P < 0.0001). The mean central macular thickness at baseline (546.8 mm; range, 359-720 mm) decreased significantly (228.7 mm; range, 190-280 mm) by the end of follow-up (P < 0.0001). No ocular or systemic adverse events were observed. : Short-term results suggest that intravitreal bevacizumab is safe and well tolerated in patients with pseudophakic cystoid macular edema. Treated eyes had a significant improvement in best corrected visual acuity and decrease in macular thickness by optical coherence tomography."}
{"id": "18827730", "title": "Diagnostic and therapeutic challenges.", "content": "Diagnostic and therapeutic challenges."}
{"id": "18791547", "title": "Relationship of diabetic macular oedema with glycosylated haemoglobin.", "content": "Relationship of diabetic macular oedema with glycosylated haemoglobin. To evaluate the correlation between glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and central foveal thickness as measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) in patients with diabetes. Retrospectively review of medical records of central foveal thickness as measured by OCT and laboratory data of glycosylated haemoglobin. HbA1c was compared with foveal thickness measured by OCT within the preceding 3 months. Clinically significant macular oedema (CSME) was diagnosed if central foveal retinal thickness was greater than 325 mum in OCT. One hundred and two eyes of 102 patients were included in this cross-sectional study. Univariate analysis revealed that the CSME diagnosed by OCT in diabetes was not statistically significant with sex, right or left eye, DM duration over 10 years or not, and AC sugar level (over 140 or not). The HbA1C level (8 or over) and age (50 or less) showed a significant (P=0.005 and 0.006, respectively) and positive association with macular thickness in OCT. A trend towards higher risk was seen for factors of age <or=50 and HbA1c >or=8%. Patients with HbA1c of 8 or above had an increase in macular thickness in type 2 diabetic eyes and there was a statistical significant correlation between younger age, shorter DM duration and thicker macular thickness. Strict sugar control decreased the risk of diabetic macular retinopathy, and OCT could be an excellent detector of early diabetic macular oedema."}
{"id": "18784623", "title": "The effect of unilateral intravitreal bevacizumab (avastin), in the treatment of diffuse bilateral diabetic macular edema: a pilot study.", "content": "The effect of unilateral intravitreal bevacizumab (avastin), in the treatment of diffuse bilateral diabetic macular edema: a pilot study. To investigate whether there are systemic effects of unilateral intravitreal administration of bevacizumab on the untreated eye. Twenty-three consecutive patients were enrolled in this study. All patients had a clinical diagnosis of bilateral diffuse diabetic macular edema with a central retinal thickness greater than 275 microm by Optical Coherence Tomography. They were treated with 2.5 mg bevacizumab intravitreally in the worst eye based on lines of vision, number of Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study letters, and central retinal thickness. The patients were observed every 2 weeks for 4 weeks. The Best Corrected Visual Acuity, central retinal thickness (microm), and macular volume (mm) in the untreated eye measured by Optical Coherence Tomography were recorded at every visit. The Best Corrected Visual Acuity (mean +/- SD) in the untreated eye was 34.46 +/- 17.29. Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study letters at baseline, 38.31 +/- 14.64 at 2 weeks, and 37.38 +/- 14.59 at 4 weeks. The central retinal thickness in the untreated eye was 324.77 +/- 76.51 microm at baseline, 319 +/- 75.7 microm at 2 weeks, and 315.54 +/- 78.2 microm at 4 weeks. The macular volume in the untreated eye was 8.99 +/- 1.2 mm at baseline, 9.16 +/- 1.26 mm at 2 weeks, and 8.99 +/- 1.09 mm at 4 weeks. There were no statistically significant differences between any of the measurements. Due to the lack of significant changes in the measurements of the untreated eye, the systemic effect of intravitreal bevacizumab seems to be unlikely. The small sample and low confidence of this pilot study prevent us to draw concrete conclusions."}
{"id": "18682969", "title": "Prolongation of activity of single intravitreal bevacizumab by adjuvant topical aqueous depressant (Timolol-Dorzolamide).", "content": "Prolongation of activity of single intravitreal bevacizumab by adjuvant topical aqueous depressant (Timolol-Dorzolamide). To evaluate the efficacy of timolol-dorzolamide drops used to decrease aqueous outflow from the eye on the prolongation of the biological activity of intravitreal bevacizumab. Thirty-eight eyes of 38 patients with macular edema (ME) following retinal vein obstruction (RVO) were enrolled. These patients were randomly assigned into 2 groups: timolol-dorzolamide drops twice daily (n = 19) or no eyedrops (control; n = 19). All patients received 1.25 mg (in 0.05 mL) of bevacizumab intravitreally and were examined before treatment, 1 week after injection, and then every 4 weeks after injection. For each patient, visual acuity (VA), intraocular pressure (IOP), and central retinal thickness (CRT) by optical coherence tomography (OCT) were recorded before injection and at each visit after injection. The mean CRT at each timepoint was considered to directly reflect the biological activities of bevacizumab at those times. The mean CRT measured by OCT showed a significant decrease 1 week after treatment in both groups, and this difference was maintained for a total of 9 weeks (paired t-test, <0.001). The mean CRT at 1 week post-injection showed no significant between-group difference (p = 0.781). At 5 weeks post-injection, the timolol-dorzolamide group showed a significantly smaller mean CRT than the control group (p = 0.032). The difference in mean CRT between the 2 groups disappeared, however, at 9 weeks post-injection (p = 0.462). In both groups, VA improved significantly 1 week after injection, and these changes were maintained to 9 weeks post-injection in both groups. The mean VA of the 2 groups showed no difference at any time. Timolol-dorzolamide aqueous depressant drops may delay the elimination of intravitreal bevacizumab but clinical efficacy of the eyedrops have not been proven in this study."}
{"id": "18566462", "title": "Comparison of optical coherence tomography in diabetic macular edema, with and without reading center manual grading from a clinical trials perspective.", "content": "Comparison of optical coherence tomography in diabetic macular edema, with and without reading center manual grading from a clinical trials perspective. To analyze the value of reading center error correction in automated optical coherence tomography (OCT; Stratus; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc., Dublin, CA) retinal thickness measurements in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME). OCT scans (n=6522) obtained in seven Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical Research Network (DRCR.net) studies were analyzed. The reading center evaluated whether the automated center point measurement appeared correct, and when it did not, measured it manually with calipers. Center point standard deviation (SD) as a percentage of thickness, center point thickness, signal strength, and analysis confidence were evaluated for their association with an automated measurement error (manual measurement needed and exceeded 12% of automated thickness). Curves were constructed for each factor by plotting the error rate against the proportion of scans sent to the reading center. The impact of measurement error on interpretation of clinical trial results and statistical power was also assessed. SD was the best predictor of an automated measurement error. The other three variables did not augment the ability to predict an error using SD alone. Based on SD, an error rate of 5% or less could be achieved by sending only 33% of scans to the reading center (those with an SD >or= 5%). Correcting automated errors had no appreciable effect on the interpretation of results from a completed randomized trial and had little impact on a trial's statistical power. In DME clinical trials, the error involved with using automated Stratus OCT center point measurements is sufficiently small that results are not likely to be affected if scans are not routinely sent to a reading center, provided adequate quality control measures are in place."}
{"id": "18553061", "title": "Short-term efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab for the treatment of macular edema due to diabetic retinopathy and retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Short-term efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab for the treatment of macular edema due to diabetic retinopathy and retinal vein occlusion. To evaluate the short-term efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab injection for the management of macular edema due to diabetic retinopathy and retinal vein occlusion. Patients with macular edema due to diabetic retinopathy, and retinal vein occlusion were treated with intravitreal bevacizumab and evaluated retrospectively. Standardized ophthalmic evaluation, ETDRS visual acuity measurement, and central macular thickness were performed at baseline and 1 month intervals after injection. There were 23 eyes of 21 patients with macular edema due to diabetic retinopathy (14 eyes of 12 patients), and retinal vein occlusion (9 eyes of 9 patients). The mean baseline logMAR visual acuity and central macular thickness were 0.82 +/- 0.27 and 604.71 +/- 123.62 microm, respectively, in patients with diabetic retinopathy. There was no statistically significant difference between the mean logMAR visual acuity (P = 0.22) and central retinal thickness (P = 0.16) measurements at baseline and 3 months follow-up. The mean baseline logMAR visual acuity and central macular thickness were 0.94 +/- 0.48 and 557 +/- 113.9 microm, respectively, in patients with retinal vein occlusion. There was a statistically significant difference between the mean logMAR visual acuity and central retinal thickness measurements at baseline and 3 months follow-up (P < 0.01). Almost all of the eyes (88.8%) regained normal foveal configuration. Although our follow-up period was short and the number of patients were limited to provide specific treatment recommendations, intravitreal bevacizumab seems to be more effective for macular edema due to retinal vein occlusion than diabetic macular edema. The favorable short-term results suggest further study is needed."}
{"id": "18507730", "title": "Macular hole closure following intravitreal triamcinolone injection in a previously vitrectomized diabetic eye.", "content": "Macular hole closure following intravitreal triamcinolone injection in a previously vitrectomized diabetic eye."}
{"id": "18437178", "title": "Changes of macular and RNFL thicknesses measured by Stratus OCT in patients with early stage diabetes.", "content": "Changes of macular and RNFL thicknesses measured by Stratus OCT in patients with early stage diabetes. To examine the early differences in the thicknesses of the macula and retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL) by Stratus optical coherence tomography in patients with diabetes mellitus. Thirty-one normal participants without any optic nerve and retinal diseases (control), 45 diabetic patients without diabetic retinopathy (NDR), and 24 diabetic patients with preproliferative diabetic retinopathy (PPDR), who did not have clinically significant macular oedema, were used for the macular thickness measurements. Thirty control participants, 45 patients classified as NDR, and 22 patients classified as PPDR were used for the RNFL thickness measurements. In patients with NDR, macula was significantly thinner than that of control eyes. In patients with PPDR, the mean RNFL thickness was significantly thinner but the macula was thicker than that of control eyes. In women with NDR, the macula was significantly thinner than that of men with NDR and that of normal women. In men with PPDR, the RNFL thickness was significantly thinner than that of the control eyes. At the early stage of diabetic retinopathy, the maculas and RNFL thicknesses are altered. The macular and RNFL thicknesses are different in men and women."}
{"id": "18437176", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) for primary treatment of diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) for primary treatment of diabetic macular oedema. To evaluate the effectiveness of intravitreal bevacizumab injection as primary treatment of diabetic macular oedema. Thirty eyes of 30 diabetic patients were treated with 2.5 mg of intravitreal bevacizumab injection as the primary therapy for diabetic macular oedema. The main outcome measures included best-corrected visual acuity, fundus fluorescein angiography, and macular oedema map values of Heidelberg retinal tomograph II (HRT II) before and after intravitreal injection. The visual acuity increased in 24 of 30 eyes (80%) during a mean follow-up time of 5.6 months. The mean baseline best-corrected LogMAR value for visual acuities of the patients before intravitreal bevacizumab injection was 1.09+/-0.23. After treatment, it was 0.90+/-0.17 at the 1-month, 0.81+/-0.24, at 3-month, and 0.77+/-0.26 at the last visit examinations and the differences were significant when compared with baseline values (for each, P<0.001). The mean oedema map values significantly decreased by 33.3% at the last visit examination when compared with preinjection values (P<0.001). Mild anterior chamber inflammation was observed in four eyes (13.3%), which resolved in a week with topical corticosteroid. No other injection- or drug-related complications were observed. Intravitreal bevacizumab application provides significant improvement in visual acuity of diabetic patients and clinical course of macular oedema, and may therefore be a promising approach in the primary treatment of diabetic macular oedema."}
{"id": "18425064", "title": "The prevalence of cystoid macular oedema on optical coherence tomography in retinitis pigmentosa patients without cystic changes on fundus examination.", "content": "The prevalence of cystoid macular oedema on optical coherence tomography in retinitis pigmentosa patients without cystic changes on fundus examination. To determine the prevalence of cystoid macular oedema (CME) by optical coherence tomography (OCT) in retinitis pigmentosa (RP) patients with no evidence of cystic macular lesions on fundus examination. We included 63 RP patients with no evidence of cystic-appearing macular changes on fundus examination. All patients underwent a complete ocular examination including best-corrected visual acuity using an ETDRS (Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study) chart, intraocular pressure measurement, anterior segment examination, and a detailed fundus examination. On 50 of the 63 patients, Fourier-domain OCT was performed using the radial slicer protocol. An additional 13 of the 63 patients were scanned using the macular thickness protocol on a time-domain OCT unit. The diagnosis of CME was defined by the presence of hyporeflective lacunae with well-defined boundaries on at least two of the scans. The mean age of patients included in the study was 36 years (range 9-71 years). Out of the 63 patients examined, 20 showed CME in at least one eye (32%), whereas 11 patients showed CME in both eyes (18%). Our findings demonstrate that a substantial number of RP patients with CME, as determined by OCT, may not show cystic changes by direct ophthalmoscopy or contact lens biomicroscopy. Knowledge of the high frequency for CME in such patients can serve to identify those who may be amenable to current or future treatment strategies of their macular oedema and can potentially impact on future therapeutic trials where visual acuity is used as an outcome measure."}
{"id": "18406632", "title": "Comparison of dilated fundus examinations with seven-field stereo fundus photographs in the Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial.", "content": "Comparison of dilated fundus examinations with seven-field stereo fundus photographs in the Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial. The Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial (VADT) is a 20-medical center, prospective, randomized study of 1792 Type 2 diabetic individuals primarily aimed at determining whether intensive glycemic control prevents macrovascular events. We report a comparison of fundus photographs and ophthalmologic examination at baseline, permitting an evaluation of multiple settings similar to common clinical practice. A 340-patient subset had both local dilated fundus examinations and centrally read seven-field stereo fundus photographs completed within 60 days of each other (median 28 days). Local examiners were unaware of the stereo photographs. Overall, agreement within one step was 76% and exact agreement between ophthalmoscopy and central gradings of fundus photographs on a five-step retinopathy severity scale was 43% (weighted kappa 0.42, CI 0.35-0.48). In about 90% of disagreements the severity level was higher by photographic grading. The sensitivity for ophthalmoscopy compared to grading of fundus photographs for the detection of any retinopathy was 51% and specificity was 91%. For proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR), sensitivity was 61% and specificity 98%. Only one eye was high-risk PDR, and it was detected by both methods. For clinically significant macular edema, these measures were 24% and 98%, respectively. The disagreements were of possible clinical importance in three cases (<1%). Most disagreements occurred in eyes rated near the milder end of a category and/or resulted from small differences between the ophthalmoscopic and photographic definitions used in classifying severity. There were reasonably few disagreements of possible clinical significance."}
{"id": "17962820", "title": "Changes in diabetic macular oedema after phacoemulsification surgery.", "content": "Changes in diabetic macular oedema after phacoemulsification surgery. To quantitatively examine changes in macular oedema after phacoemulsification surgery in eyes with diabetic retinopathy (DR) and in eyes without DR. Thirty-four eyes with DR and 34 eyes with no DR scheduled for phacoemulsification surgery were recruited. Foveal thickness and macular volume were measured using optical coherence tomography preoperatively and at 3, 6, and 12 months postoperatively. Grade of diabetic macular oedema was also examined. Preoperatively, there were no significant differences between groups in foveal thickness and macular volume. The foveal thickness increased by 20.3% in the DR group and by 6.0% in the no DR group at 3 months after surgery, but thereafter decreased gradually. When comparing the groups, the foveal thickness and macular volume were significantly greater in the DR group than in the no DR group at 3 months postoperatively. The grade of macular oedema worsened in eight eyes (23.5%) in the DR group, and in one (2.9%) in the no DR group: the incidence was significantly greater in the DR group (P=0.0272). However, the oedema that occurred after surgery resolved spontaneously in three (33.3%) of the nine eyes. The degree of diabetic macular oedema increases up to 3 months after cataract surgery, but thereafter decreases gradually. Grade of diabetic macular oedema also worsens up to 3 months, but certain percent of macular oedema that occurs after surgery resolves spontaneously. These changes are more prominent in eyes with DR than in eyes with no DR."}
{"id": "19183764", "title": "Severe macular edema induced by pioglitazone in a patient with diabetic retinopathy: a case study.", "content": "Severe macular edema induced by pioglitazone in a patient with diabetic retinopathy: a case study. We report a case of severe diabetic macular edema (DME) that developed after pioglitazone was used by a patient with proliferative diabetic retinopathy. A 30-year-old woman with poorly controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus visited our clinic in 2004. She had moderate pre-proliferative diabetic retinopathy OU. Because of the rapid progression of the diabetic retinopathy, she received pan-retinal photocoagulation in both eyes. Two weeks before using pioglitazone, her visual acuity was 0.9 OD and 0.7 OS. On October 2007, pioglitazone was prescribed by her internist because of poorly controlled blood glucose level. Two weeks later, her body weight increased, and her face became edematous. Her visual acuity decreased to 0.5 OU, and ophthlamoscopy showed severe DME in both eyes. Two weeks after stopping pioglitazone, her visual acuity improved to 0.8 OD and 0.5 OS, but the DME was still severe in the optical coherence tomographic images. Then, one half the usual dose (25 mg) of spironolactone, a diuretic, was given and her macular edema was resolved. Her final visual acuity improved to 0.9 OD and 0.7 OS. We recommend that when a patient taking pioglitazone complains of decreased vision, the physician should promptly consult an ophthalmologist."}
{"id": "19176116", "title": "[Clinical investigation of the Heidelberg retina tomograph II in assessment of macular edema].", "content": "[Clinical investigation of the Heidelberg retina tomograph II in assessment of macular edema]. To evaluate the significance of detecting macular edema by the Retina Module of the Heidelberg retina tomograph II (HRTII). Comparative clinical study, One hundred and twenty-six eyes were divided into two groups according to FFA results, one with macular edema and the other without macular edema. Morphological changes in macular edema were observed by HRTII and e (edema index) in two areas of each eye were determined. E value in these two groups and the correlation of e with retinal thickness, BCVA, amplitude and latency of N1 and P1 by multifocal electroretinogram were analyzed. HRTII-RM scan could distinguish different kinds of macular edema (cystoid, local and diffused) and the difference of e between these two groups was significant (e1: t = -19.238, e2: t = -12.436; P < 0.01). The best critical value of e was 1.475 and 1.411 (e1 = 1.475, e2 = 1.411). The sensitivity of e was 92.9% and 91.8% (e1 = 92.9%, e2 = 91.8%). The specificity of e was 97.6% and 95.1% (e1 = 97.6%, e2 = 95.1%). The correlation coefficient between e and retinal thickness was 0.816 and 0.587 (e1: r = 0.816, e2: r = 0.587; P < 0.01); was -0.658 and -0.640 (e1: r = -0.658, e2: r = -0.640; P < 0.01) between e and BCVA; was 0.266 and 0.312 (e1: r = 0.266, e2: r = 0.312; P < 0.01) between e and latency of N1; was -0.609 and -0.586 (e1: r = -0.609, e2: r = -0.586; P < 0.01) between e and amplitude of N1; was 0.529 and 0.431 (e1: r = 0.529, e2: r = 0.431; P < 0.01) between e and latency of P1 and was -0.783 and -0.714 (e1: r = -0.783, e2: r = -0.714; P < 0.01) between e and amplitude of P1, respectively. There are characteristic changes in the appearance of macular edema as examined by HRT II-RM. The quantitative index e value also shows remarkable changes. HRT II-RM not only detects morphological changes, but also relates to functional changes. This method is capable for evaluating the macular edema."}
{"id": "19064859", "title": "Resource use and costs associated with diabetic macular edema in elderly persons.", "content": "Resource use and costs associated with diabetic macular edema in elderly persons. To examine trends in resource use and the effect of incident diabetic macular edema (DME) on 1- and 3-year total direct medical costs in elderly patients. We used a nationally representative 5% sample of Medicare beneficiaries from 2000 through 2004 to identify patients with incident DME and a control cohort of patients with diabetes mellitus but no history of retinal disease. We summed Medicare reimbursement amounts for all claims and applied generalized linear models to estimate the effect of DME on 1- and 3-year costs. We also examined the use of select imaging techniques and treatments. After adjusting for demographic characteristics and baseline comorbid conditions, DME was associated with 31% higher 1-year costs and 29% higher 3-year costs. There were significant shifts in the use of testing and treatment modalities. From 2000 to 2004, use of intravitreal injection increased from 1% to 13% of patients; use of optical coherence tomography increased from 2.5% to more than 40%. Use of laser photocoagulation decreased over time. After adjusting for demographic variables and baseline comorbid conditions, new-onset DME was a significant independent predictor of total medical costs after 1 and 3 years. Diagnostic and treatment modalities used for DME have changed significantly."}
{"id": "19039480", "title": "Detection of diabetic foveal edema with biomicroscopy, fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Detection of diabetic foveal edema with biomicroscopy, fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography. To describe different techniques for the detection of diabetic foveal edema. A retrospective review of the detection of diabetic foveal edema. Noncontact lens biomicroscopy is relatively insensitive in mild foveal thickening apparent on optical coherence tomography. Optical coherence tomography measurements can detect early retinal damage in diabetic retinopathy patients."}
{"id": "19027427", "title": "Comparative therapy evaluation of intravitreal bevacizumab and triamcinolone acetonide on persistent diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Comparative therapy evaluation of intravitreal bevacizumab and triamcinolone acetonide on persistent diffuse diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "19009748", "title": "Types of diabetic macular edema assessed by optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Types of diabetic macular edema assessed by optical coherence tomography. To assess the types of diabetic macular edema (DME) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus by analyzing retinal thickness, morphology and presence of macular traction using optical coherence tomography (OCT). This prospective study included 74 diabetics with diabetic retinopathy (DR) (141 eyes), 29 diabetics without DR (57 eyes) and 25 healthy volunteers (39 eyes). The ophthalmic examination included best corrected visual acuity, stereo-ophthalmoscopy, fluorescein angiography and OCT. DME assessment was based on the analysis of several OCT features: macular thickness, retinal morphology and presence of macular traction--vitreomacular and/or from epiretinal membranes. Four OCT types of DME were suggested: type 1--early, type 2--simple, type 3--cystoid (3a--mild, 3b--intermediate, 3c--severe) and type 4--serous macular detachment. The distribution of the DME types and their correlation with retinal thickness and visual acuity were analyzed. The distribution of eyes with DME was: type 1--14.1%, type 2--30.4%, type 3--45.7% (3a--14.1%, 3b--12%, 3c--19.6%) and type 4--9.8%. Macular traction with retinal distortion was detected in 31.5% of the eyes with DME. Retinal thickness at the fixation point was 176 +/- 16.8 microm (116 microm / 210 microm) in healthy eyes and 182.2 +/- 19.6 microm (138 microm / 212 microm) in eyes without DR. There was no statistically significant difference between the two groups (Independent samples test, P > 0.05). The retina was significantly thicker in eyes with early DME (232.9 +/- 7.9 microm) than in healthy eyes and eyes without DR (Independent samples test, F = 16.274 and F = 13.100, P < 0.0001). Increasing retinal thickness was significantly correlated with worse visual acuity (ANOVA, F = 16.692, P < 0.0001). OCT precisely differentiated 4 types of DME: early, simple, cystoid and serous macular detachment, as well as determined the presence of macular traction. The early diagnosis, high precision in retinal thickness measurement, assessment of the morphologic types and macular traction are of uppermost importance in determining the therapeutic approach, prognosis and the effect of treatment."}
{"id": "18997608", "title": "Retinal fixation impairment in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Retinal fixation impairment in diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the characteristics of retinal fixation in patients with diabetic macular edema using microperimetry. One hundred seventy nine eyes (98 patients) with untreated diabetic macular edema underwent best corrected visual acuity determination (Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study charts), digital color stereoscopic fundus photos, fluorescein angiography and Optical Coherence Tomography assessment of macula. Fixation and retinal thresholds were determined with an automatic microperimeter. Best corrected visual acuity (approximate Snellen equivalent) was: 20/25 or better in 90 (52%) eyes, 20/50 to 20/32 in 39 (22.5%) eyes, 20/200 to 20/62.5 in 35 (20.2%) eyes and inferior to 20/200 in 9 (5.2%) eyes. Fixation was central in 128 (71.51%), poor central in 26 (14.53%) and predominantly eccentric in 25 (13.97%) eyes; stable in 133 (74.3%), relatively unstable in 42 (23.46%) and unstable in 4 (2.23%) eyes. Both fixation location and stability were not significantly influenced by edema characteristics (diffuse, focal, cystoid, spongelike, with or without subfoveal neuroretinal detachment), (P > 0.05), whereas they were significantly influenced by the presence of subfoveal hard exudates, (P = 0.004 and P = 0.0046, respectively). Site and stability of fixation were significantly associated, (P < 0.0001). Retinal pseudofovea would have been covered by laser photocoagulation in 24 (47%) eyes with poorly central and predominantly eccentric fixation and in 29 (63%) eyes with relatively unstable and unstable fixation. Microperimetry shows that fixation location and stability in patients with diabetic macular edema are independent of edema characteristics, except when subfoveal hard exudates are present. Location of pseudofovea may influence treatment strategy."}
{"id": "18988167", "title": "Age related maculopathy and diabetes.", "content": "Age related maculopathy and diabetes. To compare the prevalence of age-related maculopathy (ARM) in a sample of diabetic patients with the general population. Binocular indirect ophthalmoscopy, biomicroscopy, and fluorescein angiography. Retrospective prevalence study; descriptive-observational case-control type. Two different groups were analyzed from a sample of 1000 consecutive files of diabetic patients: 1) 65 to 74 years old (n = 263) and 2) 75 years and older (n = 199). Prevalence was compared to that of the general population in a control group and the following epidemiologic studies: Beaver Dam Eye Study, Framingham Eye Study, Blue Mountains Study, and Rotterdam Eye Study. In diabetic patients aged 75 or older, prevalence of ARM was as follows: early lesions 2.51% (5/199), late lesions (ARMD) 2.51% (5/199). In comparison, the risk in patients 75 or older is as follows: control group (ARMD): OR 4.79, 95% CI 1.778-12.033, p (Fisher) 0.0005; Beaver Dam Eye Study (ARMD): OR 2.93, 95% CI 1.152-7.450, p (Fisher): 0; Blue Mountains Eye Study (ARMD): OR 3.06, 95% CI 1.208-7.754, p (Fisher): 0; Framingham Eye Study (ARM): OR 6.73, 95% CI 3.041-14.880, p (Fisher): 0; Rotterdam Eye Study: p (Fisher) 0.133. 1) A lower prevalence of ARM was found in the sample of diabetic patients aged 75 or older than in the general population (with the exception of the Rotterdam study). 2) Prevalence of ARM was even lower in diabetic patients presenting diabetic retinopathy, whether or not they had been treated with photocoagulation. 3) In diabetic patients, the exudative form was more frequent than the atrophic form, in an inverse ratio to that of the general population."}
{"id": "18988166", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab versus combined bevacizumab-triamcinolone versus macular laser photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab versus combined bevacizumab-triamcinolone versus macular laser photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the additive effect of triamcinolone to bevacizumab in comparison to standard macular laser photocoagulation versus bevacizumab in the management of diabetic macular edema (DME). In a prospective, randomized clinical trial, 130 eyes of 110 patients with type 2 diabetes with DME were included. Eligible eyes were randomly assigned to 1.25 mg intravitreal bevacizumab (42 eyes) (IVB group) or combination of 1.25 mg bevacizumab and 2 mg triamcinolone acetonide (41 eyes) (IVB+IVT group) or macular laser photocoagulation (47 eyes) (MPC). Central macular thickness (CMT) and visual acuity changes at week 6 and 16 were assessed. The mean age of the patients was 57 -/+7 years. Patients were followed 16 weeks. At week 6, all the three groups showed significant reduction in CMT but the reductions for IVB and IVB+IVT were significantly more than MPC (p<0.001). At week 16, the response was not stable for IVB (p<0.001), but IVB+IVT maintained its superior status to MPC (p<0.001). At week 16, visual acuities were essentially unchanged for the two groups of MPC and IVB and improvement for IVB+IVT was marginal and at most was 0.1 log MAR. No patient developed uveitis, endophthalmitis, or thromboembolic event. Single intravitreal bevacizumab or triamcinolone plus bevacizumab injection brought about significantly greater macular thickness reduction in diabetic patients in comparison to standard laser treatment. However, the response for bevacizumab alone was short-lived. Reduction in macular thickness was only marginally associated with visual acuity improvement in the triamcinolone plus bevacizumab injection group."}
{"id": "18951425", "title": "Comparison of threshold irradiances and online dosimetry for selective retina treatment (SRT) in patients treated with 200 nanoseconds and 1.7 microseconds laser pulses.", "content": "Comparison of threshold irradiances and online dosimetry for selective retina treatment (SRT) in patients treated with 200 nanoseconds and 1.7 microseconds laser pulses. Selective retina therapy (SRT) solely affecting the RPE while sparing of the photoreceptors is usually performed with a train of repetitive laser pulses of 1.7 microseconds in duration. It was our purpose to evaluate the principle feasibility of SRT with shorter 200 nanoseconds laser pulses in patients. Nineteen patients with macular disorders [diabetic maculopathy (DMP), geographic atrophy (GA), drusen maculopathy and central serous chorioretinopathy (CSR)] were treated with a prototype of a SRT laser (Nd:YLF laser; 527 nm; 1.7 microseconds and 200 nanoseconds pulse duration; 30 pulses at 100 Hz; spot size: 200 microm). Test lesions (n = 175) with increasing energy were applied at the lower arcade to determine the individual angiographic and ophthalmoscopic threshold radiant exposures (therapeutic window) before applying the central treatment lesions within these ranges additionally guided by online optoacoustic measurements. Postoperatively RPE damage was visualized and confirmed by fluorescein angiographic leakage and correlated with optoacoustic results. Additionally ED(50) damage thresholds were calculated by probit analysis. None of the short repetitive 200 nanoseconds laser pulses led to retinal hemorrhages or retinal ruptures. Nearly all of the test- and treatment lesions could be visualized by angiography indicating desired RPE damage but were ophthalmoscopically invisible suggesting intact neurosensory retinal structures. ED(50) cell damage threshold energies were significantly lower using 200 nanoseconds (99.6 microJ; n = 122) instead of 1.7 microseconds (196.3 microJ; n = 53) laser pulses. Optoacoustic and angiographic visibility correlated in 83.7% (200 nanoseconds) and 87.5% (1.7 microseconds). Selective RPE effects can safely be achieved using shorter 200 nanoseconds laser pulses in patients without adverse effects to the neurosensory retina. The required pulse energy compared to the standard 1.7 microseconds regime was reduced by about a factor of 2 suggesting a reduced heat generation and flow into adjacent tissues during the shorter laser impact and thus possibly enhancing selectivity. Optoacoustics also seem to be a viable alternative in 200 nanoseconds treatment for a non-invasive online dosimetry control system."}
{"id": "18925914", "title": "Macular thickness and systemic markers for diabetes in individuals with no or mild diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Macular thickness and systemic markers for diabetes in individuals with no or mild diabetic retinopathy. The relationship between diabetic risk factors and macular thickness in individuals without clinically detectable diabetic macular oedema has yet to be formally explored. The purpose of this study was to assess the correlation between macular thickness and diabetes control and duration. This was a prospective, cross-sectional study. All subjects underwent digital retinal imaging and Stratus OCT macular thickness scanning both eyes. Mean retinal thickness was determined for quadrants, rings, hemispheres, and for the central fovea (CFT), total fovea (TFT) and total macula (TMT). We evaluated 92 non-diabetic controls, 92 diabetic subjects with no diabetic retinopathy (DR) and 24 subjects with mild DR at the Veteran's Hospital in Jamaica Plain, MA. In subjects with diabetes, there was a significant negative correlation between retinal thickness and diabetes duration in all macular quadrants, rings and hemispheres, and for CFT, TFT and TMT (CFT: P = 0.0025, r = -0.28; TFT: P = 0.0062, r = -0.25; TMT: P = 0.0026, r = -0.28). There was no significant relationship between retinal thickness and HbA1c level (average of last three readings), systolic or diastolic blood pressure, or triglyceride levels. Additionally, no significant differences in retinal thickness were found between controls, subjects with no DR and subjects with mild DR. In subjects with no or mild DR, macular and foveal thickness is significantly thinner with longer duration of disease. This may reflect neurodegenerative changes in the diabetic retina."}
{"id": "18797143", "title": "Efficacy of sub-Tenon's capsule injection of triamcinolone acetonide for refractory diabetic macular edema after vitrectomy.", "content": "Efficacy of sub-Tenon's capsule injection of triamcinolone acetonide for refractory diabetic macular edema after vitrectomy. To determine whether or not a sub-Tenon's capsule injection of triamcinolone acetonide(TA) is an effective treatment for refractory diabetic macular edema after vitrectomy. Thirty-nine eyes of 26 patients with diabetic macular edema were injected with 20 mg TA into the sub-Tenon's capsule. The central macular thickness (CMT) measured by an optical coherence tomography (OCT) and visual acuities were compared between pre-treatment and 1, 3 months post-treatment. The decrease in the mean CMT between the baseline (435 microm) and 1 month (326 microm) or 3 months (303 microm) time points was statistically significant. Seven eyes (70%) at 1 month and 3 months post-treatment in the vitrectomized eyes or PPV(pars plana vitrectomy)(+) group, 15 eyes(52%) at 1 month, and 19 eyes (66%) at 3 months in the non-vitrectomized eyes or PPV(-)group maintained 20% reduction in CMT from pre-treatment with a single injection of TA. The recurrence of macular edema was observed in 1 eye (14%) in the PPV(+)group, and 3 eyes (16%) in the PPV(-)group. The sub-Tenon's capsule injection of TA was effective for refractory diabetic macular edema after vitrectomy. In addition, it was suggested that the treatment of vitrectomized eyes was more effective than that of non-vitrectomized eyes."}
{"id": "18779716", "title": "Correlation between microaneurysms and retinal thickness in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Correlation between microaneurysms and retinal thickness in diabetic macular edema. Microaneurysms commonly are believed to be related causally to retinal thickening in diabetic retinopathy, especially by leaking. The hypothesis that thicker areas of retina in diabetic retinopathy have more microaneurysms per unit area than areas that are not as thick was tested. Retinal thickness analysis was performed with a prototype instrument for 27 eyes of 27 diabetic patients and 22 normal eyes of 22 healthy subjects. Maps of retinal thickness were created, and microaneurysms were counted in zones having four levels of retinal thickness. There was no increase in either total microaneurysms or apparent leaking microaneurysms per unit area with increasing levels of retinal thickness (P = 0.77 and 0.87, respectively). Some microaneurysms may not cause thickening, or other factors may contribute to retinal thickening in diabetic retinopathy. The results may have implications on the pathogenesis of diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "18779710", "title": "Long-term effect of intravitreal bevacizumab (avastin) in patients with chronic diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Long-term effect of intravitreal bevacizumab (avastin) in patients with chronic diffuse diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the long-term efficacy of bevacizumab for the treatment of chronic diffuse diabetic macular edema after various previous treatments. A total of 126 patients (mean age: 66 years) with chronic diffuse diabetic macular edema were consecutively incorporated in this prospective, noncomparative case series. Inclusion was performed independently from the size of edema, retinal thickness, visual acuity (VA), age, metabolic control, type of diabetes, or type of previous treatments. The patients underwent a complete eye examination including best-corrected VA with ETDRS charts, slit lamp examination, intraocular pressure measurement, stereoscopic biomicroscopy of the macula, retinal thickness measurement using optical coherence tomography (OCT), fluorescein angiography, and fundus photography. All patients were treated with repeated intravitreal injections of bevacizumab (1.25 mg). Patients were observed in intervals of 4-12 weeks for a period of up to 6-12 months. All patients had received various previous treatments such as laser treatment (62% focal laser treatment, 38% panretinal laser treatment), vitrectomy (11%), or intravitreal injection of triamcinolone (41%). All patients completed 6 months and 59 patients (47%) completed 12 months of follow-up; within this period 48% had received at least three intravitreal injections of bevacizumab. Mean diameter of foveal avascular zone was 858 +/- 341 microm. At baseline mean VA was 40.3 ETDRS letters (0.82 logMAR Snellen VA) and mean central retinal thickness on OCT was 463 microm. Throughout follow-up VA changes were not significant with a mean change of -1.6 ETDRS letters after 6 months, but significant with +5.1 ETDRS letters after 12 months. Mean central retinal thickness (OCT) decreased to 374 microm after 6 months (P < 0.001) and to 357 microm after 12 months (P < 0.001). Changes of retinal thickness and visual acuity did not correlate. No other factors investigated, such as age, central retinal thickness, or previous treatments, were predictive for a change of VA. Macular ischemia was not exacerbated as a result of the treatment. Even in cases with chronic diffuse ischemic diabetic macular edema, a long-term decrease of central retinal thickness can be observed following repeated intravitreal injections of bevacizumab. In these patients, mean decrease in retinal thickness is aligned with a gain in mean VA. Treatment with bevacizumab at an earlier stage of diabetic macular edema without ischemia may be associated with an even better functional outcome."}
{"id": "18774122", "title": "Diabetic macular edema: what is focal and what is diffuse?", "content": "Diabetic macular edema: what is focal and what is diffuse? To review the available information on classification of diabetic macular edema (DME) as focal or diffuse. Interpretive essay. Literature review and interpretation. The terms focal diabetic macular edema and diffuse diabetic macular edema frequently are used without clear definitions. Published definitions often use different examination methods and often are inconsistent. Evaluating published information on the prevalence of focal and diffuse DME, the responses of focal and diffuse DME to treatments, and the importance of focal and diffuse DME in assessing prognosis is hindered because the terms are used inconsistently. A newer vocabulary may be more constructive, one that describes discrete components of the concepts such as extent and location of macular thickening, involvement of the center of the macula, quantity and pattern of lipid exudates, source of fluorescein leakage, and regional variation in macular thickening and that distinguishes these terms from the use of the term focal when describing one type of photocoagulation technique. Developing methods for assessing component variables that can be used in clinical practice and establishing reproducibility of the methods are important tasks. Little evidence exists that characteristics of DME described by the terms focal and diffuse help to explain variation in visual acuity or response to treatment. It is unresolved whether a concept of focal and diffuse DME will prove clinically useful despite frequent use of the terms when describing management of DME. Further studies to address the issues are needed."}
{"id": "18773263", "title": "Posterior sub-Tenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide as pretreatment for focal laser photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema patients.", "content": "Posterior sub-Tenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide as pretreatment for focal laser photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema patients. To determine whether a posterior sub-Tenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) before focal photocoagulation is safe and effective in patients with diabetic macular edema. Sixteen eyes of 11 diabetic patients with unresolved diffuse macular edema were treated with a 20-mg sub-Tenon injection of TA 1 to 2 months before focal photocoagulation. Focal photocoagulation was applied only to microaneurysms, and grid laser photocoagulation was not performed. The main outcome measures used were visual acuity (VA), central macular thickness (CMT) determined by optical coherence tomography (OCT), and the fluorescein angiographic appearance of the retina. Patients were followed for at least 6 months. One month after the sub-Tenon injection of TA, the macular edema was resolved with a significant reduction of the CMT on OCT. VA improved slightly. Subsequent focal photocoagulation of the microaneurysms maintained the significant reduction of CMT for up to 6 months. A significant improvement of VA was observed in 37.5% patients at 6 months, and there was no decrease in VA in any of the patients. A 20-mg sub-Tenon TA injection prior to focal laser photocoagulation is a safe and beneficial treatment in patients with diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "18756796", "title": "[Comparative assessment of various methods for diagnosis of diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Comparative assessment of various methods for diagnosis of diabetic macular edema]. This study compared the sensitivity and specificity of various methods for diagnosing diabetic macular edema. It included patients with types 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus and healthy volunteers. In addition to standard ophthalmological examination, the authors performed computed perimetry with subthreshold and threshold brightness, Amsler's test, optical coherent tomography, retinal confocal tomography, and fluorescence angiography. The highest informative value was obtained when optical coherent tomography was used in combination with fluorescence angiography."}
{"id": "18756795", "title": "[Clinical and morphometric macular changes in patients with diabetes mellitus after cataract phacoemulsification].", "content": "[Clinical and morphometric macular changes in patients with diabetes mellitus after cataract phacoemulsification]. Optical coherent tomography (OCT) shows that in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM), a macular morphological response to cataract phacoemulsification (CPE) with intaocular lens (IOL) implantation proceeds as 3 types: 1) areactive without macular morphological changes; 2) hyperreactive with the development of reversible subclinical macular edema; and 3) aggressive with the transition of stress-induced retinal morphological lesions to clinically significant diabetic macular edema. Morphological differences in OCT parameters were established to have impact on the effect of visual rehabilitation. Following 3-4 months of CPE with IOL implantation in DM patients with the areactive type of a macular morphological response to surgical stress, the increase in visual acuity exceeded that observed in the hyperactive and aggressive types of a macular response by 12.8 and 57.7%, respectively. The findings suggest that medical preventive measures reducing the negative consequences of surgical stress should be implemented in DM patients at catarrhal surgery."}
{"id": "18728621", "title": "Repeated intravitreal injection of bevacizumab for clinically significant diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Repeated intravitreal injection of bevacizumab for clinically significant diabetic macular edema. Intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) induces a transient improvement in diabetic macular edema, necessitating repeated injections. Here, we report the results of repeated administration of intravitreal bevacizumab for the treatment of clinically significant macular edema in 31 eyes of 24 patients. At preinjection and 1, 6, and 12 (+/-1) weeks postinjection, visual acuity (VA) with Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) and central macular thickness (CMT) evaluated using optical coherence tomography were compared with independent and paired t-tests. VA and CMT were not significantly different before initial and repeated injections (administered at an interval of 22.06 +/- 11.15 [SD] weeks). At 6 weeks after the first injection, VA increased significantly by 3.72 +/- 8.02 ETDRS letters (P = 0.019), and CMT was markedly decreased by 93.30 +/- 210.33 microm (P = 0.022), which returned to near baseline at 12 weeks. At 6 weeks after the second injection, VA increased significantly by 3.97 +/- 7.46 ETDRS letters (P = 0.006) and CMT decreased considerably by 118.77 +/- 178.58 microm (P = 0.001). At 12 weeks after the second injection, we observed a decrease in VA with recurrence of macular edema. Repeated administration of intravitreal bevacizumab (1.25 mg) may lead to the improvement of VA and CMT in patients with clinically significant macular edema."}
{"id": "18708258", "title": "Ranibizumab for the treatment of macular edema associated with perfused central retinal vein occlusions.", "content": "Ranibizumab for the treatment of macular edema associated with perfused central retinal vein occlusions. Assessment of biological effect, visual acuity changes, and safety of intravitreal (IVT) ranibizumab in patients with macular edema associated with perfused central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). Ongoing, prospective, open-label, single-center, uncontrolled study. Ten adult patients with macular edema associated with perfused CRVO. Patients were randomly assigned to receive 3 monthly IVT injections of either 0.3 or 0.5 mg ranibizumab (n = 5 at each dose). Additional injections were administered quarterly as needed over the ensuing 21 months at the physician's discretion for recurrent or persistent macular edema. The predetermined primary endpoint was the percentage of patients gaining >or=15 letters of best-corrected Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity (BCVA). The secondary endpoints include the mean change in BCVA and central retinal thickness (CRT) measured by optical coherence tomography, the rate of progression to ischemic CRVO, extent of intraocular hemorrhage, retinal vein diameter, optic nerve head swelling, and the incidence and severity of ocular and nonocular adverse events. After 3, 6, and 9 months of follow-up, 40%, 10%, and 30% of patients, respectively, gained >or=15 letters in BCVA; mean BCVA improved by 12+/-20 letters, 3+/-21 letters, and 1+/-24 letters, respectively, compared with baseline; CRT showed a mean decrease of 272+/-244 microm, 88+/-178 microm, and 119+/-153 microm, compared with baseline. No significant differences were observed between the 0.3- and 0.5-mg doses. Most patients experienced decreases in the extent of retinal hemorrhage, retinal vein diameter, and optic nerve head swelling at months 3 and 6 compared with baseline. No patients progressed to ischemic CRVO or experienced a severe adverse event that was attributed to ranibizumab. Ranibizumab is generally well-tolerated and may improve BCVA and decrease CRT. The improvements in BCVA and CRT observed during the initial monthly injection period (0 to 3 months) were possibly lost to the recurrence of macular edema in between ranibizumab injection during the quarterly treatments (3 to 9 months). The extent of retinal hemorrhage, retinal vein diameter, and nerve swelling continued to normalize for most of the patients from baseline to 6 months. Follow-up is ongoing, and alternative dosing regimens are being evaluated."}
{"id": "18698297", "title": "Effects of macular ischemia on the outcome of intravitreal bevacizumab therapy for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Effects of macular ischemia on the outcome of intravitreal bevacizumab therapy for diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the effects of macular ischemia on visual outcomes in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME), after intravitreal bevacizumab injections. Data on 59 eyes of 53 consecutive patients treated with intravitreal bevacizumab for DME were retrospectively reviewed. Data from preoperative fluorescein angiography (FA) tests were examined. Patients with an enlarged foveal avascular zone (FAZ), >or=1000 microm, or a broken perifoveal capillary ring at the border of the FAZ, with a distinct area of capillary nonperfusion within one disk diameter of the foveal center in the transit phase of fluorescein angiography, were defined as having macular ischemia. The patients were thus divided into two groups: with or without macular ischemia. Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) scores, and foveal thicknesses measured using third generation ocular coherence tomography (OCT), were evaluated at baseline and at 1 month and 3 months after treatment. At 3 months after treatment, the mean visual acuity (VA) score decreased from a baseline VA of 0.52 +/- 0.27 (approximate Snellen equivalent, 20/63) to 0.57 +/- 0.21 (20/80) in the ischemic group. In the nonischemic group, by contrast, the VA improved from 0.66 +/- 0.34 (20/100) at baseline to 0.59 +/- 0.33 (20/80) at 3 months post-treatment. Nine of 18 eyes (50%) in the ischemic group, but only 9 of 41 eyes (21%) in the nonischemic group, experienced visual losses of >or=1 line on the ETDRS chart (P = 0.031, Pearson chi-square test). Four eyes (22%) in the ischemic group, but only 2 eyes (5%) in the nonischemic group, lost >or=3 lines (P = 0.042, Pearson chi-square test). Macular ischemia may have a negative effect on short term visual outcomes after intravitreal bevacizumab injections in patients with DME."}
{"id": "18675696", "title": "Optical coherence tomography measurements and analysis methods in optical coherence tomography studies of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography measurements and analysis methods in optical coherence tomography studies of diabetic macular edema. To evaluate optical coherence tomography (OCT) measurements and methods of analysis of OCT data in studies of diabetic macular edema (DME). Associations of pairs of OCT variables and results of 3 analysis methods using data from 2 studies of DME. Two hundred sixty-three subjects from a study of modified Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (mETDRS) versus modified macular grid (MMG) photocoagulation for DME and 96 subjects from a study of diurnal variation of DME. Correlations were calculated for pairs of OCT variables at baseline and for changes in the variables over time. Distribution of OCT measurement changes, predictive factors for OCT measurement changes, and treatment group outcomes were compared when 3 measures of change in macular thickness were analyzed: absolute change in retinal thickness, relative change in retinal thickness, and relative change in retinal thickening. Concordance of results using different OCT variables and analysis methods. Center point thickness correlated highly with central subfield mean thickness (CSMT) at baseline (0.98-0.99). The distributions of changes in CSMT were approximately normally distributed for absolute change in retinal thickness and relative change in retinal thickness, but not for relative change in retinal thickening. Macular thinning in the mETDRS group was significantly greater than in the MMG group when absolute change in retinal thickness was used, but not when relative change in thickness and relative change in thickening were used. Relative change in macular thickening provides unstable data in eyes with mild degrees of baseline thickening, unlike the situation with absolute or relative change in retinal thickness. Central subfield mean thickness is the preferred OCT measurement for the central macula because of its higher reproducibility and correlation with other measurements of the central macula. Total macular volume may be preferred when the central macula is less important. Absolute change in retinal thickness is the preferred analysis method in studies involving eyes with mild macular thickening. Relative change in thickening may be preferable when retinal thickening is more severe."}
{"id": "18664938", "title": "Efficacy of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in long standing diabetic macular edema: a microperimetry and optical coherence tomography study.", "content": "Efficacy of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in long standing diabetic macular edema: a microperimetry and optical coherence tomography study. To investigate the efficacy of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in patients suffering from diffuse long standing diabetic macular edema, by the assessment of retinal thickness and retinal function by means of optical coherence tomography (OCT) and microperimetry-1. Twenty eyes received 8 mg in 0.2 mL preservative free intravitreal triamcinolone injection delivered through the pars plana. The best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), foveal thickness, and the average retinal sensitivity of the 45 stimuli were considered in our study. Patients were instructed to attend for OCT and microperimetry-1 follow-up at baseline, 1, 3, and 6. At the baseline, mean macular thickness was 692 micro +/- 70 micro; mean visual acuity was 0.13 +/- 0.09. Mean macular sensitivity determined with the microperimetry-1 was 6.85 dB +/- 2.1 dB. At the 1 month follow-up, mean OCT macular thickness decreased to 348.28 micro +/- 132.10 micro (P = 0.0001); mean BCVA improved to 0.23 +/- 0.15 (P = 0.019); mean retinal sensitivity improved to 8.71 dB +/- 2.79 dB (P = 0.03). At the 3 months follow-up, mean OCT macular thickness changed to 363.7 micro +/- 123.52 micro (P = 0.0002); mean BCVA was 0.23 +/- 0.15 (P = 0.0024); mean retinal sensitivity 8.54 dB +/- 2.78 dB (P = 0.048). Six months after the injection, mean OCT macular thickness was 460.61 micro +/- 104.9 micro (P > 0.05); mean BCVA was 0.15 (P > 0.05); mean retinal sensitivity 7.54 dB +/- 2.58 dB (P > 0.05). In our study, we found intravitreal effective in improving BCVA, macular thickness, and retinal sensitivities during the first 3 months. At 6 months, follow-up of the data were not dissimilar to those obtained at baseline. Further investigation is warranted to asses the correlation among daily life visual performance, retinal sensitivities, and macular thickness."}
{"id": "18662912", "title": "Effect of panretinal photocoagulation on choroidal circulation in the foveal region in patients with severe diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Effect of panretinal photocoagulation on choroidal circulation in the foveal region in patients with severe diabetic retinopathy. To study alterations in choroidal blood flow (CBF) in the foveal region after panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) in patients with severe proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Seventeen eyes of 17 patients with severe non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) or with non-high-risk PDR and no macular oedema before PRP were included. All patients underwent four sessions of scatter PRP. We measured the choroidal blood velocity (CBVel), choroidal blood volume (CBVol) and CBF in the foveal region before and 1 month after PRP using a laser Doppler flowmetry. Macular oedema did not develop after PRP in any treated eyes. One month after PRP, there was no significant change in the mean CBVel (311.2 (SD 61.2) Hz) compared with baseline (327.1 (74.1) Hz) (p = 0.17). In contrast, the mean CBVol and CBF values increased significantly by 51% (from 0.37 (0.12) arbitrary units (au) at baseline to 0.52 (0.16) au, p = 0.0025) and 46% (from 7.3 (2.4) au at baseline to 10.4 (4.4) au, p = 0.0014), respectively, 1 month after PRP. These results indicate that PRP may increase the CBF in the foveal region in eyes with severe diabetic retinopathy. The current results may be caused by vasodilation of the choriocapillaries in the foveal region."}
{"id": "18656589", "title": "Triple therapy of vitrectomy, intravitreal triamcinolone, and macular laser photocoagulation for intractable diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Triple therapy of vitrectomy, intravitreal triamcinolone, and macular laser photocoagulation for intractable diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "18644073", "title": "Spontaneous resolution of diabetic macular oedema after discontinuation of thiazolidenediones.", "content": "Spontaneous resolution of diabetic macular oedema after discontinuation of thiazolidenediones. To report a case of spontaneous resolution of diabetic maculopathy with cystoid macular oedema in a diabetic patient after discontinuation of rosiglitazone, documented with serial ocular computed tomography (OCT) images. A 59-year-old male with a 6-year history of well-controlled diabetes mellitus presented with reduced visual acuity (VA) attributed to clinically significant macular oedema (CSMO). The patient had been started on rosiglitazone 8 months previously. Glitazone treatment was stopped and the patient prospectively followed up. The patient demonstrated CSMO on OCT at presentation. Three months after cessation of rosiglitazone, CSMO had completely resolved and VA improved. Resolution of CSMO was confirmed on OCT examination. The patient required no interventional treatment, i.e. no laser or intravitreal therapy, for his CSMO. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case to document spontaneous resolution of CSMO and improvement in VA on discontinuation of a glitazone. Glitazones have a definitive role in the management of diabetic patients and ophthalmologists and physicians should both be aware that there may be an association with weight gain, peripheral oedema and CSMO. We recommend that ophthalmologists consider discontinuing glitazones in consultation with the diabetologist before embarking on interventional management such as laser or intravitreal injections."}
{"id": "18641828", "title": "[Visual acuity and macular thickness in diabetic retinopathy treated with panphotocoagulation].", "content": "[Visual acuity and macular thickness in diabetic retinopathy treated with panphotocoagulation]. To compare the visual acuity and macular thickness in patients with diabetic retinopathy presenting and not presenting macular edema before treatment and submitted to argon laser retinal panphotocoagulation. Patients were included and classified into two groups before the treatment. All patients were submitted to ophthalmological examination and optical coherence tomography, following panphotocoagulation. The results were evaluated by measuring visual acuity at the end and by optical coherence tomography after one week, one and three months following the treatment. The sample was composed of 37 patients (37 eyes). Group 1 included 29 patients with diabetic retinopathy without macular edema; Group 2 included 8 patients with macular edema. The two groups were similar regarding gender, age, and the mean of argon laser spots treatment. The groups showed differences in visual acuity (p<0.001) and Group 2 patients presented decrease of visual acuity three months after the treatment (p<0.001). Group 2 patients showed a greater mean of macular thickness measurements on optical coherence tomography evaluation. Variation of the macular thickness as well as decrease in visual acuity was present in the patients with macular edema previously to panphotocoagulation. Only minimal increase in macular thickness was observed in the absence of macular edema."}
{"id": "18628722", "title": "Posterior hyaloid changes following intravitreal triamcinolone and macular laser for diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Posterior hyaloid changes following intravitreal triamcinolone and macular laser for diffuse diabetic macular edema. To compare the effects of intravitreal triamcinolone and macular grid laser photocoagulation on the vitreomacular relationship in diffuse diabetic macular edema. Review of optical coherence tomography images gathered in a prospective, interventional randomized clinical trial. Institutional Practice. Seventy-seven optical coherence tomography images of 88 consecutive patients entered into a randomized clinical trial of the treatment of persistent diffuse diabetic macular edema were reviewed by two independent observers. All patients in the trial had diabetic macular edema following at least two macular grid laser treatments and were randomized to intravitreal injections of 4 mg triamcinolone or to further macular grid laser. Optical coherence tomography images were recorded at baseline, 4, 8, and 12 months and the patterns of vitreomacular relationship were classified into six categories. The patterns of vitreomacular relationship in the two groups were compared and correlated with the response to treatment. Outcome measures were defined as changes in best-corrected visual acuity Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study letters and central macular thickness on optical coherence tomography. Six eyes had peri-foveal vitreous detachment with or without traction in each group at baseline. At 12 months, the prevalence of peri-foveal vitreous detachment was significantly higher after intravitreal triamcinolone (n = 11) than macular grid laser (n = 8). These patients had poorer visual outcome (P = 0.01) and increased central macular thickness (P = 0.002). The development of complete posterior vitreous detachment was associated with significantly decreased central macular thickness (P = 0.001) but not better visual outcome (P = 0.72). These results suggest that posterior hyaloid changes may play a more influential role in the response to intravitreal triamcinolone than laser treatment for diffuse diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "18617754", "title": "Foveolitis associated with dengue Fever: a case series.", "content": "Foveolitis associated with dengue Fever: a case series. Dengue fever (DF), a viral infection caused by dengue virus, is characterized by fever, headache, muscle and joint pains. Approximately 50-100 million people are infected annually. Ocular manifestations during DF are uncommon and include intraretinal hemorrhages and cotton wool spots; manifestations predominantly characterized by foveal involvement have not been described before in DF or any other retinopathies. We describe the clinical features of a series of patients with DF-associated foveolitis. A retrospective review of patients with maculopathy associated with DF was conducted. Patients found to have a yellow-orange lesion at the fovea, supported by a typical optical coherence tomography (OCT) finding of disruption of the outer neurosensory retina, were analyzed. Ten eyes of 6 patients were studied. The mean age was 19.8 years. The mean presenting best corrected visual acuity was 6/45 (range of 6/7.5 to counting fingers). Fundus examination revealed a yellow-orange lesion at the fovea which corresponded to outer neurosensory retina disruption on OCT. Multifocal electroretinography showed decreased foveal and parafoveal responses. Treatment was variable, depended on visual acuity and ranged from observation to immunosuppression. Foveolitis may be associated with DF. OCT is a useful tool for the diagnosis and monitoring of progression of this condition."}
{"id": "18609483", "title": "Prognostic prediction ability of postoperative multifocal ERG after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Prognostic prediction ability of postoperative multifocal ERG after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. Diabetic macular edema (DME) causes visual loss in diabetic patients. Multifocal electroretinograms (mfERGs) have been used to assess macular function pre- and postvitrectomy for DME. A standard three-port pars plana vitrectomy with peeling of inner limiting membrane was performed in 25 eyes of 21 patients (13 male, 8 female) with DME. For each patient, visual acuity examination, measure of retinal thickness (using optical coherence tomography), and mfERGs were performed before and 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months after vitrectomy. Mean postoperative visual acuity was significantly improved (p<0.05, t test), with mean increase of 0.17 logMAR units; mean retinal thickness was significantly (p<0.001) decreased after surgery (from 537 microm to 298 microm). The increase of normalized amplitude of central ring was not significant; the mean P1 wave-amplitude increased from 0.33 to 0.40 mV; mean P1 wave-implicit time decreased 2.88 ms. We divided the patients into two groups: Group 1 (13 eyes), in which the visual recovery was less than 0.20 logMAR, and Group 2 (12 eyes), in which the visual recovery was greater than 0.20 logMAR. ERG results were statistically significantly different between the groups (p<0.025), when we consider the response recorded from the central ring. In Group 2 there is a marked reduction in implicit time of both ERGs waves, which was statistically significant for N1 wave (p=0.01). The changes of parameters of mfERG observed 6 months after surgery were consistent with those recorded just 1 week after surgery. Multifocal electroretinogram can be useful to predict functional prognosis in patients with diabetes who underwent vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "18609482", "title": "Macular function by multifocal electroretinogram in diabetic macular edema after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection.", "content": "Macular function by multifocal electroretinogram in diabetic macular edema after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection. The purpose of this study was to assess macular function by multifocal electroretinography (mfERG) in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME) after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) injection. Fifteen eyes of 15 patients with DME scheduled for 4 mg IVTA injection were prospectively recruited. The response to treatment was monitored functionally by visual acuity (VA) measurement and mfERG and anatomically by foveal thickness measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT). The first-order kernel P1 mfERG responses from 0 to 7 degrees (central) and 7 to 25 degrees (peripheral) were grouped and analyzed. Changes in functional parameters (VAs and the P1 mfERG response amplitudes and peak latencies) and morphometric parameters (OCT foveal thickness) in eyes with DME 1 and 3 months after IVTA injection were compared with baseline values by Student t test. The mean baseline logMAR value for VAs of the patients before treatment was 0.49+/-0.26. After treatment, it was 0.27+/-0.23 at 1 month and 0.26+/-0.18 at 3 months, and differences from pretreatment values were significant (for each, p<0.001). There were statistically significant decreases in the mean foveal thickness at 1 and 3 months after treatment compared with pretreatment values (for each, p<0.001). There were also statistically significant increases in the mean P1 response amplitude for both central and peripheral groups at all examinations compared with pretreatment (for each, p<0.001). The mean P1 peak latencies for both the central and peripheral groups were shortened, but not significantly. As well as the reduction in DME and improvement in VA, IVTA injection improves macular function as assessed by mfERG in diabetic patients."}
{"id": "18599019", "title": "A randomized, masked comparison of topical ketorolac 0.4% plus steroid vs steroid alone in low-risk cataract surgery patients.", "content": "A randomized, masked comparison of topical ketorolac 0.4% plus steroid vs steroid alone in low-risk cataract surgery patients. To evaluate whether adding perioperative topical ketorolac tromethamine 0.4% improves cataract surgery outcomes relative to topical steroids alone in patients without known risk factors for cystoid macular edema (CME). Prospective, randomized, investigator-masked, multicenter clinical trial. Patients scheduled to undergo phacoemulsification and with no recognized CME risks (diabetic retinopathy, retinal vascular disease, or macular abnormality) were randomized to receive either prednisolone acetate 1% 4 times daily (QID) alone (steroid group; n = 278) or prednisolone 1% QID plus ketorolac 0.4% QID (ketorolac/steroid group; n = 268) for approximately four weeks postoperatively. In the ketorolac/steroid group, patients also received topical ketorolac 0.4% QID for three days preoperatively. In both groups, patients received four doses of ketorolac 0.4% one hour before surgery. Patients with capsular disruption or vitreous loss intraoperatively were exited from the study. Outcome measures included CME incidence, retinal thickness as measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT), best-corrected visual acuity, and contrast sensitivity. No patients in the ketorolac/steroid group and five patients in the steroid group had clinically apparent CME (P = .032). Based on OCT, no ketorolac/steroid patient had definite or probable CME, compared with six steroid patients (2.4%; P = .018). In the ketorolac/steroid group, mean retinal thickening was less (3.9 microm vs 9.6 microm; P = .003), and fewer patients had retinal thickening of more than 10 microm as compared with the steroid group (26% vs 51%; P < .001). This study suggests that adding perioperative ketorolac to postoperative prednisolone significantly reduces the incidences of CME and macular thickening in cataract surgery patients already at low risk for this condition."}
{"id": "18556425", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide combined with subthreshold grid laser treatment for macular oedema in branch retinal vein occlusion: a pilot study.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide combined with subthreshold grid laser treatment for macular oedema in branch retinal vein occlusion: a pilot study. To compare the effectiveness of subthreshold grid laser treatment (SGLT) with infrared micropulse diode laser alone or in combination with intravitreal triamcinolone injection (SGLT-IVTJ) for the treatment of macular oedema (MO) secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). Pilot randomised clinical trial including 24 patients (24 eyes) who were randomised either to the SGLT (13 eyes) or to SGLT-IVTJ (11 eyes). Complete ophthalmic examinations, including Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity, OCT and fluorescein angiography, were performed at the moment of the study entry and at 3-month intervals, with a planned follow-up of 12 months. Main outcome measures were the decrease in mean foveal thickness (MFT) on OCT, and the proportion of eyes that gained at least 10 letters (approximately two or more lines of visual acuity gain) at the 12-month examination. Secondary outcomes were the decrease in mean total macular volume on OCT, and the timing of MO resolution. The change in MFT from the initial values was statistically significant for the SGLT-IVTJ from the 3-month examination and for the SGLP from the 6-month examination (p<0.001). At the 12-month evaluation, 10 patients of the SGLT-IVTJ group (91%) and eight of the SGLT group (62%) gained at least 10 letters (two lines) in visual acuity. The mean number of lines gained was 3.4 and 1.3 in the SGLT-IVTJ and in the SGLT group, respectively. The combined SGLT-IVT treatment of MO secondary to BRVO allows a significant visual acuity improvement, when compared with simple grid laser treatment."}
{"id": "18552390", "title": "Visual acuity is related to parafoveal retinal thickness in patients with retinitis pigmentosa and macular cysts.", "content": "Visual acuity is related to parafoveal retinal thickness in patients with retinitis pigmentosa and macular cysts. To quantify the prevalence and effect on visual acuity of macular cysts in a large cohort of patients with retinitis pigmentosa. In 316 patients with typical forms of retinitis pigmentosa, visual acuity was measured with Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) charts, macular cysts were detected with optical coherence tomography (OCT), and retinal thicknesses was quantified by OCT. The FREQ, LOGISTIC, and GENMOD procedures of SAS (SAS Institute, Cary, NC) were used to evaluate possible risk factors for cyst prevalence, and the MIXED procedure was used to quantify the relationships of visual acuity to retinal thickness measured at different locations within the macula. Macular cysts were found in 28% of the patients, 40% of whom had cysts in only one eye. Macular cysts were seen most often in patients with dominant disease and not at all in patients with X-linked disease (P = 0.006). In eyes with macular cysts, multiple regression analysis revealed that visual acuity was inversely and independently related to retinal thickness at the foveal center (P = 0.038) and within a parafoveal ring spanning an eccentricity of 5 degrees to 10 degrees from the foveal center (P = 0.004). Macular cysts are a common occurrence in retinitis pigmentosa, especially among patients with dominantly inherited disease. Visual acuity is influenced by edema in the parafovea, as well as in the fovea."}
{"id": "18547274", "title": "Efficacy and safety of one intravitreal injection of bevacizumab in diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Efficacy and safety of one intravitreal injection of bevacizumab in diabetic macular oedema. To assess the efficacy, duration of effect and safety of one intravitreal injection of bevacizumab in diabetic macular oedema (DMO). Bevacizumab (1 mg/0.04 ml) was injected intravitreally into eyes with DMO (29 with and nine without previous treatments). Best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), intraocular pressure and central retinal thickness (CRT) were measured; slit-lamp examination, macular biomicroscopy, optical coherence tomography and fluorescein angiography were performed before and at 2-4, 8 and 12 weeks post-injection. Best corrected VA and CRT were analysed in both groups. In the non-pretreated group, mean BCVA improved from 0.76 +/- 0.33 (baseline) to 0.57 +/- 0.30 and 0.54 +/- 0.27 at 2-4 weeks and 8 weeks post-injection, respectively (p = 0.02, p = 0.014, paired t-test). Mean CRT decreased from 632.4 +/- 196.0 microm (baseline) to 392.3 +/- 113.6 microm and 370.4 +/- 141.7 microm at the same time-points, respectively (p = 0.01, p = 0.01). There was no difference in BCVA or CRT at 12 weeks. In the pretreated group, mean BCVA improved from 0.62 +/- 0.30 (baseline) to 0.53 +/- 0.33 at 2-4 weeks post-injection (p = 0.01), and mean CRT decreased from 583.9 +/- 180.7 microm (baseline) to 404.1 +/- 197.9 microm at 2-4 weeks post-injection (p < 0.001). Mean BCVA was unchanged at 8 weeks and 12 weeks post-injection, although mean CRT remained lower at 8 weeks (p = 0.004). No ocular or systemic side-effects developed during follow-up. One intravitreal injection of bevacizumab for DMO seems to be effective and safe in both eyes that have been treated previously and eyes that have not. The therapeutic effect is temporary and repeat treatment may be needed."}
{"id": "18533125", "title": "Fluocinolone acetonide sustained drug delivery device for chronic central retinal vein occlusion: 12-month results.", "content": "Fluocinolone acetonide sustained drug delivery device for chronic central retinal vein occlusion: 12-month results. To determine treatment outcomes of a long-acting intravitreal fluocinolone acetonide sustained drug delivery implant in eyes with central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) and chronic refractory macular edema. Prospective, noncomparative, interventional case series. Fourteen eyes of 14 patients with chronically persistent macular edema associated with CRVO underwent intraocular implantation of a three-year fluocinolone acetonide sustained drug delivery system. Best-corrected Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy visual acuity (VA), central foveal thickness determined by optical coherence tomography, and intraocular pressure (IOP) were recorded after the first 12 months after implant insertion. The median (range) vein occlusion and macular edema duration were 12.5 months (range, seven to 49). No eye experienced intraoperative complications. At baseline, median VA was 20/126, improved to 20/60 by two months, and was 20/80 by 12 months. A significant proportion of eyes had gained lines of VA at 12 months compared with baseline (P = .002). At 12 months, the mean and median central retinal thickness decreased from 622 and 600 microm before surgery, respectively, to 307 and 199 microm after surgery, respectively (P = .008). By month 12, cataract had developed in all five phakic patients, and 13 of 14 eyes required medical or surgical IOP-lowering interventions. VA improved and macular edema decreased in a significant proportion of implanted eyes with chronic, CRVO-associated macular edema. Cataract formation and elevated IOP, the main side effects, were managed, respectively, with cataract extraction and medical or surgical IOP control, or both. This system is a promising novel alternative to currently available treatments for this challenging patient population."}
{"id": "18517006", "title": "[Visualization of the posterior vitreous membrane in diabetic macular edema patients using three-dimensional optical coherence tomography].", "content": "[Visualization of the posterior vitreous membrane in diabetic macular edema patients using three-dimensional optical coherence tomography]. To study the visualization of the vitreoretinal interface in diabetic macular edema patients using three-dimensional optical coherence tomography (3 D-OCT) and to compare it to surgical findings. We prospectively examined the medical records of 25 patients (30 eyes) with diabetic macular edema measured by 3 D-OCT (optic disc and macular lesions) who received vitrectomy between August 2006 and February 2007. We compared the findings of 3 D-OCT to the findings during surgery using triamcinolone acetonide. Posterior vitreous membrane was found in 18 eyes using 3 D-OCT. The findings in all cases corresponded to operative findings. Six cases were characterized by posterior vitreous membrane attached to the optic disc and macular area. Twelve cases were characterized by posterior vitreous membrane diffusely attached to the posterior pole. Vitreoretinal interfaces were visualized using 3D-OCT and confirmed by operative findings. 3 D-OCT is an effective tool to determine the pathogenesis of diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "18515592", "title": "Precision and reliability of retinal thickness measurements in foveal and extrafoveal areas of healthy and diabetic eyes.", "content": "Precision and reliability of retinal thickness measurements in foveal and extrafoveal areas of healthy and diabetic eyes. To determine the precision and reliability of retinal thickness measurements with an optical coherence tomograph (Stratus OCT 3; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA) and a retinal thickness analyzer (RTA; Talia Technology Ltd., Neve-Ilan, Israel) in foveal, parafoveal, and perifoveal areas. Three measurements of all areas were performed within 1 hour on the same day with each instrument in the eyes of healthy volunteers and diabetic patients. The latter group was divided into eyes with and without macular edema. Measurement precision, expressed as the 95% limits of agreement (LA 95%), was significantly higher (i.e., a lower LA 95%, P < 0.01) for the OCT in comparison to the RTA in virtually all areas of the retina. Moreover, measurement reliability, expressed as the intraclass correlation coefficient, was high with the OCT (>0.90) and moderate to low with the RTA (0.26-0.89). A direct influence of macular edema itself on measurement precision of para- and perifoveal areas was found in the OCT measurements. The high measurement precision and reliability of the OCT suggests that this instrument is currently the most suitable technique for detection and follow-up of diabetic macular edema. When macular edema is present, the OCT can reliably detect changes of at least 36 microm at the fovea, 55 microm in parafoveal areas below a thickness of 744 microm, and 42 microm in perifoveal areas below a thickness of 1011 microm."}
{"id": "18515567", "title": "Evaluation of time domain and spectral domain optical coherence tomography in the measurement of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Evaluation of time domain and spectral domain optical coherence tomography in the measurement of diabetic macular edema. To evaluate macular thickness and volume measurements and their intrasession repeatability in two optical coherence tomography (OCT) systems: the Stratus OCT, a time domain system, and the Cirrus HD-OCT, a spectral domain system (both by Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc., Dublin, CA), in the context of diabetic macular edema (DME). Thirty-three eyes of 33 diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema (CSME) were scanned in a single session by a single operator on both OCT systems. Macular thickness measurements of nine standard macular subfields and total macular volume were obtained and analyzed. Bland-Altman plots were constructed to assess agreement in macular measurements. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs), coefficients of repeatability (CR(W)), and coefficients of variation (CV(W)) were used to assess intrasession repeatability. Macular thickness in nine retinal subfields and macular volume were significantly higher in the Cirrus HD-OCT system compared with the Stratus OCT system. Subfield thickness and total volume measurements, respectively, were 30 to 55 microm and 3.2 mm(3) greater for the Cirrus HD-OCT system compared with the Stratus OCT system. Both Stratus OCT and Cirrus HD-OCT systems demonstrated high intrasession repeatability, with overlapping ranges for CR(W), CV(W), and ICC. Repeatability measures (CR(W) and CV(W)) differed significantly between systems in only one of nine subfields (outer temporal subfield). Absolute measures of macular thickness and volume in patients with DME differed significantly in magnitude between the Stratus OCT and Cirrus HD-OCT systems. However, both OCT systems demonstrated high intrasessional repeatability. Although the two systems may not be used interchangeably, they appear equally reliable in generating macular measurements for clinical practice and research."}
{"id": "18499007", "title": "Prospective randomized controlled trial to compare the effect on the macula of AquaLase liquefaction and ultrasound phacoemulsification cataract surgery.", "content": "Prospective randomized controlled trial to compare the effect on the macula of AquaLase liquefaction and ultrasound phacoemulsification cataract surgery. To compare the effect of ultrasound (US) phacoemulsification and AquaLase liquefaction (Alcon Laboratories) cataract surgery on the macula using optical coherence tomography (OCT). Department of Ophthalmology, Queen Mary's Hospital, London, United Kingdom. Sixty-three patients having cataract surgery were randomized to receive US phacoemulsification or AquaLase liquefaction cataract surgery. Macular thickness and volume were evaluated by OCT preoperatively and 2 and 6 weeks postoperatively. The primary outcomes were OCT central macular thickness and best corrected visual acuity at 6 weeks. Secondary outcomes were OCT macular volume and perioperative and postoperative complications. Over the 6-week study, the median increase in foveal thickness in the study eye compared with that in the fellow eye was 11 microm (interquartile range [IQR] -21 to 23 microm) in the AquaLase group and 17 microm (IQR -11 to 33 microm) in the phacoemulsification group (P = .229). A subgroup analysis of diabetic patients found a median increase in foveal thickness in the study eye versus the fellow eye of 2 microm (IQR -14 to 23 microm) in the AquaLase group and 29 microm (IQR 11 to 41 microm) in the phacoemulsification group (P = .07). The results in this study suggest that AquaLase liquefaction cataract extraction is as safe as standard US phacoemulsification cataract extraction and may carry less risk for the development of postoperative cystoid macular edema. This may be most evident in diabetic patients."}
{"id": "18491126", "title": "Central retinal vein occlusion with non-arteritic ischemic optic neuropathy and cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Central retinal vein occlusion with non-arteritic ischemic optic neuropathy and cystoid macular edema."}
{"id": "18471640", "title": "Effect of a single intraoperative sub-Tenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide on the progression of diabetic retinopathy and visual outcomes after cataract surgery.", "content": "Effect of a single intraoperative sub-Tenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide on the progression of diabetic retinopathy and visual outcomes after cataract surgery. To assess the effect of a single intraoperative sub-Tenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide on the progression of diabetic retinopathy (DR), visual outcomes, and cystoid macular edema (CME) after cataract surgery. Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea. This prospective controlled study comprised 46 eyes of 23 diabetic patients. The control group comprised eyes not treated with a triamcinolone acetonide injection, and the triamcinolone group comprised contralateral eyes treated with a single posterior sub-Tenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide at the end of cataract surgery. The visual acuity, central macular thickness (CMT) by optical coherence tomography, and progression of DR were compared between the 2 groups. One month postoperatively, the mean change in lines of best corrected visual acuity was significantly greater in the triamcinolone group (P = .045) and the mean change in CMT was significantly greater in the control group (P = .015). The incidence of CME was higher in the control group (P = 0.04). Scores for progression of DR at 6 months were not statistically significantly different between the 2 groups (P = 0.08). A posterior sub-Tenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide lowered the incidence of CME after cataract surgery in diabetic patients, improved visual recovery, and reduced the amount of CMT increase in the short term (< or = 1 month postoperatively). However, triamcinolone acetonide did not affect DR progression over the 6-month follow-up."}
{"id": "18465737", "title": "Incomplete posterior hyaloid detachment after intravitreal pegaptanib injection in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Incomplete posterior hyaloid detachment after intravitreal pegaptanib injection in diabetic macular edema. Posterior hyaloid adherences play a role in the pathogenesis of diabetic macular edema (DME). Intravitreal antivascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) drugs are presently being used to treat DME. The authors report one case of incomplete posterior hyaloid detachment (PHD) following intravitreal pegaptanib to treat DME. This case shows a combined mechanism of DME resolution by anti VEGF and PHD. Prospective, interventional, single case report. One male patient with bilateral DME was treated by intravitreal pegaptanib in his right eye every 6 weeks for 6 months (five injections) and followed for 42 months. Central macular thickness decreased from 511 to 376 microm at month 4 in the treated eye and remained within 10% of this value during follow-up. The posterior hyaloid became taut and partially detached after the third injection and was almost completely detached 1 year later. Visual acuity remained unchanged in both eyes during follow-up. PHD may play an important role in cases where macular thickness is successfully reduced or better acuity is achieved after intravitreal injections."}
{"id": "18441298", "title": "Differential optical densities of intraretinal spaces.", "content": "Differential optical densities of intraretinal spaces. To test the hypothesis that hyporeflective spaces in the neuroretina found on optical coherence tomography (OCT) examination have different optical reflectivities according to whether they are associated with exudation or degeneration. Retrospective analysis of eyes with idiopathic perifoveal telangiectasia (IPT), diabetic macular edema (DME), idiopathic central serous chorioretinopathy (CSC), retinitis pigmentosa (RP), or cone dystrophy (CD) and eyes of healthy control subjects. OCT scans were performed. Raw scan data were exported and used to calculate light reflectivity profiles. Reflectivity data were acquired by projecting three rectangular boxes, each 50 pixels long and 5 pixels wide, into the intraretinal cystoid spaces, centrally onto unaffected peripheral RPE, and onto the prefoveolar vitreous. Light reflectivity in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), vitreous, and intraretinal spaces for the different retinal conditions and control subjects were compared. Reflectivities of the vitreous and the RPE were similar among the groups. Hyporeflective spaces in eyes with exudation (DME, RP, and CSC) had higher reflectivity compared with the mean reflectivity of the vitreous, whereas the cystoid spaces in the maculae of the eyes without exudation (CD and IPT) had a lower reflectivity than did the normal vitreous. Analysis of the light reflectivity profiles may be a tool to determine whether the density of hyporeflective spaces in the macula is greater or less than that of the vitreous, and may be a way to differentiate degenerative from exudative macular disease."}
{"id": "18437175", "title": "Vitrectomy for diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Vitrectomy for diabetic macular oedema. To briefly review and discuss the literature on vitrectomy for diabetic macular oedema. Literature review. There is a copious literature on the subject of vitrectomy for diabetic macular oedema (DMO). The most commonly hypothesised mechanism for the potential benefit of vitrectomy is relief of vitreomacular traction; however, both transvitreal oxygenation and improved growth factor diffusion away from the premacular retina have also been suggested to be potentially beneficial effects. Other systemic and local factors including duration of oedema, extent of ischaemia and exudation, and extent of laser may result in permanent photoreceptor and capillary damage, which precludes anatomical or visual benefit. Much of the literature on the subject of vitrectomy for DMO is retrospective and uncontrolled but strongly suggestive of a benefit in terms of improved acuity and reduced macular thickness following vitrectomy. There are five published small randomised controlled trials on this subject. Taken as a whole, these studies do not suggest a benefit from surgery. Selection of patients for surgery on the basis of OCT partial vitreomacular separation or clinical signs of traction such as an epiretinal membrane or taut thickened hyaloid has been reported to be associated with a modest improvement in prospective studies but this has not been subjected to controlled study. The evidence at present suggests that vitrectomy for DMO should be restricted to those with clinical or OCT signs of traction."}
{"id": "18437033", "title": "Optical coherence tomography fast versus regular macular thickness mapping in diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography fast versus regular macular thickness mapping in diabetic retinopathy. The purpose of the study was to investigate if absolute values and reproducibility of thickness maps obtained from 2 optical coherence tomography (OCT) scanning protocols, regular high-resolution and fast low-density mode, differ in patients with diabetic macular edema. A total of 26 consecutive patients undergoing fluorescein angiography and Stratus OCT scanning for the evaluation of diabetic macular edema at the Departments of Ophthalmology in Munich and Vienna were included. Retinal thickness of the central field of the thickness map measured by fast retinal thickness protocol was 287 +/- 97 and 290 +/- 113 microm by the regular protocol. This difference as well as that for all other fields was not statistically significant. Three times repeated measurements applying both OCT scanning modes in 10 patients yielded very good intrasession correlation coefficients between 0.70 and 0.99, with corresponding intrasession standard deviations ranging between 6 and 16 mum. The fast mode yielded slightly less reproducible values than the regular mode. Visual acuity did not influence the results. In practice both scanning modes can be interchanged and absolute values can be compared directly. Best reproducibility is obtained with higher sampling density even in patients with reduced visual acuity due to diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "18425522", "title": "Arteriovenous crossing sheathotomy versus intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection for treatment of macular edema associated with branch retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Arteriovenous crossing sheathotomy versus intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection for treatment of macular edema associated with branch retinal vein occlusion. To compare the functional and anatomical outcomes of arteriovenous (AV) sheathotomy and intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) injection in the treatment of macular edema associated with branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). Forty eyes of 40 patients with macular edema secondary to BRVO were randomized into two treatment groups. A total of 20 patients received AV sheathotomy (sheathotomy group), and the second group of 20 patients was treated with IVTA (IVTA group). Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) visual acuity (VA) score, total macular volume measured, and foveal thickness by 3rd generation optical coherence tomography (OCT3) were evaluated as main outcome measurements. The average changes in ETDRS scores, total macular volumes, and foveal thicknesses compared to baseline values, were significant 3 months and 6 months after treatment in both groups (P < 0.05, paired t-test), but only the IVTA group showed significant improvements 1 month after treatment. The between-group differences in average ETDRS score, total macular volume, and foveal thickness changes were significantly better at 1 month after treatment in the ITVA group (P = 0.026, P < 0.001, P = 0.001, respectively, Student's t-test), at which time IVTA patients had better vision and anatomical outcomes than did those in the sheathotomy group. After either AV sheathotomy or IVTA treatment, patients with macular edema secondary to BRVO showed similar functional and anatomical outcomes 6 months later. When the cost and the risks of vitreoretinal surgery are considered, IVTA treatment may be a better treatment option, as the drug yields better short-term outcomes."}
{"id": "18425062", "title": "Intravitreal pegaptanib sodium for refractory pseudophakic macular oedema.", "content": "Intravitreal pegaptanib sodium for refractory pseudophakic macular oedema. Evaluate the efficacy of intravitreal pegaptanib sodium (Macugen) in refractory pseudophakic cystoid macular oedema (CME). Prospective, nonrandomized, interventional case series. Four eyes of four patients with refractory pseudophakic CME to pars plana vitrectomy and intravitreal bevacizumab and triamcinolone, were treated with pegaptanib sodium, with a mean follow up of 4 months. Pre- and postinfection examinations included assessment of best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) using the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study chart (ETDRS), fluorescein angiography (FA), and optical coherence tomography (OCT). Visual acuity increased in all patients after intravitreal pegaptanib sodium. OCT showed improvement of the retinal thickness in the macular area. Intravitreal pegaptanib sodium (Macugen) is a promising treatment for pseudophakic cystoid macular oedema resistant to other medical treatment strategies. However, further study is needed to assess the treatment's long term efficacy and the need for retreatment."}
{"id": "18420749", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone versus laser photocoagulation for persistent diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone versus laser photocoagulation for persistent diabetic macular oedema. To determine if repeated intravitreal triamcinolone improves best corrected visual acuity at 1 year compared with conventional laser therapy for persistent diabetic macular oedema. 88 eyes with persistent clinically significant macular oedema, after at least one prior laser photocoagulation, were included in this prospective randomised controlled trial. 43 patients were randomised to 4 mg of intravitreal triamcinolone (TA) and 45 to laser photocoagulation. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who improved by 15 Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) letters at 12 months in TA versus laser groups. Secondary endpoints were the change in mean best corrected visual acuity, difference in macular thickness and macular volume and adverse event reporting in particular elevated intraocular pressure at 12 months. Improvement in > or =15 ETDRS letters occurred in two of 42 patients in the TA group (4.8%) and in five of 41 (12.2%) patients in the laser group (p = 0.265). At baseline, the mean ETDRS scores at baseline were 54.4 letters in the TA group and 53.0 letters in the laser group. At 12 months, these were 54.5 and 54.6, respectively. Optical coherence tomography showed a reduction in central macular thickness of 82.0 microm with TA and 62.3 microm with laser at 12 months. There was one case of sterile endophthalmitis. 22 out of 43 patients in the triamcinolone group required ocular antihypertensives. This study did not show a benefit from intravitreal triamcinolone over conventional laser therapy for patients with chronic diabetic macular oedema."}
{"id": "18408490", "title": "Posterior segment complications after laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis.", "content": "Posterior segment complications after laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis. The aim of this article is to review the retinal complications that may occur after laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis (LASIK). One study investigated the incidence, characteristics, and surgical management of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment after LASIK surgery in myopia. The incidence of a rhegmatogenous retinal detachment after LASIK in this study was 0.033%. Another group reported a case of acute rhegmatogenous retinal detachment 14 h after LASIK surgery in a highly myopic patient. Two reports described a patient with early choroidal neovascular membrane after LASIK in a young myopic patient that was successfully managed by photodynamic therapy, and a patient with valsalva-like retinopathy following hyperopic LASIK. Another study evaluated the long-term effects of excimer laser treatment for ametropia after surgical treatment of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment with scleral buckles. A letter reported a case of a young man with an unusual grey ring around the optic disc and macular edema after LASIK-related corneal penetration and lens dislocation. Two case reports were on bilateral cystoid macular edema after phacoemulsification in post-LASIK eyes, and unilateral optic disc pit maculopathy after LASIK. A letter commented on the systemic contraindications for LASIK. Serious complications after LASIK are infrequent. A dilated fundus examination is very important before LASIK and in every patient whose visual acuity after LASIK is not as good as expected."}
{"id": "18398365", "title": "Large-spot subthreshold infrared laser to treat diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Large-spot subthreshold infrared laser to treat diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the efficacy of a large-spot subthreshold infrared laser protocol to treat diabetic maculopathy. In a prospective, fellow eye, controlled case series, all patients had clinically significant diabetic macular edema (DME) treated with a single application of subthreshold infrared (810 nm) laser. If bilateral disease was present, the fellow eye was treated with conventional macular laser. The study was to include 20 patients. Visual acuity and central macular thickness (CMT) measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) were assessed in the study and fellow eyes at baseline and 6 months, and any changes were compared. The 11th patient developed a choroidal infarct with subsequent profound loss of vision immediately after treatment. The study was terminated prematurely at this point. For the remaining 10 patients, there was a trend toward improvement in visual acuity in the study eye compared with the fellow eye at the 6-month follow-up (median change: +1.5 letters for study eye vs -6.5 letters for fellow eye; P = 0.08). There was also significant improvement in OCT-measured CMT in the study eye (mean decrease, 117 microm) compared with deterioration in OCT-measured CMT in the fellow eye (mean increase, 24 microm; P = 0.02). This subthreshold infrared laser protocol led to improvement in OCT-measured CMT and stabilization of vision in most subjects. The current protocol is however unpredictable and should not be used in the treatment of DME without further modification."}
{"id": "18366650", "title": "Intravitreal vs. subtenon triamcinolone acetonide for the treatment of diabetic cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal vs. subtenon triamcinolone acetonide for the treatment of diabetic cystoid macular edema. To assess the efficacy of the intravitreal (IVT) injection of Triamcinolone Acetonide (TA) as compared to posterior subtenon (SBT) capsule injection for the treatment of cystoid diabetic macular edema. Fourteen patients with type II diabetes mellitus and on insulin treatment, presenting diffuse cystoid macular edema were recruited. Before TA injection all focal lakes were treated by laser photocoagulation. In the same patients one eye was assigned to 4 mg IVT injection of TA and the fellow eye was then treated with 40 mg SBT injection of TA. Before and one, three and six months after treatment we measured visual acuity with ETDRS chart as well as thickness of the macula with optical coherence tomography (OCT) and intraocular pressure (IOP). The eyes treated with an IVT injection displayed significant improvement in visual acuity, both after one (0.491 +/- 0.070; p < 0.001) and three months (0.500 +/- 0.089; p < 0.001) of treatment. Significant improvement was displayed also in eyes treated with an SBT injection, again after one (0.455 +/- 0.069; p < 0.001) and three months (0.427 +/- 0.065; p < 0.001). The difference between an IVT injection (0.809 +/- 0.083) and SBT injection (0.460 +/- 0.072) becomes significant six months after the treatment (p < 0.001). Macular thickness of the eyes treated with IVT injection was significantly reduced both after one (222.7 +/- 13.4 microm; p < 0.001) and after three months (228.1 +/- 10.6 microm; p < 0.001) of treatment. The eyes treated with SBT injection displayed significant improvement after one (220.1 +/- 15.1 microm; p < 0.001) and after three months (231.3 +/- 10.9 microm; p < 0.001). The difference between the eyes treated with IVT injection (385.2 +/- 11.3 microm) and those treated with SBT injection (235.4 +/- 8.7 microm) becomes significant six months after the treatment (p < 0.001). Intraocular pressure of the eyes treated with IVT injection significantly increased after one month (17.7 +/- 1.1 mm/Hg; p < 0.020), three (18.2 +/- 1.2 mm/Hg; p < 0.003) and six month (18.1 +/- 1.3 mm/Hg; p < 0.007) when compared to baseline value (16.1 +/- 1.402 mm/Hg). In the SBT injection eyes we didn't display a significant increase of intraocular pressure after one (16.4 +/- 1.2 mm/Hg; p < 0.450), three (16.3 +/- 1.1 mm/Hg; p < 0.630) and six months (16.2 +/- 1.1 mm/Hg; p < 0.720) when compared to baseline value (16.2 +/- 1.3 mm/Hg). The parabulbar subtenon approach can be considered a valid alternative to the intravitreal injection. Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN67086909."}
{"id": "18336789", "title": "Anterior chamber depth and chamber angle and their associations with ocular and general parameters: the Beijing Eye Study.", "content": "Anterior chamber depth and chamber angle and their associations with ocular and general parameters: the Beijing Eye Study. To investigate the normative data of anterior chamber depth (ACD) and angle width and their associations in Chinese adults. Population-based study. The Beijing Eye Study 2006 included 3,251 subjects (73.3%) (aged 45+ years) out of 4,439 subjects who participated in the 2001 survey and who returned for reexamination. The subjects underwent an ophthalmologic examination including measurement of the anterior chamber dimensions by slit-lamp-based optical coherence tomography (OCT). Out of the 3,251 subjects, OCT measurements were available for 2,985 subjects (91.8%). Mean ACD measured 2.42 +/- 0.34 mm and the mean anterior chamber angle (ACA) was 38.3 +/- 16.3 degrees. In multivariate analysis, a shallow chamber depth was significantly associated with age (P < .001), hyperopic refractive error (P < .001), female gender (P < .001), short body stature (P = .003), nuclear cataract (P = .03), central corneal thickness [CCT] (P < .001), large optic disk (P < .001), and presence of chronic angle-closure glaucoma (P < .001). Correspondingly, a narrow ACA was associated with age (P < .001), female gender (P < .001), hyperopia (P < .001), nuclear cataract (P < .001), short body stature (P = .001), large optic disk (P < .001), and angle-closure glaucoma (P < .001). Chamber depth and angle width were not associated with presence of age-related maculopathy and diabetic retinopathy. A shallow anterior chamber and a narrow chamber angle in Chinese adults are associated with age, female gender, hyperopia, nuclear cataract, small optic disk, short body stature, CCT, and chronic angle-closure glaucoma. These data may be helpful to explain anatomic relationships of the anterior segment of the eye, and to elucidate risk factors of angle-closure glaucoma."}
{"id": "18330892", "title": "Topical administration of a multi-targeted kinase inhibitor suppresses choroidal neovascularization and retinal edema.", "content": "Topical administration of a multi-targeted kinase inhibitor suppresses choroidal neovascularization and retinal edema. Age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, and retinal vein occlusions are complicated by neovascularization and macular edema. Multi-targeted kinase inhibitors that inhibit select growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases and/or components of their down-stream signaling cascades (such as Src kinases) are rationale treatment strategies for these disease processes. We describe the discovery and characterization of two such agents. TG100572, which inhibits Src kinases and selected receptor tyrosine kinases, induced apoptosis of proliferating endothelial cells in vitro. Systemic delivery of TG100572 in a murine model of laser-induced choroidal neovascularization (CNV) caused significant suppression of CNV, but with an associated weight loss suggestive of systemic toxicity. To minimize systemic exposure, topical delivery of TG100572 to the cornea was explored, and while substantial levels of TG100572 were achieved in the retina and choroid, superior exposure levels were achieved using TG100801, an inactive prodrug that generates TG100572 by de-esterification. Neither TG100801 nor TG100572 were detectable in plasma following topical delivery of TG100801, and adverse safety signals (such as weight loss) were not observed even with prolonged dosing schedules. Topical TG100801 significantly suppressed laser-induced CNV in mice, and reduced fluorescein leakage from the vasculature and retinal thickening measured by optical coherence tomography in a rat model of retinal vein occlusion. These data suggest that TG100801 may provide a new topically applied treatment approach for ocular neovascularization and retinal edema."}
{"id": "18329622", "title": "The variation in optical coherence tomography-measured macular thickness in diabetic eyes without clinical macular edema.", "content": "The variation in optical coherence tomography-measured macular thickness in diabetic eyes without clinical macular edema. To determine the variation in optical coherence tomography (OCT)-measured macular thickness in diabetic eyes without clinical edema and to investigate factors that might influence variation in macular thickness. Retrospective, observational case series from a clinical practice. Review of clinical charts and longitudinal OCT measurements of a consecutive series of 56 eyes of 56 patients with diabetes but no clinical macular edema. Measured variables include OCT central subfield mean thickness (CSMT), total macular volume (TMV), and logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) visual acuity. Over a median follow-up of 17 months, interquartile range (IQR) (9, 23), the median variation in CSMT was 18 microns, IQR (11, 31), and the median variation in TMV was 0.09 mm(3), IQR (0.06, 0.16). Variation in CSMT did not change significantly with increasing CSMT. Absolute, but not relative, variation in TMV increased with increasing baseline values (P = .0127 and P = .1538 for absolute variation and relative variation in TMV, respectively). The variation in CSMT and TMV did not vary with follow-up time and did not vary with age, gender, race, hypertension status, glycosylated hemoglobin, or retinopathy level. Variation in CSMT and TMV in diabetic eyes without DME over intervals up to 17 months is no greater than OCT measurement variability in eyes without and with DME. A change in the OCT-measured macular thickness greater than 10% of the baseline thickness is likely to represent a true change in the macular thickness and not OCT measurement variability, diurnal variation, or variability occurring over longer time scales."}
{"id": "18328456", "title": "Comparative therapy evaluation of intravitreal bevacizumab and triamcinolone acetonide on persistent diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Comparative therapy evaluation of intravitreal bevacizumab and triamcinolone acetonide on persistent diffuse diabetic macular edema. To compare the effect of an intravitreal injection of bevacizumab, an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) antibody, with that of triamcinolone acetonide, a corticosteroid for reduction of diabetic macular edema (DME). Prospective, comparative interventional case series. Twenty-eight eyes of 14 patients with bilateral DME participated in this study. In each patient, one eye received an intravitreal injection of 4 mg triamcinolone acetonide and the other eye received 1.25 mg bevacizumab. The clinical course of best-corrected visual acuity (VA) with a logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution chart and averaged foveal thickness using optical coherence tomography was monitored for up to 24 weeks after the injection. Before the injection, foveal thickness and VA were 522.3 +/- 91.3 microm and 0.64 +/- 0.28 microm in the triamcinolone-injected eye, and 527.6 +/- 78.8 microm and 0.61 +/- 0.18 microm in the bevacizumab-injected eye, respectively; there was no significant difference between the eyes. One week after the injection, both eyes showed significant regression of macular edema. The triamcinolone-injected eye (342.6 +/- 85.5 microm and 0.33 +/- 0.21 microm) showed significantly better results than the bevacizumab-injected eye (397.6 +/- 103.0 microm and 0.37 +/- 0.17 microm). However, both eyes showed the recurrence of macular edema with time, even at 24 weeks. Triamcinolone (410.4 +/- 82.4 microm and 0.47 +/- 0.25 microm) kept better results than bevacizumab (501.6 +/- 92.5 microm and 0.61 +/- 0.17 microm). With the generally used concentration, intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide showed better results in reducing DME and in the improvement of VA than that of bevacizumab, suggesting that the pathogenesis of DME is not only attributable to VEGF-dependency, but is also attributable to other mechanisms suppressed by corticosteroid."}
{"id": "18327132", "title": "Pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane peeling for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane peeling for diabetic macular edema. To evaluate anatomic and visual acuity (VA) results of pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) with internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling for diffuse diabetic macular edema (DME), and to review the literature on the topic. Retrospective noncomparative case series of patients who underwent PPV with ILM peeling for diffuse DME between January 1, 2000, and December 1, 2005, performed by three surgeons at Bascom Palmer Eye Institute. Main outcome measures included pre- and postoperative optical coherence tomography (OCT) and visual acuity. Mean follow-up period was 8 months (range, 43 days-2 years). Twenty-four eyes of 23 patients meeting the criteria were evaluated. Duration of DME ranged from 1 to 93 months. Mean preoperative logMAR vision was 0.782 (range, 0.30-1.82). Mean logMAR visual acuity at final follow-up was 0.771 (range, 0.10-2.00). At last follow-up, 25% of eyes had > or =2 line increase in VA from baseline, 54% of eyes had no improvement in VA, and 21% of eyes had > or =2 line decrease in VA. Of 9 eyes with pre- and postoperative OCT, there was an overall reduction in central macular thickness of 141 microm at postoperative month 3 and 120 microm at last follow-up. Postoperative complications included progression of cataract in 6 (60%) of 10 phakic eyes, postoperative intraocular pressure > or =30 mmHg in 6 (24%) eyes, and postoperative vitreous hemorrhage in 2 (8%) eyes. Pars plana vitrectomy with ILM peeling was associated with a reduction in DME when measured by OCT in the majority of eyes, but visual acuity outcomes showed minimal improvement compared to baseline. These results suggest the efficacy of PPV with ILM peeling for eyes with DME has not been well established and should be reserved for therapy with selected cases."}
{"id": "18320528", "title": "Spontaneous resolution of vitreomacular traction following ranibizumab (Lucentis) injection.", "content": "Spontaneous resolution of vitreomacular traction following ranibizumab (Lucentis) injection. Spontaneous resolution of vitreomacular traction syndrome in diabetic patients is a rare phenomenon that has been poorly described in the literature. Case presentation. The authors present a case of spontaneous resolution of vitreomacular traction following intravitreal administration of ranibizumab. In patients with vitreomacular traction syndrome and diabetic macular edema, the combination of the possible vitreous liquefaction and mechanical increase of vitreous volume caused by an intravitreal injection with a degree of reduction in retinal thickness caused by the effect of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibition could play a role in the resolution of vitreomacular traction."}
{"id": "18316700", "title": "Comparison of time-domain OCT and fundus photographic assessments of retinal thickening in eyes with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Comparison of time-domain OCT and fundus photographic assessments of retinal thickening in eyes with diabetic macular edema. To explore the correlation between optical coherence tomography (OCT) and stereoscopic fundus photographs (FP) for the assessment of retinal thickening (RT) in diabetic macular edema (DME) within a clinical trial. OCT, FP, and best corrected visual acuity (VA) measurements were obtained in both eyes of 263 participants in a trial comparing two photocoagulation techniques for DME. Correlation coefficients (r) were calculated comparing RT measured by OCT, RT estimated from FP, and VA. Principal variables were central subfield retinal thickness (CSRT) obtained from the OCT fast macular map and DME severity assessed by a reading center using a seven-step photographic scale combining the area of thickened retina within 1 disc diameter of the foveal center and thickening at the center. Medians (quartiles) for retinal thickness within the center subfield by OCT at baseline increased from 236 (214, 264) microm in the lowest level of the photographic scale to 517 (455, 598) microm in the highest level (r = 0.67). However, CSRT interquartile ranges were broad and overlapping between FP scale levels, and there were many outliers. Correlations between either modality and VA were weaker (r = 0.57 for CSRT, and r = 0.47 for the FP scale). OCT appeared to be more reproducible and more sensitive to change in RT between baseline and 1 year than was FP. There was a moderate correlation between OCT and FP assessments of RT in patients with DME and slightly less correlation of either measure with VA. OCT and FP provide complementary information but neither is a reliable surrogate for VA."}
{"id": "18260017", "title": "[Enzymatic vitrectomy by intravitreal autologous plasmin injection, as initial treatment for diffuse diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Enzymatic vitrectomy by intravitreal autologous plasmin injection, as initial treatment for diffuse diabetic macular edema]. To determine whether intravitreal injection of plasmin is effective in treating diffuse diabetic macular edema (DDME). A prospective, comparative, interventional case study. Eighteen patients with bilateral DDME received, as their primary therapeutic treatment, an intravitreal injection of plasmin in one eye, with their contralateral untreated eye serving as a control. Intravitreal 0.2 ml of autologous plasmin injected under topical anesthesia. The plasmin was obtained by a simplified method. Central macular thickness (CMT), determined by optical coherence tomography (OCT), and Best Corrected Visual Acuity (LogMAR), assessed at one and three months of follow-up. All patients completed the 3-month follow-up assessments. Before the injection, the CMT was 525.22 SD 80.12 microm [mean +/- standard deviation (SD)] in the eyes to be injected, compared to 525.44 SD 78.13 microm in the control eyes. One month after the injection, the CMT was 323.72 SD 44.87 microm in the injected eyes and 518.44 SD 78.54 microm in the control eyes (P < 0.001, bilateral Wilcoxon test for paired samples). Three months after the injection, the CMT was 310.55 SD 35.38 microm in the injected eyes and 517.66 SD 80 microm in the control eyes (P < 0.001). Macular edema improved in all injected eyes (100%), with a reduction of at least 50% in every treated eye, but no changes occurred in the control group. Nine of the 18 treated eyes (50%) improved their BCVA by at least two vision lines. No adverse effects were observed in any of the patients. Intravitreal plasmin injection, as primary treatment, effectively reduces macular thickening due to DDME and improves visual acuity. Further studies are warranted to assess long-term efficacy and safety."}
{"id": "18243920", "title": "Optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography."}
{"id": "18243918", "title": "Surrogate marker.", "content": "Surrogate marker."}
{"id": "18235015", "title": "Impact of diabetic retinopathy on quantitative retinal nerve fiber layer measurement and glaucoma screening.", "content": "Impact of diabetic retinopathy on quantitative retinal nerve fiber layer measurement and glaucoma screening. To investigate the impact of diabetic retinopathy on quantitative retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) assessment and diagnostic power for glaucoma by scanning laser polarimetry (GDx-VCC) and optical coherence tomography (StratusOCT). The individual RNFL parameters of GDx and OCT were obtained for 170 eyes (one eye from each of 170 subjects [45 healthy, 47 glaucoma, 40 diabetes, and 38 glaucoma with diabetes]) and were compared among the four groups. Diabetic eyes had mild to moderate nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) without maculopathy. In glaucomatous eyes with or without diabetes, the ability to discriminate glaucoma was assessed by the areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUROCs) and the sensitivities at more than 80% and 90% of specificities for each technique. Using GDx-VCC, significant differences (P < 0.05) in RNFL measurement parameters were found for all comparisons except those between glaucomatous eyes with diabetes and without diabetes. StratusOCT parameters did not detect significant differences between age-matched healthy and diabetic eyes. Among the parameters included, the nerve fiber indicator (NFI) of GDx-VCC and the inferior quadrant thickness (IQT) of StratusOCT had the largest AUROCs and sensitivities at specificities greater than 80%: NFI (0.912, 86%) and IQT (0.902, 85%) in glaucomatous eyes with diabetes; NFI (0.935, 92%) and IQT (0.921, 91%) in simple glaucomatous eyes. Mild to moderate NPDR causes a quantitative discrepancy in RNFL measurements between GDx-VCC and StratusOCT in simple diabetic eyes. However, mild to moderate glaucomatous optic neuropathy can be highly discriminated by the two imaging devices in eyes with diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "18195217", "title": "Results and repeatability of retinal thickness measurements from certification submissions.", "content": "Results and repeatability of retinal thickness measurements from certification submissions. To present the results for subgroups defined by center point (CP) measurement and to assess the repeatability of the Fast Retinal Thickness Map analysis results from the Stratus OCT3 machine. Two hundred eighty-one replicate OCT3 scans from 134 operators' certification submissions to a reading center were analyzed, including scans from eyes that were reported to be normal and eyes with exudative age-related macular degeneration and with macular edema due to diabetic retinopathy or retinal vascular occlusion. The mean (SD) of the CP was 284 (150) microm and the center subfield (CC) was 301 (130) microm. The CP coefficient of repeatability (CR) was 49 microm and the CC CR was 27 microm. The CR increased by increasing retinal thickness for the CP and the CC within arbitrarily defined subgroups. For the 87 eyes with a session 1 CP of 175 microm or less, the CP CR was 17 microm and the CC CR was 10 microm. Among experienced operators, given the same operator, machine, and eye at the same sitting, OCT3 retinal thickness maps appear to have a CR that is likely to be less than the clinically important difference."}
{"id": "18185166", "title": "Pars plana vitrectomy with and without peeling of the inner limiting membrane (ILM) for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Pars plana vitrectomy with and without peeling of the inner limiting membrane (ILM) for diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "18185135", "title": "Agreement between clinician and reading center gradings of diabetic retinopathy severity level at baseline in a phase 2 study of intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Agreement between clinician and reading center gradings of diabetic retinopathy severity level at baseline in a phase 2 study of intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema. To evaluate agreement in diabetic retinopathy severity classification by retina specialists performing ophthalmoscopy versus reading center (RC) grading of seven-field stereoscopic fundus photographs in a phase 2 clinical trial of intravitreal bevacizumab for center-involved diabetic macular edema. Clinicians' grading scale used four levels: microaneurysms only, mild/moderate nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR), severe NPDR, and proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) or prior panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) or both. The RC scale used eight levels: microaneurysms only, mild NPDR, moderate NPDR, moderately severe NPDR, severe NPDR, mild PDR, moderate PDR, and high-risk PDR. Percent agreement and kappa statistic were defined by collapsing RC categories to match those used by clinicians. There was agreement in 89/118 eyes (75%) with kappa = 0.55 (95% confidence interval [0.41, 0.68]). In six eyes, disagreements were of potential substantial clinical importance: five eyes with subtle retinal neovascularization and one with a small preretinal hemorrhage identified only in photographs. Clinician grading of retinopathy severity had moderate agreement with RC grading and might be useful for placing eyes into broad baseline categories."}
{"id": "18165084", "title": "Efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab in treating postoperative pseudophakic cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab in treating postoperative pseudophakic cystoid macular edema. To describe the efficacy of intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) in patients with cystoid macular edema (CME) after cataract surgery (Irvine-Gass syndrome). This retrospective case series comprised 16 eyes of 16 patients with CME after cataract surgery refractory to current standard treatment who received an injection of 1.25 mg intravitreal Avastin. The main outcome measures were visual acuity, retinal thickness on optical coherence tomography (OCT), and complications related to treatment. The median duration of CME before treatment with intravitreal Avastin was 14 weeks (range 3 to 84 weeks). Although the mean retinal thickness decreased slightly after intravitreal Avastin, the mean visual acuity remained unchanged. Visual acuity improved by 2 Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study lines in 1 patient, remained unchanged in 12 patients, and decreased by 2 lines in 2 patients. Repeated Avastin injections did not result in a better outcome. Other than mild ocular irritation, there were no adverse effects of the intravitreal injections. Intravitreal injection of Avastin, although safe, did not result in improved visual function in patients with postoperative CME. In contrast to findings in a previous case report, the beneficial effect of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibition in Irvine-Gass syndrome was not observed."}
{"id": "18097178", "title": "The status of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema in patients with type 2 diabetes: a survey from Beixinjing District of Shanghai city in China.", "content": "The status of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema in patients with type 2 diabetes: a survey from Beixinjing District of Shanghai city in China. Diabetic macular edema (DME) is the major cause of vision loss in patients with diabetic retinopathy (DR). The purpose of this study was to assess the prevalence of DR and DME in a community in China and to analyze the characteristics of their optical coherence tomography (OCT) images. This study was an incidence survey based on data from 108,132 residents living in the Beixinjing District, Shanghai, China. Patients with DME came from the local health network. OCT was performed in 151 eyes of 100 type 2 diabetes patients with DR and 102 eyes of normal control subjects. Totally 795 cases were examined, and 215 of them were diagnosed to have DR. The average thickness of the macular fovea was 195.56 microm in 151 eyes from 100 random samples. Forty-six eyes had macular thickening. The statistical analysis showed that there was a positive correlation between the thickness of the macular fovea and -log of best-corrected visual acuity (r = 0.2869, p = 0.0004) as well as the severity of DR (p = 0.0003). However, there was no statistical significance between DME and posterior vitreous detachment. The images of OCT in DME included 3 types. Best-corrected visual acuity moderately correlated with retinal thickness. The macular thickness correlated with the severity of DR but not with posterior vitreous detachment."}
{"id": "18067962", "title": "The relationship of macular thickness to clinically graded diabetic retinopathy severity in eyes without clinically detected diabetic macular edema.", "content": "The relationship of macular thickness to clinically graded diabetic retinopathy severity in eyes without clinically detected diabetic macular edema. To examine the relationship of optical coherence tomography (OCT) measured macular thickness to retinopathy severity in patients with diabetes and no clinically detectable macular edema. Retrospective observational case series. Three hundred eighty-three eyes of 383 patients of a private retina practice; including 100 normal eyes of patients without diabetes, 100 eyes of diabetics without retinopathy, 100 eyes of diabetics with mild to moderate retinopathy, 35 eyes of diabetics with severe nonproliferative or proliferative retinopathy, and 48 eyes of diabetics with regressed proliferative retinopathy. Review of clinical charts and optical coherence tomography measurements. Central subfield mean thickness (CSMT), inner and outer zone measurements, and total macular volume. Central subfield mean thicknesses (mean +/- standard deviation) were 208+/-22, 198+/-25, 204+/-26, 224+/-38, and 205+/-27 microm for normals, eyes of diabetics without retinopathy, eyes with mild to moderate nonproliferative retinopathy, eyes with severe nonproliferative to proliferative retinopathy, and eyes with regressed proliferative retinopathy, respectively. For all groups, mean CSMT was larger in males than in females. Statistically significant differences by gender were observed for normals, diabetics without retinopathy, and diabetics with mild to moderate nonproliferative retinopathy (mean differences, 12, 14, and 18 microm, respectively; Ps = 0.0057, 0.0057, and 0.0002). For increasing retinopathy severity, the probability of macular thickening detected by OCT but not detected by clinical examination increased. Fifteen percent of eyes with severe nonproliferative or proliferative retinopathy and no clinically detected edema had OCT-measured macular thickening. Because OCT measurements are gender dependent, gender balance or statistical adjustment for gender imbalances of compared groups in OCT studies of diabetic macular edema is important. As retinopathy severity increases, the probability of subclinical edema rises. Except for an individual baseline measurement possibly useful for longitudinal comparison, the data suggest that there is little reason routinely to obtain OCT in eyes with diabetes and no retinopathy or mild to moderate diabetic retinopathy when clinical examination fails to show macular edema."}
{"id": "18054885", "title": "Optical coherence tomography features during the evolution of serous retinal detachment in patients with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography features during the evolution of serous retinal detachment in patients with diabetic macular edema. To characterize the evolution of serous retinal detachment (SRD) combined with diabetic macular edema (DME) using optical coherence tomography (OCT). Observational retrospective case series. In our institution, 64 eyes of 40 diabetic patients who had SRD combined with DME were studied. All patients had fluorescein angiography and several OCT3 examinations during follow-up. Foveolar neuroretinal thickness (NRT) and SRD height were measured. The evolution of OCT macular profiles was qualitatively assessed. Mean follow-up was 11.8 months. DME was focal in 10 eyes (15.6%), diffuse in 17 (26.6%) and both diffuse and focal in 37 (57.8%). Mean initial decimal visual acuity (VA), NRT, and SRD height (+/- standard deviation) were 0.35 +/- 0.21, 346.88 +/- 138.61 and 199.48 +/- 139.8 microm, respectively. SRD height did not correlate with VA (P = .23) or NRT (P = .31). In 13 eyes (20.3%), NRT above the SRD was normal. In the 19 eyes where DME improved during follow-up, SRD disappeared before the maximal reduction of retinal thickness in seven eyes (36.8%) and after or simultaneously with this reduction, in 12 eyes (63.2%). Among the 45 eyes where DME worsened during follow-up, SRD disappeared from 15 eyes (33.3%). In this series, SRD height did not correlate with retinal thickening. The latter may appear before central neuroretinal thickening and disappear before or after its regression. Consequently, SRD does not seem to be related either to the severity of DME or to its resorption."}
{"id": "18028237", "title": "Optical coherence tomography and vessel diameter changes after intravitreal bevacizumab in diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography and vessel diameter changes after intravitreal bevacizumab in diabetic macular oedema. To assess the effect of intravitreal bevacizumab on diabetic macular oedema (DMO) and retinal vessel calibres. We performed a consecutive case series study in which 10 consecutive eyes with diffuse DMO, two of which had not previously been treated, received an intravitreal injection of bevacizumab 1 mg, which was followed by two more injections at 6-week intervals. Fundus photography and optical coherence tomography (OCT) were carried out at baseline immediately before injection and at 1, 2.5 and 4 months after the first injection. Outcome measures were best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) in Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study letters, macular volume, foveal subfield thickness and vessel diameter measurement. Intravitreal administration of bevacizumab was followed by a mean increase in BCVA of 7.3 +/- 17 (mean +/- standard deviation) letters between baseline and month 4, which was 1 month after the last injection (p < 0.0001). This was accompanied by a reduction in mean macular volume from 9.90 +/- 1.9 mm(3) to 8.96 +/- 2.4 mm(3) (p = 0.002) and in foveal subfield thickness from 447 +/- 117 microm to 388 +/- 117 microm (p = 0.03). Two eyes with early proliferative diabetic retinopathy lost all signs of proliferation without any evidence of fibrosis. Although there was a trend towards vasoconstriction, the changes in vessel diameters (arteries and veins) after 4 months of intravitreal Avastin injection were not statistically significant (p = 0.9 and p = 0.17, respectively). Foveal thickness in non-injected fellow eyes with DMO changed from 428 +/- 153 microm at baseline to 383 +/- 151 microm at 4 months (p = 0.1), which did not reach statistical significance. Intravitreal bevacizumab 1 mg every 6 weeks was followed by a moderate reduction in DMO without normalization of foveal and macular thickness. Our observations suggest that a larger study where patients are examined sooner after injection is needed to elucidate the potential relationship between changes in retinal vessel diameters and thickness changes in DMO."}
{"id": "18005220", "title": "The predictive value of optical coherence tomography after grid laser photocoagulation for diffuse diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "The predictive value of optical coherence tomography after grid laser photocoagulation for diffuse diabetic macular oedema. To assess the predictive value of optical coherence tomography (OCT) mapping of retinal thickness and intraretinal morphological changes after macular grid for diffuse diabetic macular oedema (DMO). We carried out a prospective, non-controlled, case series study, in which 28 consecutive eyes with previously untreated diffuse DMO underwent fundus photography and OCT at baseline and at 1, 3 and 6 months after treatment. Macular photocoagulation was followed by a significant reduction in retinal thickness in the foveal centre (- 80 microm) and in the foveal subfield (- 65 microm) from baseline to 6 months (p < 0.01). The bulk of the reduction in retinal thickness and macular volume was manifest after 1 month. No significant change in retinal thickness occurred from 1 to 3 months or from 1 to 6 months in any macular subfield (p > 0.05). The relative decrease in retinal thickness at 6 months was highest in the foveal centre (- 22%), followed by the foveal region (- 18%), the inner parafoveal region (- 8%), and the outer parafoveal region (- 2%). Thus, the effect of photocoagulation on retinal thickness decreased with increasing eccentricity (p < 0.025). Overall, there was no statistically significant change in best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) between baseline and follow-up (p < 0.05), but changes in foveal subfield thickness and changes in VA were highly correlated (r = 0.66, p < 0.0001). Visual outcome (final BCVA) and final foveal subfield thickness at 6 months were correlated with the pattern of intraretinal morphological changes at baseline (Spearman's correlation coefficient r = - 0.41, p = 0.03 and r = 0.45, p = 0.02, respectively). In addition, visual outcome (final BCVA) and final foveal subfield thickness at 6 months were correlated with baseline foveal thickness (Spearman's correlation coefficient (r = - 0.37, p = 0.05 and r = 0.5, p = 0.01, respectively). It seems that the 1-month time-point after macular laser treatment is a critical point for establishing the outcome of this modality of management of DMO. Baseline OCT mapping of intraretinal fluid accumulation patterns and foveal thickness can help to predict the final visual outcome and final foveal thickness, but not the absolute change in either of these parameters after macular laser therapy."}
{"id": "17997393", "title": "The predictive value of patient and eye characteristics on the course of subclinical diabetic macular edema.", "content": "The predictive value of patient and eye characteristics on the course of subclinical diabetic macular edema. To define the course of subclinical diabetic macular edema (DME) and identify any predictors of progression to clinically significant DME. Retrospective, observational case series. Private retina practice. One hundred and fifty-three eyes of 153 patients with diabetic retinopathy and subclinical DME. Clinical charts review and longitudinal optical coherence tomography (OCT) measurements. Change in OCT values and time to eventual treatment for clinically significant DME. Over a median follow-up of 14 months (interquartile range, seven to 25 months), 48 of 153 eyes (31.4%) progressed to clinically significant DME. The numbers (%) of eyes showing decreased, unchanged, and increased central subfield mean thickness were 16 (10.5%), 117 (76.5%), and 20 (13.1%), respectively. None of the patients or eye variables typically assessed in clinical practice was predictive of progression from subclinical DME to clinically significant DME. Progression from subclinical DME to clinically significant DME may be detected by serial clinical and OCT assessment. Subclinical DME does not inexorably progress over time scales of one to two years, and a substantial fraction of eyes spontaneously improve. Follow-up intervals of four to six months allowed detection of progression to clinically significant DME. In this sample of patients, OCT did not help in predicting which eyes with subclinical DME would progress to clinically significant DME."}
{"id": "17965109", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone versus bevacizumab for treatment of refractory diabetic macular oedema (IBEME study).", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone versus bevacizumab for treatment of refractory diabetic macular oedema (IBEME study). The aim of this study was to compare the morphological and visual acuity outcomes associated with a single intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide versus bevacizumab for the treatment of refractory diffuse diabetic macular oedema. Twenty-eight patients were randomly assigned to receive a single intravitreal injection of either 4 mg/0.1 ml triamcinolone acetonide or 1.5 mg/0.06 ml bevacizumab. Comprehensive ophthalmic evaluation was performed at baseline and at weeks 1, 4, 8 (+/-1), 12 (+/-2) and 24 (+/-2) after treatment. Main outcome measures included central macular thickness measured with optical coherence tomography (OCT) and best corrected Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) visual acuity. Twenty-six patients (26 eyes) completed all study visits (two patients missed two consecutive study visits). Central macular thickness was significantly reduced in the intravitreal triamcinolone group compared with the bevacizumab group at weeks 4, 8, 12 and 24 (p<0.05). Logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (LogMAR) best-corrected visual acuity was significantly higher at weeks 8 (0.69; approximately 20/100(+1)) and 12 (0.74; 20/100(-2)) in the intravitreal triamcinolone group compared with the bevacizumab group (weeks 8 (0.83; approximately 20/125(-1)) and 12 (0.86; 20/160(+2))) (p<0.05). Significant change from baseline in mean intraocular pressure (mmHg) was seen at week 4 (+2.25) only in the intravitreal triamcinolone group (p<0.0001). No patient had observed cataract progression during the study. One single intravitreal injection of triamcinolone may offer certain advantages over bevacizumab in the short-term management of refractory diabetic macular oedema, specifically with regard to changes in central macular thickness. The actual clinical relevance of our preliminary findings, however, remains to be determined in future larger studies."}
{"id": "17960440", "title": "Electrophysiological and structural assessment of the central retina following intravitreal injection of bevacizumab for treatment of macular edema.", "content": "Electrophysiological and structural assessment of the central retina following intravitreal injection of bevacizumab for treatment of macular edema. To evaluate with electrophysiological responses and Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), the short term functional and structural effects at the macula following intravitreal injection of bevacizumab for macular edema. Prospective, non-randomized, interventional case study. In total, 17 eyes of 17 patients with macular edema due to vein occlusions and diabetic retinopathy received intravitreal bevacizumab. All Patients underwent complete ophthalmic examination including Snellen visual acuity testing, Multifocal Electroretinography (mfERG) and Full Field Electroretinography (FERG), OCT scanning at baseline at 1 week and 2 months after intravitreal bevacizumab. FERG did not show any change in waveform parameters following intravitreal injection of bevacizumab. Average mfERG macular responses within central 20 degrees showed increased P(1) amplitude (P < 0.05) at 2 months after treatment as compared to the baseline recordings in all subjects. No changes were seen in the implicit time. There was 22% improvement in central retinal thickness (CRT) at 2 months compared to the baseline (P < 001). Intravitreal injection bevacizumab resulted in reduction in the central retinal thickness and mild to moderate improvement in the mfERG amplitudes in this short-term study. The visual acuity changes did not directly correlate with the reduced central retinal thickness or improvement in mfERG. The short-term results showed no serious ocular adverse effects. Therefore on short-term follow up the off label drug showed improvement of macular edema secondary to vein occlusion and diabetic retinopathy with no demonstrable toxic effects."}
{"id": "17876597", "title": "Role of retinal hypoxia in diabetic macular edema: a new concept.", "content": "Role of retinal hypoxia in diabetic macular edema: a new concept. To report the role of retinal hypoxia in development of diabetic macular edema and its management--a new concept. A 24-year-old diabetic female was seen with bilateral visual blurring for 3 weeks, associated with marked diabetic macular edema, diabetic retinopathy, and non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NA-AION) in both eyes. She was taking three blood pressure lowering drugs for diabetic neuropathy and nephropathy. Stopping two of those arterial hypotensive drugs, without any of the conventional treatments for diabetic macular edema, resulted in rapid improvement of visual acuity from counting fingers to 20/50 in the right eye, and from 20/80 to 20/25 in the left eye, and complete resolution of macular edema and improvement of retinopathy. Similarly, visual field defects in both eyes improved to almost normal. The evidence from this diabetic patient suggests that hypoxia caused by fall in perfusion pressure in the retinal capillaries may be playing an important role in the development of diabetic macular edema in some, perhaps many, of these cases."}
{"id": "17651471", "title": "Correlation between intraretinal changes in diabetic macular oedema seen in fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Correlation between intraretinal changes in diabetic macular oedema seen in fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography. To study the relationship between intraretinal optical coherence tomography (OCT) and fluorescein angiography (FA) findings in eyes with diabetic macular oedema (DMO). We carried out a retrospective observational case series. Thirty eyes with previously untreated DMO underwent FA and OCT. The same ETDRS template was overlaid on the FA images in order to compare OCT and FA. Transfoveal linear high-resolution OCT scans (at the 0- and 90-degree meridians) and FA pictures were compared according to the ETDRS rings. Six distinct patterns of intraretinal changes in OCT correlated with changes in FA: (a) focal angiographic leakage did not correspond to any obvious intraretinal abnormality in OCT in four eyes; (b) localized thickening of the outer nuclear layer in OCT corresponded to focal leaking microaneurysm (focal oedema) in FA in 11 eyes; (c) diffuse thickening of the outer nuclear layer in OCT corresponded to diffuse angiographic leakage in 21 eyes; (d) cystoid expansion of the outer nuclear layer was found in seven eyes with a petaloid angiographic pattern of leakage; (e) cystoid expansion of the inner nuclear layer was found in relation to honeycomb angiographic oedema in five eyes, and (f) serous detachment of the fovea in OCT did not correspond to any distinct finding in FA in four eyes. Intraretinal abnormalities found in OCT correlate systemically with changes in FA. Very early DMO morphological changes may be seen better with FA than with OCT. Serous detachment of the fovea is seen in OCT, but not in FA. The combination of OCT and FA is useful in facilitating understanding of the pathophysiological changes that occur in DMO."}
{"id": "17622548", "title": "Nonmydriatic screening for diabetic retinopathy by ultra-widefield scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (Optomap).", "content": "Nonmydriatic screening for diabetic retinopathy by ultra-widefield scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (Optomap). To compare the diagnostic properties of a nonmydriatic 200 degrees ultra-widefield scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO) versus onsite mydriatic ophthalmologic examination for diabetic retinopathy. A consecutive series of 51 eyes of 51 patients with different levels of diabetic retinopathy (DR) was examined. Grading of diabetic retinopathy and macular edema obtained on stereoscopic dilated funduscopy by a retina specialist was compared against grading obtained from Optomap Panoramic200 SLO images. All SLOs were performed with an undilated pupil, and no additional clinical information was used for evaluation of the Optomap images by three independent, masked expert graders. A total of five images (9.8%) were not gradable due to insufficient quality. Clinically 4 eyes had proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR), while 9 had none, 5 mild, 19 moderate and 14 severe nonproliferative diseases (NPDR). Of the gradable 46 images, a clinically significant macular edema (CSME) was present in 28 eyes clinically. On Optomap, all eyes with PDR were detected as being proliferative, and a sensitivity of 94% at a specificity of 100% was obtained for all graders to detect more than mild DR. Agreement between Optomap retinopathy grading and clinical assessment was good with unweighted kappas of 0.68, 0.68 and 0.51. Assessment of CSME yielded sensitivities of 93, 93 and 89% at specificities of 89, 72 and 83%. The Optomap Panoramic200 nonmydriatic images are of sufficient quality to assess DR and CSME validly and therefore fulfill the basic requirements for telescreening programs."}
{"id": "17608830", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone as adjunctive treatment to laser panretinal photocoagulation for concomitant proliferative diabetic retinopathy and clinically significant macular oedema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone as adjunctive treatment to laser panretinal photocoagulation for concomitant proliferative diabetic retinopathy and clinically significant macular oedema. To evaluate the effect of intravitreal injections of triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) combined with panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) on visual acuity (VA) and foveal thickness in patients with concomitant high-risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) and clinically significant macular oedema (CSMO). This retrospective interventional case series included seven eyes diagnosed with both high-risk PDR and CSMO that underwent PRP and a single injection of 4 mg of IVTA. The main outcome measures were VA and foveal thickness, measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) before treatment and throughout the follow-up period. Median follow-up was 301 days (range 180-715 days). Foveal thickness data were available for four of seven eyes. Before the combined treatment, median LogMAR (logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution) VA and median foveal thickness were 1 (Snellen 20/200, range 20/40-20/800) and 559 microm (range 333-689 microm), respectively. After treatment, median vision improved to LogMAR 0.544 (Snellen 20/70, range 20/40-20/1000) (P = 0.13). Vision improved or remained stable in six of seven eyes. Median foveal thickness at final follow-up was 436 microm (range 259-623 microm) (P = 0.15). Foveal thickness decreased or remained stable in all eyes. The addition of IVTA to PRP in the treatment of eyes with high-risk PDR and CSMO may prevent PRP-induced foveal thickening and loss of vision."}
{"id": "17589809", "title": "A randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial of intravitreal triamcinolone for refractory diabetic macular edema.", "content": "A randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial of intravitreal triamcinolone for refractory diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the effect of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVT) on refractory diabetic macular edema (DME). In a prospective, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial, 88 eyes of 61 patients with clinically significant macular edema that would have responded unfavourably to laser photocoagulation were randomly assigned to two groups. The treatment group (45 eyes) received 4 mg IVT and the control group (43 eyes) received a placebo subconjunctival injection. The primary outcome was central macular thickness (CMT) measured by optical coherence tomography. Complete examination was repeated at 2 and 4 months post-intervention. The mean (SD) CMT before the intervention and at the 2- and 4-month follow-ups was 393 (151), 293 (109) and 362 (119) microm in the treatment group and 393 (166), 404 (134) and 405 (160) microm in the placebo group, respectively. The second month difference was significant (P=0.01). The difference between visual acuity changes (0.15 logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution, logMAR) was significant at 2 months (P=0.02) but reduced to 0.11 logMAR (P=0.08) after 4 months. Reduction for hard exudates and petaloid pattern were significantly greater in cases at 4 months. The therapeutic effect of IVT on DME is greatest at 2 months and decreases up to the fourth month post-intervention. However, in terms of cystoid macular edema and hard exudates, the effect is maintained up to 4 months."}
{"id": "17417620", "title": "Correlation between microaneurysm closure rate and reduction in macular thickness following laser photocoagulation of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Correlation between microaneurysm closure rate and reduction in macular thickness following laser photocoagulation of diabetic macular edema. To correlate the microaneurysmal closure rate measured on fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA) with reduction in macular thickness observed on optical coherence tomography (OCT) following laser photocoagulation of diabetic macular edema. A prospective observational case series. Fifty patients (50 eyes) of type II diabetes mellitus with clinically significant macular oedema (CSME) underwent focal/grid laser photocoagulation. OCT and FFA were performed at baseline and at 2 and 12 weeks following laser photocoagulation to measure the change in macular thickness and the number of leaking microaneurysms respectively. Statistical analysis was performed using paired-ttest and Pearson's correlation test. A significant reduction in macular thickness was seen at both 2 (P=0.02) and 12 weeks (P<0.0001), most remarkably in the central 1 mm quadrant. However, microaneurysm closure was only 0.67% at 2 weeks, which increased to 89.6% by 12 weeks. The change in retinal thickness correlated significantly with the decrease in the number of leaking microaneurysms at 12 weeks (r=0.597, P<0.0001), but not at 2 weeks (r=-0.228, P=0.112). On OCT, the final reduction in retinal thickness achieved at 12 weeks from baseline correlated significantly with the initial decrease in retinal thickness at 2 weeks (r=0.66, P<0.0001). However, on FFA, the final closure rate of leaking microaneurysms at 12 weeks from baseline did not correlate with the initial closure rate at 2 weeks (r=-0.039, P=0.413). Following laser photocoagulation for CSME, an OCT at 2 weeks is more informative and better correlates with the final outcome than an FFA at 2 weeks."}
{"id": "18209914", "title": "Consistency of ocular coherence tomography fast macular thickness mapping in diabetic diffuse macular edema.", "content": "Consistency of ocular coherence tomography fast macular thickness mapping in diabetic diffuse macular edema. To investigate optical coherence tomography consistency on foveal thickness, foveal volume, and macular volume measurements in patients with and without diffuse diabetic macular edema. Optical coherence tomography represents an objective technique that provides cross-sectional tomographs of retinal structure in vivo. However, it is expected that poor fixation ability, as seen in diabetic macular edema, could alter its results. Several authors have discussed the reproducibility of optical coherence tomography, but only a few have addressed the topic with respect to diabetic maculopathy. The study recruited diabetic patients without clinically evident retinopathy (control group) and with diffuse macular edema (case group). Only one eye of each patient was evaluated. Five consecutive fast macular scans were taken using Ocular Coherence Tomography 3; the 6 mm macular map was chosen. The consistency in measurements of foveal thickness, foveal volume, and total macular volume for both groups was evaluated using the Pearson's coefficient of variation. The T-test for independent samples was used in order to compare measurements of both groups. Each group consisted of 20 patients. All measurements had a coefficient of variation less than 10%. The most consistent parameter for both groups was the total macular volume. Consistency in measurement is a mainstay of any test. A test is unreliable if its measurements can not be correctly repeated. We found a good index of consistency, even considering patients with an unstable gaze. Optical coherence tomography is a consistent method for diabetic subjects with diffuse macular edema."}
{"id": "18157302", "title": "[Macular thickness analysis by optic coherence tomography in refractory diabetic macular edema treated with intravitreous triamcinolone].", "content": "[Macular thickness analysis by optic coherence tomography in refractory diabetic macular edema treated with intravitreous triamcinolone]. To assess the effect of intravitreal injections of triamcinolone on macular thickness (Stratus-OCT), intra-ocular pressure and visual acuity, in the treatment of diabetic macular edema non-responsive to previous laser photocoagulation, over a 6-month period. The study included 21 subjects (22 eyes) who underwent complete ophthalmologic examination, measurements of visual acuity and intraocular pressure, and OCT, previously treated with at least 2 laser applications. The study participants were treated with 4 mg/0.1 ml intravitreal triamcinolone. Follow-up visits were scheduled for the 1st day after treatment, and after 1, 3 and 6 months. Visual and anatomical results, as well as possible complications associated with the intravitreal injection procedure were studied. The study showed a significant reduction in mean macular thickness, assessed by OCT at 1, 3 and 6 months post-treatment (p=0.001), combined with an improvement of the mean visual acuity (p<0.001). Central macular thickness mean+/-SD value on the first visit was 399 (+/-121 microm); it was reduced by 39.9% (239+/-53 microm) at the first month (p<0.001), 35.5% (255+/-93 microm) at the third month (p<0.001), and 18.1% (326+/-135 microm) at the sixth month (p=0.001). The improvement in mean visual acuity was of 18 and 16 letters on the ETDRS table, on the 3rd and 6th month, respectively. Reported complications were an increase in intraocular pressure in seven eyes (33.3% of the cases). A reduction in mean retinal thickness was observed throughout the entire follow-up period, with significant increase in macular thickness between the 3rd and 6th month. The mean visual acuity showed statistically significant improvement at the end of the follow-up period, but no change was noticed between the 3rd and 6th month."}
{"id": "18097816", "title": "Effects of endogenous cyclotronic ionic resonance (ICR) on macular diabetic edema: preliminary results.", "content": "Effects of endogenous cyclotronic ionic resonance (ICR) on macular diabetic edema: preliminary results. The intent in this research was to verify the effects of the application of low frequency magnetic fields to cases of macular diabetic edema. We treated six patients afflicted by non-proliferating diabetic retinopathy with macular oedema. Quantitative clinical appraisals of the retinal thickness were obtained for the Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT I). None of the cases affected by non-cystoid macular oedema (non-CMO), or with a relevant ischemic component, evidenced by retinal fluorangiography, had further worsening in their clinical course during the treatment. Only one of the patients, who underwent a long treatment period with ICR demonstrated a significant reduction of the macular edema, with no need of other invasive therapeutic procedures (intravitreous injection of triamcinolone and/or laser therapy)."}
{"id": "18054137", "title": "Exam room, chair side evaluation of retinal edema: improving accuracy and precision for identification of subclinical diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Exam room, chair side evaluation of retinal edema: improving accuracy and precision for identification of subclinical diabetic macular edema. Early detection of diabetic macular edema (DME) is important for improving patient outcomes. Currently, the gold standards are slit lamp stereo biomicroscopy examination and fluorescein angiography (FA). Detecting DME with a slit lamp is subjective and can be difficult in the early stages of the disease. FA is invasive and involves discomfort and risk to the patient. A new diagnostic test, the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT) Retina Module (Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany), is noninvasive, objective, and sensitive to early changes in the retina. It is purported to locate and quantify retinal edema such as DME, independent of retina thickening. Presented are a series of case reports comparing retinal photography, FA, HRT, and ocular coherence tomography (Stratus OCT; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Jena, Germany) results on patients with DME. The purpose is to determine the clinical utility of the HRT for discerning DME compared with clinical stereo biomicroscopy impression and FA. In this representative case series, the author's first stereo biomicroscopy impression, macular photographs, retinal fluorescein angiographs, Stratus OCT images, and HRT Retina Module images from 5 type 2 diabetic patients (3 insulin and 2 non-insulin dependent) with retinopathy are presented. All patients are men, with a mean age of 56.4 (range, 51 to 62). Subjects had diabetes mellitus type 2 for an average of 14.4 years (range, 10 to 22) and were experiencing fluctuations or loss in vision. In all cases, DME was clearly identifiable on FA although sometimes questionable by stereo biomicroscopy. Nonstereo retinal photos and OCT examinations were inconclusive or unremarkable in 4 of 5 cases. The HRT Edema surrogate \"e\" index and map results showed areas of DME that were very similar to those of the FA images. In this case series, the HRT Retina Module provided useful clinical information on DME patients including the quantification and extent of both subclinical and clinically significant DME. Although more rigorous study is warranted, such immediate feedback from a noninvasive, safe, diagnostic tool is invaluable in clinical practice, particularly with the advent of prophylactic nutritional genistein-based multivitamin supplements such as Bausch & Lomb Ocuvite DF (Rochester, New York)."}
{"id": "18053911", "title": "Primary intravitreal bevacizumab for the management of pseudophakic cystoid macular edema: pilot study of the Pan-American Collaborative Retina Study Group.", "content": "Primary intravitreal bevacizumab for the management of pseudophakic cystoid macular edema: pilot study of the Pan-American Collaborative Retina Study Group. To determine the feasibility, safety, and clinical effect of primary intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) in patients with cystoid macular edema (CME) after cataract surgery. Five institutions in Venezuela, Costa Rica, Puerto Rico, Peru, and Brazil. Twenty-eight eyes of 25 patients treated with at least 1 intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg or 2.50 mg of Avastin participated in this interventional retrospective multicenter study at 5 institutions from 5 countries. Baseline and follow-up visits included Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) visual acuity testing, optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging, and ophthalmoscopic examination. The mean follow-up was 32 weeks (range 24 to 52 weeks). Twenty eyes (71.4%) had improved best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) (> or =2 ETDRS lines), and no eye had worse visual acuity (> or =2 ETDRS lines). The BCVA remained stable in 8 eyes (28.6%). The mean baseline BCVA was 20/160 (logMAR = 0.92) and the mean final BCVA, 20/63 (logMAR = 0.50); the difference was statistically significant (P<.0001). The mean central macular thickness at baseline (466.3 microm; range 208 to 784 microm) decreased significantly (264.5 microm; range 176 to 513 microm) by the end of follow-up (P<.0001). Eight eyes (28.6%) required a second injection and 4 (14.3%), a third injection. The mean interval between injections was 13 weeks (range 5 to 26 weeks). No ocular or systemic adverse events were observed. Short-term results suggest that primary intravitreal Avastin is well tolerated in patients with pseudophakic CME. Treated eyes had a significant improvement in BCVA and decrease in macular thickness by OCT."}
{"id": "18050810", "title": "Can optical coherence tomography predict the outcome of laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema?", "content": "Can optical coherence tomography predict the outcome of laser photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema? To assess the outcome of laser photocoagulation in patients with diabetic macular edema. Forty-seven patients (51 eyes) with clinically significant macular edema (CSME) undergoing grid laser photocoagulation were included. Clinical examination and optical coherence tomography (OCT) were performed at baseline and 3 to 4 months after treatment. The central foveal thickness, mean inner macular thickness (average retinal thickness in fovea and inner macular circle), and mean macular thickness were calculated. Based on the greatest OCT thickness at baseline, patients were grouped according to mild (< 300 microm; Group 1), moderate (300 to 399 microm; Group 2), and severe (> or = 400 microm; Group 3) macular edema. Group 2 showed significant reductions in central foveal thickness (23 microm, P = .02), mean inner macular thickness (18 microm, P = .02), and mean macular thickness (9 microm, P = .04) with slight improvement in visual acuity. Groups 1 and 3 did not show any significant change in macular thickness values and there was a statistically insignificant worsening of visual acuity in these groups. Patients with moderate macular thickening of 300 to 400 microm benefit most from laser treatment. OCT may help in choosing the appropriate treatment for CSME based on the degree of macular thickening. Long-term studies are warranted to confirm these findings."}
{"id": "18050131", "title": "Retinal pigment epithelial tears after intravitreal bevacizumab injection for predominantly classic choroidal neovascularization.", "content": "Retinal pigment epithelial tears after intravitreal bevacizumab injection for predominantly classic choroidal neovascularization. To detect retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) tears in predominantly classic choroidal neovascularization (CNV) secondary to age-related macular degeneration (AMD) treated with intravitreal bevacizumab injections. Forty consecutive patients with predominantly classic CNV secondary to AMD were treated with 1.25 mg of intravitreal bevacizumab. Patients were evaluated with visual acuity (VA) measured with Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study charts, optical coherence tomography, and fluorescein angiography. Three patients developed a RPE tear after the first injection. The first patient had been treated with verteporfin therapy and VA remained unchanged. In the other two cases the CNV was naive and VA improved since the foveal center was not involved by the tear and macular edema was reduced. RPE tears can occur following intravitreal bevacizumab injections in patients with predominantly classic CNV although VA is not always affected."}
{"id": "18046223", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab (avastin) injection alone or combined with triamcinolone versus macular photocoagulation as primary treatment of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab (avastin) injection alone or combined with triamcinolone versus macular photocoagulation as primary treatment of diabetic macular edema. To report the efficacy of a single intravitreal bevacizumab injection alone or in combination with intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide versus macular laser photocoagulation (MPC) as primary treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME). In this randomized, three-arm clinical trial, 103 eyes of 97 patients with clinically significant DME and no previous treatment were enrolled. The eyes were randomly assigned to one of three study arms: the intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) group, patients who received 1.25 mg of intravitreal bevacizumab (37 eyes); the IVB/IVT group, patients who received 1.25 mg of intravitreal bevacizumab and 2 mg of intravitreal triamcinolone (33 eyes); and the MPC group, patients who underwent focal or modified grid laser (33 eyes). Primary outcome measure was change in visual acuity. Visual acuity changes +/- SD at 12 weeks were -0.22 +/- 0.23, -0.13 +/- 0.31, and + 0.08 +/- 0.31 logarithm of the minimal angle of resolution in the IVB, IVB/IVT, and MPC groups, respectively. The marginal regression model based on generalized estimating equation analysis demonstrated that the visual acuity changes in the groups were statistically significant at both 6 weeks (P < 0.0001) and 12 weeks (P = 0.024). The significant treatment effect was demonstrated at both 6 weeks and 12 weeks in the IVB group and only at 6 weeks in the IVB/IVT group. Significant central macular thickness (CMT) reduction was observed in eyes in the IVB and IVB/IVT groups only up to 6 weeks; however, CMT changes were not significant in the groups. Up to 12 weeks, intravitreal bevacizumab treatment of patients with DME yielded better visual outcome than laser photocoagulation, although it was not associated with a significant decrease in CMT. No further beneficial effect of intravitreal triamcinolone could be demonstrated. Further clinical trials with longer follow-up are required to evaluate the long-term visual outcomes and complication profiles after primary treatment with such medications."}
{"id": "18040238", "title": "Effect of oral pentoxifylline on cystoid macular edema associated with central retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Effect of oral pentoxifylline on cystoid macular edema associated with central retinal vein occlusion. To determine whether oral pentoxifylline, a xanthine-derived hemorheologic agent, decreases cystoid macular edema (CME) and improves visual acuity in eyes with a perfused central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). Retrospective chart review of consecutive patients on pentoxifylline (400 mg po TID) for CRVO was performed. Inclusion criteria included CME, pentoxifylline use for at least 1 month, and a follow-up period of at least 4 months. Exclusion criteria included nonperfused or indeterminate CRVO, the presence of neovascularization, and previous or concurrent laser therapy or any other treatment for CRVO. Statistical analysis of collected data was performed. Eleven patients were identified. All patients had a perfused CRVO. The mean best-corrected Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity was 60 letters (Snellen equivalent 20/128) before the initiation of oral pentoxifylline. The mean time from onset of CRVO to start of pentoxifylline therapy was 5 months (range, 1-12 months). The mean duration of pentoxifylline use was 5.3 months (range, 2.5-10.2 months). The mean follow-up period was 8 months (range, 2.7-16.5 months). Cystoid macular edema had improved in 64% (7/11) of eyes at last follow-up as measured by biomicroscopy and optical coherence tomography. The visual acuity was not significantly changed at 62 letters (20/128 +2) (Student t-test, P = 0.7) at last follow-up. There were no significant side effects from pentoxifylline. One patient had mild gastrointestinal disturbance. Pentoxifylline has a favorable adverse effect profile, and can reduce CME in eyes with CRVO. Visual acuity does not appear to change significantly. A larger, randomized, multiarmed clinical trial evaluating the effects of pentoxifylline as an adjunctive treatment modality may be of benefit since even a small positive effect in altering the natural history of CME related to CRVO may be of value for these patients."}
{"id": "18001248", "title": "Cystoid and diabetic macular edema treated with nepafenac 0.1%.", "content": "Cystoid and diabetic macular edema treated with nepafenac 0.1%. Cystoid macular edema (CME), a common complication following cataract surgery, is routinely medically treated with topical nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), alone or in combination with steroids. In this paper, we describe 6 patients with CME and 1 patient with diabetic macular edema (DME), all of whom were treated with nepafenac 0.1%, a novel prodrug NSAID. Three (3) patients with acute CME following cataract surgery were treated for 3-4 weeks with nepafenac 0.1%, with or without concomitant steroids. Both retinal thickness and visual acuity improved in all 3 cases. The 3 patients with chronic CME, each of whom had been previously treated with steroids with or without concomitant NSAID therapy, were started on nepafenac 0.1% three times daily. Retinal thickness and visual acuity improved in each case, except for 1 patient with 20/25 pretreatment visual acuity. The mean improvement in visual acuity of all 6 CME patients was 2.5 lines and the mean decrease in retinal thickness was 282.8 microm. The patient with DME also showed improvement in retinal thickness and visual acuity after 6 months of treatment with nepafenac. These clinical data strongly suggest that nepafenac 0.1% is a promising drug for the treatment of posterior segment inflammation, including CME, and warrants further investigation."}
{"id": "17980746", "title": "Bevacizumab and retinal ischemia.", "content": "Bevacizumab and retinal ischemia."}
{"id": "17979601", "title": "Emerging pharmacotherapies for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Emerging pharmacotherapies for diabetic macular edema. Diabetic macular edema (DME) is the most frequent cause of severe vision impairment in patients with non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Even though patients should achieve optimal glycemic control, normalization of blood pressure and serum lipids, as well as improvement of cardiac and renal status, these measures alone will not prevent every patient from developing visual loss caused by DME. The goal of local treatment for DME is vision improvement, usually achieved after reducing leakage on fluorescein angiography (FA) and retinal thickness on optical coherence tomography (OCT). Laser photocoagulation is still the standard treatment for clinically significant DME. However, laser photocoagulation rarely provides major visual improvement, especially in patients with diffuse DME. Thus, a therapeutic intervention that restores visual acuity impaired by DME more often remains a significant unmet medical need. This review aims to present the most important emerging drug technologies for therapy of DME at present, including corticosteroids, vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors, protein kinase C inhibitors, small interfering RNA, hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors and non-hormonal anti-inflammatory agents. Recent progress in this field suggests that local management of DME may change rapidly in the near future. Novel emerging drugs should enable better anatomical and functional outcomes for therapy of this sight-threatening disease."}
{"id": "17979036", "title": "[The Granada Diabetic Retinopathy Study. Direct screening of 8,244 patients. I].", "content": "[The Granada Diabetic Retinopathy Study. Direct screening of 8,244 patients. I]. To evaluate the results of regular screening for diabetic retinopathy in the geographic area assigned to the San Cecilio University Hospital of Granada. A multicenter prospective cohort study was carried out over a 2-year follow-up period. Retinal examinations were performed in 8244 diabetics in 14 health centres. 11,924 retinal examinations using an indirect ophthalmoscope, following pupil dilatation, were carried out. The classification of the lesions was as recommended by the simplified international scale of diabetic retinopathy and macular edema. The intervals between fundus examinations followed those recommended by the ETDRS. The crude prevalence of diabetes in the health area concerned was 2.77%. The average screening compliance of the program was 84.1%, and in only 0.3% of the patients was the fundus ophthalmoscopy ungradable. 91.3% of the known diabetic population attended for at least one fundus examination, with only 3.4% of the patients being referred for hospital treatment. The annual cost of the program was set at 53,173 Euros, with the average cost of each examination (6000 per year) being 8.87 Euros. The Diabetic Retinopathy Screening Program (through dilated pupils) carried out with indirect ophthalmoscopy is cost-effective. It provides coverage to the whole known diabetic population with a high level of compliance. The percentage of patients whose fundus can be considered ungradable is minimal."}
{"id": "17962446", "title": "Optical coherence tomography versus stereoscopic fundus photography or biomicroscopy for diagnosing diabetic macular edema: a systematic review.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography versus stereoscopic fundus photography or biomicroscopy for diagnosing diabetic macular edema: a systematic review. To review systematically the sensitivity and specificity of optical coherence tomography (OCT) for diagnosing macular edema attributable to diabetic retinopathy compared with well-established gold standard tests such as fundus stereophotography or contact and noncontact fundus biomicroscopy. Medline and Embase were searched electronically and six major ophthalmic journals from 1998 to 2006 were hand searched. Two reviewers independently assessed trial searches, studied quality with the QUADAS (Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies) checklist, and extracted data. The target disease was clinically significant macular edema (CSME) according to Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) criteria. A bivariate model was used to obtain summary estimates of sensitivity and specificity and fit a summary receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. Fifteen studies were considered eligible. These studies were of good quality for most items of the QUADAS checklist, but most studies did not report masking of examiners and did not describe how withdrawals and undetermined results were treated. Seven studies included healthy control subjects, which could have artificially enhanced OCT diagnostic performance. All but one study included both eyes of the patients without taking into account the within-subject correlation in statistical analyses. Sensitivity and specificity data could be extracted from only 6 of 15 studies, because appropriate cross tabulations of index and reference tests were not reported by the others. In five of these studies, central retinal thickness cutoffs between 230 and 300 microm were adopted to define abnormal OCT results and considered the central type of CSME only, whereas in one study a complex algorithm accounting for extrafoveal CSME was used. The design of one study was case-control and was excluded from the meta-analysis. The expected operating point on the summary ROC, a pooled estimate of all studies, corresponded to a sensitivity of 0.79 (95% CI: 0.71-0.86), a specificity of 0.88 (95% CI: 0.80-0.93), a positive likelihood ratio of 6.5 (95% CI: 4.0-10.7), and a negative likelihood ratio of 0.24 (95% CI: 0.17-0.32). These values suggest a good overall performance of OCT for diagnosing CSME. OCT performs well compared with fundus stereophotography or biomicroscopy to diagnose diabetic macular edema. The quality of reporting of such studies should be improved, and authors should present cross tabulations of index and reference test results. Data adjusted for within-subject correlation should also be provided, although this issue represents a challenge for systematic reviewers."}
{"id": "17951903", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema in an Indian population.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema in an Indian population. To report the anatomic and visual acuity response after intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema. Prospective, interventional case series study. This study included 20 eyes of metabolically stable diabetes mellitus with diffuse diabetic macular edema with a mean age of 59 years who were treated with two intravitreal injections of bevacizumab 1.25 mg in 0.05 ml six weeks apart. Main outcome measures were 1) early treatment diabetic retinopathy study visual acuity, 2) central macular thickness by optical coherence tomography imaging. Each was evaluated at baseline and follow-up visits. All the eyes had received some form of laser photocoagulation before (not less than six months ago), but all of these patients had persistent diffuse macular edema with no improvement in visual acuity. All the patients received two injections of bevacizumab at an interval of six weeks per eye. No adverse events were observed, including endophthalmitis, inflammation and increased intraocular pressure or thromboembolic events in any patient. The mean baseline acuity was 20/494 (log Mar=1.338+/-0.455) and the mean acuity at three months following the second intravitreal injection was 20/295 (log Mar=1.094+/-0.254), a difference that was highly significant ( P =0.008). The mean central macular thickness at baseline was 492 microm which decreased to 369 microm ( P =0.001) at the end of six months. Initial treatment results of patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema not responding to previous photocoagulation did not reveal any short-term safety concerns. Intravitreal bevacizumab resulted in a significant decrease in macular thickness and improvement in visual acuity at three months but the effect was somewhat blunted, though still statistically significant at the end of six months."}
{"id": "17937924", "title": "Anatomy and function of the macula after surgery for retinal detachment complicated by proliferative vitreoretinopathy.", "content": "Anatomy and function of the macula after surgery for retinal detachment complicated by proliferative vitreoretinopathy. To investigate the macular changes following silicone oil removal after surgery for complicated retinal detachment (RD) with proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR). Retrospective interventional case series. setting: Vienna, Austria. study population: Thirty-nine patients with attached retina after silicone oil removal following previous vitrectomy and silicone oil tamponade for complicated RD and PVR grade C3 and worse. observation procedures: Examination of macular anatomy with biomicroscopy, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and fluorescein angiography (FA). Macular function was tested by assessing logMAR distance visual acuity (VA) using Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) charts and reading acuity and reading speed using a standardized test (Radner charts). main outcome measures: Macular anatomy, VA, reading acuity, and reading speed. The macula was clinically normal in five patients (12.8%). Retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) irregularities were found in nine patients (23.1%). Eight patients (20.5%) had macular pucker, seven (18.0%) had cystoid macular edema (CME), and 10 (25.6%) had subretinal fibrosis. The mean VA of all patients was logMAR 0.67 +/- 0.68 (range, -0.1 to 3.0). Six eyes did not achieve reading acuity. The distance VA of the remaining 33 eyes was logMAR 0.44 +/- 0.29 and their mean reading acuity was logRAD 0.62 +/- 0.35, with a reading speed ranging from 55 to 240 words per minute. We found macular changes in 87% of the patients, one-third thereof being eligible for further treatment (macular pucker or CME). Thus, the majority of these patients do not seem to be eligible for a further improvement of anatomic or functional outcome."}
{"id": "17936715", "title": "Triple therapy of vitrectomy, intravitreal triamcinolone, and macular laser photocoagulation for intractable diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Triple therapy of vitrectomy, intravitreal triamcinolone, and macular laser photocoagulation for intractable diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the effect of a sequentially combined triple therapy on intractable diabetic macular edema (DME). Prospective, interventional case series. Twenty-four eyes from 24 subjects, diagnosed with intractable DME of nontractional origin, were subjected to vitrectomy. Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection and macular laser photocoagulation were conducted sequentially at one and 14 days after vitrectomy. Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and central macular thickness (CMT) were recorded before surgery and at three, six, and 12 months after triple therapy. The mean (+/- standard deviation [SD]) logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution BCVAs before and three, six, and 12 months after the triple therapy were 0.88 +/- 0.37, 0.55 +/- 0.33, 0.56 +/- 0.27, and 0.48 +/- 0.28, respectively. The mean (+/- SD) CMTs before and three, six, and 12 months after the triple therapy were 514 +/- 187 microm, 253 +/- 138 microm, 219 +/- 95 microm, and 197 +/- 91 microm, respectively. The changes in both BCVA and CMT at three, six, and 12 months from baseline were statistically significant (P < .003). The major adverse events after triple therapy were development of nuclear sclerotic cataracts (eight among 12 phakic eyes) and elevation of intraocular pressure (eight among 24 eyes). The triple therapy may facilitate early recovery of vision and may improve the long-term outcomes in some patients with DME refractory to conventional monotherapy."}
{"id": "17897553", "title": "[Epidemiology of diabetic macular edema in patients with type 2 diabetes in the Beixinjing District of Shanghai].", "content": "[Epidemiology of diabetic macular edema in patients with type 2 diabetes in the Beixinjing District of Shanghai]. To investigate the prevalence of diabetic retinopathy (DR) and diabetic macular edema (DME) in Beixinjing District, and analyze the image characteristics of their Optical coherence tomography (OCT), so as to evaluate the correlation among DME and the grade of DR as well as posterior vitreous detachment (PVD). In a prospective study, OCT was performed in 151 eyes of 100 type 2 diabetes patients with DR and 102 normal eyes as control subjects. 795 cases were examined, and 215 of them were diagnosed to have DR. The average thickness of macular fovea was 195.56 microm in 151 eyes from 100 random sampling. 46 eyes had macular thickening. Three characteristics were found in the images of OCT in the patients with DME: sponge-like retinal swelling in 35 eyes (76.1%), macular cystoid edema in 8 eyes (17.4%), and serous retinal detachment in 3 eyes (6.5%). The statistical analysis showed that there was a positive correlation between the thickness of macular fovea and negative correlation with best-corrected visual acuity (r = 0.2869, P = 0.0004). There was statistic significance between the severity of DR and DME (P = 0.0003). But there was no statistic significance between DME and PVD. The prevalence of DME is 37.1% in this district. Three type images of OCT were demonstrated in DME. The macular thickness is correlated with the severity of DR regardless of PVD."}
{"id": "17891015", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab treatment for radiation macular edema after plaque radiotherapy for choroidal melanoma.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab treatment for radiation macular edema after plaque radiotherapy for choroidal melanoma. To evaluate the effect of intravitreal bevacizumab treatment on patients with macular edema (ME) due to radiation retinopathy after plaque radiotherapy for choroidal melanoma. In this retrospective case series, 10 consecutive patients with ME due to radiation retinopathy after plaque radiotherapy for choroidal melanoma were treated with a single intravitreal injection of bevacizumab. Postinjection best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and mean foveal thickness measured by ocular coherence tomography were the primary outcome measures. The mean BCVA at the time of the diagnosis of choroidal melanoma was 20/25 (range, 20/20 to 20/40). The mean radiation dose to the foveola was 4,323 cGy (range, 1,908-7,975 cGy). Radiation ME developed at a mean of 26 months (range, 17-44 months) after plaque radiotherapy. Choroidal melanoma regressed in all patients, and there were no neovascular sequelae. At the time of radiation ME diagnosis, the mean BCVA was 20/100 (range, 20/40 to 20/200). After bevacizumab injection, the mean BCVA was 20/86 at 6 weeks and 20/95 at 4 months. Mean foveal thickness measured by ocular coherence tomography was 482 microm before injection, 284 microm 6 weeks after injection, and 449 mum 4 months after injection. Intravitreal bevacizumab injection decreases mean foveal thickness while only modestly improving BCVA on a short-term basis in patients with radiation-induced ME."}
{"id": "17878820", "title": "[A new grading system from color fundus photographs for screening for diabetic retinopathy].", "content": "[A new grading system from color fundus photographs for screening for diabetic retinopathy]. Fundus photographs using a nonmydriatic digital camera are the reference method for diabetic retinopathy screening today. The aim of this study was to validate a simplified diabetic retinopathy classification, adapted for diabetic retinopathy screening, including all diabetic retinopathy severity scales. One hundred and twenty-one diabetic patients had three digital color fundus photographs taken, which were graded by four independent ophthalmologists according to the proposed screening classification, and a reference examination (nine field fundus photographs and optical coherence tomography examination of the macula). The proposed diabetic retinopathy screening classification was easy to use, as it was based on a visual comparison between the three digital color fundus photographs and standard retinal photographs. This classification provided the diagnosis of severe levels of diabetic retinopathy with high sensitivity and accurate specificity (100% and 50%-58%,respectively, for a moderate nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy level or higher on the screening examination) and the diagnosis of macular edema with a high sensitivity and specificity (96%-97% and 89%-91%, respectively). The results of the screening examination using this classification were highly reproducible (weighted k for interobserver agreement: 0.78-0.93). These results suggest that this new simplified classification is accurate. The screening method should not be used above the threshold level of mild nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy. Thus, from the moderate nonproliferative level (inclusive), a complete fundus examination should be undertaken. Severe levels of diabetic retinopathy will be referred to an ophthalmologist without delay for laser treatment."}
{"id": "17869207", "title": "Optical coherence tomography findings in persistent diabetic macular edema: the vitreomacular interface.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography findings in persistent diabetic macular edema: the vitreomacular interface. To assess the optical coherence tomography (OCT) characteristics of eyes with persistent clinically significant diabetic macular edema (PDME) after focal laser treatment, with emphasis on the vitreomacular interface (VMI) characteristics. Prospective, observational case series. Fifty eyes with PDME after at least one focal laser treatment were enrolled prospectively. Slit-lamp biomicroscopy, stereoscopic fundus photography, fluorescein angiography (FA), and OCT were performed for each eye. The main outcome measures included the detection rate of VMI abnormalities (VMIA) by OCT in comparison with biomicroscopy, fundus photography, and FA (traditional techniques); the relationship between VMIA and the number of focal laser sessions per eye and FA leakage pattern. Two of 50 eyes were excluded because of incomplete data. For the remaining 48 eyes, 25 eyes (52.1%) demonstrated definite VMIA, including anomalous vitreal adhesions, epiretinal membrane (ERM), or both, and six eyes (12.5%) had questionable VMIA. OCT in general was 1.94 times more sensitive than traditional techniques combined in detecting VMIA (P = .00003). The number of focal laser sessions and diffuse FA leakage were not associated with an increased prevalence of VMIA (P = .13 and P = .47, respectively). This study demonstrates a high prevalence of VMIA in eyes with PDME after focal laser treatment and underscores the superiority of OCT in detecting these abnormalities. OCT evaluation of eyes with PDME may be helpful in identifying VMIA, which may impact treatment selection and patient subgroup stratification."}
{"id": "17823640", "title": "Regression of radiation-induced macular edema after systemic bevacizumab.", "content": "Regression of radiation-induced macular edema after systemic bevacizumab. A 59-year-old patient with a coexisting primary choroidal melanoma and colorectal cancer was treated with external beam radiation (EBR) of his choroidal melanoma and systemic chemotherapy with leukovorin/5 fluorouracil (FU) for treatment of his metastatic colorectal cancer. Eight months following EBR, he showed evidence of radiation retinopathy with macular edema. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) showed macular edema and subretinal fluid. Subsequently, systemic bevacizumab (5 mg/kg) was added to his leukovorin/5FU chemotherapy. After the addition of bevacizumab, OCT showed complete resolution of the macular edema and subretinal fluid. Bevacizumab may have a role in the treatment of radiation retinopathy, but further investigation is needed before any definitive conclusions can be made."}
{"id": "17804919", "title": "Evaluation of the efficacy of vitrectomy for persistent diabetic macular edema and associated factors predicting outcome.", "content": "Evaluation of the efficacy of vitrectomy for persistent diabetic macular edema and associated factors predicting outcome. To evaluate the efficacy of vitrectomy for persistent diabetic macular edema after laser photocoagulation or intravitreal triamcinolone injections and to determine the demographic and ocular factors that influence functional and anatomical outcomes. We retrospectively evaluated 55 eyes (51 patients) that had persistent diffuse macular edema after laser photocoagulation or intravitreal triamcinolone injections. We compared preoperative and postoperative best corrected visual acuity and macular thickness by Optical Coherence Tomography and investigated factors including patient's age, presence of vitreomacular traction, grade of diabetic retinopathy, and intraoperative internal limiting membrane removal that may influence the surgical results. The mean preoperative BCVA (log MAR) was 0.91+/-0.40 (0.8-1.2). The BCVA improved to 0.72+/-0.39 (0.3-1.2). The mean preoperative macular thickness was 440+/-130 (202-805) micrometer and the mean macular thickness decreased to 306+/-97 (136-580) micrometer postoperatively. The eyes showed statistically significant improvement in BCVA and central macular thickness (p<0.001). Preoperative better BCVA was associated with an improved postoperative visual acuity. (p=0.04). No other covariates were found to be statistically significant factors for prognosis of postoperative BCVA. In eyes with persistent diabetic macular edema after laser or IVTA injections, vitrectomy was effective for decreasing macular thickness and improvement of vision. The visual improvement after vitrectomy was associated with the preoperative better BCVA."}
{"id": "17803438", "title": "Short-term results of intravitreal bevacizumab for macular edema with retinal vein obstruction and diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Short-term results of intravitreal bevacizumab for macular edema with retinal vein obstruction and diabetic macular edema. The aim of this study was to identify the short-term effect, safety, and durability of intravitreally injected bevacizumab in patients with macular edema (ME) caused by retinal vein obstruction (RVO) and diabetic macular edema (DME). We retrospectively evaluated 39 eyes of 36 patients, 14 with ME caused by RVO and 25 with DME, who received intravitreal bevacizumab (1.25 mg) and were followed up for at least 3 months. Monthly assessments examined safety, best corrected visual acuity with an ETDRS chart (logMAR), and central retinal thickness (CRT) using optical coherence tomography. No significant ocular or systemic side-effects were observed. The follow-up period was 5.4 +/- 1.1 months (mean +/- standard deviation). During follow-up, the mean number of injections was 1.4 +/- 0.5. The baseline mean logMAR was 0.91 +/- 0.51, and the mean CRT was 552.6 +/- 186.7 microm. At 1, 2, and 3 months, the mean logMAR was 0.67 +/- 0.46 (paired t test, P < 0.001), 0.66 +/- 0.46 (P < 0.001), and 0.69 +/- 0.45 (P < 0.001), respectively, and the mean CRT was 323.1 +/- 151.9 mum (P < 0.001), 324.6 +/- 136.9 mum (P < 0.001), and 382.5 +/- 130.4 microm (P < 0.001), respectively. Fourteen (14) of 34 eyes with more than 3 months of follow-up required a second injection at a mean 3.4 +/- 1.0 months after the initial injection. For both ME caused RVO and DME patients, a bevacizumab administration improved logMAR and CRT at each time point through to 6 months, except for logMAR in DME at 1 week (P = 0.081), 5 months (P = 0.130) and 6 months (P = 0.759). An intravitreal bevacizumab injection for ME caused by RVO and DME was safe and effective for improving visual acuity and reducing CRT."}
{"id": "17802975", "title": "Comparative evaluation of ophthalmoscopy and angiography for the assessment of retinopathy in type 2 diabetes mellitus.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of ophthalmoscopy and angiography for the assessment of retinopathy in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is emerging as a common cause of visual loss. This study was aimed at comparing the relative utility of fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA) with ophthalmoscopy (OPT) in its diagnosis with a cross-sectional cohort. A total of 100 patients of type 2 diabetes mellitus was divided into 3 groups depending on the duration from initial diagnosis and matched by important risk factors. Group A was < 5 years duration and had 31 patients; group B ranged between 5 and 15 years and had 40 patients; and group C were > 15 years with 29 patients. Parameters compared were: Normal retina (NR), background diabetic retinopathy (BDR), preproliferative diabetic retinopathy (PPR), proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR); and clinically significant maculopathy (MAC). Dye leakage (DL) and micro-aneurysms (MA) were assessed separately as they are recognised early markers of DR. Result analysis revealed that FFA is well correlated with OPT (0.99) for all groups except group A, where DL (35.5%) played a significant role in altering the correlation (0.85 versus 0.98--OPT versus FFA); 8% of total patients revealed a worse grade with FFA compared to OPT, so appropriate grading of retinopathy is better with FFA at any duration. Less severe varieties of DR predominate in all the groups (BDR-77.4%, 80%, 24.1% respectively), more severe varieties dominate in group C (17.2% and 58.6% of PPR and PDR respectively). MAC is present significantly in group C. FFA is strongly advised, at least in the high-risk groups, at initial diagnosis for detection of DL and also appropriate grading. OPT is a simple and adequate option beyond 5 years of duration. OPT is as good as FFA for the diagnosis of MAC."}
{"id": "17725277", "title": "[Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injections in treatment of cystoid macular edema due to diabetic maculopathy].", "content": "[Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injections in treatment of cystoid macular edema due to diabetic maculopathy]. To appoint the most adequate follow-up parameter of intravitreal TA injections in CME treatment due to diabetic maculopathy and to find the most reliable treatment scheme. 4 mg (in 0.1 ml) of crystalline TA were injected into the vitreous of 17 eyes. There was a statistically significant improvement of BCVA for distance and near vision. There was statistically significant difference in retinal thickness outcomes measured at baseline and at the end of thefollow-up by both OCT and RTA No correlation of BCVA changes and retinal thickness changes measured in OCT and RTA was found. Intravitreal TA administration seems to be an effective method of treatment in diabetic CME. OCT is the most adequate method of follow-up of intravitreal TA injections in treatment of CME due to diabetic maculopathy. RTA and FA changes analysis are alternative monitoring methods. Dosage of 4mg TA in 0.1 ml seems to be sufficient. In cases of CME recurrence subsequent intravitreal injection in the first 6 month after initial injection seems to unnecessary."}
{"id": "17724176", "title": "Progression of diabetic macular edema: correlation with blood retinal barrier permeability, retinal thickness, and retinal vessel diameter.", "content": "Progression of diabetic macular edema: correlation with blood retinal barrier permeability, retinal thickness, and retinal vessel diameter. To study the progression of diabetic macular edema (DME) in relation to baseline retinal thickness, retinal vascular leakage, and retinal trunk vessel diameters. In this single-center study, 45 patients were enrolled with 62 eligible eyes defined as having DME of a grade less than clinically significant macular edema (CSME). From the start, the patients were included in a multicenter study exploring the effect of ruboxistaurin versus placebo for 3.4 years. Subsequently, the patients were followed up for a mean of 5.7 years by optical coherence tomography, fundus photography, and vitreous fluorometry. Baseline values in eyes that progressed to photocoagulation treatment were compared with values from eyes that did not reach this endpoint. In the 22 eyes of 18 patients in which CSME was diagnosed and treated, mean retinal vascular leakage at baseline was 5.6 (95% CI 4.2-7.6) nm/s, whereas eyes that did not progress to photocoagulation had a significantly lower mean leakage at baseline of 3.4 (95% CI 2.7-4.3) nm/s. No significant difference was found for measures of baseline retinal thickness or summarized retinal trunk vessel diameters. Eyes that progressed to photocoagulation treatment (mean delay to treatment, 3.6 years) had significantly higher foveal thicknesses than did nonprogressing eyes, from 18 months after study initiation. Progression to photocoagulation treatment for CSME was associated with higher retinal vascular leakage at baseline, whereas baseline retinal vessel diameters and retinal thickness were comparable in progressing and nonprogressing eyes. Baseline leakage was the strongest predictor of progression from non-CSME to photocoagulation for CSME."}
{"id": "17720079", "title": "Safety and efficacy of intraoperative intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide injection after phacoemulsification in cases of uveitic cataract.", "content": "Safety and efficacy of intraoperative intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide injection after phacoemulsification in cases of uveitic cataract. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of a single intraoperative intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide after phacoemulsification in patients with chronic idiopathic anterior uveitis or intermediate uveitis. Dr. R.P. Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India. This prospective randomized controlled study included 40 eyes (40 patients) with chronic idiopathic anterior uveitis or intermediate uveitis that had phacoemulsification with intraocular lens implantation. Twenty eyes received an intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide (4 mg/0.1 mL) intraoperatively (triamcinolone acetonide group), and 20 received oral steroids (steroid group) postoperatively. Outcome measures were Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), anterior chamber reaction, intraocular pressure (IOP) by applanation tonometry, and central macular thickness by optical coherence tomography. The mean BCVA (decimal) improved from a baseline of 0.13 +/- 0.14 to 0.64 +/- 0.32 in the triamcinolone acetonide group and from 0.05 +/- 0.06 to 0.61 +/- 0.36 in the steroid group (P = .74). There were no statistically significant differences between the 2 groups in postoperative anterior chamber reaction, IOP, or central macular thickness. Four patients in the triamcinolone acetonide group and 5 in the steroid group had recurrence of uveitis; 5 patients in the triamcinolone acetonide group had ocular hypertension. One patient in the triamcinolone acetonide group and 3 in the steroid group had cystoid macular edema postoperatively. A single intraoperative intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide seemed to be a safe and efficacious route of steroid delivery during phacoemulsification in patients with chronic idiopathic anterior uveitis or intermediate uveitis and is recommended as a substitute for postoperative oral steroid administration."}
{"id": "17720068", "title": "Incidence of visually significant pseudophakic macular edema after uneventful phacoemulsification in patients treated with nepafenac.", "content": "Incidence of visually significant pseudophakic macular edema after uneventful phacoemulsification in patients treated with nepafenac. To compare the incidence of visually significant pseudophakic macular edema after uneventful phacoemulsification in patients treated postoperatively with topical prednisolone and those treated with topical prednisolone and nepafenac 0.1% suspension (Nevanac). Edward S. Harkness Eye Institute of Columbia University, New York, New York, USA. This retrospective chart review was of consecutive patients who had phacoemulsification at a single institute and were given topical prednisolone alone or topical prednisolone and nepafenac to prevent cystoid macular edema. Data collection included preexisting ocular and systemic diseases, concurrent use of ocular and systemic medications, surgical technique, intraoperative and postoperative complications, follow-up visual and ocular assessments, and postoperative optical coherence tomography (OCT) assessment for macular edema. Postoperatively, 240 patients were treated with prednisolone and 210 patients, with prednisolone-nepafenac. Preoperatively, the 2 groups were demographically and clinically comparable in sex distribution (P = .8400), history of diabetes (P = .7267), hypertension or cardiac disease (P = .8690), and concurrent use of oral nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (P = .7303). Iris manipulation was done in 16 patients in the prednisolone-alone group and 10 patients in the prednisolone-nepafenac group (P = .3876). Capsule staining was done in 5 patients and 4 patients, respectively. All patients were followed for at least 1 month postoperatively. Visually significant pseudophakic macular edema was documented by OCT in 5 patients treated with prednisolone alone and in no patients treated with prednisolone and nepafenac (P = .0354). No significant intraoperative or postoperative complications were reported. Patients treated with topical prednisolone alone had a significantly higher incidence of visually significant pseudophakic macular edema after uneventful cataract surgery than those treated with topical prednisolone and nepafenac."}
{"id": "17697178", "title": "Clinical applications and new developments of optical coherence tomography: an evidence-based review.", "content": "Clinical applications and new developments of optical coherence tomography: an evidence-based review. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a new imaging modality that has increasingly become an indispensable tool in clinical practice for the diagnosis and management of ocular diseases involving the macula, optic nerve and anterior segment. The instrument is an advanced imaging technique that provides unprecedented high resolution and cross-sectional tomographic images of the ocular microstructure in situ, and in real time. Since its introduction about four years ago, a multitude of advantages has made OCT an essential instrument in ophthalmic imaging. The technique has fast image acquisition speed and non-contact, non-invasive applicability, allowing a non-excisional 'optical biopsy' to be performed. The purpose of this paper is to provide an evidence-based review of the increasing role of OCT in the diagnosis and management of ocular disorders, particularly in age-related macular degeneration, diabetic macular oedema, macular hole, epiretinal membrane and glaucoma. Being one of the first users of OCT in Australia, our clinical experiences will be highlighted and clinical examples of various conditions will be presented to provide an overview of the immense implications of OCT in practice. The latest developments of the OCT revolution, in relation to combining OCT with fundus photography and scanning laser ophthalmoscopy, will also be described. New developments of three-dimensional visualisation of tissue morphology with future models of ultra-high speed, ultra-high resolution OCT may further enhance the early diagnosis, monitoring of disease progression and assessment of treatment efficacy, facilitated by this powerful technology."}
{"id": "17682607", "title": "[Macular edema after cataract surgery in diabetic patients without retinopathy].", "content": "[Macular edema after cataract surgery in diabetic patients without retinopathy]. To study the effect of phacoemulsification on the development of macular edema and diabetic retinopathy in diabetic patients without preoperative retinopathy. This study comprised 86 patients; 26 diabetics, who had no clinically detectable diabetic retinopathy preoperatively, formed a study group and 60 non-diabetics were included into the control group. Diabetes mellitus duration, preoperative hemoglobin A1c level, and diabetes treatment method were recorded in diabetics. Monocular cataract surgery was performed in all patients. The patients were clinically assessed with OCT examination preoperatively, and postoperatively on day 1, in week 1, and in months 1, 2, 3 and 6 respectively. Foveal, inner macular, outer macular thickness, and macular volume were analyzed. The increase of the retinal thickness after the cataract surgery reached maximum in both groups in months 1 and 2. Since month 3 on, there was a progressive decrease in abnormal retinal thickness. There was a significant major increase in retinal thickness in diabetics in all examined areas in month 2 (p < 0.05 for fovea and inner macula; p = 0.001 for outer macula and p = 0.005 for macular volume changes). Trend toward major increase in retinal thickness in diabetics was still evident even three months after the surgery. In no case did a diabetic eye develop clinically detectable diabetic retinopathy during the follow-up period. The correlation between hemoglobin A1c level and retinal thickness changes in diabetics was not significant. There was also no significant difference in final visual acuity between diabetics and non-diabetics. We can expect similar induced retinal thickness changes in diabetics without retinopathy as in non-diabetics after uneventful cataract surgery, though there was a trend toward major increase in retinal thickness in diabetics."}
{"id": "17678704", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone."}
{"id": "17660989", "title": "Long-term follow-up results of pars plana vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Long-term follow-up results of pars plana vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. To analyze the long-term effects of pars plana vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. Sixty-nine patients (73 eyes) with diabetic macular edema were examined retrospectively after pars plana vitrectomy. The mean follow-up time was 24.6 +/- 7.3 months. The postoperative best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) at 12 months was significantly better than the preoperative BCVA, and the improvement was maintained for at least 24 months. The mean central retinal thickness (RT) at 3 months after surgery was significantly thinner than the preoperative central RT, and was maintained for at least 24 months in the cases followed for this period. The postoperative BCVA was significantly worse than the preoperative BCVA at 2 years after surgery in eyes with a preoperative BCVA of < or =0.05. In addition, there was lower probability that the postoperative BCVA would be > or =0.5 in eyes with a preoperative BCVA of <0.3. The results indicate that the improvement in the BCVA is attained by 12 months postvitrectomy, and is maintained for at least 24 months. The reduction in RT can be maintained for up to 24 months. The results also indicate that vitrectomy should be performed when the preoperative BCVA is >0.05 at worst."}
{"id": "17660988", "title": "Recurrence of diabetic macular edema after intravitreous injection of triamcinolone following vitrectomy.", "content": "Recurrence of diabetic macular edema after intravitreous injection of triamcinolone following vitrectomy. To evaluate the effects of intravitreous triamcinolone acetonide (TA) after pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) for diabetic macular edema (DME). We studied a prospective interventional case series. TA was injected intravitreously after PPV in 28 eyes (PPV+TA group). Eyes with DME that met the same criteria and had been treated with PPV alone (29 eyes) were used as controls. The best-corrected visual acuity (VA) and foveal thickness determined by optical coherence tomography were followed up for over 12 months in both groups. Chronological changes of VA and foveal thickness between the groups were evaluated. In the PPV+TA group, VA had improved at 1 month, but worsened after 3 months. Improvement of foveal thickness was found until 3 months, but not after 6 months. In controls, both VA and foveal thickness continued to improve. The VA of the PPV+TA group was significantly better than that of the controls at 1 and 3 months (P = 0.007 and 0.015, respectively). The foveal thickness of the PPV+TA group was significantly less than that of controls at 1 month (P = 0.0004). These differences became insignificant thereafter, and foveal thickness became significantly worse in the PPV+TA group than in the controls at 12 months (P = 0.0002). Although adjunctive use of TA after PPV for DME improved VA and foveal thickness, the effect was transient and foveal thickness increased significantly compared with the PPV alone group at 12 months postoperatively."}
{"id": "17653725", "title": "[Chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine: variability of retinotoxic cumulative doses].", "content": "[Chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine: variability of retinotoxic cumulative doses]. The critical dose of chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine leading to a maculopathy or generalised retinopathy remains undetermined. In the literature, 100 g is considered the dose at which regular vision checks should be performed. Generally, chloroquine is said to be more toxic than hydroxychloroquine. A young patient presenting with toxic maculopathy after 57 g of hydroxychloroquine and a daily dosage of 2 mg/kg body weight prompted us to retrospectively look at our patients examined in this respect over about 1 year. The data of patients who were examined because of chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine intake or a respective maculopathy/retinopathy were retrospectively analysed. The time period was January 2005 until March 2006. Retinal damage was defined by fundus changes and alteration of the multifocal electroretinogram (ERG). Twenty-one patients--18 women and three men--were examined. The mean age was 51 years (range 6-71). Five of the nine chloroquine-treated patients developed a maculopathy, and one of them developed an additional generalised retinopathy. Of the patients treated by hydroxychloroquine, three of 12 suffered from a maculopathy and one from an additional generalised retinopathy. The cumulative doses leading to retinal damage ranged from 170 g to 1650 g for chloroquine and from 57 g to 1190 g for hydroxychloroquine. The highest cumulative doses without leading to signs of retinopathy were 790 g for chloroquine and 1200 g for hydroxychloroquine. There is a high variability of cumulative doses of chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine that lead to a toxic retinopathy. Therefore, early and regular ophthalmologic examinations are recommended. Electrophysiological testing should be performed once a year, corresponding to about 60 g of base with one tablet a day. For electrophysiology, the multifocal ERG has turned out to be the most important test in this regard. However, visual acuity and funduscopy should be performed more frequently."}
{"id": "17621188", "title": "Injection of triamcinolone acetonide into the posterior sub-tenon capsule for treatment of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Injection of triamcinolone acetonide into the posterior sub-tenon capsule for treatment of diabetic macular edema. To compare eyes that received treatment with untreated fellow eyes to assess the effectiveness of injection of 20 mg of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) into the posterior sub-Tenon capsule for treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME). Nine adult patients (mean age, 60.4 years) with DME in both eyes were followed up for 3 months after unilateral treatment. We compared central macular thickness before and after treatment with those of the untreated fellow eye. In 9 eyes injected with 20 mg of TA, the mean central macular thickness +/- SD was 624.8 +/- 173.7 microm before treatment. In the fellow eyes, it was 452.8 +/- 235.2 microm. There was no significant difference between the two groups (P=0.10, unpaired t-test). One month after injection, it was 434.0 +/- 120.7 microm in injected eyes (P=0.017, paired t-test) and 462.2 +/- 232.7 microm in fellow eyes (P=0.70, paired t-test), and after 3 months, the respective values were 423.1 +/- 186.3 microm (P=0.052, paired t-test) and 478.3 +/- 269.1 microm (P=0.65, paired t-test). Injection of 20 mg of TA into the posterior sub-Tenon capsule effectively reduces macular thickening due to DME, at least in the short term."}
{"id": "17601434", "title": "Peripheral retinopathy and maculopathy in high-dose tamoxifen therapy.", "content": "Peripheral retinopathy and maculopathy in high-dose tamoxifen therapy. To describe the clinical, angiographic, and optical coherence tomography (OCT) features of high-dose tamoxifen retinopathy in three male patients. Observational case series. A review of history, clinical examination, and findings on fluorescein angiography (FA) and optical coherence tomography (OCT) was conducted. Three male patients receiving high-dose tamoxifen therapy sought treatment for vision loss and a crystalline maculopathy. Crystalline deposits were noted in the peripheral retina of two patients. All the patients showed macular leakage by FA, but cystoid macular edema (CME) on OCT was detected in two patients. Inner retinal hyperreflective deposits were identified by OCT in all the patients. High-dose tamoxifen therapy may result in peripheral crystalline retinopathy in addition to perifoveal opacities. Angiographic evidence of macular edema may not unanimously correlate with presence of CME on OCT in these cases."}
{"id": "17601433", "title": "Bevacizumab (Avastin) for diabetic macular edema in previously vitrectomized eyes.", "content": "Bevacizumab (Avastin) for diabetic macular edema in previously vitrectomized eyes. To report the visual acuity (VA) and foveal thickness (FT) changes after intravitreal bevacizumab for diabetic macular edema (DME) in previously vitrectomized eyes. Retrospective, noncomparative, interventional case series. Medical records of 11 eyes of 10 patients who underwent intravitreal bevacizumab injection for persistent DME were reviewed. This retrospective study included eyes that had persistent DME despite prior pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal at our institution with optical coherence tomography (OCT) assessment of DME. All eyes received three intravitreal injections of bevacizumab 1.25 mg/0.05 ml monthly. Mean FT was 408 +/- 77 microm at baseline, 453 +/- 97 microm at three months, and 454 +/- 101 microm at six months (P = .172). Mean Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) letter scores were 59 +/- 15 (20/80) at baseline, 59 +/- 16 (20/80) at three months, 57 +/- 15 (20/80) at six months (P = .398). No change in VA and FT was observed in the short-term after intravitreal bevacizumab for DME in previously vitrectomized eyes."}
{"id": "17593013", "title": "Diclofenac prevents an early event of macular thickening after cataract surgery in patients with diabetes.", "content": "Diclofenac prevents an early event of macular thickening after cataract surgery in patients with diabetes. This study compares the effect of topical diclofenac with that of betamethasone against postoperative cystoid macular edema (CME) following cataract surgery in patients with non- and mild nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy. Forty-six (46) consecutive patients with mild nonproliferative- or nondiabetic retinopathy who had bilateral and symmetrical cataracts underwent uncomplicated cataract surgery in both eyes (92 eyes in total). Postoperatively, topical diclofenac was applied 4 times daily for 1 eye, and topical betamethasone 4 times daily for the other eye in each patient. Best corrected logMAR visual acuity (BCVA), averaged foveal thickness (FT) as measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT), and intraocular pressure (IOP) were monitored preoperatively, and also postoperatively at 1 day and 1, 4, and 8 weeks. VA in both the diclofenac- and betamethasone-treated eyes significantly improved following the cataract surgery; however, no statistical difference of VA was noted between the diclofenac- and betamethasone-treated eyes throughout the observational period (before and after the surgery until 8 weeks postoperatively). FT in both eyes increased after the cataract surgery. FT in the diclofenac-treated eyes did not increase 1 week after surgery, but gradually increased at week 4 and week 8. In contrast, the FT in the betamethasone-treated eyes increased during 1-8 weeks postoperatively. IOP in the diclofenac-treated eyes decreased with time, but IOP in the betamethasone-treated eyes showed no change throughout the observational period. Postoperative macular thickening following cataract surgery in patients with non- or mild nonproliferative-diabetic retinopathy cannot be fully suppressed by either topical diclofenac or betamethasone. Nonetheless, diclofenac protected against an early event of postoperative CME and also a decrease of IOP."}
{"id": "17592240", "title": "Diabetic macular edema before and after intravitreal triamcinolone injection.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema before and after intravitreal triamcinolone injection. To compare intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVT) versus natural course in refractory diabetic macular edema. In a prospective interventional case series, twenty five eyes with refractory DME which had been allocated to the sham group of a previous clinical trial underwent new examination and optical coherence tomography about 9 months after their first enrollment. Twenty eyes that met the inclusion criteria, visual acuity (VA) < 20/50 and central macular thickness (CMT) > 200 microm, were treated by 4 mg IVT. Evaluations were repeated at 2 and 4 months post-injection to imitate the similar examination intervals after sham injection. Corrected visual acuity and macular thickness changes following IVT were compared to the corresponding changes after sham injection (the natural course). Visual acuity changes within and between each period were not statistically significant. Visual acuity decreased 0.08 & 0.09 logMAR by 2 months and 0.06 & 0.04 logMAR by 4 months after sham and IVT injections, respectively. The changes of macular thickness after IVT and sham intervention were not meaningful either. However, the difference between thickness changes by 4 months (52+/-50 microm increase after sham vs. 262+/-115 microm reduction after IVT) was significant (P=0.014). Concerning macular thickness, IVT has beneficial effect on refractory diabetic macular edema as opposed to observation. However, considering visual acuity, it does not induce significant difference in comparison to the natural course of the disease."}
{"id": "17591904", "title": "Effect of posture on the diurnal variation in clinically significant diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Effect of posture on the diurnal variation in clinically significant diabetic macular edema. To investigate the role of posture and other systemic factors in the diurnal variation of clinically significant diabetic macular edema (CSDME). Ten eyes of 10 diabetic subjects with CSDME underwent four OCT foveal thickness measurements with StratusOCT at 9 AM and 12, 3, and 6 PM consecutively on two different days, with the subject in an upright position on one and in a recumbent position on the other. For the \"recumbent-position\" measurements, the patients were admitted the night before and remained in bed during the entire day of testing. Clinical laboratory results at baseline included HbA1c, urinary albumin, and serum creatinine. Refraction and Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) visual acuity were also measured before each OCT measurement was taken. Variations in blood pressure, body temperature, plasma glucose, renin, aldosterone, and cortisol levels were measured and then correlated with macular thickness. Foveal thickening decreased in all cases over the course of the day. The decrease, however, was significantly greater for the upright-position measurements (relative mean +/- SD decrease of 20.6% +/- 6.5% in the upright position and 6.2% +/- 4.6% in the recumbent position). Visual acuity improved by at least 1 ETDRS line in three eyes in the upright position as opposed to only one eye in the recumbent position. There seemed to be no association between any of the systemic factors studied and foveal thickening, with the exception of cortisol. The results support the hypothesis that posture and hydrostatic pressure play a major role in determining time-related shifts in CSDME and suggest that the forces of Starling's law can in part, account for CSDME formation."}
{"id": "17591672", "title": "Early detection of macular changes in patients with diabetes using Rarebit Fovea Test and optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Early detection of macular changes in patients with diabetes using Rarebit Fovea Test and optical coherence tomography. To evaluate central retinal thickness and foveal function using optical coherence tomography (OCT) and the Rarebit Fovea Test (RFT) in patients with diabetes without previously known retinopathy or maculopathy. Forty-two patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) were selected from the screening records at St Erik Eye Hospital. Inclusion criteria were absence of macular or other retinal changes at previous screening examination and best corrected visual acuity >/=1.0. These patients and 42 healthy controls were examined with the recently developed RFT, and retinal thickness was measured using OCT. Lens thickness and light scatter were evaluated by Scheimpflug photography. Significantly more DM subjects (12/42) had a subnormal RFT result compared with the controls (2/42) (p = 0.007). None of the 12 DM subjects had maculopathy, one had mild non proliferative diabetic retinopathy, and five had minimal non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy. The retinal thickness in the pericentral zone was significantly (p<0.05) thinner in DM patients with subnormal RFT compared with the controls. Decreased RT and subnormal RFT results were found in a subgroup of diabetes patients, despite normal screening results. Prospective studies are under way to evaluate the prognostic implications."}
{"id": "17574065", "title": "Optical coherence tomography use in evaluation of the vitreoretinal interface: a review.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography use in evaluation of the vitreoretinal interface: a review. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a valuable tool for assessment of the vitreoretinal interface. This article reviews the normal process of age-related posterior vitreous detachment as viewed by OCT. Abnormalities of the vitreoretinal interface as imaged by OCT are described including vitreomacular traction syndrome, cystoid macular edema/ diabetic macular edema, epiretinal membranes, full thickness macular holes, lamellar holes, pseudoholes, microholes, and schisis from myopia or optic pits/colobomas. This tool has given us new insights into the pathogenesis of these retinal abnormalities."}
{"id": "17562985", "title": "Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor bevacizumab (avastin) for radiation retinopathy.", "content": "Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor bevacizumab (avastin) for radiation retinopathy. To evaluate intravitreal bevacizumab for radiation retinopathy. After plaque radiation therapy, 6 patients developed radiation retinopathy (retinal edema, hemorrhages, microangiopathy, and neovascularization). Intravitreal bevacizumab (1.25 mg in 0.05 mL) was periodically injected (every 6-8 weeks). Ophthalmic evaluations included visual acuity, ophthalmic examination, fundus photography, fluorescein angiography, and optical coherence tomography/scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (OCT/SLO) imaging. No bevacizumab-related ocular or systemic adverse effects have occurred within the first 8 months of therapy. Progressive reductions in retinal hemorrhages, exudates, cotton-wool spots, and microangiopathy were documented by photography, angiography, and OCT/SLO imaging. Decreased macular edema was the most common finding. Improvement or stabilization of visual acuity was noted in all cases. Intravitreal bevacizumab was tolerated, improved or maintained vision, and reduced hemorrhage and retinal edema (angiographic leakage). This study should lead to additional and longer-term studies of humanized monoclonal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor antibody therapy for radiation retinopathy."}
{"id": "17558316", "title": "Long-term outcomes of pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Long-term outcomes of pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal in diabetic macular edema. To report the long-term visual results and anatomical outcome as assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT) after pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) with removal of the internal limiting membrane (ILM) in diabetic macular edema (DME). Medical records of 27 eyes of 27 patients who underwent PPV with ILM removal for DME attributable to diffuse leakage were reviewed. This retrospective study included eyes that underwent PPV with ILM removal at our institution with preoperative and postoperative OCT assessment of DME. None of the eyes had OCT evidence of anteroposterior vitreomacular traction. Main outcome measures were foveal thickness and visual acuity changes. Foveal thickness decreased by at least 20% in 22 eyes (81.4%) and increased by at least 20% in 3 eyes (11.1%) with PPV and ILM removal (mean follow-up +/- SD, 27.6 +/- 7.2 months; range, 12-38 months). Mean foveal thickness decrease +/- SD was 178 +/- 164 microm (43.6%), with a mean preoperative foveal thickness +/- SD of 408 +/- 121 microm compared with a mean postoperative foveal thickness +/- SD of 230 +/- 74 microm (P < 0.001). Recurrence of DME was observed at postoperative month 24 in 2 eyes and postoperative month 30 in 1 eye. Visual acuity improved by > or =2 lines in 10 eyes (37%) and decreased by > or =2 lines in 3 eyes (11.1%). Mean best-corrected logMAR (logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution) visual acuity +/- SD was 0.75 +/- 0.35 preoperatively and 0.63 +/- 0.33 postoperatively (P = 0.033). PPV with ILM removal appears to be effective in reducing DME and improving visual acuity, and its effectiveness is maintained in the long term. Recurrence of DME may be observed in the late postoperative period."}
{"id": "17554483", "title": "Results of visual acuity and foveal thickness in diabetic macular edema after vitrectomy.", "content": "Results of visual acuity and foveal thickness in diabetic macular edema after vitrectomy. To report results of an investigation of visual acuity (VA) and foveal thickness in diabetic macular edema (DME) patients after vitrectomy. A retrospective study was performed of the records of 47 patients (61 eyes) who received pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) for DME. All eyes were followed up for over 6 months (mean, 24.8 months; range, 6-60 months). VA and foveal thickness evaluated by optical coherence tomography were reviewed preoperatively and postoperatively. Twenty-four-month follow-up data were available for 46 of the 61 eyes (75%). VA at the final examination had improved by 0.2 log units or more in 34 of the 61 eyes (56%), remained unchanged in 21 eyes (34%), and worsened in six eyes (10%). Mean foveal thickness decreased by more than 20% of the preoperative value in 50 of the 61 eyes (82%), remained unchanged in ten eyes (16%), and increased by more than 20% in one eye (2%) at the final examination. Postoperative best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) at both 12 and 24 months was significantly better than preoperative BCVA (P < 0.0001). Foveal thickness at 3 months or later significantly decreased from the preoperative value (P < 0.0001), but remained unchanged in comparison with postoperative 12 months and 24 months values (P = 0.19). Preoperative VA and presence of cystoid macular edema (CME) were independently associated with final visual acuity (P = 0.001). PPV for DME effectively improved VA and reduced foveal thickness for a longer postoperative period. Better preoperative VA was associated with better final postoperative VA. The eyes without CME tended to have better final postoperative VA."}
{"id": "17525219", "title": "Effects of periocular administration of triamcinolone acetonide on leukocyte-endothelium interactions in the ischemic retina.", "content": "Effects of periocular administration of triamcinolone acetonide on leukocyte-endothelium interactions in the ischemic retina. Recent studies have reported that intravitreal or posterior sub-Tenon's injection of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) is effective in the treatment of macular edema resulting from retinal microcirculatory disturbances such as diabetic retinopathy and retinal vein occlusion. The effects of periocular administration of TA on leukocyte-endothelium interactions were studied after transient retinal ischemia. Transient retinal ischemia was induced by temporary ligation of the optic nerve sheath for 60 minutes in male Long-Evans rats. After the induction of ischemia, experimental eyes received a periocular injection of TA (2 mg). In control animals, the same volume of saline was administered. Leukocyte dynamics were evaluated in the retinal microcirculation using acridine orange digital fluorography. Also, retinal thickness was studied by using optical coherence tomography and a histologic The retinal mRNA expression of P-selectin and intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 was semiquantitatively studied with RT-PCR. The leukocytes rolling along retinal vein linings increased after ischemia in the vehicle-treated rats (32.5 +/- 2.1 cells/min). No rolling leukocytes, however, were seen in the TA-treated rats. The number of accumulated leukocytes was significantly lower in the TA-treated rats (831 +/- 99 cells/mm2) than in the control (971 +/- 81 cells/mm2, P < 0.05). The treatment decreased the retinal thickness and the mRNA expression of P-selectin and ICAM-1. The present study demonstrated that the periocular injection of TA effectively decreased retinal thickness and inhibited leukocyte-endothelium interactions in the retina after ischemia. Downregulation of adhesion molecules of retinal vascular endothelium induced by TA may play a role in the course."}
{"id": "17502499", "title": "Optimal optical coherence tomography-based measures in the diagnosis of clinically significant macular edema: retinal volume vs foveal thickness.", "content": "Optimal optical coherence tomography-based measures in the diagnosis of clinically significant macular edema: retinal volume vs foveal thickness. To compare optical coherence tomography-based measures of retinal thickness and volume as quantitative tests for clinically significant macular edema (CSME). Diagnostic validation study. Sixty-five eyes with diabetic retinopathy underwent stereo photographic and optical coherence tomographic examination. Stereo photographs were examined in a masked fashion to determine the presence or absence of CSME according to criteria from the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study. Optical coherence tomography-based measurements of central foveal thickness as well as retinal volumes within a series of radii of fixation were generated. The main outcome measures were areas under receiver operating characteristic curves. Likelihood ratios, sensitivities, and specificities for the diagnosis of CSME were also evaluated. Retinal volumes within radii of 0.50 mm and 1.11 mm of fixation and central foveal thickness were the best variables for discriminating between those with and without CSME as evidenced by analysis of receiver operating characteristic curves. There were no significant differences among these 3 variables in their performance as diagnostic tests for CSME. Optical coherence tomography-based retinal volume and central foveal thickness variables display comparable abilities to discriminate between those with and without CSME. Both measures may have clinical applications as quantitative diagnostic tests for CSME."}
{"id": "17472415", "title": "Ruboxistaurin: LY 333531.", "content": "Ruboxistaurin: LY 333531. Ruboxistaurin, an orally active protein kinase C beta (PKC beta) inhibitor, is a macrocyclic bisindolylmaleimide compound under development by Eli Lilly with potential as a therapy for diabetic macular oedema and other diabetic angiopathies, including diabetic retinopathy, diabetic peripheral neuropathy and diabetic nephropathy. Ruboxistaurin is awaiting approvals in the US and Europe for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy. Eli Lilly and Alcon entered into a long-term agreement to co-promote ruboxistaurin in the US and Puerto Rico for diabetic retinopathy. The agreement is subject to the US FDA's approval of the agent for this indication. Under the terms of the agreement, Alcon will assume primary responsibility for promotion to eye specialists including retinal specialists and general ophthalmologists, while Eli Lilly will be targeting endocrinologists and physicians. Subject to approval in the US, Eli Lilly will receive milestone and marketing payments from Alcon. Alcon in turn will receive compensation based on product sales. In December 2003, Eli Lilly signed a joint development and co-marketing agreement with Takeda Chemical Industries for ruboxistaurin in the Japanese market. Under the terms of the agreement, Eli Lilly Japan and Takeda will jointly develop ruboxistaurin in Japan, will file an NDA for diabetic peripheral neuropathy and diabetic retinopathy, and subsequently will market the drug in Japan. Ruboxistaurin was submitted for approval in Europe in the second quarter of 2006. The agent is also in phase II studies for the treatment of diabetic maculopathy (macular retinopathy) in Japan. Data from a phase III, 3-year study of ruboxistaurin in patients with moderate to severe diabetic retinopathy showed that ruboxistaurin markedly reduced the risk of sustained vision loss compared with placebo. This multicentre, randomised study, named PKC-DRS2 (Protein Kinase C-Diabetic Retinopathy Study 2), was conducted at 70 clinical sites and involved 685 patients with diabetic retinopathy. The agent is also in a phase II study in the US, Canada and Europe in patients with clinically significant macular oedema. The trial (B7A-MC-MBCU), which will evaluate oral administration of the drug using optical coherence tomography over a period of 18 months, is expected to enrol approximately 220 patients. This randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was initiated in August 2005 and is expected to be completed in March 2008. Previously, results of the PKC-Diabetic Retinopathy Study (PKC-DRS) showed that ruboxistaurin at a dose of 32 mg/day has potential to reduce the risk of moderate vision loss especially in patients with diabetic macular oedema. This phase III, randomised, double-blind, multidose study in 252 patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes receiving ruboxistaurin or placebo for 3-4 years evaluated the safety of the agent and its effect on progression of diabetic retinopathy, moderate vision loss and sustained moderate vision loss. The study was conducted at Joslin Diabetes Center and at centres in the US, Canada, Denmark, The Netherlands and the UK. In 2004, Eli Lilly presented new analysis of previously reported data for ruboxistaurin in diabetic macular oedema indicating that ruboxistaurin has the potential to decrease the progression of diabetic macular oedema involving the center of the macula. Positive results from the PKC Beta Inhibitor Diabetic Macular Edema (PKC-DMES) trial were reported in 2003. Eli Lilly expected to file for approval of ruboxistaurin for the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathy in the US and Europe in 2005. However, no development was reported for this indication. On 15 March 2007, Eli Lilly withdrew its marketing authorisation application for ruboxistaurin for diabetic retinopathy filed with EMEA in May 2006. Its current development status in the EU is unclear at this stage."}
{"id": "17467527", "title": "Optical coherence tomographic pattern may predict visual outcome after intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomographic pattern may predict visual outcome after intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema. To identify an optical coherence tomography (OCT) pattern predictive of visual outcome in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME) who underwent a single dose of intravitreal triamcinolone. Retrospective case analysis with prospective data collection for controls. Ninety-three cases and 25 controls. Two independent masked observers retrospectively examined preoperative macular OCTs of 93 eyes of 93 patients who were given a single dose (4 mg in 0.1 ml) of intravitreal triamcinolone for DME and categorized them as belonging to 2 groups: 1, comprised of eyes with high reflectivity (bright colors) from inner retinal layers, and 2, comprised of eyes that had low reflectivity (darker colors) from inner retinal layers. Logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution visual acuity (VA) and macular thickness measured by OCT were assessed preoperatively and postoperatively at 1 and 3 months. Optical coherence tomographic appearance of inner retinal layers. All patients completed 3 months of follow-up. In group 1, 45 of 51 eyes (88%) experienced visual improvement of > or =2 lines on an Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) chart at 1 month of follow-up. Forty-four of 51 patients (86%) experienced visual improvement of > or =2 lines on an ETDRS chart at 3 months of follow-up. In group 2, 18 of 42 patients (43%) experienced visual improvement of > or =1 lines on an ETDRS chart at 1 and 3 months of follow-up. For the remaining patients, VA remained unchanged during the postoperative course of 3 months. Patients in whom OCT demonstrated the high reflectivity of inner retinal layers achieved greater VA though macular thickness decreased significantly after intravitreal triamcinolone in both groups. It may be hypothesized that a lower optical reflectivity of inner retinal layers is related to the atrophy of the inner retinal layers, thus resulting in a failure of VA recovery in these patients. The level of reflectivity from inner retinal layers on OCT may provide objective criteria in predicting the response of DME to intravitreal triamcinolone and help in preoperative counseling of patients with DME."}
{"id": "17466377", "title": "Laser scanning imaging for macular disease: a report by the American Academy of Ophthalmology.", "content": "Laser scanning imaging for macular disease: a report by the American Academy of Ophthalmology. To evaluate currently available data in the published literature to answer the question of whether laser scanning imaging is a sensitive and specific tool for detecting macular disease when compared with the current standard technique of slit-lamp biomicroscopy or stereoscopic fundus photography. Literature searches conducted in December 2004 and in August 2006 retrieved 370 citations. The Retina Panel members selected 65 articles for the panel methodologist to review and rate according to the strength of the evidence. Of the 65 articles reviewed, 6 provided level I evidence, 9 provided level II evidence, and 50 provided level III evidence. A level I rating was assigned to studies that reported an independent masked comparison of an appropriate spectrum of consecutive patients, all of whom had undergone both the diagnostic test and the reference standard. A level II rating was assigned to an independent masked or objective comparison; a study performed in a set of nonconsecutive patients or confined to a narrow spectrum of study individuals (or both), all of whom had undergone both the diagnostic test and the reference standard; or an independent masked comparison of an appropriate spectrum, but the reference standard had not been applied to all study patients. A level III rating was assigned when the reference standard was unobjective, unmasked, or not independent; positive and negative tests were verified using separate reference standards; or the study was performed in an inappropriate spectrum of patients. There are high-level studies of the use of laser scanning imaging to quantify macular thickness and, thereby, macular edema in patients with diabetic retinopathy and to examine patients with a macular hole. There is lower-quality evidence on the use of laser scanning imaging for other diseases of the macula. There is insufficient evidence to compare the different instruments. There is level I evidence that laser scanning imaging can accurately and reliably quantify macular thickness in patients with diabetic retinopathy. There is level I evidence that optical coherence tomography provides additional information to clinical examination when used in patients with a macular hole. Laser scanning imaging provides important information that is helpful in patient management by allowing objective serial quantitative measurements. Although further studies are needed to develop an optimal testing strategy using these imaging modalities, laser scanning imaging is a sensitive, specific, reproducible tool for diagnosing macular edema and, therefore, is likely to be useful for managing diseases that result in macular edema."}
{"id": "17460426", "title": "Laser photocoagulation combined with intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection in proliferative diabetic retinopathy with macular edema.", "content": "Laser photocoagulation combined with intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection in proliferative diabetic retinopathy with macular edema. To evaluate therapeutic effects and usefulness of a combination treatment of intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) and panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) in patients with clinically significant macular edema secondary to proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). Visual acuity test, fundoscopy, fluorescein angiography, and optical coherence tomography (OCT) were taken in 20 patients (20 eyes) of macular edema and PDR. A combination of intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide and PRP was performed in 10 patients (10 eyes) and a combination of focal or grid laser photocoaqulation and PRP in the remaining 10 eyes. The postoperative outcomes were compared between the two combination treatments by best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), tonometry, fluorescein angiography, and OCT at 2 weeks, 1, 2, and 3 months. Average BCVA (log MAR) significantly improved from preoperative 0.56-/+0.20 to 0.43-/+0.08 at 1 month (P=0.042) and it was maintained until 3 months after a combination of IVTA and PRP in 10 eyes (P=0.007). The thickness of fovea decreased from average 433.3-/+114.9 micrometer to average 279.5-/+34.1 micrometer at 2 weeks after combined treatment of IVTA and PRP (P=0.005), which was significantly maintained until 3 months, but there was a transient visual disturbance and no significant difference in thickness of the fovea before and after treatment in the groups with PRP and focal or grid laser photocoagulation. A combination of IVTA and PRP might be an effective treatment modality in the treatment of macular edema and PDR and prevent the subsequent PRP-induced macular edema result in visual dysfunction. In combination with PRP, IVTA might be more effective than focal or grid laser photocoagulation and PRP for reducing diabetic macular edema and preventing aggravation of macular edema without transient visual disturbance in patients requiring immediate PRP."}
{"id": "17459479", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone plus sequential grid laser versus triamcinolone or laser alone for treating diabetic macular edema: six-month outcomes.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone plus sequential grid laser versus triamcinolone or laser alone for treating diabetic macular edema: six-month outcomes. To evaluate the efficacy of sequential intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (TA) injection followed by grid laser photocoagulation for treating diabetic macular edema (DME). Prospective, 3-armed, randomized clinical trial. One hundred eleven eyes of 111 patients with DME involving the fovea. Patients were randomized to grid laser photocoagulation (37 eyes), 4 mg of intravitreal TA (38 eyes), or 4 mg of intravitreal TA combined with sequential grid laser about 1 month later (36 eyes). Central foveal thickness (CFT) as measured by optical coherence tomography, logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), and side effect profiles. The 6-month results are reported. All patients completed 6 months' follow-up. Baseline mean (+/- standard deviation) CFTs were 385+/-100 microm, 396+/-91 microm, and 424+/-108 microm for the laser, intravitreal TA, and combined groups, respectively (P = 0.24). After treatment, significant CFT reductions were noted in both the intravitreal TA and combined groups at all follow-up visits (P<0.01) but not in the laser group. Mean CFT improved significantly to minimums of 267+/-75 microm and 256+/-73 microm for the intravitreal TA and combined groups, respectively, but the difference between the 3 groups was not significant at 6 months. The standardized change in macular thickening at 17 weeks was significantly greater in the combined group versus the intravitreal TA group (P = 0.007), suggesting that combined treatment might prolong the effects of intravitreal TA. Mean baseline logMAR BCVAs were 0.64+/-0.37, 0.72+/-0.34, and 0.69+/-0.34 in the laser, intravitreal TA, and combined groups, respectively (P = 0.67). Best-corrected visual acuity improved significantly at 4 and 9 weeks for the intravitreal TA group but did not change significantly in the other 2 groups. No significant difference in BCVA was observed between the 3 groups at any time point. Contrary to the results of a recent study, combined treatment of intravitreal TA plus grid laser did not yield better CFT reduction or BCVA improvement at 6 months than intravitreal TA alone. Grid laser alone was significantly worse than the 2 other treatment modalities."}
{"id": "17459030", "title": "Full-thickness macular hole in a patient with diabetic cystoid macular oedema treated by intravitreal triamcinolone injections.", "content": "Full-thickness macular hole in a patient with diabetic cystoid macular oedema treated by intravitreal triamcinolone injections. Full-thickness macular hole associated with diabetic macular oedema is a rare feature and its pathogenesis remains incompletely elucidated. We report the occurrence of a full-thickness macular hole, documented with optical coherence tomography (OCT), in a patient with diabetic cystoid macular oedema treated by intravitreal triamcinolone injections. A 48-year-old woman with refractory diabetic cystoid macular oedema underwent successive intravitreal triamcinolone injections, which were followed by a progressive thinning of the neurosensory retina at the fovea, and then by a full-thickness macular hole, associated with a perifoveal posterior hyaloid detachment, visible on OCT. During pars plana vitrectomy, a thin epiretinal macular membrane was diagnosed and removed. Pathogenesis of the present full-thickness macular hole associated with diabetic macular oedema is different from that of idiopathic macular holes because anteroposterior vitreous tractions were not involved in its formation. Recurrent intravitreal triamcinolone injections may have had an indirect role in the development of the macular hole, by favouring the rupture of distended Muller cells and intraretinal pseudocysts."}
{"id": "17453151", "title": "Two-year results of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection for the treatment of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Two-year results of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection for the treatment of diabetic macular edema. To investigate 2-year results of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection for the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema unresponsive to previous laser photocoagulation. The study included 75 eyes of 75 diabetic patients with clinically significant diffuse macular edema that had failed to respond to previous laser photocoagulation. An intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide at the dose of 4 mg/0.1 ml was administered. Best-corrected visual acuity was measured as the logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR), and central macular thickness was obtained by optical coherence tomography at each visit. Intraocular pressure and lenticular status were also evaluated. Differences among measurements were evaluated by Friedman two-way analysis of variance by ranks. Mean follow-up period was 24.7 +/- 5.9 months. The mean central macular thickness, which was obtained 3 days, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months, 18 months and 24 months postoperatively, was significantly different from the baseline measurement (P < 0.001). Mean best-corrected logMAR visual acuity improved significantly from baseline at the 1- month and 3-month follow-up intervals (P < 0.05), but there was no significant change at the 6- month, 9-month, 12-month, 18-month or 24-month follow-up periods (P > 0.05). During the follow-up, 29 (38.7%) eyes received re-injection of intravitreal triamcinolone. Twenty-one (28%) eyes developed intraocular pressure values higher than 21 mmHg, and 18 (24%) eyes developed cataract. Thirteen (17.3%) eyes required cataract and/or glaucoma surgery. In refractory diabetic macular edema, intravitreal triamcinolone effectively reduces foveal thickness and improves visual acuity in the short term, but with the extended follow-up, the number of recurrences and steroid-related complications were shown to increase. Nevertheless, it may be a therapeutic option in some patients that do not respond to previous laser photocoagulation."}
{"id": "17445900", "title": "Relationship of macular microcirculation and retinal thickness with visual acuity in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Relationship of macular microcirculation and retinal thickness with visual acuity in diabetic macular edema. To assess perifoveal capillary blood flow velocity (BFV), capillary occlusion, and retinal thickness at the central fovea in diabetic patients with or without clinically significant macular edema; to examine the relationships of these variables with visual acuity (VA); and to identify their contributions to visual outcome and diabetic macular edema. Comparative cross-sectional prospective study. Diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema (CSME) (n = 22), matched diabetic patients without CSME (n = 22), and healthy volunteers (n = 16). Capillary BFV was measured by fluorescein angiography using a scanning laser ophthalmoscope and was analyzed by the tracing method. Severity of perifoveal capillary abnormalities was classified by the size and outline of the foveal avascular zone (FAZ) and extent of foveal capillary loss. Macular thickness was measured by optical coherence tomography. Each subject underwent a complete ophthalmic evaluation, and best-corrected VA (BCVA) was converted to the logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution scale. Relationship of perifoveal capillary BFV, capillary occlusion, and foveal thickness with VA. Best-corrected VA significantly differed among all 3 groups (P<0.0001). Best-corrected VA correlated negatively with BFV (r = -0.644, P<0.0001) among all subjects and positively with retinal thickness at the central fovea in diabetic patients with CSME (r = 0.640, P = 0.0013). There was a positive correlation between BCVA and severity in the size of the FAZ (r = 0.484, P = 0.0015), outline of the FAZ (r = 0.542, P = 0.0004), and extent of foveal capillary loss (r = 0.585, P = 0.0001) among all diabetic subjects. Multiple regression analysis showed that retinal thickness at the central fovea was the only variable that significantly predicted VA (standardized regression coefficient, 0.635; P = 0.0001). Best-corrected VA was associated with perifoveal capillary BFV, severity of perifoveal capillary occlusion, and retinal thickness at the central fovea in diabetic patients, but the greatest contributing factor was only the retinal thickness."}
{"id": "17417154", "title": "[Optical coherence tomography follow-up of a case of solar maculopathy].", "content": "[Optical coherence tomography follow-up of a case of solar maculopathy]. Solar maculopathy is caused by sun-gazing without protection and in most cases appears to be reversible. Retinal damage may be caused by photochemical changes combined with a rise in temperature at the time of sun observation. We report a case of bilateral solar retinopathy following direct sun gazing after observation of the partial eclipse on 3 October 2005. A 25-year-old Caucasian man presented 24 h after watching the eclipse with symptoms of blurred vision and a bright positive central scotoma. Total direct viewing time was approximately 5 min. While observing the eclipse, the patient kept both eyes open. On presentation, his visual acuity was 20/25 in his right eye and 20/32 in his left eye. Ophthalmoscopic examination revealed a bilateral yellowish-white spot in the center of the foveal region. Static visual field examination did not disclose any absolute scotoma but a decrease in the foveal threshold was noted in both eyes. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) examination revealed a bilateral increased reflectivity of the inner foveal retina that was greater in the left eye. This finding was associated with a hyporeflective area of the underlying retinal pigment epithelium: choriocapillaris complex and an increase in retinal thickness. Eight days later, visual acuity was 20/20 in each eye. Funduscopy showed the yellow lesion had vanished. Four months after exposure, funduscopy was normal and OCT scan showed normal reflectivity of all retinal layers in the fovea. However, static visual field examination disclosed a decreased foveal threshold on the left eye. We compare the OCT findings in this patient with the data reported in the literature. Indeed, various OCT findings have been reported depending on the intensity and frequency of sun exposure. This observation demonstrates that OCT appears to be potentially useful in the evolutive follow-up of solar maculopathy, and emphasizes the importance of eye safety during solar eclipse observation."}
{"id": "17408388", "title": "Enhanced optical coherence patterns of diabetic macular oedema and their correlation with the pathophysiology.", "content": "Enhanced optical coherence patterns of diabetic macular oedema and their correlation with the pathophysiology. To describe different patterns of diabetic macular oedema (DMO) using a computerized alignment and averaging of sequences in optical coherence tomography (OCT) B-scans and to show the correlation of these patterns with the pathophysiology of the condition. We carried out a prospective, uncontrolled study, including 46 human subjects with untreated DMO. Enhanced OCT images were produced. We correlated different OCT patterns of DMO with ETDRS visual acuity and with the thickness of the central 1-mm of the macula. We also correlated these patterns with theories of the pathophysiology of DMO. Enhanced OCT images enabled us to examine how different layers of the macula were affected. The external limiting membrane (ELM) was clearly seen in all stages, including advanced stages. The sequence of DMO events in different macular layers can be divided into five patterns. Morphologically, DMO starts at the outer nuclear layer/Henle's layer. As the oedema progresses, cysts are seen in the fovea and the DMO spreads further into the inner nuclear layer. The ELM seems to act as a barrier for proteins and plays an important role in the development of DMO. Enhanced OCT revealed new details of DMO pathophysiology. The different morphological patterns of DMO seen in enhanced OCT may represent different levels of severity of the disease."}
{"id": "17398322", "title": "Primary intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) for diabetic macular edema: results from the Pan-American Collaborative Retina Study Group at 6-month follow-up.", "content": "Primary intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) for diabetic macular edema: results from the Pan-American Collaborative Retina Study Group at 6-month follow-up. To report the 6-month anatomic and best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) response after primary intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). Interventional retrospective multicenter study at 6 centers from 6 countries of patients with DME. We reviewed the clinical records of 88 consecutive patients (110 eyes) with DME. Seventy-eight eyes of 64 consecutive patients with a minimum follow-up of 6 months and mean age of 59.7+/-9.3 years were included in this analysis. Patients were treated with at least one intravitreal injection of 1.25 mg or 2.5 mg of bevacizumab and underwent Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) BCVA testing, ophthalmoscopic examination, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and fluorescein angiography (FA) at baseline and follow-up visits. Repeated-measures analysis of variance was used to compare mean values. Changes in BCVA, OCT, and FA. Mean follow-up was 6.31+/-0.81 months (range, 6-9). Sixteen (20.5%) eyes needed a second injection at a mean of 13.8 weeks (range, 4-28), and 6 eyes needed a third injection (7.7%) at a mean of 11.5 weeks (range, 5-20). The mean baseline BCVA was 0.87 (logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution), and the final mean BCVA was 0.6, a difference that was statistically significant (P<0.0001). Final BCVA analysis by subgroups demonstrated that 32 (41.1%) eyes remained stable, 43 (55.1%) improved > or =2 ETDRS lines of BCVA, and 3 (3.8%) decreased > or =2 ETDRS lines of BCVA. Mean central macular thickness at baseline by OCT was 387.0+/-182.8 mum and decreased to a mean of 275.7+/-108.3 at end of follow-up (P<0.0001). No ocular or systemic adverse events were observed. Primary intravitreal bevacizumab at doses of 1.25 to 2.5 mg seem to provide stability or improvement in VA, OCT, and FA in DME at 6 months. Follow-up is still short to make any specific treatment recommendations; however, the results appear promising. Evaluation in a multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial with longer follow-up is needed."}
{"id": "17385118", "title": "[Subjective sensations after intravitreal injection of bevacizumab].", "content": "[Subjective sensations after intravitreal injection of bevacizumab]. The group of anti-VEGF drugs is a new option for ophthalmologists in the therapy for acute and chronic macular oedema. First studies have revealed a stabilisation and increase of best corrected visual acuity as well as a decrease of retinal thickness, objectively measured with optical coherence tomography. The effects on subjective sensations are not always correlated with the objective changes. From May to July 2006, 43 patients were treated with 1.25 mg bevacizumab, administered by sterile intravitreal injection. 30 patients had an age-related macular degeneration, 9 patients a diabetic retinopathy with macular oedema, 3 patients had a chronic macular oedema caused by retinal vessel occlusion and one patient had a retinal pigment detachment. The age ranged from 45 to 84 years (median: 70 years). General and special ophthalmological anamnesis, best corrected visual acuity and retinal thickness measured by optical coherence tomography were taken. Complete follow-up examinations were performed four and eight weeks after injections. In these postoperative controls the patients were also asked about their subjective sensations after the injection of bevacizumab, controlled by means of a numerical rating scale. The best corrected visual acuity (ETDRS) decreased from 9.2 letters (range from 0 to 40) to 13.1 letters (range from 0 to 42; p < 0.05) after four weeks, further four weeks later to 15.8 letters (range from 0 to 44; p < 0.05). The subjective sensations increased significantly at four weeks (0.54 points; range from - 1 to + 3; p < 0.05) and at eight weeks light regression (0.28 points; range from - 3 to + 3; p < 0.05). All patients reported a brightening \"dark central blot\". The available metamorphopsias improved at four weeks (18 patients), and at eight weeks 5 patients reported improvement. For none of ther patients did the metamorphopsia disappear completely. The intravitreal injection of bevacizumab shows beneficial results in terms of an increase of best corrected visual acuity. However, on comparing these results with the subjective sensations after injections there is a discrepancy. The subjective sensations are found to be only slightly better. More investigations, also after repeated injections are necessary."}
{"id": "17380066", "title": "Current treatment approaches in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Current treatment approaches in diabetic macular edema. To review current treatment approaches in diabetic macular edema (DME). The underlying pathopathology, classifications and diagnostic examination techniques including fluorescein angiography, optical coherence tomography and stereoscopic biomicroscopy. Treatment modalities with focal or grid argon laser photocoagulation, pars plana vitrectomy with and without peeling of the inner limiting membrane (ILM), as well as intravitreal injections using triamcinolone acetonide or novel vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitors are described. DME results from a series of biochemical and cellular changes, causing progressive leakage and exudation. Focal and grid photocoagulation remains the standard care for diabetic maculopathy. However, the availability of new agents raises the possibility of improvements if significant benefits can be validated in randomized clinical trials. Posterior vitreous attachments play a critical role through several mechanical or physiological mechanisms. Vitrectomy without ILM removal seems to be effective in reducing the retinal thickness and improving visual acuity. A proper evaluation of the vitreous and retina is fundamental to select the most appropriate treatment approach in DME. While small microaneurysms with focal DME may be treated by conventional focal photocoagulation, diffuse DME which do not respond to grid photocoagulation may benefit from intravitreal injections using triamcinolone acetonide or novel VEGF inhibitors. Eyes with DME and additional vitreous traction may benefit from pars plana vitrectomy without ILM peeling. A combination of laser, pharmacological and surgical treatment modalities may be necessary to maintain central vision in eyes with DME."}
{"id": "17353052", "title": "Reproducibility of macular thickness and volume using Zeiss optical coherence tomography in patients with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Reproducibility of macular thickness and volume using Zeiss optical coherence tomography in patients with diabetic macular edema. To evaluate optical coherence tomography (OCT) reproducibility in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). Prospective 1-day observational study. Two hundred twelve eyes of 107 patients with DME involving the macular center by clinical examination and OCT central subfield thickness of > or =225 microm. Retinal thickness was measured with the OCT3 system, and scans were evaluated by a reading center. Reproducibility of retinal thickness measurements was assessed, and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for a change in thickness were estimated. Reproducibility of OCT-measured central subfield thickness. Reproducibility was better for central subfield thickness than for center point thickness (half-width of the 95% CI for absolute change, 38 microm vs. 50 microm, and for relative change, 11% vs. 17%, respectively; P<0.001). The median absolute difference between replicate measurements of the central subfield was 7 microm (2%). Half-widths of the 95% CI for a change in central subfield thickness were 22, 23, 33, and 56 microm for scans with central subfield thicknesses of <200, 200 to <250, 250 to <400, and > or =400 microm, respectively. When expressed as percentage differences between 2 measurements, half-widths of the 95% CI for a change in central subfield thickness were 10%, 10%, 10%, and 13% for scans with central subfield thicknesses of <200, 200 to <250, 250 to <400, and > or =400 microm, respectively. We were unable to identify an effect on reproducibility of central subfield measurements with respect to the presence of cystoid abnormalities, subretinal fluid, vitreomacular traction, or reduced visual acuity. Reproducibility was better when both scans had a standard deviation (SD) of the center point of <10.0% (half-width of the 95% CI for change, 33 microm vs. 56 microm; P<0.001). Reproducibility is better for central subfield thickness measurements than for center point measurements, and variability is less with retinal thickness when expressed as a percent change than when expressed as an absolute change. A change in central subfield thickness exceeding 11% is likely to be real. Scans with an SD of the center point of > or =10.0% are less reproducible and should be viewed with caution when assessing the validity of an observed change in retinal thickness in patients with DME."}
{"id": "17331581", "title": "Axial length measurement in eyes with diabetic macular edema: a-scan ultrasound versus IOLMaster.", "content": "Axial length measurement in eyes with diabetic macular edema: a-scan ultrasound versus IOLMaster. To compare axial length (AL) measurements obtained with ultrasound (US) and IOLMaster (software version 3.01.0294; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Jena, Germany) in eyes with diabetic clinically significant macular edema (CSME) and to examine the correlation between measurement difference and foveal thickness. Prospective nonrandomized clinical study. Twenty-three healthy eyes of 23 participants and 21 eyes with CSME of 21 diabetic outpatients. The authors prospectively measured AL using US and IOLMaster in eyes of both groups. Foveal thickness was measured with optical coherence tomography. The difference between both methods was assessed using the t test, and its correlation to foveal thickness was evaluated by Pearson coefficient. Difference in AL measurements between IOLMaster and US. Mean+/-standard deviation foveal thickness in healthy and CSME eyes was 201+/-26 microm (range, 156-240) and 475+/-106 microm (range, 331-758), respectively. Mean AL by US and IOLMaster in healthy eyes was 23.17+/-1.07 mm (range, 21.17-25.18) and 23.25+/-1.10 mm (range, 21.17-25.26), respectively (P = 0.51); in CSME eyes, it was 23.02+/-0.97 mm (range, 21.53-24.81) and 23.27+/-0.924 mm (range, 21.9-25.13), respectively (P<0.001). Correlation between AL difference and foveal thickness was poor in both healthy (r = 0.18, P = 0.40) and CSME (r = 0.02, P = 0.93) eyes. Axial length measurements using applanation A-scan US and IOLMaster in eyes with CSME differ statistically and clinically significantly. This is likely a result of the fundamentally different methodology of the 2 methods in measuring eyes with a pathologically thickened retina. A conversion formula based on foveal thickness can not be provided at present."}
{"id": "17300566", "title": "Evaluating the use of a scanning laser-derived oedema index to grade diabetic retinopathy and maculopathy.", "content": "Evaluating the use of a scanning laser-derived oedema index to grade diabetic retinopathy and maculopathy. To evaluate the Heidelburg Retina Tomograph II (HRTII) retinal module as a tool for grading severity of retinopathy in a diabetic retinal screening and treatment service. Seventy-seven consecutive patients with type 2 diabetes underwent scanning laser tomography using the HRTII. Scan data were analysed using the proprietary macular module software and oedema indices calculated for each of nine topographic macular zones. Two consultant ophthalmologists, masked to the result of the HRTII scans, graded each subject for severity of retinopathy and presence of macular oedema. The oedema indices were analysed statistically to determine whether these correlated with severity of retinopathy and presence of macular oedema. There is an increased oedema index in severe non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy in the outer temporal zone compared with lesser grades of diabetic retinopathy (P = 0.001). In patients with clinically detectable macular oedema, the oedema index from the 500-microm-diameter central zone was significantly higher than those without (P = 0.03). The scanning laser-derived oedema index differentiated between moderate and severe non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy in this series and detected diabetic macular oedema. Further development of this technology may provide an important tool to supplement retinal photographic surveillance in eye clinics overwhelmed by an increasing prevalence of type 2 diabetes."}
{"id": "17298591", "title": "Sensitivity and specificity of digital retinal imaging for screening diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Sensitivity and specificity of digital retinal imaging for screening diabetic retinopathy. To assess the effectiveness of a non-mydriatic digital camera (45 degrees -30 degrees photographs) compared with the reference method for screening diabetic retinopathy. Type 1 and 2 diabetic patients (n = 773; 1546 eyes) underwent screening for diabetic retinopathy in a prospective observational study. Hospital-based non-mydriatic digital retinal imaging by a consultant specialist in retinal diseases was compared with slit-lamp biomicroscopy and indirect ophthalmoscopy through dilated pupils, as a gold standard, previously performed in a community health centre by another consultant specialist in retinal diseases. The main outcome measures were sensitivity and specificity of screening methods and prevalence of diabetic retinopathy. The prevalence of any form of diabetic retinopathy was 42.4% (n = 328); the prevalence of sight-threatening including macular oedema and proliferative retinopathy was 9.6% (n = 74). Sensitivity of detection of any diabetic retinopathy by digital imaging was 92% (95% confidence interval 90, 94). Specificity of detection of any diabetic retinopathy was 96% (95, 98). The predictive value of the negative tests was 94% and of a positive test 95%. For sight-threatening retinopathy digital imaging had a sensitivity of 100%. A high sensitivity and specificity are essential for an effective screening programme. These results confirm digital retinal imaging with a non-mydriatic camera as an effective option in community-based screening programmes for diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "17290200", "title": "Early treatment of severe cystoid macular edema in central retinal vein occlusion with posterior sub-tenon triamcinolone acetonide.", "content": "Early treatment of severe cystoid macular edema in central retinal vein occlusion with posterior sub-tenon triamcinolone acetonide. To evaluate the clinical outcomes of posterior sub-Tenon (PST) injection of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) in the early treatment of severe cystoid macular edema (CME) in central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). In a noncomparative, prospective study, 18 eyes of 18 patients with severe CME (central macular thickness, CMT >450 microm) secondary to recent-onset CRVO (the onset of symptoms < or =4 weeks) and a decrease in visual acuity (< or =80 letters of Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study [ETDRS] scores, 20/50) were included. PST injection of 40 mg of TA was given under topic anesthesia. All patients received three biweekly injections and were evaluated at baseline and at 1 day, 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 weeks, and 3, 6, and 9 months after injection. The main outcome measures were ETDRS scores, CMT, intraocular pressure (IOP), cataract progression, and frequency of complications. The mean age of the 18 patients was 61.17 years (range, 24-81 years) and the mean duration of symptoms was 15.28 days (range, 9-28 days). Eight eyes were diagnosed with ischemic CRVO and 10 eyes with nonischemic CRVO. Mean baseline ETDRS visual acuity (VA) score was 36.89 +/- 18.22 in all affected eye. There was a significant improvement in VA at 1, 3, 6, and 9 months of follow-up. The mean VA at these time points were 46.61 +/- 20.21, 58.11 +/- 22.19, 59.39 +/- 22.98, and 58.67 +/- 23.27 (all P < 0.001), respectively. Both nonischemic and ischemic eyes benefited with a statistically significant VA improvement at each time point. A comparison of the gain in VA between two subgroups was not significant at 1 and 3 months (P > 0.05), but was statistically significant at 6 and 9 months (P = 0.009 and 0.008, respectively). VA gain of 10 or more letters was found in all nonischemic eyes (10/10) and 3 ischemic eyes (3/8) at the 9-month follow-up. Two ischemic eyes were found to have no gain of letters in VA at the 9-month follow-up. The mean baseline CMT for all eyes was 566 +/- 42 microm. There was a 29% reduction with a mean CMT of 404 +/- 49 microm (P < 0.001) at 1 month, 51% reduction with a mean CMT of 278 +/- 40 microm (P < 0.001) at 3 months, 61% reduction with a mean CMT of 222 +/- 56 microm (P < 0.001) at 6 months, and 63% reduction with a mean CMT of 210 +/- 30 microm (P < 0.001) at 9 months. Both nonischemic and ischemic eyes demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in CMT (all P < 0.001). A comparison of the reduction in CMT between these two subgroups was not significant at each visit (all P > 0.05). For both subgroups, there was no statistically significant difference in IOP change at baseline, 1 week, 1, 3, 6, and 9 months of follow-up. Only two patients required topic antiglaucoma drops for elevated IOP. Three patients developed a recurrence of CME accompanied with visual decrease. No cataract progression or other complications were observed. PST injection of TA is effective in reversing CME and improving visual acuity in recent-onset CRVO in the first 9 months. Patients with nonischemic CRVO may respond more favorably than patients with ischemic CRVO. Early treatment may be better for visual improvement before longstanding macular edema results in irreversible photoreceptor damage. Further study with longer follow-up period is necessary."}
{"id": "17290194", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab (avastin) for central and hemicentral retinal vein occlusions: IBeVO study.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab (avastin) for central and hemicentral retinal vein occlusions: IBeVO study. To evaluate the safety, visual acuity changes, and morphologic effects associated with intravitreal bevacizumab injections for the management of macular edema due to ischemic central or hemicentral retinal vein occlusion (RVO). In this prospective, open-label study, 7 consecutive patients (7 eyes) with macular edema associated with ischemic central or hemicentral RVO were treated with intravitreal injections of 2.0 mg (0.08 mL) of bevacizumab at 12-week intervals. Standardized ophthalmic evaluation was performed at baseline and at weeks 1, 6, and 12 after each injection. Clinical evidence of toxicity and complications as well as changes in logarithm of minimum angle of resolution Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central macular thickness (CMT) and total macular volume (TMV) shown by optical coherence tomography (OCT), and dye leakage shown by fluorescein angiography were evaluated. The median age of the 7 patients was 65 years (range, 58-74 years), and the median duration of symptoms before injection was 7 months (range, 2.5-16 months). At baseline, mean BCVA was 1.21 (Snellen equivalent, approximately 20/320) in the affected eye. Mean baseline CMT and TMV were 730.1 microm and 17.1 mm(3), respectively. Fluorescein leakage was observed in the macula and affected retinal quadrants in all seven eyes. Six patients completed the 25-week follow-up examination with reinjections performed at weeks 12 and 24. The most common adverse events were conjunctival hyperemia and subconjunctival hemorrhage at the injection site. At the last follow-up, mean BCVA in the affected eye was 0.68 (Snellen equivalent, 20/100(+1). No patient had a decrease in BCVA. Mean CMT and TMV at the 25-week follow-up were 260.3 microm and 9.0 mm(3), respectively; fluorescein leakage within the macula and affected retinal quadrants as compared with baseline was markedly reduced in all patients. Coupled with fluorescein angiographic findings, OCT data suggest a trend of macular edema recurrence between 6 weeks and 12 weeks after injection. Intravitreal bevacizumab injections of 2.0 mg at 12-week intervals were well tolerated and were associated with short-term BCVA stabilization or improvement and favorable macular changes in all patients with ischemic RVO and associated macular edema."}
{"id": "17287669", "title": "[Treatment of diabetic macular edema with intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection: functional and anatomical outcomes].", "content": "[Treatment of diabetic macular edema with intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection: functional and anatomical outcomes]. This prospective study aimed to investigate the effectiveness and safety of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (TA) injection in diabetic macular edema unresponsive to an initial argon laser photocoagulation procedure. and methods: Fifty-six eyes of fifty patients were included in this study. All the eyes had refractory and clinically significant diabetic macular edema with a central macular thickness (CMT) greater than 300 microm. All the eyes were injected 4 mg/0.1 ml TA intravitreally. The main outcome parameters were best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and CMT. Elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) and other potential complications were monitored carefully. All the patients were followed at least 9 months. Preinjection mean BCVA was 0.128+/-0.11 and statistically significant improvement in BCVA started in the 1st week and was observed during the first 6 months of the follow-up period. BCVA reached 0.289+/-0.19 at the 2nd month and decreased gradually to 0.169+/-0.1 at the 9th month. However, clinically significant improvement after TA injection in BCVA (> or =0.2) was observed in 50%, 67.8%, 67.8%, 28.5%, and 12.5% of the eyes in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 6th, and 9th months, respectively. The central macular thickness measured by OCT, which was reduced by 45% at the 3rd month, returned nearly to its initial level at the 9th month. High IOP was observed in 35.7% of eyes and appeared between the 1st week and the 2nd month. Other complications were cataract development and progression (7.1%), pseudoendophthalmitis (3.56%), and bacterial endophthalmitis (1.78%). Intravitreal TA injection is a relatively safe and beneficial therapeutic method for intractable diabetic macular edema. The recurrence of edema warrants reinjections, even though the risk of complication is higher, especially infectious endophthalmitis, which might be devastating. Further studies should be conducted with newer, slow corticosteroid release methods such as intravitreal devices in the treatment of diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "17275910", "title": "Analysis of macular edema after cataract surgery in patients with diabetes using optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Analysis of macular edema after cataract surgery in patients with diabetes using optical coherence tomography. To assess the incidence or progression of macular edema (ME) after cataract surgery in diabetic patients using optical coherence tomography (OCT) and correlating this with degree of diabetic retinopathy or other risk factors. Prospective cohort study. Fifty diabetic eyes undergoing cataract surgery. Each eye underwent 7-field fundus photography no more than 3 months before surgery. Optical coherence tomography testing was performed within 4 weeks before surgery and at 1- and 3-month postoperative visits. Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was recorded at each visit. Macular edema was defined as an increase of center point thickness on OCT > 30% from preoperative baseline. Changes in foveal thickness and BCVA. The incidence of ME on OCT was 22% (95% confidence interval, 13%-35%). The average increase in center point thickness at 1 month for eyes with ME was 202 microm, which resulted in a nearly 1-line loss of vision (0.07 logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution [logMAR] units) compared with eyes without ME gaining >2 lines of vision (0.24 logMAR units) (P>0.001). Eyes with no diabetic retinopathy developed minimal thickening of 18 mum and 14 mum at 1 and 3 months, respectively, associated with approximately 2 and 3 lines of improved vision, respectively (0.22 and 0.26 logMAR units). Eyes with moderate or severe nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy or proliferative diabetic retinopathy developed thickening of 145 mum and 131 mum at 1 and 3 months, respectively, associated with <1 and 2 lines of improved visual acuity, respectively (0.08 and 0.17 logMAR units). This difference (P = 0.05) in thickening (127 microm and 117 mum at 1 and 3 months, respectively) was correlated inversely with visual improvement (r = -0.662). Both duration of diabetes > or = 10 years (P = 0.04) and insulin dependence (P = 0.007) were associated with reduced visual improvement. Diabetic eyes have a high incidence of increased center point thickness on OCT after cataract surgery, associated with a loss of vision at 1 month, with limited visual recovery at 3 months. Treatment to prevent this might improve outcomes in similar individuals after surgery."}
{"id": "17270681", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for the treatment of immune recovery uveitis macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for the treatment of immune recovery uveitis macular edema. To evaluate the use of intravitreal triamcinolone (IVTA) for the treatment of macular edema secondary to immune recovery uveitis (IRU) in patients with AIDS. Prospective, consecutive, interventional case series. Eight eyes of 7 patients receiving 13 injections. Prospective, consecutive, interventional case series of 13 injections involving 8 eyes in 7 patients who underwent an intravitreal injection of 20 mg decanted triamcinolone acetate for fluorescein angiographically proven IRU-related macular edema. The primary outcome measure was vision (using the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study chart). Other outcome measures included fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography. Visual acuity improved at all time points and was statistically significant at the 1-month and 3-month follow-up examinations. The average visual improvement was 3 lines at 3 months. Retinal volume and thickness improvement were statistically significant at all time points. All patients had a minimum follow-up of 9 months, and there were no cases of cytomegalovirus reactivation. Previous studies showed that treatment with sub-Tenon repository steroids for the treatment of macular edema of IRU was only marginally effective. However, the current study shows that IVTA can be an effective short-term treatment for macular edema secondary to IRU in patients with AIDS. Longer follow-up is needed to assess the durability of the effect and to monitor for longer-term complications and outcomes."}
{"id": "17245077", "title": "Optical coherence tomography findings in diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography findings in diabetic retinopathy. Ophthalmoscopy, fundus photography and fluorescein angiography are the common tools to diagnose diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema. However, there is an increasing demand for high-resolution imaging of ocular tissues to improve the diagnosis and management of diabetic retinopathy. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) provides important additional information about the retina. It produces reliable, reproducible and objective retinal images especially in diabetic macular edema and provides information about vitreoretinal relationships that can clearly only be detected with OCT. It enhances the ability to exactly diagnose diabetic macular edema, epiretinal membranes, vitreomacular or vitroretinal traction. OCT also brings new insights into morphological changes of the retina in diabetic retinopathy. It demonstrates that macular edema is a complex clinical entity with various morphology. With the OCT, structural changes and quantitative assessment of macular edema have become feasible as determined with retinal thickness and volume. OCT is more sensitive to small changes in retinal thickness than slit-lamp biomicroscopy."}
{"id": "17244207", "title": "Topography of diabetic macular oedema compared with fluorescein angiography.", "content": "Topography of diabetic macular oedema compared with fluorescein angiography. To compare the amount and pattern of fluorescein leakage in diabetic macular oedema with the retinal thickness maps obtained with the retinal thickness analyser (RTA) and optical coherence tomography (OCT). A consecutive series of 30 eyes from 30 patients with diabetic macular oedema was included. On fluorescein angiography (FA) the macula was analysed in 10 subfields as defined by the ETDRS. The amount and source of leakage for each field were determined. Retinal thickness was measured by OCT and RTA maps in each of the 10 fields and compared with the FA grading. Foveal retinal thickness on OCT was most influenced by the overall FA leakage, which was the only significant covariate on multivariate analysis. The source and amount of leakage correlated significantly with the topography of retinal thickness in the four peripheral fields between 1500 microm and 3000 microm from the macular centre (r = 0.54, p = 0.002). The mean amount and source of leakage in those fields also showed the highest correlation with central macular thickness on OCT (r = 0.46, p = 0.01). Similar results were obtained by RTA when excluding ischaemic cases (r = 0.44, p = 0.04). For both instruments, FA leakage within the four central fields < 1500 microm did not correlate significantly with retinal thickness. Thickness by OCT and RTA were highly correlated with one another for central macular measurements (r = 0.73, p < 0.001), but correlated poorly in the peripheral fields. Overall, OCT measurements correlated more highly with FA. Optical coherence tomography and RTA thickness measurements can be used to identify patients for further examination. Fluorescein angiography leakage in the outer ETDRS fields correlates best with central thickness and retinal thickness topography by OCT."}
{"id": "17244205", "title": "Short-term effects of intravitreal triamcinolone on retinal vascular leakage and trunk vessel diameters in diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Short-term effects of intravitreal triamcinolone on retinal vascular leakage and trunk vessel diameters in diabetic macular oedema. To assess retinal vascular permeability and vessel diameter changes after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) injection in eyes with persistent foveal thickening after photocoagulation for diabetic macular oedema (DMO). We calculated the blood-retinal barrier permeability as measured by vitreous fluorophotometry, artery and venous vessel diameter at the temporal vascular arcades as measured on digital fundus photos, and retinal thickness as measured by optical coherence tomography. Seven patients with type 2 diabetes and DMO were examined immediately before and 1 week after IVTA 2 mg. The study was designed as an open-label interventional case series using the fellow eyes as untreated controls. One week after IVTA, we observed that, compared with baseline values, blood-retinal barrier permeability had decreased to 27.2 +/- 3.6% (p < 0.0001), retinal artery diameter had decreased to 94.9 +/- 0.02% (p = 0.05), retinal vein diameter had decreased to 89.2 +/- 0.03% (p = 0.02) and foveal thickness had decreased to 68.7 +/- 6.9% (p = 0.004). Visual acuity (VA) improved by 7.4 +/- 2.2 letters (p = 0.01). No significant change was observed in control eyes except that mean VA deteriorated by 2.6 +/- 0.9 letters (p = 0.03). Changes in permeability were closely correlated to changes in retinal thickness (R = 0.84) and venoule diameter (R = 0.93) in treated eyes. Intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide in eyes with DMO is followed by a marked reduction in retinal vascular leakage and a concomitant reduction in retinal vessel calibre."}
{"id": "17229807", "title": "Cystoid puncture for chronic cystoid macular oedema.", "content": "Cystoid puncture for chronic cystoid macular oedema. To evaluate the new surgical technique of cystoid macular oedema puncture (CMOP) in patients with longstanding cystoid macular oedema refractory to standard treatments. Interventional, retrospective case series Retrospective review of patients with chronic cystoid macular oedema from vascular retinopathy for whom maximal medical or surgical treatment failed and who underwent pars plana vitrectomy and CMOP. Clinical findings, best-corrected Snellen visual acuity, stereo colour fundus photography, intravenous fluorescein angiograms, and optical coherence tomography were obtained before and after treatment to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the treatment. Seven patients were included in the study. Cystoid macular oedema was due to diabetic retinopathy in five patients, central retinal vein occlusion in one patient and branch retinal vein occlusion in one patient. Preoperative intravitreal steroids failed for all patients, and three patients also had focal grid photocoagulation. Previous pars plana vitrectomy, with elevation of the posterior hyaloid, internal limiting membrane peeling, and intravitreal steroid injection, had failed in three patients. The median time to CMOP was 488 days. Resolution or improvement of cystoid oedema occurred in all patients as determined by fluorescein angiography or optical coherence tomography, or both. However, visual acuity was unchanged in five patients, declined in one patient and stable in one patient. Although cystoid macular oedema does improve quantitatively after CMOP, the technique fails to improve visual acuity in patients."}
{"id": "17229183", "title": "Diabetic macular oedema: a clinical overview.", "content": "Diabetic macular oedema: a clinical overview. Diabetic retinopathy is the leading cause of blindness in working aged-adults in westernised countries. Diabetic macular oedema (DMO) is a manifestation of diabetic retinopathy and is the leading cause of the visual impairment that occurs with diabetic retinopathy. There are multiple ways of classifying DMO; however, none appear to be wholly satisfactory. DMO occurs more frequently in type 2 diabetes mellitus, and appears to be more prevalent as the duration of diabetes increases, and as the severity of diabetic retinopathy worsens. There are multiple risk factors in common with diabetic retinopathy, such as hyperglycaemia, hypertension and dyslipidaemia; however, specific factors such as the presence of renal disease appear to be more significantly associated with DMO. Whereas the gold standard for diagnosis of DMO is via clinical examination, there is considerable variability involved, and hence, this has led to the advent of more objective methods of quantifying the degree of retinal thickness, such as optical coherence tomography. Laser photocoagulation appears to be the only universally acceptable treatment of choice to date; however, this is a destructive therapy, and its side effects coupled with the suboptimal efficacy has led to the advent of potential new therapies which will undoubtedly compliment the existing approaches, in the future management of a patient with DMO."}
{"id": "17218911", "title": "Fundus microperimetry patterns of fixation in type 2 diabetic patients with diffuse macular edema.", "content": "Fundus microperimetry patterns of fixation in type 2 diabetic patients with diffuse macular edema. Recently developed fundus microperimetry (MP-1; Nidek Technologies, Srl. Vigonza PD, Italy) was used to evaluate fixation patterns and retinal sensitivity in patients who had clinically significant macular edema with a diffuse pattern and type 2 diabetes mellitus. In a prospective, observational case series study, 84 consecutive patients with type 2 diabetes (84 eyes) who had clinically significant macular edema with a diffuse pattern were studied by means of MP-1. Main outcome measures were fixation stability and position and mean retinal sensitivities within the central 2 degrees and 8 degrees areas. Logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was evaluated by means of an Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study chart. Foveal thickness was measured by Stratus optical coherence tomography (OCT; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc., Dublin, CA). Age, duration of diabetes, hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) levels, duration of symptoms, history of panretinal photocoagulation, vitreomacular adhesion, and cystoid macular changes were documented. Patients were grouped according to both position of fixation (central or eccentric) and stability of fixation (stable or unstable). Statistical analyses included independent samples t-test, binomial test, Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons, and generalized linear model univariate analysis. Of 84 eyes, 44 (52.4%) had central fixation, and 40 (47.6%) had eccentric fixation. Of 84 eyes, 34 (40.5%) had stable fixation, and 50 (59.5%) had unstable fixation. In the whole sample, mean central 2 degrees retinal sensitivity +/- SD was 6.26 +/- 3.19 dB (range, 0-14.80 dB), and mean central 8 degrees retinal sensitivity +/- SD was 7.62 +/- 2.55 (range, 3.85-14.90 dB); logMAR BCVA ranged from 0.1 to 1.3 (mean +/- SD, 0.6 +/- 0.29). Mean OCT foveal thickness +/- SD was 300.77 +/- 66.93 m (range, 220-525 m). Both comparisons between groups (stable vs. unstable and central vs. eccentric) showed statistically significant differences in mean logMAR BCVA, mean central 2 degrees and 8 degrees retinal sensitivities, and mean OCT foveal thickness. Duration of symptoms was significantly longer and HbA1c levels were higher in the groups with deterioration of stability or centrality of fixation. The prevalence of cystoid macular changes was significantly higher in the groups with eccentric or unstable fixation (P < 0.001). Generalized linear model statistical analysis showed that logMAR BCVA was significantly associated with stability of fixation (P = 0.020), mean central 8 degrees retinal sensitivity (P < 0.001), and mean OCT foveal thickness (P < 0.001). The interaction between stability of fixation and mean OCT foveal thickness showed a statistically significant association with logMAR BCVA (P = 0.003). Some eyes with eccentric fixation presented with stable fixation, especially in the presence of long-lasting symptoms, and had better visual acuity than eyes with central, but unstable fixation. Visual acuity, central retinal sensitivity, foveal thickness, duration of symptoms, HbA1c levels, and presence of cystoid macular changes were strongly associated with fixation impairment in type 2 diabetic patients who had clinically significant macular edema with a diffuse pattern. Stability of fixation and foveal thickness play a major role in conditioning BCVA."}
{"id": "17218910", "title": "Short-term effects of focal argon laser treatment in diabetic maculopathy as demonstrated by optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Short-term effects of focal argon laser treatment in diabetic maculopathy as demonstrated by optical coherence tomography. To assess the short-term effects of argon laser on retinal thickening as demonstrated by optical coherence tomography (OCT). A prospectively collected consecutive series of patients undergoing routine focal argon laser treatment for sight-threatening diabetic maculopathy had bilateral OCT performed before laser treatment and 1 hour, 24 hours, and 2 weeks after treatment. The main outcome measure was change in retinal thickness in the region of laser treatment. Forty-six eyes were analyzed. There was a small increase in retinal thickness in the treated area 1 hour after laser treatment, with a mean change from before laser treatment of +2.6 microm (95% confidence interval [CI], +0.2 to + 5.0). However, there was a larger change 24 hours after treatment of +39.0 microm (95% CI, +31.6 to + 46.4) and a significant decrease 2 weeks after treatment of -14.6 microm (95% CI, -21.6 to -7.7) from before laser treatment values. Focal argon laser treatment remains the first-line treatment for sight-threatening diabetic maculopathy. This study shows that in the short-term, areas of retinal thickening worsen before settling in response to argon laser treatment as demonstrated by OCT."}
{"id": "17188065", "title": "Intravitreal prednisolone sodium succinate reduces diabetic macular edema without intraocular pressure rise.", "content": "Intravitreal prednisolone sodium succinate reduces diabetic macular edema without intraocular pressure rise. To evaluate the six-month results of patients treated with intravitreal prednisolone sodium succinate injections for persistent diabetic macular edema. Retrospective, noncontrolled, clinical case series. Nineteen eyes had intravitreal injections with prednisolone sodium succinate. Need for retreatment was based on fluorescein angiographic or optical coherence tomography evidence of persisting macular edema. Mean visual acuity at six weeks, three months, and six months after injection was significantly better than the mean preoperative visual acuity (P = .015, P = .004, and P = .031, respectively). In none of the studied eyes intraocular pressure exceeded 22 mm Hg. No other adverse events, such as endophthalmitis or retinal detachment, occurred. In this small pilot study, mean visual acuity improvement was statistically significant up to six months postoperatively. Current results suggest that intravitreal injection of the solution of prednisolone sodium succinate may be a safe and good alternative in eyes with macular edema."}
{"id": "17123615", "title": "Relationship between optical coherence tomography-measured central retinal thickness and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Relationship between optical coherence tomography-measured central retinal thickness and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema. To compare optical coherence tomography (OCT)-measured retinal thickness and visual acuity in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME) both before and after macular laser photocoagulation. Cross-sectional and longitudinal study. Two hundred ten patients (251 eyes) with DME enrolled in a randomized clinical trial of laser techniques. Retinal thickness was measured with OCT and visual acuity was measured with the electronic Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy procedure. Optical coherence tomography-measured center point thickness and visual acuity. The correlation coefficients for visual acuity versus OCT center point thickness were 0.52 at baseline and 0.49, 0.36, and 0.38 at 3.5, 8, and 12 months after laser photocoagulation. The slope of the best fit line to the baseline data was approximately 4.4 letters (95% confidence interval, 3.5-5.3) of better of visual acuity for every 100-mum decrease in center point thickness at baseline with no important difference at follow-up visits. Approximately one third of the variation in visual acuity could be predicted by a linear regression model that incorporated OCT center point thickness, age, hemoglobin A1C, and severity of fluorescein leakage. The correlation between change in visual acuity and change in OCT center point thickening 3.5 months after laser treatment was 0.44, with no important difference at the other follow-up times. A subset of eyes showed paradoxical improvements in visual acuity with increased center point thickening (7%-17% at the 3 time points) or paradoxical worsening of visual acuity with a decrease in center point thickening (18%-26% at the 3 time points). There is modest correlation between OCT-measured center point thickness and visual acuity, and modest correlation of changes in retinal thickening and visual acuity after focal laser treatment for DME. However, a wide range of visual acuity may be observed for a given degree of retinal edema. Thus, although OCT measurements of retinal thickness represent an important tool in clinical evaluation, they cannot substitute reliably as a surrogate for visual acuity at a given point in time. This study does not address whether short-term changes on OCT are predictive of long-term effects on visual acuity."}
{"id": "17108013", "title": "Predictive factors for short-term visual outcome after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection for diabetic macular oedema: an optical coherence tomography study.", "content": "Predictive factors for short-term visual outcome after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection for diabetic macular oedema: an optical coherence tomography study. To evaluate the predictive factors for visual outcome after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection to treat refractory diabetic macular oedema (DME). A retrospective chart review of patients with DME who met the following inclusion criteria was performed: clinically significant diabetic macular oedema, receipt of a 4 mg/0.1 ml intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection and an optical coherence tomography (OCT) of the macula performed up to 10 days before injection. All patients received a full ophthalmic examination including best-corrected Snellen visual acuity (VA). The main outcome measure was the mean change in vision 3 months after injection. Data from 73 eyes of 59 patients were analysed. After a mean follow-up of 324 days, the mean change in vision was -0.075 logarithm of minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) units, with 27.3% improving > or =3 lines, 6.8% declining > or =3 lines and 60.2% remaining stable within 1 line of baseline vision. Statistical analysis was performed using multivariate generalised estimating equations on the basis of data from 52 eyes of 42 patients. Factors associated with an improvement in vision 3 months after injection were worse baseline VA (-0.27 logMAR units/unit increase in baseline VA, p = 0.002) and presence of subretinal fluid (-0.17 logMAR units, p = 0.06). The presence of cystoid macular oedema negatively affected the visual outcome (0.15 logMAR units, p = 0.03). In addition, the presence of an epiretinal membrane (ERM) was associated with less visual improvement. ERM modified the effect of baseline VA as demonstrated by a significant interaction between these two variables (0.34 logMAR units/unit increase in baseline VA, p = 0.04). OCT factors and baseline VA can be useful in predicting the outcomes of VA 3 months after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection in patients with refractory DME."}
{"id": "17093998", "title": "Comparative evaluation of vitrectomy and dye-enhanced ILM peel with grid laser in diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of vitrectomy and dye-enhanced ILM peel with grid laser in diffuse diabetic macular edema. The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) and dye-enhanced peeling of the internal limiting membrane (ILM) with modified grid laser photocoagulation in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema and to determine if any correlation exists between improvement in visual acuity (functional improvement) and reduction in foveal thickness and macular volume (anatomical improvement). This is a randomized, prospective, comparative, interventional study. In this study 24 eyes of 24 patients with metabolically stable diabetes and with diffuse diabetic macular edema were evaluated. The patients were randomized to either pars plana vitrectomy with removal of ILM which was done in 12 eyes (ILM group) and modified grid laser photocoagulation carried out in the remaining 12 eyes (laser group). Main outcome measures were (1) the postoperative visual acuity in the form of ETDRS log MAR values, (2) foveal thickness and (3) macular volume as measured by optical coherence tomography. The correlation between improvement in visual acuity and the reduction of foveal thickness and macular volume in both the groups were also evaluated. The results were all subjected to statistical analysis. The ETDRS log MAR visual acuity difference between the two groups at the end of 6 months was not clinically significant (P = 0.525). However, foveal thickness and macular volume decreased significantly more in the ILM group compared to the laser group (P = 0.001, P < 0.001, Mann Whitney U test). There was no correlation between the improvement in visual acuity and the reduction of foveal thickness (r = -0.158, P = 0.6) (ILM group), r = -0.155, P = 0.7) (laser group) in both groups. PPV with ILM peeling was shown to be beneficial by inducing a statistically significant reduction of macular thickness and macular volume. Visual acuity also demonstrated a trend towards improvement in both the ILM peel group and the grid laser group; however, the comparative VA outcome analysis between the two groups was not significantly different. Besides, there was also no correlation between the reductions of foveal thickness and macular volume with the improvement in visual acuity in either of the groups."}
{"id": "17070586", "title": "Correlation between optical coherence tomography and fluorescein angiography findings in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Correlation between optical coherence tomography and fluorescein angiography findings in diabetic macular edema. To report the relationship between the findings of third-generation optical coherence tomography (OCT) and fluorescein angiography (FA) in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME). Small case series. Four eyes with DME. We compared findings from late-phase FA with corresponding cross-sectional OCT images using 5-mm-long horizontal and vertical scans. Fluorescein angiography and OCT findings in DME. Fluorescein angiography showed dye pooling within the cystic spaces with a petalloid pattern in the foveal area in all eyes; 3 eyes had cystic spaces primarily in the outer plexiform layer (OPL) on OCT. In 16 perifoveal areas in 4 eyes, FA showed hyperfluorescence with a honeycomb pattern in 7 areas, petalloid pattern in 3, and diffuse pattern in 3. The remaining 3 perifoveal areas had no hyperfluorescence. Optical coherence tomography showed that the perifoveal areas with a honeycomb pattern of hyperfluorescence had not only swelling of the OPL but also cystoid spaces located in the inner nuclear layer (INL). The perifoveal areas with no honeycomb pattern but petalloid or diffuse hyperfluorescence had only retinal swelling of the OPL. In the remaining 3 perifoveal areas without hyperfluorescence, OCT showed almost normal retinal structures. Diabetic macular edema typically showed 2 patterns of dye pooling on late-phase FA (i.e., petalloid in the fovea and honeycomb in the perifoveal area). The dye pooling corresponded to large cystic spaces in the OPL, and the honeycomb pattern to small cystic spaces in the INL."}
{"id": "16973659", "title": "A prospective randomised trial of different doses of intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "A prospective randomised trial of different doses of intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular oedema. To compare the safety and efficacy of different doses of intravitreal triamcinolone (ivTA) in treating clinically significant diabetic macular oedema (CSMO). 63 eyes of 63 patients with CSMO and central foveal thickness (CFT) of > or =250 microm on optical coherence tomography were randomised to receive 4 mg (n = 23), 6 mg (n = 20) or 8 mg (n = 20) ivTA. Patients were followed up for 6 months, and changes in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), optical coherence tomography CFT, standardised change in macular thickness (SCMT), and side effects such as intraocular pressure and cataractogenesis were compared between the three groups. After ivTA injection, improvements of BCVA and CFT occurred in all groups. The mean BCVA improvement at 6 months was significantly higher for the 8 mg group compared with the 4 mg group, with 9.9 and 3.1 improvement in letters on the Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study chart, respectively (p = 0.047). The mean SCMT at 6 months for the 4, 6 and 8 mg groups was 28.7%, 42.3% and 60.5%, respectively (p = 0.06). The proportion of eyes with SCMT > or =75% at 6 months was higher in the 8 mg group, but the difference failed to reach significance (p = 0.06). Ocular hypertensive responses (>21 mm Hg) occurred in 39%, 30% and 55% of eyes in the 4, 6, and 8 mg groups, respectively (p = 0.27). Higher doses of ivTA may prolong the duration of visual benefit in diabetic CSMO and seemed to result in more sustained reduction in macular oedema. Further studies are warranted to investigate the optimum dose of ivTA in treating diabetic CSMO."}
{"id": "16865374", "title": "Effect of uncomplicated phacoemulsification on the central retina in diabetic and non-diabetic subjects.", "content": "Effect of uncomplicated phacoemulsification on the central retina in diabetic and non-diabetic subjects. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the subclinical influence of uncomplicated cataract surgery on foveal thickness and volume in the early postoperative period. In a prospective study, 108 eyes were assessed by optical coherence tomography preoperatively and 1 day, 1 week and 4 weeks after uncomplicated small incisional phacoemulsification with endocapsular intraocular lens (IOL) implantation under topical anesthesia. The study included 24 eyes of diabetic patients. Eyes with diseases predisposing them for postoperative macular edema, preexisting macular edema, and eyes that developed cystoid macular edema during follow-up were excluded. Main outcome measures were minimal foveal thickness (MFT) and foveal volume. Secondary outcome measure was VA. Visual acuity (LogMAR) increased significantly (p<0.001) from 0.43+/-0.21 to 0.11+/-0.15 4 weeks after surgery, with a significantly (p=0.001) higher increase in VA for nondiabetic subjects. MFT increased from 183+/-27 mum preoperatively to 191+/-37 mum 4 weeks after surgery (p=0.001), with diabetic patients showing a tendency toward a more pronounced increase in minimal retinal thickness than nondiabetic subjects (p=0.058). One day and 1 week after surgery, MFT measurements were not significantly different from preoperative results. Foveal volume showed a significant increase at 1 week and 4 weeks after surgery (p<0.001), independent of the presence of diabetes (p=0.565). The proportion of patients exhibiting subclinical macular swelling was about 1/5 in the nondiabetic group and 1/3 in the diabetic group. Mean duration of surgery was 11.5+/-6.6 min. Foveal thickness and foveal volume demonstrate a subclinical increase within 4 weeks after uncomplicated cataract surgery in up to 1/3 of the patients. The amount and frequency of early postoperative subclinical retinal thickening was higher than expected."}
{"id": "16751756", "title": "Visualization of vitreomacular tractions with en face optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Visualization of vitreomacular tractions with en face optical coherence tomography. In vitreomacular traction syndrome, an incomplete vitreous detachment with persistent vitreous traction on the macula is present. This condition may determine formation of epiretinal membranes, macular puckering, macular oedema, and traction macular detachment. Recently introduced en face optical coherence tomography (OCT) provides not only longitudinal B-scan but also coronal C-scan images of the retina. Fifteen eyes of 11 non-diabetic patients presenting vitreomacular traction syndrome have been evaluated with en face OCT (OTI, Toronto, Ontario, Canada). In 12 eyes, cystoid macular oedema was detectable at fundus examination and was associated with a broad-based adherence of the posterior hyaloid to the macula. In three eyes, foveal detachment appeared to be associated with focal foveal vitreoretinal traction. In all eyes, the lateral extent of the hyaloidal tractions on the macula was clearly detectable at coronal C-scan. They appeared as sigmoid hyper-reflective bands in the hyporeflective vitreous chamber. Overlay of C-scans on red-free confocal images allowed the visualization of the edges of the adherences in relation to the structures of the posterior pole. The C-scan images allowed clear visualization of the total extension of the posterior vitreomacular adherences and their relationships with the vascular arcades, the optic disc, and the fovea."}
{"id": "17302204", "title": "Intravitreal versus posterior subtenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal versus posterior subtenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide for diabetic macular edema. To compare the short-term effects of intravitreal versus posterior subtenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide for diabetic macular edema. This is a prospective and interventional study. Sixty eyes of 60 patients who had diffuse diabetic macular edema were assigned to receive a single intravitreal injection (4 mg) or a single posterior subtenon injection (40 mg) of triamcinolone acetonide. The central retinal thickness was measured using optical coherent tomography before injection and at 1 and 3 months after injection. Visual acuity and intraocular pressure (IOP) were also measured. Both intravitreal and posterior subtenon injections of triamcinolone acetonide resulted in significant improvements in visual acuity at 1 month and 3 months after injection. Both groups resulted in a significant decrease in central macular thickness (CMT) at 1 month and 3 months post-injection. IOP in the intravitreal injection group was significantly higher than in the posterior subtenon injection group at 3 months after injection. The posterior subtenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide had a comparable effect to the intravitreal triamcinolone injection and showed a lower risk of elevated IOP. Posterior subtenon injection of triamcinolone acetonide may be a good alternative for the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "17224958", "title": "Elevated intravitreal interleukin-6 levels in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Elevated intravitreal interleukin-6 levels in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy. We conducted this study to elucidate the possible role of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in the pathogenesis of proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). Together with pertinent clinical and laboratory data, intravitreal and serum concentrations of IL-6 were determined in 8 patients with PDR by means of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The results were compared with data from 8 nondiabetic control subjects undergoing vitrectomy. Significantly higher intravitreal IL-6 concentrations were found in patients with PDR (mean [SD], 755 [177] pg/mL) compared with control subjects (93 [151] pg/mL) (p = 0.001). The serum IL-6 levels in the PDR group were lower than the measurable threshold of the ELISA kit (<0.16 pg/mL). Diabetic patients with macular edema had a higher mean (SD) level of intravitreal IL-6 (896 [73] pg/mL) compared with patients without macular edema (613 [119] pg/mL) (Mann-Whitney U test, p = 0.03). Correlation analysis did not reveal any significant association between intravitreal IL-6 levels and patient age, duration of either diabetes mellitus or vitreous hemorrhage, panretinal photocoagulation, type of current medical therapy, hyperglycemia, or the biochemical indicators of renal function. IL-6, a proinflammatory cytokine, may have a role in PDR. Intraocular production of IL-6 appears to be responsible for the elevated intravitreal levels observed."}
{"id": "17206015", "title": "[Macular oedema and intravitreal triamcinolone injections].", "content": "[Macular oedema and intravitreal triamcinolone injections]. To evaluate the efficacy of intravitreal triamcinolone injections for macular oedema in Iceland 2004-2006. We reviewed hospital records of 28 patients who underwent intravitreal injection with triamcinolone acetonide 2004-2006. Most patients were treated with 8 mg of triamcinolone acetonide. Patients were categorized according to the cause of macular oedema (diabetes (n=10), phacoemulsification (n=7), branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO) (n=7) and uveitis (n=4)). Best corrected visual acuity was determined before treatment and 1, 3 and 6 months postoperatively. Intraocular pressure and foveal thickness were measured before and after treatment. Visual acuity improved in 4 patients with diabetic macular oedema while 5 had unchanged vision. The effect lasted 6 months in 8 out of 9 cases. Seven were treated for macular oedema after phacoemulsification. Two had improved visual acuity after the injection and 5 had unchanged eye sight. The effect lasted for 6 months in every case except for one who lost vision. Out of 7 who were treated for macular oedema after BRVO, 3 had improved visual acuity and 4 remained unchanged for 6 months. Four patients with uveitis got triamcinolone injections and a month after treatment 2 had better vision and 2 had unchanged visual acuity. The effect lasted for 6 months in all cases but one. In the diabetes and BRVO groups OCT showed a significant reduction of foveal thickness. In 4 cases intraocular pressure increased, all of them were successfully treated with topical treatment. Intravitreal triamcinolone improves visual acuity in about 40% of patients with macular oedema, about 10% lose vision and about 50% remain unchanged. OCT reveal improved anatomic results with significant reduction of foveal thickness and macular oedema. No serious complications were noted."}
{"id": "17180527", "title": "Pars plana vitrectomy with removal of posterior hyaloid face in treatment of refractory diabetic macular edema resistant to triamcinolone acetonide.", "content": "Pars plana vitrectomy with removal of posterior hyaloid face in treatment of refractory diabetic macular edema resistant to triamcinolone acetonide. Triamcinolone acetonide (TA) has recently been used to treat diabetic macular edema (DME) but its effectiveness is limited. Three patients (three eyes) with unresolved diffuse DME who did not respond to a posterior sub-Tenon's injection of TA underwent vitrectomy. Intraoperatively, it was found that all of the eyes had a posterior hyaloid face that was adherent to a large area of the posterior pole retina, although this had not been detected by slit-lamp biomicroscopy or optical coherence tomography. After vitrectomy and removal of the posterior hyaloid face, there was a significant reduction in the central macular thickness of all three eyes and an improvement in the visual acuity of the patients. When TA treatment is not effective for DME, vitrectomy with the complete removal of the posterior hyaloid face, including removal of the internal limiting membrane, should be considered."}
{"id": "17159029", "title": "Diurnal variation in retinal thickening measurement by optical coherence tomography in center-involved diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Diurnal variation in retinal thickening measurement by optical coherence tomography in center-involved diabetic macular edema. To evaluate diurnal variation in retinal thickness measured with optical coherence tomography (OCT) in patients with center-involved diabetic macular edema. Serial OCT3 measurements were performed in 156 eyes of 96 subjects with clinically diagnosed diabetic macular edema and OCT central subfield retinal thickness of 225 microm or greater at 8 am. Central subfield thickness was measured from OCT3 retinal thickness maps at 6 points over a single day between 8 am and 4 pm. A change in central subfield thickening (observed thickness minus mean normal thickness) of at least 25% and of at least 50 microm at 2 consecutive points or between 8 am and 4 pm was considered to have met the composite outcome threshold. At 8 am, the mean central subfield thickness was 368 microm and the mean visual acuity was 66 letters (approximately 20/50). The mean change in relative central subfield retinal thickening between 8 am and 4 pm was a decrease of 6% (95% confidence interval, -9% to -3%) and the mean absolute change was a decrease of 13 microm (95% CI, -17 to -8). The absolute change was significantly greater in retinas that were thicker at 8 am (P<.001) but the relative change was not (P = .14). The composite threshold of reduction in central subfield thickening (as defined above) was observed in 5 eyes of 4 subjects (3% of eyes; 95% CI, 1% to 8%) while 2 eyes of 2 subjects (1%; 95% CI, 0% to 5%) had an increase in central subfield thickening of this same magnitude. The maximum decrease was observed at 4 pm in all 5 eyes. Although on average there are slight decreases in retinal thickening during the day, most eyes with diabetic macular edema have little meaningful change in OCT central subfield thickening between 8 am and 4 pm."}
{"id": "17151486", "title": "Intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) therapy for persistent diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal bevacizumab (Avastin) therapy for persistent diffuse diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the efficacy of bevacizumab (Avastin; Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, CA) for the treatment of diabetic macular edema. This prospective, consecutive, noncomparative case series included 51 consecutive patients (26 females and 25 males; mean age, 64 years) with diffuse diabetic macular edema. Inclusion criteria were determined independently of the size of edema, retinal thickness, visual acuity, age, metabolic control, type of diabetes, or previous treatments beyond a 6-month period. At each visit, patients underwent complete eye examination, including determination of best-corrected visual acuity, slit-lamp examination, intraocular pressure measurement, stereoscopic biomicroscopy of the macula, retinal thickness measurement by optical coherence tomography, fluorescein angiography, and fundus photography. After written informed consent was obtained, all patients were treated with a 0.05-mL injection containing 1.25 mg of bevacizumab. All patients completed 6 weeks of follow-up; 23 (45%) completed 12 weeks of follow-up. Sixteen patients (70%) had received at least two intravitreal injections. All patients had undergone previous treatments, such as focal laser therapy (35%), full-scatter panretinal laser therapy (37%), vitrectomy (12%), and intravitreal injection of triamcinolone (33%). The mean diameter of the foveal avascular zone was 503 micro m, with 49% with values of >500 micro m. At baseline, mean visual acuity +/- SD was 25.88 +/- 14.43 ETDRS letters (0.86 +/- 0.38 logMAR of Snellen letters). Mean central retinal thickness by optical coherence tomography +/- SD was 501 +/- 163 micro m (range, 252-1,031 micro m). Mean visual acuity +/- SD increased to 0.75 +/- 0.37 logMAR of Snellen letters at 6 weeks after injection (P = 0.001), with some regression to 0.84 +/- 0.41 logMAR of Snellen letters after 12 weeks. Changes in ETDRS letters were not significant throughout follow-up. Mean retinal thickness +/- SD decreased to 425 +/- 180 micro m at 2 weeks (P = 0.002), 416 +/- 180 micro m at 6 weeks (P = 0.001), and 377 +/- 117 micro m at 12 weeks (P = 0.001). Changes of retinal thickness and visual acuity correlated weakly (r = -0.480 and P = 0.03 at 6 weeks; r = -0.462 and P = 0.07 at 12 weeks). The increase of visual acuity after 6 weeks as measured by ETDRS charts could be predicted best by baseline visual acuity. No other factors investigated, such as age, thickness by optical coherence tomography, or previous treatments, were predictive for the increase in visual acuity. Even in cases of diffuse diabetic macular edema not responding to previous treatments such as photocoagulation, intravitreal injection of triamcinolone, or vitrectomy, improvement of visual acuity and decrease of retinal thickness could be observed after intravitreal injection of bevacizumab. Although our follow-up period was too short to provide specific treatment recommendations, the short-term results encourage further prospective studies with different treatment groups and longer follow-up."}
{"id": "17142144", "title": "Association of manganese superoxide dismutase gene polymorphism (V16A) with diabetic macular edema in Korean type 2 diabetic patients.", "content": "Association of manganese superoxide dismutase gene polymorphism (V16A) with diabetic macular edema in Korean type 2 diabetic patients. This study was designed to investigate whether V16A polymorphism of the manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) gene is associated with the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus and with progression of diabetic retinopathy (DR) and diabetic macular edema (DME). We simultaneously analyzed insertion/deletion polymorphism of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) gene in the 16th intron to avoid its confounding effect. A total of 192 nondiabetic subjects and 304 type 2 diabetic patients were included in the study. Diabetic retinopathy was classified as nonretinopathy, nonproliferative retinopathy, and proliferative retinopathy. Diabetic macular edema was defined as thickening of the retina and/or hard exudates within a 1-disk diameter of the center of the macula. Diabetic macular edema was further classified into focal, diffuse, and ischemic types. The A allele frequency of the Mn-SOD gene was not different between nondiabetic and type 2 diabetic subjects, between the normotensive and hypertensive groups, between the DR (-) and DR (+) groups, and among the stages of DR. In the DR (+) group, the DME (+) group had a lower A allele frequency than that of the DME (-) group. In the DME (+) group, focal, diffuse, and ischemic types were found in 8, 23, and 6 patients, respectively. The A allele frequency of each type was 0.188, 0.109, and 0.0. The D allele frequency of the angiotensin-converting enzyme gene did not differ in any of the comparisons. Clinical and laboratory parameters of the A allele carriers were not different from those of the noncarriers except for the prevalence of hypertension and DME. Hypertension, diabetic duration, and insulin therapy were related to DR. The A allele, hypertension, and insulin therapy were associated with DME. In conclusion, our results suggest that V16A polymorphism of the Mn-SOD gene is not related to the development of diabetes and progression of DR, but is associated with DME in Korean type 2 diabetic patients."}
{"id": "17119727", "title": "Retinal thickness assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT) in pseudophakic macular edema.", "content": "Retinal thickness assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT) in pseudophakic macular edema. To evaluate the usefulness of the optical coherence tomography (OCT) retinal map in angiographic pseudophakic macular edema (ACME). This is a prospective analysis of a group of 36 pseudophakic eyes at the fifth postoperative week, submitted to optical coherence tomography 2 macular map and fluorescein angiography on the same day and, a control group of twenty-two 20/20 vision eyes with a minimum 6-month postoperative period, submitted to optical coherence tomography 2 macular map only. Exclusion criteria were diabetes, any macular pathology and unreadable optical coherence tomography or angiogram. The angiograms were divided into three groups according to the edema intensity: Group I: level 0 (absence of angiographic pseudophakic macular edema); group II: levels 1 and 2 (incomplete and complete perifoveal angiographic pseudophakic macular edema respectively) and group III: levels 3 and 4 (up to one disc diameter and greater than one disc diameter angiographic pseudophakic macular edema area respectively). The nine zones of the optical coherence tomography macular map were compared between the control and the three subgroups of the study group and, between group I and groups II and III. Among the 36 eyes, 23 (64%) were classified as group I, 10 (28%) as group II and three (8%) as group III. The mean thickness of the fovea zone was 185+/-15 microm for the control group, 189+/-24 microm for group I, 213+/-33 microm for group II and 455+/-38 microm for group III. Significant differences: between group III and the control or group I for all zones (p<0.01) and, between group II and control or group I for the fovea and temporal inner zones (p<0.05). The optical coherence tomography retinal map is useful in angiographic pseudophakic macular edema diagnosis."}
{"id": "17083552", "title": "Resolution of diabetic macular oedema following high altitude exercise.", "content": "Resolution of diabetic macular oedema following high altitude exercise."}
{"id": "17046701", "title": "Vascular endothelial growth factor is a critical stimulus for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Vascular endothelial growth factor is a critical stimulus for diabetic macular edema. The role of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in diabetic macular edema (DME) was tested with ranibizumab, a specific antagonist of VEGF. A nonrandomized clinical trial. Ten patients with chronic DME received intraocular injections of 0.5 mg of ranibizumab at baseline and at one, two, four, and six months. The primary outcome was change in foveal thickness between baseline and seven months, and the secondary outcome measures were changes from baseline in visual acuity and macular volume. Mean values at baseline were 503 microm for foveal thickness, 9.22 mm3 for macular volume, and 28.1 letters (20/80) read on an Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) visual acuity chart. At seven months (one month after the fifth injection), the mean foveal thickness was 257 microm, which was a reduction of 246 microm (85% of the excess foveal thickness present at baseline; P = .005 by Wilcoxon signed-rank test for likelihood that this change is due to ranibizumab rather than chance). The macular volume was 7.47 mm3, which was a reduction of 1.75 mm3 (77% of the excess macular volume at baseline; P = .009). Mean visual acuity was 40.4 letters (20/40), which was an improvement of 12.3 letters (P = .005). The injections were well-tolerated with no ocular or systemic adverse events. Intraocular injections of ranibizumab significantly reduced foveal thickness and improved visual acuity in 10 patients with DME, which demonstrated that VEGF is an important therapeutic target for DME. A randomized, controlled, double-masked trial is needed to test whether intraocular injections of ranibizumab provide long-term benefit to patients with DME."}
{"id": "17017466", "title": "A spreadsheet template for the analysis of optical coherence tomography in the longitudinal management of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "A spreadsheet template for the analysis of optical coherence tomography in the longitudinal management of diabetic macular edema. To provide a tool for analyzing optical coherence tomography data in patients with diabetic macular edema. Retrospective series of 206 patients with diabetic macular edema involving at least one eye and receiving focal laser photocoagulation, intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection, or vitrectomy, membrane peeling, and intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection, and of untreated fellow eyes without diabetic macular edema. Main outcome measures included foveal subfield mean thickness and thickening relative to normal (microns), total macular volume and its increase relative to normal (mm3), visual acuity (Snellen decimal), and intraocular pressure (mm Hg). The authors demonstrate a graphical display of data based on a spreadsheet template for the longitudinal management of diabetic macular edema. Complex relationships of ocular response and interventions are concisely displayed. A graphical display of optical coherence tomography, visual acuity, and intraocular pressure data is a practical aid in the management of diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "17017196", "title": "Serial optical coherence tomography of subthreshold diode laser micropulse photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Serial optical coherence tomography of subthreshold diode laser micropulse photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema. To use serial optical coherence tomography (OCT) to evaluate low-intensity, high-density subthreshold diode laser micropulse photocoagulation treatment of clinically significant diabetic macular edema. Eighteen consecutive eyes of 14 patients with clinically significant diabetic macular edema and a minimum foveal thickness of 223 microm or greater were prospectively evaluated by OCT preoperatively and 1, 4, and 12 weeks following treatment. Overall, estimated macular edema 3 months postoperatively (minimum foveal thickness--223 microm) was reduced a mean of 24% (P = .02). Eleven eyes treated for recurrent or persistent clinically significant diabetic macular edema following prior treatment more than 3 months before study entry were most improved, with a mean reduction in estimated macular edema 3 months postoperatively of 59%. No treatment complications were observed. No patient demonstrated laser lesions following treatment. Low-intensity, high-density subthreshold diode laser micropulse photocoagulation can reduce or eliminate clinically significant diabetic macular edema measured by OCT. Further study is warranted."}
{"id": "17011952", "title": "A pilot study of multiple intravitreal injections of ranibizumab in patients with center-involving clinically significant diabetic macular edema.", "content": "A pilot study of multiple intravitreal injections of ranibizumab in patients with center-involving clinically significant diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the biologic activity of multiple intravitreal injections of ranibizumab in patients with center-involving clinically significant diabetic macular edema (DME) and to report any associated adverse events. Single-center, open-label, dose-escalating pilot study. A total of 10 eyes of 10 patients (mean age, 69.3 years [range, 59-81]) with DME involving the center of the macula and best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) in the study eye between 20/63 and 20/400. Three intravitreal injections of ranibizumab (0.3 mg or 0.5 mg each injection) administered on day 0, month 1, and month 2, and observation until month 24. Primary end points were the frequency and severity of ocular and systemic adverse events. Secondary end points were BCVA and measurement of retinal thickness by optical coherence tomography. Of the 10 patients enrolled, 5 received 0.3-mg and 5 received 0.5-mg ranibizumab. Intravitreal injections of ranibizumab were well tolerated. No systemic adverse events were reported. Five occurrences of mild to moderate ocular inflammation were reported. At month 3, 4 of 10 patients gained > or =15 letters, 5 of 10 gained > or =10 letters, and 8 of 10 gained > or =1 letters. At month 3, the mean decrease in retinal thickness of the center point of the central subfield was 45.3+/-196.3 microm for the low-dose group and 197.8+/-85.9 microm for the high-dose group. Ranibizumab appears to be a well-tolerated therapy for patients with DME. This pilot study demonstrates that ranibizumab therapy has the potential to maintain or improve BCVA and reduce retinal thickness in patients with center-involved clinically significant DME."}
{"id": "17011854", "title": "Reading performance of patients with uveitis-associated cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Reading performance of patients with uveitis-associated cystoid macular edema. To evaluate the extent of the visual impairment caused by uveitis-associated cystoid macular edema (CME) and compare the results with lesion size. Observational case series. setting: Uveitis outpatient clinic of the Department of Ophthalmology and Optometry, Medical University of Vienna. patient population: CME was verified in 30 eyes of 30 consecutive uveitis patients with optical coherence tomography and lesion size was assessed with retinal thickness analyzer. main outcome measures: Distance visual acuity (VA) (measured with Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study charts), reading acuity, and reading speed (tested with Radner Reading Charts). Results were compared with nonaffected partner eyes. Distance VA was logMAR 0.22 +/- 0.15 in CME eyes vs -0.02 +/- 0.17 in healthy controls. Reading acuity was 75% of logMAR in CME eyes vs 92% of logMAR in control eyes (P = .01). The mean reading speed was 148.4 +/- 36.6 words per minute in patients with CME vs 168.9 +/- 36.3 in patients without CME (P = .04). Reading acuity correlated with both lesion size and distance VA (r = 0.61; P = .01 and r = 0.53; P = .028, respectively). Neither anatomical classification of uveitis nor gender or age had a significant influence on the evaluated parameters. Reading acuity and reading speed were considerably more impaired than distance visual acuity. The assessed parameters showed a better correlation to lesion size and seem to be a better reflection of macular dysfunction. Analyzing reading function is an important factor when following patients with CME and evaluating success of treatment modalities."}
{"id": "17004629", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone reinjection for refractory diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone reinjection for refractory diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the effect of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVT) reinjection on clinical and optical coherence tomographic features in refractory diabetic macular edema. In a prospective interventional case series, all IVT treated patients enrolled in a previous clinical trial were recalled to have a new ophthalmologic examination and optical coherence tomography (OCT) performed. Eyes found suitable for reinjection received 4 mg IVT. Complete clinical examination and OCT were repeated at 2 and 4 months post-injection. The changes were statistically analyzed using a paired t test and were compared to the results of the first injections. Of all returning patients, 12 cases with complete records were considered candidates for reinjection. Visual acuity (VA) changes were not significant after the first and second interventions, although there was a relative improvement (0.14 logMAR) 2 months after the first injection. Reductions of central macular thickness (CMT) were 43 +/- 69 microm, and 40 +/- 69 microm after the first injection and 27 +/- 48 microm, 49 +/- 58 microm after the reinjection at 2 & 4 months, respectively. None of the mentioned changes was significant. After the second injection, however, intraocular pressure was elevated at both 2 & 4 months (3.6 & 2.4 mmHg respectively, P < 0.05). Two months after the first administration, intraocular pressure was found to be raised significantly (5.58 mmHg, P = 0.001). The transient beneficial effects of IVT on diabetic macular edema are not repeated with second injections. However, IVT-related ocular hypertension is more persistent after reinjection. Korean"}
{"id": "16996596", "title": "Subthreshold grid laser treatment of macular edema secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion with micropulse infrared (810 nanometer) diode laser.", "content": "Subthreshold grid laser treatment of macular edema secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion with micropulse infrared (810 nanometer) diode laser. To compare the effectiveness of subthreshold grid laser treatment (SGLT) with an infrared micropulse diode laser with that of threshold grid laser treatment (TGLT) for macular edema secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). Randomized clinical trial. Thirty-six patients (36 eyes) were randomized either to infrared SGLT (17 eyes) or to krypton TGLT (19 eyes). Complete ophthalmic examinations, including determination of visual acuity (VA) with Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study charts, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and fluorescein angiography, were performed at the time of the study entry and at 6-month intervals, with a planned follow-up of 24 months. Primary: decrease in mean foveal thickness (FT) on OCT. Secondary: changes of the total macular volume (TMV) over the follow-up, proportion of eyes that gained at least 10 letters (approximately > or =2 lines of VA gain) at the 12- and 24-month examinations, and timing of macular edema resolution. Changes in mean FT and TMV from the initial values were statistically significant for TGLT from the 6-month examination (P<0.001) and for SGLT from the 12-month examination (P<0.001). After 1 year, there was no difference in mean FT and TMV between the 2 groups. At the 12-month examination, 10 patients of the SGLT group (59%) and 11 of the TGLT group (58%) gained at least 10 letters (2 lines) in VA. At the 24-month examination, this gain was achieved by 11 patients (65%) of the SGLT group and 11 (58%) of the TGLT group. Moreover, at the 24-month examination 59% and 26% gained 3 lines in the SGLT and TGLT groups, respectively. Resolution of macular edema and VA improvement are similar to those obtained with conventional TGLT, but SGLT is not associated with biomicroscopic and angiographic signs. A multicenter randomized clinical trial would be needed to ascertain the real efficacy and the most appropriate settings of SGLT for macular edema secondary to BRVO."}
{"id": "16978576", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diffuse diabetic macular edema: phase 2 trial comparing 4 mg vs 2 mg.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diffuse diabetic macular edema: phase 2 trial comparing 4 mg vs 2 mg. To prospectively compare the efficacy and safety of 4 vs 2 mg intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (TA) injection for diabetic macular edema. Interventional case series. Thirty-two patients with diabetic macular edema unresponsive to laser photocoagulation. Patients were randomly assigned to receive 4 or 2 mg intravitreal TA in one eye (16 patients in each group). The main outcome was central macular thickness (CMT) measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) at four, 12, and 24 weeks. Secondary outcomes were gain in Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) scores, intraocular pressure (IOP), cataract progression, and duration of effect. Before injection, mean (+/- SD) CMT was 564.5 +/- 119 microm and 522.9 +/- 148.5 microm in the 4- and 2-mg groups, respectively. At four, 12, and 24 weeks after injection, it was 275.0 +/- 79.8, 271.4 +/- 128.7, and 448.7 +/- 146.4 microm, respectively, in the 4-mg group, and 267.3 +/- 82.4, 289.8 +/- 111.4, and 394.7 +/- 178.9 microm, respectively, in the 2-mg group. At no time was the difference in CMT between both groups statistically significant (P> 0.3). The between-group differences in the gain in the ETDRS score and in IOP were not statistically significant either. Diabetic macular edema recurred after a median period of 20 weeks vs 16 weeks in the 4- and 2-mg groups, respectively (P = 0.11). In the short term, intravitreal injection of 4 or 2 mg TA does not have different effects on CMT, visual acuity, or IOP."}
{"id": "16965492", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diffuse diabetic macular oedema: 6-month results of a prospective controlled trial.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diffuse diabetic macular oedema: 6-month results of a prospective controlled trial. To evaluate prospectively the efficacy and safety of one intravitreal injection of 4 mg triamcinolone acetonide for refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema. Seventeen patients with bilateral diabetic macular edema unresponsive to laser photocoagulation. In all patients, one eye was injected, and the other served as a control. The intervention consisted in intravitreal injection of 4 mg triamcinolone acetonide. The main outcome measure was central macular thickness (CMT) at 4, 12 and 24 weeks, measured by Optical Coherence Tomography. Secondary outcomes were Early Treatment Diabetic Rentinopathy Study (ETDRS) scores, intraocular pressure and cataract PROGRESSION. Before injection, mean +/- SD CMT was 566.4 +/- 182.4 mum in injected eyes. Four, 12, and 24 weeks after injection, it was 228.4 +/- 47.5 mum, 210.9 +/- 87.2 mum and 358.5 +/- 160.5 mum respectively. CMT was significantly lower in injected eyes vs. control eyes except 24 weeks after injection because of a recurrence of macular edema in 9/17 injected eyes. Mean +/- SD gain in ETDRS score was significantly better in injected eyes vs. control eyes 4, 12 and 24 weeks after TA injection. In 9 of the 17 injected eyes, intraocular pressure exceeded 24 mmHg and was controlled by topical medication. In the short-term, intravitreal injection of triamcinolone effectively reduces macular thickening due to diffuse diabetic macular edema and improves visual acuity in most cases. The long-term effect of this treatment and predictive factors of visual recovery remain to be elucidated."}
{"id": "16952097", "title": "Pars plana vitrectomy and removal of the internal limiting membrane in diabetic macular edema unresponsive to grid laser photocoagulation.", "content": "Pars plana vitrectomy and removal of the internal limiting membrane in diabetic macular edema unresponsive to grid laser photocoagulation. To evaluate the effectiveness of pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) with removal of the internal limiting membrane (ILM) in diabetic patients with macular edema unresponsive to grid laser photocoagulation. In this randomized controlled study, 20 eyes of 10 patients with diabetic macular edema unresponsive to grid laser photocoagulation were evaluated. PPV with ILM removal was performed randomly in one eye each of 10 patients and taken as the study group; the untreated fellow eyes were taken as the control group. Main outcome measures were foveal thickness changes measured with optical coherence tomography and preoperative and post-operative visual acuity. Mann-Whitney U, Wilcoxon, and chi-square tests were used in statistical analysis. The mean age of the patients was 61.5+/-6 years (range 51 to 71). All patients were followed up for 12 months. In the study group, mean foveal thickness was 391.3+/-91.6 microm preoperatively and 225.5+/-49.4 microm postoperatively (p=0.009). In the control group, mean foveal thickness was 356.2+/-140 microm at baseline and 318.4+/-111.1 microm at 12-month follow-up (p=0.138). Mean decrease in foveal thickness was 165.8+/-114.8 microm in the study group and 37.8+/-71.2 microm in the control group (p=0.016). In the study group, best-corrected log-MAR visual acuity was 0.71+/-0.43 preoperatively and 0.54+/-0.45 postoperatively (p=0.125). In the control group, best-corrected logMAR visual acuity was 0.43+/-0.44 at baseline and 0.59+/-0.55 at 12-month follow-up (p=0.235). In the study group, visual acuity improved by two or more lines in 4 eyes (40%) and remained stable in 6 eyes (60%). In the control group, visual acuity improved by two or more lines in 1 eye (10%) and decreased by two or more lines in 3 eyes (30%). PPV with ILM removal appears to be an effective procedure for reducing diabetic macular edema unresponsive to grid laser photocoagulation. A further study with a large number of patients is required to assess the effectiveness and safety of this procedure."}
{"id": "16935584", "title": "Optical coherence tomographic patterns of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomographic patterns of diabetic macular edema. To describe various morphologic patterns of diabetic macular edema (DME) demonstrated by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and correlate them with visual acuity. Retrospective, observational, case series. A retrospective review of all patients with DME who underwent OCT evaluation and met the study inclusion criteria between May 1998 and December 2002 at the Cole Eye Institute was performed. The OCT scans were evaluated for the presence of diffuse retinal thickening (DRT), cystoid macular edema (CME), posterior hyaloidal traction (PHT), serous retinal detachment (SRD), and traction retinal detachment (TRD). Additionally, the retinal thickness was measured and visual acuity evaluated. Two hundred seventy-six OCT scans of 164 eyes of 119 patients were identified. OCT revealed five morphologic patterns of DME: DRT (269, 97%), CME (152, 55%), SRD without PHT (19, 7.0%), PHT without TRD (35, 12.7%), and PHT with TRD (8, 2.9%). Mean retinal thickness varied depending on the morphologic pattern. The mean visual acuities (Snellen equivalent) also varied between groups. Increasing retinal thickness in all patterns was significantly correlated with worse visual acuity (P < .005). The OCT patterns containing CME (P = .01) and PHT without TRD (P = .02) were also significantly associated with worse vision. DME exhibits at least five different morphologic patterns on OCT. There is a significant correlation between retinal thickness and visual acuity."}
{"id": "16935337", "title": "Early effects of intravitreal triamcinolone on macular edema: mechanistic implication.", "content": "Early effects of intravitreal triamcinolone on macular edema: mechanistic implication. To evaluate the early effects of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (TA) on cystoid macular edema associated with retinal vein occlusion and diabetic retinopathy. Prospective, interventional, small case series. Four patients with cystoid macular edema resulting from retinal vein occlusion or diabetic retinopathy of more than 4 months' duration and evaluated as suitable for treatment with intravitreous injection of TA. After ophthalmic examination, including visual acuity assessment, intraocular pressure (IOP) measurement, and optical coherence tomography (OCT) analysis, the patients received a single intravitreal injection of 4 mg TA. After the injection, consecutive visual acuity assessment, IOP measurement, and OCT analysis were performed after 1 hour, 6 hours, 1 week, and 2 weeks. Optical coherence tomography assessment of macular thickness. Macular thickness and edema initially were reduced as early as 1 hour after TA injection. A further continuous decrease was observed during the 2 weeks after treatment. This rapid effect of intravitreal TA is interpreted to indicate that nongenomic effects on retinal or retinal pigment epithelial cell membranes, or both, may be responsible for this phenomenon. Identifications of these mechanisms may help design alternative, more specific drugs for the treatment of macular edema."}
{"id": "16932949", "title": "[Diagnostics of metamorphopsia in retinal diseases of different origins].", "content": "[Diagnostics of metamorphopsia in retinal diseases of different origins]. We investigated the ability of preferential hyperacuity perimeter (PHP) and Amsler grid testing to detect metamorphosia in patients with macular hole (MH), central serous retinopathy (CSR), epiretinal membranes (EM), intermediate AMD (iAMD), classic and occult choroidal neovascularization (CNV) due to AMD, and compared the results. A total of 147 patients (n =153 eyes) with classic (35 eyes) and occult (38 eyes) CNV, iAMD (13 eyes), MF (23 eyes), RCS (11 eyes), EM (13 eyes) and control group (20 eyes) were involved. All of these patients underwent corrected visual acuity and eye examinations inclusive of the Amsler grid. The PHP test was performed after pupil dilation. In all patients, fundus photography and optical coherence tomography (OCT) (Humphrey/Zeiss OCT III) were performed. In patients with CNV and CSR a fluorescein angiography was also performed. Metamorphopsia detection rates by Amsler grid and PHP were compared statistically. The sensitivity of PHP vs Amsler grid in detecting metamorphosia was 69% vs 85% in patients with MH, for CSR 64% vs 73%, EM 77% vs 100%, iAMD 85% vs 100%, classic CNV 83% vs 94% and occult CNV 81% vs 71%. The results for patients with occult CNV were significant (P =0.046), using the chi(2)-test. The PHP-test showed high sensitivity for diagnosing CNV. In occult CNV, PHP was superior to the Amsler grid in detecting metamorphopsia. In the other diseases involving the macular (MH, EM, CSR, iAMD), the detection rate and sensitivity of the Amsler grid was superior to PHP."}
{"id": "16927225", "title": "[Is removal of internal limiting membrane always necessary during surgery for refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema without evident epimacular proliferation?].", "content": "[Is removal of internal limiting membrane always necessary during surgery for refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema without evident epimacular proliferation?]. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of the internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME) but without evident epimacular proliferation or cellophane maculopathy that were unresponsive to laser photocoagulation. Secondly we wanted to determine whether ILM peeling is always essential in DME surgery and whether it improves the functional outcome. In a prospective controlled study, ten patients with similar degrees and duration of DME in both eyes were followed-up for more than 6 months after bilateral vitrectomy with and without ILM peeling. Trypan blue 0.2 % was used to stain the ILM during surgery. We evaluated the anatomic outcome as detected by bimicroscopic evaluation and optical coherence tomography (OCT) and the visual outcome. Intraoperatively and postoperatively any complications occurring were documented. Baseline BCVA and foveal thickness ranged, respectively, from 20/50 to 20/400 (mean 20/110) and 430 to 840 microm (mean 618) in eyes that underwent ILM peeling, 20/40 to 20/400 (mean 20/120) and 390 to 910 microm (mean 623 microm) in eyes without ILM peeling. There were no significant differences between the both groups in baseline BCVA (P = 0.4691, Wilcoxon rank sum test) or foveal thickness (P = 0.8204, Wilcoxon rank sum test). At six-months follow-up, mean BCVA improved significantly in both groups, from 20/110 to 20/60 (P = 0.0427, Wilcoxon signed rank test) in eyes that underwent ILM peeling and from 20/120 to 20/80 (P = 0.0482, Wilcoxon signed rank test) in eyes without ILM peeling. Mean foveal thickness decreased significantly from 618 to 265 (P = 0.0050) in eyes with ILM peeling and from 623 to 311 (P = 0.0050) in eyes without ILM peeling. Visual acuity improved by two or more lines in five eyes (50 %) of each group. There were no significant differences in the improvement of BCVA and decreasing of foveal thickness between the both groups (Wilcoxon rank sum test, P = 0.9083, P = 0.2720, respectively). Cyst rupture with formation of macular hole was documented in one eye after ILM peeling. Vitrectomy with or without ILM peeling may improve BCVA and decrease foveal thickness. ILM peeling was not found to enhance the improvement of VA postoperatively. A larger study is required to determine whether ILM peeling is essential in surgery for DME without epimacular proliferation or cellophane maculopathy."}
{"id": "16925720", "title": "Choroidal neovascular membrane in radiation retinopathy.", "content": "Choroidal neovascular membrane in radiation retinopathy. Radiation retinopathy can occur years after the initial radiotherapy of the cancers of head and neck. It generally has a fulminant course, and can cause a variety of severe retinal abnormalities. Choroidal neovascularization has been rarely reported in radiation retinopathy. In this case report, a 21-year-old boy is presented who developed fulminant radiation retinopathy and choroidal neovascular membrane 4 years after receiving radiotherapy for his nasopharyngeal carcinoma."}
{"id": "16898399", "title": "Optical coherence tomography findings in ocular decompression retinopathy.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography findings in ocular decompression retinopathy. Three days following trabeculectomy surgery, a 47-year-old woman experienced a decline in visual acuity to 20/400. Fundus findings were consistent with decompression retinopathy, and optical coherence tomography revealed macular thickening, cystoid macular edema, and neurosensory macular detachment. The foveal anatomy normalized following topical treatment, and visual acuity returned to 20/30 by 10 weeks postoperatively. Both macular detachment and cystoid macular edema may contribute to acute decline in visual acuity in decompression retinopathy. Optical coherence tomography facilitated the prompt detection of treatable pathology, which resolved following appropriate medical therapy."}
{"id": "16897220", "title": "Long-term retention of dye after indocyanine green-assisted internal limiting membrane peeling.", "content": "Long-term retention of dye after indocyanine green-assisted internal limiting membrane peeling. To evaluate dye retention in the fundus after indocyanine green (ICG)-assisted internal limiting membrane peeling. Ten eyes with stage 3 or 4 nondiabetic idiopathic macular hole (MH group) and six eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema (DM group) were studied. The fundus was examined with 780-nm infrared illumination by a scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO) after ICG-assisted internal limiting membrane peeling. The postoperative follow-up period ranged from 6 to 12 months (mean+/-SD, 3.7+/-2.6 months). Fluorescence from ICG was detected in all studied eyes in both groups up to 6 months after surgery. At 9 months after surgery, ICG fluorescence was visible in all eyes of the DM group, but in only one-third of eyes of the MH group. No fluorescence was detected in fellow eyes that had not been operated on. The present study using SLO revealed that ICG remains in the fundus for over 6 months after surgery. The results also suggested that a longer time might be required for dye clearance from the diabetic retina than from the nondiabetic retina."}
{"id": "16889833", "title": "Comparison of the magnitude and time course of macular thinning induced by different interventions for diabetic macular edema: implications for sequence of application.", "content": "Comparison of the magnitude and time course of macular thinning induced by different interventions for diabetic macular edema: implications for sequence of application. To determine estimates of the magnitude and time course of macular thinning induced by three interventions for diabetic macular edema (DME). Retrospective observational case series. Two hundred eleven eyes of 133 patients of a private retina practice, each diagnosed with DME in > or =1 eye. Review of clinical charts and optical coherence tomography measurements of eyes receiving focal laser photocoagulation, intravitreal triamcinolone injection (IVTA), or vitrectomy compared to untreated fellow eyes without DME. Central subfield mean thickness (CSMT; in micrometers), total macular volume (cubic millimeters), visual acuity, and rates of increased macular thickening at follow-up. At 6 months follow-up, predicted change in CSMT is 0 mum for untreated fellow eyes without DME, -28 mum for eyes receiving focal laser, -83 mum for eyes receiving triamcinolone, and -92 mum for eyes receiving vitrectomy. The predicted change in Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study letters read at 6 months is 0 for untreated fellow eyes without DME, 0 for eyes receiving focal laser, +3 for eyes receiving IVTA, and -1 for eyes receiving vitrectomy. Increased thickening of the macula after interventions designed to thin it were 25.4% for focal laser, 3.8% for IVTA, and 19.0% for vitrectomy. Interventions for DME differ in effect size, durability of effects, and potential for subsequent increases in macular thickness. A prospective study to elucidate a preferred sequence of interventions in DME may be worthwhile."}
{"id": "16879566", "title": "Optical coherence tomography: a key to the future management of patients with diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography: a key to the future management of patients with diabetic macular oedema. Diabetic macular oedema is a major cause of visual loss in patients with diabetes. It usually results from the breakdown of the inner blood-retinal barrier. Early detection of retinal abnormalities is vital in preventing diabetic macular oedema and subsequent loss of vision, whilst assessment of retinal thickness is important for treatment and follow-up. Until recently, however, the methods available for detecting and evaluating diabetic macular oedema were slit-lamp biomicroscopy and stereoscopic photography, both of which are limited in detecting earlier retinal changes. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a new diagnostic imaging modality that provides high-resolution, cross-sectional images of the eye. It is proving to be an accurate tool for the early diagnosis, analysis and monitoring of retinopathy, with high repeatability and resolution. It allows not only the qualitative diagnosis of diabetic macular oedema, but also the quantitative assessment of oedema. This article reviews the future role of OCT in the management of patients with diabetic macular oedema."}
{"id": "16877077", "title": "Relationship between macular microcirculation and progression of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Relationship between macular microcirculation and progression of diabetic macular edema. To investigate the relationship between blood flow velocity in perifoveal capillaries and retinal thickness at the central fovea in diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema to elucidate the pathogenesis of diabetic macular edema. Comparative, cross-sectional, prospective study. Participants included diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema (n = 22), matched diabetic patients without clinically significant macular edema (n = 22), and healthy volunteers (n = 16). Perifoveal capillary blood flow velocity was measured with fluorescein angiography using a scanning laser ophthalmoscope and was analyzed by the tracing method. The severity of perifoveal capillary abnormalities among diabetic patients without clinically significant macular edema was classified by the size and outline of the foveal avascular zone and extent of foveal capillary loss at the baseline by the use of fluorescein angiograms. Retinal thickness at the central fovea was measured by optical coherence tomography. Relationship between perifoveal capillary blood flow velocity and retinal thickness at the central fovea. Perifoveal capillary blood flow velocity was significantly slower in the patients with clinically significant macular edema (0.94+/-0.09 mm/second) compared with the patients without clinically significant macular edema (1.22+/-0.20 mm/second) and the healthy volunteers (1.49+/-0.11 mm/second; P<0.0001). Capillary blood flow velocity negatively correlated with retinal thickness at the central fovea (r = -0.4018, P<0.0001). Capillary blood flow velocity varied among diabetic patients without clinically significant macular edema, and there were significant negative correlations between capillary blood flow velocity and the size of the foveal avascular zone (r = -0.52, P = 0.01), the outline of the foveal avascular zone (r = -0.44, P = 0.04), and the extent of foveal capillary loss (r = -0.51, P = 0.01). The reduction of perifoveal capillary blood flow velocity may occur before the increase of retinal thickness at the central fovea in the diabetic patients. It is possible that long-term reduction of blood flow velocity increases retinal thickness of the macula and may play an important role in the development and the progression of diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "16828501", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for refractory diabetic macular edema: two-year results of a double-masked, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for refractory diabetic macular edema: two-year results of a double-masked, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial. To report 2-year safety and efficacy outcomes from a trial of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (TA) injections (4 mg) in eyes with diabetic macular edema and impaired vision that persisted or recurred after laser treatment. Prospective, double-masked, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial. Sixty-nine eyes of 43 patients were entered into the study, with 34 eyes randomized to receive active treatment and 35 placebo. Two-year data were available for 60 of 69 (87%) eyes of 35 of 41 (85%) patients; 9 eyes of 6 patients were lost to follow-up, of which 6 received a placebo and 3 received intravitreal TA. Triamcinolone acetonide (0.1 ml) was injected through the pars plana using a 27-gauge needle. Eyes randomized to placebo received a subconjunctival injection of saline. Improvement of best-corrected logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution visual acuity (VA) by > or =5 letters after 2 years and incidence of moderate or severe adverse events. Improvement of > or =5 letters' best-corrected VA was found in 19 of 34 (56%) eyes treated with intravitreal TA, compared with 9 of 35 (26%) eyes treated with the placebo (z(generalized estimating equation) = 2.73, P = 0.006). The mean improvement in VA was 5.7 letters (95% confidence interval, 1.4-9.9) more in the intravitreal TA-treated eyes than in those treated with the placebo. An increase of intraocular pressure (IOP) of > or =5 mmHg was observed in 23 of 34 (68%) treated versus 3 of 30 (10%) untreated eyes (P<0.0001). Glaucoma medication was required in 15 of 34 (44%) treated versus 1 of 30 (3%) untreated eyes (P = 0.0002). Cataract surgery was performed in 15 of 28 (54%) treated versus 0 of 21 (0%) untreated eyes (P<0.0001). Two eyes in the intravitreal TA-treated group required trabeculectomy. There was one case of infectious endophthalmitis in the treatment group. Intravitreal TA improves vision and reduces macular thickness in eyes with refractory diabetic macular edema. This beneficial effect persists for up to 2 years with repeated treatment. Progression of cataract and elevation of IOP commonly occur but appear manageable. Spontaneous improvement over years can still occur in eyes that are apparently severely affected by diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "16799051", "title": "Diabetic macular edema: correlation between microperimetry and optical coherence tomography findings.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema: correlation between microperimetry and optical coherence tomography findings. To compare the changes in macular sensitivity (microperimetry) and macular thickness with different degrees of diabetic macular edema. Sixty-one eyes of 32 consecutive diabetic patients were included in this cross-sectional study. All included eyes underwent functional and morphologic examination of the macular area. Best corrected visual acuity (ETDRS charts), macular sensitivity, and macular thickness were quantified. Lesion-related macular sensitivity and retinal fixation were investigated with an advanced, automatic microperimeter. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) was used to quantify macular thickness. The 61 included eyes were graded, by two retinal specialists, for diabetic macular edema as follows: 16 were graded as no macular edema (NE), 30 as non-clinically significant macular edema (NCSME), and 15 as clinically significant macular edema (CSME). Macular thickness significantly increased from the NE to the CSME group (P<0.0001), whereas macular sensitivity significantly decreased from the NE to the CSME group (P<0.0021). A significant correlation coefficient was noted between retinal sensitivity and normalized macular thickness (r=-0.37, P<0.0001). Linear regression analysis showed a decrease of 0.83 dB (P<0.0001) for every 10% of deviation of retinal thickness from normal values. Visual acuity and central macular sensitivity correlated significantly in the NCSME group (r=-0.6, P=0.0008), but not in the NE (r=-0.144, P=0.6) or in the CSME (r=-0.46, P=0.11) groups. Macular edema may be better documented by adding macular sensitivity mapping by microperimetry to macular thickness measurement by OCT and visual acuity determination because macular sensitivity seems to be a relevant explanatory variable of visual function, independent of macular thickness data. Moreover, microperimetry may be of value in predicting the outcome of diabetic macular edema, because it incorporates a functional measure that may supplement the predictive value of OCT and visual acuity."}
{"id": "16798476", "title": "Posterior subtenon and intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Posterior subtenon and intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diabetic macular edema. To evaluate retroprospectively the clinical consequences of posterior subtenon (PSTT) and intravitreal (IVT) triamcinolone acetonide injections in diabetic macular edema (DME) refractory to conventional grid laser photocoagulation. Eyes with clinically significant DME refractory to grid laser photocoagulation were assessed for the inclusion in the study. Complete ophthalmic examination with fluorescein angiography (FA) and optic coherence tomography (OCT) were performed before and in the 1st, 3rd, and 6th months of the treatment. The IVT group received 4 mg/0.1 ml and the PSTT group received 20 mg/0.5 ml triamcinolone injection. PSTT but not IVT injection was repeated in case of recurrent edema. IVT was also applied to the eyes with resistant macular edema after PSTT injection (secondary IVT group). There were 85 eyes of 60 patients in the PSTT group and 41 eyes of 35 patients in IVT group. There were 24 eyes in the primary IVT group and 17 eyes in the secondary IVT group. Mean follow-up time was 4.1+/-1.9 and 4.6+/-2.2 months after PSTT and IVT injections, respectively. In the PSTT group, the mean visual acuity increased from 0.19+/-0.18 to 0.22+/-0.19 and the mean central foveal thickness decreased from 413.1+/-117.5 to 312.1+/-103.1 microm (P=.001 and P=.0001, respectively) during the first 3 months. In the IVT group, the mean visual acuity and central foveal thickness were found to be 0.15+/-0.14 and 494.5+/-141.3 microm before the treatment and 0.20+/-0.16 and 288.4+/-88.5 microm 3 months after the treatment, respectively (P=.008 and P=.001, respectively). The effect in central foveal thickness was significantly greater in the primary IVT group than in the PSTT group (P=.002). There was no significant difference with respect to the decrease in the central foveal thickness and increase in visual acuity between the primary and secondary IVT injections (Mann-Whitney U test, P>.05). The steroid effect started to diminish after the 3rd month. The recurrence of macular edema was seen in 7.1% in the PSTT group starting after 3 months. Twenty percent of the eyes in the PSTT group did not respond to the treatment at all and had secondary IVT injections. Significant intraocular pressure increase was found in 8.2% of the PSTT group and in 24.3% of IVT injection. There was one case of pseudomonas endophthalmitis in the IVT group. This study is the first study comparing the clinical outcomes of PSTT and IVT injections for the treatment of DME. Both PSTT and IVT injections caused a significant increase in visual acuity and a decrease in central foveal thickness, especially in the short term. The effect was more pronounced in the IVT group; however, PSTT injection also seemed to be a safe and effective technique for the treatment of DME. Further prospective studies are warranted to assess the efficacy and side effects of IVT and PSTT injections for the treatment of DME."}
{"id": "16796186", "title": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic options in diabetic retinopathy].", "content": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic options in diabetic retinopathy]. Diabetes mellitus is the systemic disease that most often leads to blindness. Since the diminishment of visual acuity is a late symptom of the disease, screening examinations are of particular importance, as only in this way can the optimal time point for treatment be determined. Stage-oriented laser therapy prevents blindness due to macular edema or proliferative diabetic retinopathy. For a number of years, vitreoretinal surgery has enabled the treatment of late ocular manifestations such as bleeding into the vitreous body and traction retinal detachment. With appropriate stage-oriented treatment, hopeless cases of diabetic retinopathy ending in blindness should become the exception. The only useful and confirmed effective medical treatment capable of delaying this late complication continues to be careful blood glucose and blood pressure control."}
{"id": "16769613", "title": "An extension of the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) system for grading of diabetic macular edema in the Astemizole Retinopathy Trial.", "content": "An extension of the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) system for grading of diabetic macular edema in the Astemizole Retinopathy Trial. To compare the effects of astemizole, an antihistamine, versus placebo on the 1-year course of diabetic macular edema (DME) and to illustrate use of a modified ETDRS system for grading areas of retinal thickening and hard exudates that may be useful in clinical trials of treatments for this disorder. Between June 1994 and September 1997, at 2 clinics, 63 patients who had, in at least one eye (the study eye), DME that had not previously been treated with macular photocoagulation, and for which photocoagulation was not currently recommended by the investigator, were enrolled and randomly assigned to astemizole or placebo. Fifty-four of the 63 patients (86%, 26 in Clinic 1 and 28 in Clinic 2) completed 1 year of followup and had adequate 7-field stereoscopic film-based color fundus photographs of the study eye at the baseline and 1-year visits. DME was > 0.33 disc diameters (DD) from the center of the macula in 48% of study eyes and involved the center in 13%. Photographs were graded using the ETDRS protocol modified to allow estimates of areas of retinal thickening (RT) and hard exudate (HE) to be made on continuous scales in disc area (DA) units. Principal outcome measures were mean change in the square root of RT area (the average diameter of the area in DD), mean change in area of HE, and change in the degree to which RT involved or threatened the center of the macula. At baseline, RT area in the 54 study eyes ranged from 0.09 to 4.0 DA (median 1.1). At the 1-year visit the square root of RT area (RTdd) had decreased by > or= 0.3 DD in 10 eyes, increased by >or = 0.3 DD in 19 and was about the same in 25. Mean change at 1 year was +0.09 DD (SD 0.57) for astemizole versus +0.19 DD (SD 0.48) for placebo, for a difference of -0.10 DD (95% CI -0.38, +0.19; p = 0.51). Adjustments for baseline and time-dependent risk factors did not change this result appreciably, although there was a trend towards a difference in favor of astemizole in the subgroup of patients with more severe retinopathy. Other morphologic outcomes paralleled change in RTdd. Change in RTdd did vary by clinic: -0.03 DD in Clinic 2, versus + 0.32 DD in Clinic 1, for a difference of -0.35 DD (95% CI -0.62, -0.07; p = 0.014). Clinic 1 is a tertiary retinal referral center in Pennsylvania and Clinic 2 a retinal clinic closely affiliated with a large diabetes clinic in Copenhagen. The unexpected clinic difference in outcome provided an opportunity for further analyses using the modified ETDRS system. In comparison to Clinic 1, Clinic 2 patients were more often male, were younger at diagnosis of diabetes, and had less severe retinopathy and better visual acuity, but these differences did not appear to explain the trend for lesser increase in RTdd. No effect of astemizole was found, but the confidence interval for the principal outcome, mean change in RTdd, included both a modest beneficial effect and a small harmful effect. This outcome measure did demonstrate a small difference in outcome by clinic, which could not be explained by baseline characteristics but may reflect differences in access to and/or continuity of care or other unmeasured differences associated with different referral patterns. Although optical coherence tomography may supplant photography as a measure of central RT, photographic assessments of change in RT and HE areas analyzed with the methods described herein may be useful outcomes in trials assessing treatment of early stages of DME. Application of these methods to other data sets is needed to confirm this conclusion."}
{"id": "16765799", "title": "Quantification of macular and optic disc hyperfluorescence after phacoemulsification in diabetes mellitus.", "content": "Quantification of macular and optic disc hyperfluorescence after phacoemulsification in diabetes mellitus. To quantify changes in areas of hyperfluorescence of the macula, perifovea, and optic disc after phacoemulsification in patients with diabetes mellitus and evaluate relationships between hyperfluorescence, macular thickness, diabetic retinopathy (DR), and logMAR best corrected visual acuity (BCVA). Ophthalmology Clinic and Operating Room, Ambulatory Care Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, School of Medicine, and the University of North Carolina Hospitals, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA. This prospective case-control study comprised 30 eyes of 24 subjects with cataracts and diabetes mellitus with different levels of DR. Preoperatively and 2 months postoperatively, BCVA was recorded, digital retinal photography and fluorescein angiography were performed, macular thickness was measured (optical coherence tomography), and DR and hyperfluorescence of the optic disc, macula, and perifovea were quantified. Postoperatively, BCVA improved in surgical eyes but was unchanged in nonsurgical eyes. Preoperatively, between eyes, there was no difference in hyperfluorescence. Postoperatively, hyperfluorescence of the optic disc, macula, and perifovea increased in surgical eyes and was unchanged in nonsurgical eyes. Macular thickness increased in surgical eyes, although DR was unchanged in surgical and nonsurgical eyes. Although there was no correlation between hyperfluorescence and macular thickness in surgical eyes, increased hyperfluorescence of the perifovea was associated with less improvement in BCVA. After phacoemulsification, hyperfluorescence and macular thickness increased in the eyes of diabetic subjects. These short-term changes are more likely an effect of the surgery than a worsening of DR."}
{"id": "16758760", "title": "[The intravitreal application of triamcinolone in the treatment of the macular edema].", "content": "[The intravitreal application of triamcinolone in the treatment of the macular edema]. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of intravitreal application of triamcinolone in macular edema of different etiology. In this prospective study, 20 eyes were evaluated: 12 with diabetic macular edema, 6 with macular edema due to venous occlusion, 1 with pseudophakic cystoid macular edema, and 1 with cystoid macular edema in case of uveitis. Four milligrams of tramcinolon acetonide were injected in to the vitreous cavity. Before and in one month intervals after the application, the intraocular pressure was measured, visual acuity on the ETDRS optotypes was established, the macula was examined biomicroscopically, examination of the photography of the fundus was performed, and macular thickness was measured by means of optical coherence tomography. The follow-up period was 3 months. The mean visual acuity was 0.16 at the beginning of the study, 1 month after the application 0.32, and after 3 months 0.31. The mean thickness of the macula decreased from the initial value 537 microm by 249 microm after one month (improvement by 46.6%) and by 203 miceom after three month (improvement by 39.7%). As a complication, the elevation of the intraocular pressure was noticed in 20% of eyes, and this was compensated in all cases by means of local therapy. The intravitreal injection of triamcinolon seems to be a promising part of treatment of the macular edema of different origin."}
{"id": "16707525", "title": "Decreasing efficacy of repeated intravitreal triamcinolone injections in diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Decreasing efficacy of repeated intravitreal triamcinolone injections in diabetic macular oedema. Intravitreal triamcinolone (IVTA) results in transient improvements in diabetic macular oedema (DMO), necessitating repeated injections. The authors report a case series of 10 eyes of 10 patients with DMO, who received a repeat injection of 4 mg IVTA, at least 26 weeks after the first injection of the same dose. Pre-injection and at 2, 4, 9, and 17 weeks post-injection, best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and central foveal thickness (CFT) on optical coherence tomography, after the first and repeat injections, were compared using paired t test. Side effects were monitored. BCVA, CFT, intraocular pressure (IOP), and cataract scores were not significantly different before initial and repeat injections (given at 32.5 (SD 3.5) weeks after the first injection). Transient improvements of BCVA and CFT were achieved after both injections. However, after the repeat injection, the BCVA was significantly worse at all time points (p<0.05) and so were the best achieved CFT and the CFT at 4 weeks post-injection (p = 0.034 and 0.011 respectively), compared with the initial injection. Post-injection maximum IOPs and increase in cataract scores were not significantly different between the two injections. A repeat injection of 4 mg of IVTA may not be as effective as an initial injection for the treatment of DMO."}
{"id": "16682586", "title": "Macular grid photocoagulation after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Macular grid photocoagulation after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diffuse diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the clinical outcomes of macular laser photocoagulation after the intravitreal injection of 4 mg of triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) for diffuse diabetic macular edema (DME). Eighty-six eyes of 74 patients with diffuse DME were randomized into 2 groups. The laser group eyes (n = 48) were subjected to a macular grid laser photocoagulation 3 weeks after IVTA. The control group eyes (n = 38) underwent only IVTA. Both groups were compared with regard to the changes in visual acuity and central macular thickness at 3 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months after IVTA. The mean central macular thickness before, 3 weeks after, and 3 and 6 months after IVTA were 538, 250, 295, and 301 mum in the laser group vs 510, 227, 302, and 437 mum in the control group, respectively. The logMAR visual acuities were not significantly different between the 2 groups at baseline and at 3 weeks after IVTA but were significantly better in the laser group at 3 (P = .02) and 6 months (P<.001) after IVTA. Macular laser coagulation effectively maintains improved visual acuity after IVTA for diffuse DME and is believed to reduce recurrent DME after IVTA."}
{"id": "16650680", "title": "Comparison of nonmydriatic digital retinal imaging versus dilated ophthalmic examination for nondiabetic eye disease in persons with diabetes.", "content": "Comparison of nonmydriatic digital retinal imaging versus dilated ophthalmic examination for nondiabetic eye disease in persons with diabetes. To evaluate the ability of stereoscopic nonmydriatic digital retinal imaging to detect ocular pathologic features other than diabetic retinopathy (DR) in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) compared with dilated retinal examination by retinal specialist ophthalmologists. Clinic-based comparative instrument study and retrospective chart review. Two hundred eighty Joslin Diabetes Center outpatients (560 eyes) with type 1 or type 2 DM. Nonsimultaneous stereoscopic nonmydriatic digital retinal images (640 x 480 pixels) of three 45 degrees retinal fields were acquired and graded for clinical level of DR and other ocular pathologic features by certified readers according to Joslin Vision Network (JVN) protocol. Retrospective chart review compared findings from JVN digital images with findings from dilated retinal examination by retinal specialists performed within an average of 39.6 days of digital imaging. An independent senior retinal specialist adjudicated disagreements by review of 7 standard field 35-mm Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study protocol fundus photographs and JVN images. Detection of non-DR ocular pathologic features by digital imaging as compared with clinical examination. Nonmydriatic digital evaluation identified at least 1 non-DR ocular finding in 40.7% of patients (114/280). Non-diabetes mellitus ocular pathologic features identified by digital images, clinical examination, or both included cataract (n = 100); age-related maculopathy (n = 52); suspicion of glaucoma (n = 18); choroidal lesions (n = 18); evidence of systemic disorder (e.g., hypertension or renal disease; n = 15); epiretinal membrane (n = 11); chorioretinal atrophy, scar, or both (n = 6); retinal emboli (n = 3); retinitis pigmentosa (n = 1); and asteroid hyalosis (n = 1). Agreement of nonmydriatic imaging with clinical examination for presence and absence of these findings was 95.4%, 91.3%, 98.2%, 98.6%, 98.2%, 99.6%, 100%, 100%, 100%, and 100%, respectively. Kappa values for all non-DR lesions demonstrated near perfect agreement (kappa> or =0.80) except for age-related maculopathy (kappa = 0.71) and choroidal lesions (kappa = 0.73), where agreement was substantial. Overall, only 55 eyes (9.8%) were ungradable for level of DR and 85 eyes (15.2%) were ungradable for macular edema. Joslin Vision Network nonmydriatic digital imaging demonstrated excellent agreement with dilated ophthalmic examination by retinal specialists in the detection of ocular disease other than DR, suggesting a potential role for this technology in evaluating non-DR disorders and highlighting the extent of findings other than retinopathy in patients with diabetes."}
{"id": "16647123", "title": "Automated detection of clinically significant macular edema by grid scanning optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Automated detection of clinically significant macular edema by grid scanning optical coherence tomography. To compare the detection of clinically significant diabetic macular edema (DME) by an optical coherence tomography (OCT) grid scanning protocol and biomicroscopic examination. Retrospective case series. Outpatients at the Doheny Eye Institute. The clinical and imaging records of a consecutive series of 71 eyes of 40 patients referred for DME who underwent OCT using the both the Macular Grid 5 (MG5) scanning protocol (to allow a more evenly distributed sampling of points in the macula) and the standard Fast Macular Thickness Map (FMTM) pattern were reviewed. An automated algorithm was developed to generate a retinal thickness map using the MG5 data, which was then compared with a normative database to identify presumed areas of retinal edema. Clinically significant macular edema (CSME) was also identified by clinical examination and stereoscopic fundus photographs for comparison with the results of the OCT protocols. Sensitivity and specificity of scanning protocols. Optical coherence tomograms were inspected visually, and automatically detected retinal boundaries were found to be correct in 69 of 71 MG5 scans and in 65 of 71 FMTM scans. Macular Grid 5 scanning was performed twice in each eye, and the repeatability (pooled standard deviation) of the total area of edema was 0.48 mm2 (coefficient of variation, 6.8%). Sensitivity and specificity of the MG5 for detection of CSME relative to the clinical examination were 89% and 86%, respectively, with kappa being 0.74. Macular Grid 5 and FMTM assessment of foveal CSME also showed good agreement, with kappa being 0.68. The analysis algorithm for the OCT MG5 grid scan seems to be accurate and repeatable. Automated detection of CSME by the MG5 analysis correlated well with the clinical grading and standard OCT analysis (FMTM). Macular Grid 5 provides more information regarding the perifoveal macula than FMTM and may be of value to clinicians in planning treatment and in future studies of macular edema."}
{"id": "16604810", "title": "[Retinopathy, a major cause of blindness in the adult diabetic].", "content": "[Retinopathy, a major cause of blindness in the adult diabetic]."}
{"id": "16603977", "title": "Surgical removal of the internal limiting membrane in diabetic cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Surgical removal of the internal limiting membrane in diabetic cystoid macular edema."}
{"id": "16601980", "title": "Effect of grid laser photocoagulation in diffuse diabetic macular edema in correlation to glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c).", "content": "Effect of grid laser photocoagulation in diffuse diabetic macular edema in correlation to glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c). Glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) correlates with the amount of hyperglycemia in diabetic patients. High HbA1c levels often predict clinically significant macular edema (CSME), which then needs to be treated with grid laser photocoagulation. The question asked in this study was whether there is a correlation between the effect grid laser photocoagulation in diffuse diabetic macular edema and HbA1c, using an optical coherence tomography (OCT) for the evaluation of the retinal thickness. A prospective, non-comparative case series was performed to find a correlation between the effect of grid laser photocoagulation in diffuse diabetic macular edema and HbA1c. Thirty eyes with CSME of diabetic patients were included in the study. Complete ophthalmic examinations and OCT were performed at baseline, 1 month, 3, and 6 months after grid laser photocoagulation therapy. HbA1c was measured at the end of study. Significance level was set at P<0.05. A significant difference in the foveal (P=0.02) and superior (P=0.021) retinal thickness 6 months after laser therapy, no correlation between HbA1c and retinal thickness after photocoagulation, and an insignificant decrease in visual acuity (P=0.9) were found. The correlation between foveal retinal thickness and visual acuity was P=0.24 6 months after treatment. There was no significant correlation between HbA1c and the effect of grid laser photocoagulation therapy in diffuse diabetic macular edema. The retinal thickness decreased significantly in the foveal and superior area 6 months after therapy. No correlation between the foveal retinal thickness and the visual acuity was found. The visual acuity did not increase after treatment. There are many factors influencing the retinal thickness, such as the blood pressure and the attached posterior hyaloid."}
{"id": "16572358", "title": "[Pseudophakic cystoid macular edema. Assessment with optical coherence tomography].", "content": "[Pseudophakic cystoid macular edema. Assessment with optical coherence tomography]. To determine the incidence of cystoid macular edema (CME) by means of clinical evaluation and subclinical assessment by means of ocular coherence tomography (OCT), and to compare the incidence between diabetic and non-diabetic groups of patients. Prospective study of 260 consecutive cataract surgeries operated from September 2004 to March 2005. The procedures were performed by means of phacoemulsification plus intraocular acrylic lens implantation. Group A: 208 eyes of non-diabetic patients; Group B: 42 eyes of patients with diabetes and Group C: 10 eyes of diabetic patients with macular edema that received an intravitreal injection of triamcinolone at the end of surgery. Postoperative follow-up visits were performed 6 days (basal visit), 5 weeks and 12 weeks after surgery. Each visit included posterior pole biomicroscopy and OCT. Central macular thickness measured by OCT was significantly increased in group B compared with group A (241.6 versus 204.6 microm; p<0.001). No clinical evidence of CME was found in group A, although 4 eyes (1.92%) showed macular thickness equal to or greater than 43.74 microm (2 standard deviations of the basal value for group A). In group B, clinical evidence of CME was found in 6 eyes, with decreased visual acuities (14.2%). The differences between these groups were statistically significant (p<0.001). The 10 eyes that received an intravitreal injection of triamcinolone after the surgical procedure showed a mean decrease in central retinal thickness of 77 microm after 12 weeks postoperative. This study has shown a low incidence of clinical CME. OCT showed increased macular thickness in both groups of patients in a small percentage of cases, and significantly increased macular thickness in diabetic patients."}
{"id": "16565766", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular oedema--a case report.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular oedema--a case report. Although laser photocoagulation is the primary treatment for diabetic macular oedema, treatment of eyes with diffuse macular oedema has been disappointing. Intravitreal injection of steroids is being investigated for the treatment of diabetic macular oedema. Preliminary results indicate that steroid injections do improve macular oedema, but it is not clear if they improve visual acuity. In this report, we describe a patient with a form of diffuse diabetic macular oedema that responded favourably to intravitreal steroid injections, with improvements in both foveal thickness and visual acuity. Intravitreal steroids can be useful for the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular oedema."}
{"id": "16564847", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone compared with macular laser grid photocoagulation for the treatment of cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone compared with macular laser grid photocoagulation for the treatment of cystoid macular edema."}
{"id": "16564845", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone compared with macular laser grid photocoagulation for the treatment of cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone compared with macular laser grid photocoagulation for the treatment of cystoid macular edema."}
{"id": "16538448", "title": "The blood pressure-induced diameter response of retinal arterioles decreases with increasing diabetic maculopathy.", "content": "The blood pressure-induced diameter response of retinal arterioles decreases with increasing diabetic maculopathy. The aim of the study was to compare the diameter response of retinal arterioles and retinal thickness in patients with different stages of diabetic maculopathy during an increase in the arterial blood pressure. Four groups each consisting of 19 individuals were studied. Group A consisted of normal individuals and groups B-D consisted of type 2 diabetic patients matched for diabetes duration, age, and gender, and characterized by: Group B no retinopathy, Group C mild retinopathy, Group D maculopathy not requiring laser treatment. The diameter changes of a large retinal arteriole were measured using the Retinal Vessel Analyzer (RVA, Imedos, Germany) before, during, and after an increase in the blood pressure induced by isometric exercise. Additionally, the retinal thickness was measured using optical coherence tomography scanning. The arterioles contracted during isometric exercise in normal persons (diameter response: -0.70+/-0.48%) and in patients with no retinopathy (-1.15+/-0.44%), but dilated in patients with mild retinopathy (0.41+/-0.49%) and diabetic maculopathy (0.54+/-0.44%), p=0.01. Retinal thickness was normal in Group A (260+/-5.0 microm), Group B (257+/-4.5 microm), and Group C (253+/-4.4 microm), but was significantly (p=0.006) increased in Group D (279+/-5.3 microm). The diameter response was reduced in type 2 diabetic patients with retinopathy, whereas retinal thickness was increased in patients with diabetic maculopathy. This suggests that impairment of diameter response in retinal arterioles precedes the development of diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "16534053", "title": "Agreement of the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph II macula edema module with fundus biomicroscopy in diabetic maculopathy.", "content": "Agreement of the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph II macula edema module with fundus biomicroscopy in diabetic maculopathy. To estimate the agreement between the macular edema maps (MEMs) of the Retina Module of the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph II (Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany) and contact lens fundus biomicroscopy (FB) and to assess the influence of combining MEM data with the results of short-wavelength automated perimetry (SWAP) and fluorescein angiography (FA) on diagnostic test performance. Prospective, observational case series. Twenty patients (20 eyes) with diabetic retinopathy with or without clinically manifest macular edema (11 and 9 eyes, respectively) were enrolled. All patients underwent full ophthalmologic examination and also MEM assessment, SWAP, and FA. Using FB as the \"gold standard,\" the agreement between the MEMs and FB was very good (Kendall coefficient of concordance, 0.80). Macular edema maps showed good agreement with FA and SWAP (Kendall coefficient, 0.64 and 0.65). Virtually all of the edematous areas detected with MEM but not seen clinically had decreased sensitivity on SWAP and/or fluorescein leakage. Macular edema maps demonstrated very good agreement with FB. Combining the results of FA and SWAP with those of the MEMs provided supporting evidence of concomitant blood-retinal barrier leakage and visual dysfunction, respectively, in areas of early retinal thickening. Prospective studies are ongoing to fully assess the diagnostic test performance of MEMs in the detection of early and progressive diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "16496258", "title": "Use of autologous plasmin during vitrectomy for diabetic maculopathy.", "content": "Use of autologous plasmin during vitrectomy for diabetic maculopathy. To evaluate the efficacy of autologous plasmin enzyme as an adjunct to vitrectomy in diabetic macular edema. Plasmin derived from autologous blood was injected intravitreally into seven eyes 15 min before vitreous surgery. The development and progression of a posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) was followed, and the time required for vitreous removal was measured. Both pre- and postoperative visual acuities and optical coherence tomography (OCT)-determined macular thickness were measured. In the seven eyes in which plasmin was used, a PVD developed approximately 5 min after the injection and was confirmed to extend to the far periphery. In all cases, the removal of the vitreous was completed in a shorter time and no complications were observed. A restoration of the shape of the macula was observed in all cases. The visual acuity improved by two or more lines in four eyes, and remained unchanged in the remaining three eyes. Autologous plasmin alone will create a full PVD, and eliminates the need for a mechanical creation of a PVD. Thus, plasmin is a safe and effective adjunct to vitreous surgery for the treatment of diabetic maculopathy."}
{"id": "16496256", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide as primary treatment for diffuse diabetic macular edema: a prospective noncomparative interventional case series.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide as primary treatment for diffuse diabetic macular edema: a prospective noncomparative interventional case series. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of one intravitreal injection of 25 mg of triamcinolone acetonide as primary treatment for diffuse diabetic macular edema. Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection was performed in 30 eyes with previously untreated diabetic macular edema. The main outcome measures were logMAR visual acuity (VA) and central macular thickness (CMT) at 1, 3, and 6 months. A secondary outcome was intraocular pressure progression. Visual acuity results for 30 eyes that had a follow-up of at least 6 months are presented. Twenty of them were followed up to 10.1+/-2.38 months. Preoperatively, VA was 0.54+/-0.27. At 1, 3, and 6 months follow-up, VA was 0.44+/-0.29 (p=0.001), 0.43+/-0.28 (p=0.001), and 0.45+/-0.29 (p=0.006), respectively. Preoperatively, CMT was 417.3+/-143.5 microm. At 1, 3, and 6 months follow-up, CMT was 277.3 +74.0 microm (p<0.0001), 279.6+/-94.4 microm (p<0.0001), and 297.07+/-114.87 microm (p=0.002), respectively. For the 20 eyes with a follow-up of 10.1+/-2.38 months, VA was 0.5+/-0.25 and 0.50+/-0.32 at baseline and at the last follow-up visit, respectively (p>0.05). Preoperatively, intraocular pressure (IOP) was 15.13+/-1.48 mmHg. IOP was 18.26+/-2.71 mmHg, 20.07+/-4.27 mmHg, and 20.4+/-6.18 mmHg, at 1, 3, and 6 months, respectively (p<0.0001). Four eyes underwent uncomplicated filtrating surgery for intractable glaucoma. Intravitreal triamcinolone as primary treatment effectively increases VA and reduces CMT due to diffuse diabetic macular edema. Longer follow-up and randomized clinical trial are warranted. Safety results highlight the need to further study the relationship between triamcinolone and intraocular pressure."}
{"id": "16458701", "title": "Intraocular rake for removal of epiretinal membranes.", "content": "Intraocular rake for removal of epiretinal membranes. To examine the feasibility of the use of a flexible intraocular rake to remove epiretinal membranes (ERM). Interventional case series. A multi-tine flexible intraocular rake was designed. Ten consecutive patients with idiopathic epiretinal membranes underwent vitrectomy and removal of the ERM with the intraocular rake. Outcome measures included intraoperative complications, Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity, rate of recurrent ERM, and rate of persistent cystoid macular edema. The rake was used successfully to remove the ERM in all cases. Two patients had intraoperative retinal tears. At a mean postoperative follow-up examination of 24 weeks, the visual acuity was improved significantly (20/90 before the operation vs 20/50 after the operation; P<.05). One patient had a recurrent epiretinal membrane. The flexible intraocular rake appears to be capable of the removal of idiopathic ERM. The increased tolerance for retinal contact that results from the flexible tines may make the rake of value to many vitreoretinal surgeons."}
{"id": "16453184", "title": "Tracing method in the assessment of retinal capillary blood flow velocity by fluorescein angiography with scanning laser ophthalmoscope.", "content": "Tracing method in the assessment of retinal capillary blood flow velocity by fluorescein angiography with scanning laser ophthalmoscope. To evaluate the feasibility of a new method (the tracing method) for measuring perifoveal capillary blood flow velocity (BFV). The BFV in the perifoveal capillaries was measured in 12 eyes of healthy subjects and 12 eyes of patients with clinically significant macular edema (CSME) by fluorescein angiography using a scanning laser ophthalmoscope by either the tracing method or the conventional method. A randomized crossover design was employed to assign the subjects to each method. The number of capillaries recognized by the tracing method in healthy subjects and in patients with CSME was significantly higher than that recognized with the conventional method (P = 0.0134 and P = 0.0108, respectively). The number of fluorescent dots detected by the tracing method in healthy subjects and in patients with CSME was also significantly higher than that detected with the conventional method (P = 0.0002 and P = 0.0137, respectively). Accurate detection of the movement of fluorescent dots and analysis of BFV were possible with the tracing method. The BFV varied within each perifoveal capillary, and the mean BFV also varied according to capillary location in the macula. The new tracing method is useful for analyzing the retinal capillary BFV in healthy subjects and in patients with CSME."}
{"id": "16406542", "title": "Errors in retinal thickness measurements obtained by optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Errors in retinal thickness measurements obtained by optical coherence tomography. To report the frequency and severity of optical coherence tomography (OCT) retinal thickness measurement errors and to describe parameters that predict these errors. Observational case series. Two hundred consecutive patients undergoing OCT imaging. One eye (primary) from each of 200 consecutive patients undergoing Stratus OCT imaging (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA) with radial lines or fast macular thickness-based acquisition protocols was selected for review by 2 graders. On each of the line scans, graders evaluated the position of the automated retinal boundary lines (inner retinal surface and retinal pigment epithelium band) used by the OCT machine for thickness calculations and graded the positioning on a 6-point subjective, categorical error scale to generate an error score. The presence of thickness errors was correlated with various parameters, including the analysis confidence assessment reported by the OCT software, disease diagnosis, retinal morphologic features, the foveal center thickness standard deviation (FCTSD), and the FCTSD-to-foveal center thickness (FCT) ratio. Average OCT retinal thickness error score. Errors of retinal boundary detection and thickness measurement were observed in 92% of eyes, but were severe in only 13.5% of eyes. The identification of an error or low analysis confidence by the OCT software was strongly associated with the severity of the retinal thickness errors. A higher FCTSD-to-FCT ratio and presence of subretinal fluid also were associated with more severe errors. Retinal cysts and a diagnosis of retinal vascular disease such as diabetic macular edema were less likely to be associated with significant errors. Retinal thickness measurement errors occur frequently with current OCT segmentation and analysis algorithms. Severe errors are more frequent in eyes with subretinal pathologic features, but generally are detected by the OCT software. A high FCTSD-to-FCT ratio (>0.1) also may alert the clinician to the possibility of thickness errors. Clinical studies, particularly those pertaining to subretinal diseases, should consider these errors when incorporating OCT imaging in the study design."}
{"id": "16395139", "title": "Retinal thickness in diabetic retinopathy: comparison of optical coherence tomography, the retinal thickness analyzer, and fundus photography.", "content": "Retinal thickness in diabetic retinopathy: comparison of optical coherence tomography, the retinal thickness analyzer, and fundus photography. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) and the retinal thickness analyzer (RTA) have proved their ability to measure retinal thickness in healthy subjects and diabetics reliably. In the present study, both techniques were compared for the same study population of diabetic patients, and the findings were related to macular edema shown by stereo fundus photography (SFP). Maculas of 124 eyes from 69 patients with diabetes mellitus were examined with OCT and the RTA. Measurements of retinal thickness were compared with signs of macular edema shown by SFP. For each eye, nine different sectors were analyzed (a foveal sector, four parafoveal sectors, and four extrafoveal sectors). Thirteen eyes with a normal macula served as controls. Sensitivity and specificity of detecting clinically significant macular edema (CSME) were calculated. Of 111 eyes, 64 showed signs of CSME by SFP. Mean retinal thickness +/- SD of the foveal sector was 249 +/- 104 microm by RTA and 295 +/- 124 microm by OCT measurements. There was a moderate overall correlation between OCT and the RTA (r = 0.66). The correlation was best in the foveal sector (r = 0.82). Overall correlation with SFP was better for OCT (r = 0.77) than for the RTA (r = 0.62). Sensitivity of detecting CSME was consistently higher with OCT, while the RTA showed higher specificity. Both measuring techniques yielded similar results when examining eyes of patients with diabetes, although absolute values differed. OCT seems to be more suitable in the clinical screening for macular edema due to its high sensitivity (>90%) with appropriate analysis parameters. The RTA is more prone to erroneous or missing thickness readings particularly under difficult measuring conditions."}
{"id": "16395133", "title": "Diurnal variation in clinically significant diabetic macular edema measured by the Stratus OCT.", "content": "Diurnal variation in clinically significant diabetic macular edema measured by the Stratus OCT. To investigate diurnal variation in clinically significant macular edema (CSME) using the Stratus OCT (Carl Zeiss Meditec). Fifteen eyes of 15 diabetic patients with CSME and 10 healthy subjects (controls) underwent four optical coherence tomography (OCT) measurements of macular thickness with the fast macular thickness mapping protocol of the Stratus OCT at 9 am, 12 pm, 3 pm, and 6 pm. Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity and refraction data were also collected at each time. Retinal thickness measurements from each of the nine macular Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study areas of the retina map, visual acuity, and refraction were plotted over time. Mean retinal thickness remained unchanged in all retinal sectors over the course of the day for the controls and the 6 diabetic patients with a baseline foveal thickness of <300 mum, and it significantly decreased in 7 of the 9 retinal sectors for the 9 diabetic patients with a baseline foveal thickness of > or =300 microm (ANOVA model for repeated measures). In these patients, the mean initial foveal thickening +/- SD of 211 +/- 104 microm was reduced by an average of 6.1%, 15.2%, and 21.2% at 12 pm, 3 pm, and 6 pm, respectively. Two of these nine patients also had an increase in visual acuity without change in refraction. There were no changes in refractive errors over the course of the study in the two groups. A positive correlation between initial central thickening and decrease in thickness was found (r = 0.732; P = 0.002). This study suggests that macular thickening, as measured by the Stratus OCT, may spontaneously decrease in some patients with more severe CSME over the course of the day, and it confirms previous findings. However, in our study, the entity of this decline was relatively small and not relevant from a clinical standpoint."}
{"id": "16395132", "title": "Pars plana vitrectomy with and without peeling of the inner limiting membrane for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Pars plana vitrectomy with and without peeling of the inner limiting membrane for diabetic macular edema. A prospective, comparative, nonrandomized study to evaluate the efficacy of pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) with and without inner limiting membrane (ILM) peeling for persistent diffuse clinically significant macular edema. Eighteen patients with persistent diffuse clinically significant macular edema despite laser photocoagulation were recruited for the study. Clinical assessment included determination of best-corrected visual acuity, fundus fluorescein angiography, optical coherence tomography, and perifoveal cone function testing. Eight patients underwent PPV with elevation and removal of the posterior hyaloid alone, and 10 patients underwent vitrectomy and ILM peeling. The follow-up was 12 months. Patients with ILM peeling had improvement in foveal thickness (P = 0.07) and significant improvement in the macular volume (P = 0.039) 12 months after surgery but did not have significant improvement in Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study vision or perifoveal cone function. There was no significant difference in outcome parameters between the no peeling group and the ILM peeling group. In this prospective, comparative study of PPV with and without ILM peeling for diffuse clinically significant macular edema, structural improvement was seen but with limited visual improvement after ILM peeling."}
{"id": "16387030", "title": "Optical coherence tomography assessment of the vitreoretinal relationship in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography assessment of the vitreoretinal relationship in diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "16386973", "title": "Retinal blood flow and macular edema after radial optic neurotomy for central retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Retinal blood flow and macular edema after radial optic neurotomy for central retinal vein occlusion. To determine the effect of radial optic neurotomy (RON) on retinal blood flow (RBF) and macular edema in eyes with a central retinal vein occlusion. Prospective interventional study. Seven eyes of seven patients with central retinal vein occlusion underwent RON and vitrectomy and were followed for at least 6 months. The RBF was calculated from dye dilution curves of video fluorescein angiograms. The foveal thickness was determined by optical coherence tomography. At 1 week after surgery, the RBF was significantly reduced from 28.5 +/- 5.4 to 21.1 +/- 6.6 pixel(2)/s (P < .01). At 6 months after surgery, the RBF (26.0 +/- 7.7 pixel(2)/s) was not significantly different from the preoperative RBF, although chorioretinal anastomoses were found in all seven eyes. The foveal thickness was significantly decreased from 711 +/- 271 to 488 +/- 182 mum (P = .03). The postoperative visual acuity was better than the preoperative visual acuity by two or more lines in three out of seven eyes, and was worse in two eyes. Neither RON nor chorioretinal anastomoses improved the RBF but macular edema was improved. These findings suggest that removal of the vitreous could reduce macular edema as in diabetic macular edema. However, we cannot exclude the possibility that the changes represent the natural course of this disease."}
{"id": "16361663", "title": "Factors predicting outcome of vitrectomy for diabetic macular oedema: results of a prospective study.", "content": "Factors predicting outcome of vitrectomy for diabetic macular oedema: results of a prospective study. To determine preoperative demographic, clinical, and optical coherence tomography (OCT) factors which might predict the visual and anatomical outcome at 1 year in patients undergoing vitrectomy and inner limiting membrane peel for diabetic macular oedema (DMO). A prospective, interventional case series of 33 patients who completed 1 year follow up. Measurements were taken preoperatively and at 1 year. Outcome measures were logMAR visual acuity (VA) and OCT macular thickness. A priori explanatory variables included baseline presence of clinical and/or OCT signs suggesting macular traction, grade of diabetic maculopathy, posterior vitreous detachment, fluorescein leakage and ischaemia on angiography, presence of subretinal fluid, and peroperative indocyanine green (ICG) use. 33 patients completed 1 year follow up. On average VA deteriorated by 0.035 logMAR (p = 0.40). Macular thickness significantly improved by a mean of 139 microm (95% CI; 211 to 67, p<0.001). Patients with evidence of clinical and/or OCT macular traction significantly improved logMAR acuity (logMAR improvement = 0.08) compared with patients without traction (logMAR deterioration 0.11, p = 0.01). Presence of subretinal fluid significantly predicted worse postoperative result (p = 0.01) On average, patients showed a statistically significant improvement in central macular thickness following treatment but a marginal acuity worsening. Presence of subretinal fluid on OCT is hypothesised to be exudative rather than tractional in nature. The visual benefit of vitrectomy for DMO in this study was limited to patients who exhibit signs of macular traction either clinically and/or on OCT."}
{"id": "16324700", "title": "Vitreous and aqueous concentrations of proangiogenic, antiangiogenic factors and other cytokines in diabetic retinopathy patients with macular edema: Implications for structural differences in macular profiles.", "content": "Vitreous and aqueous concentrations of proangiogenic, antiangiogenic factors and other cytokines in diabetic retinopathy patients with macular edema: Implications for structural differences in macular profiles. The aim of the study was to determine anatomical and growth factor profiles in patients with clinically significant macular oedema (CSMO) undergoing pars plana vitrectomy (PPV). Twenty patients with moderate nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) with persistent CSMO underwent PPV. Patients had baseline and postoperative clinical assessment including Ocular Coherence Tomography (OCT). Baseline vitreous and aqueous and serial postoperative aqueous samples were analysed for vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A), pigment epithelium derived Factor (PEDF) and other factors (pg/ml) including hepatocyte growth factor, MMP 9, soluble flt-1 Receptor, and TGF beta1 by ELISA. Vitreous from patients with full thickness macular holes (8) and proliferative diabetic retinopathy (22) were collected for comparison as controls. Vitreous VEGF-A concentration in the NPDR group was 957 pg/ml compared to 239 pg/ml in the macula hole (FTMH) control (p < 0.0001) and 596 pg/ml compared to PDR (p = 0.006). The median diabetic vitreous PEDF concentration was 1.36 microg/ml (FTMH 2.6 microg/ml p = 0.05). In NPDR, it was higher (1.59 microg/ml) than PDR (1.27 microg/ml) p = 0.02. There were changes to the HGF, soluble flt-1 Receptor and TGF b1 concentrations in the NPDR compared to either PDR or the normal state. In CSMO, two OCT profiles were identified: dome-shaped macular elevation (Group 1) (n = 4) and diffuse-low elevation profile (Group 2) (n = 16) which also showed differences in the postoperative median aqueous VEGF concentrations despite macular volume decreasing for both. The results suggest that there is an up-regulation of VEGF in the vitreous of the diabetic eye with a reciprocal decrease in PEDF. The structural and molecular differences between the two OCT macular profiles may explain the varying response to PPV in patients with diffuse CSMO."}
{"id": "16244647", "title": "Pars plana vitrectomy for diabetic macular oedema: OCT and functional correlations.", "content": "Pars plana vitrectomy for diabetic macular oedema: OCT and functional correlations. A prospective study to evaluate the macular structural and functional effects of pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) for persistent diffuse clinically significant macular oedema (CSMO). A total of 12 patients with persistent diffuse CSMO were recruited and underwent assessment including best-corrected visual acuity, fundus fluorescein angiography, optical coherence tomography (OCT) and fine matrix mapping (FMM) at baseline and over a period of a year poststandard three-port PPV. The median baseline ETDRS letters score for all 12 patients was 52 (range 41-63) while at 12 months it had increased to 65 (range of 27-68), an improvement of two complete ETDRS lines (P=0.037). Similarly, there was an improvement in the perifoveal cone thresholds (P=0.02). The foveal thickening for all 12 patients ranged from a median of 183 to 751 microm (normal range 126-180 microm) and the macular volume ranged from a median of 2.13 to 6.42 mm(3) (normal <1.66 mm(3)). After surgery, both the median foveal thickness (from 334 to 280 microm) and median macular volume (from 3.24 to 2.61 mm(3)) demonstrated decreases over 12 months (P=0.01). On baseline OCT, the patients fell into two anatomically distinct groups: Group 1 (n=4) had a dome-shaped thickened macula with a partial posterior hyaloid separation and a significantly higher foveal thickness and macular volume than Group 2 (n=8) which had a diffuse low-elevation profile of the thickened macula (P=0.007). In this prospective study of PPV for persistent fovea-involving CSMO there was structural and functional improvement."}
{"id": "16021193", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for diffuse diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for diffuse diabetic macular oedema. To evaluate the efficacy of intravitreal triamcinolone (IVTA) for the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular oedema (DME) refractory to conventional argon macular laser therapy. A prospective, consecutive, and noncomparative case series was undertaken involving 38 eyes of 38 patients with refractory DME. Triamcinolone acetonide (4 mg) in 0.1 ml was injected intravitreally. LogMar visual acuity (VA) and macular thickness measured by ocular coherence tomography (OCT) were assessed preoperatively and postoperatively at 1, 3, and 6 months. All patients completed 6 months of follow up. VA (mean+/-SD) improved from 0.905+/-0.23 to 0.605+/-0.28, 0.555+/-0.29, and 0.730+/-0.30 at 1, 3, and 6 months, respectively. Macular thickness baseline (mean+/-SD) on OCT was 418.7+/-104.2 microm and this decreased to 276.9+/-72.6 microm, 250.6+/-53.1 microm, and 308.8+/-87.3 microm at 1, 3, and 6 months, respectively. IVTA may be a potential temporary treatment for refractory DME. It is effective in decreasing macular thickness and improving VA but the effect lasts approximately for 6 months in the majority of patients. Further investigations are required to establish the safety of IVTA for the treatment of DME."}
{"id": "16021181", "title": "Correlation of retinal sensitivity measured with fundus-related microperimetry to visual acuity and retinal thickness in eyes with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Correlation of retinal sensitivity measured with fundus-related microperimetry to visual acuity and retinal thickness in eyes with diabetic macular edema. To determine whether significant correlations exist between retinal sensitivity measured by fundus-related microperimetry and the visual acuity and the foveal thickness measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME). A retrospective chart review of 32 eyes with DME and 17 normal healthy eyes that had undergone fundus-related microperimetry and OCT. The macular sensitivity was measured using the recently introduced fundus-related microperimeter, Micro Perimeter 1. The mean retinal sensitivities within the central 2 degrees and 10 degrees were correlated with the best-corrected visual acuity and OCT-measured foveal retinal thickness. The mean sensitivities in the central 2 degrees and 10 degrees were significantly lower in patients with DME than in normal subjects (P<0.0001). The mean retinal sensitivities in the central 2 degrees and 10 degrees were inversely correlated with visual acuity (r(2)=0.623, P<0.0001; r(2)=0.581, P<0.0001) and foveal thickness (r(2)=0.581, P<0.0001; r(2)=0.551, P<0.0001). The mean retinal sensitivities measured with fundus-related microperimetry were significantly lower in eyes with DME than in normal eyes. Because a significant correlation of the microperimeter-determined retinal sensitivity to visual acuity and foveal thickness was observed, the retinal sensitivities obtained by fundus-related microperimetry may be another measure that can be used to assess the effects of DME."}
{"id": "17273904", "title": "Retinal break following an intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection.", "content": "Retinal break following an intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection. To report a case of an unusual localization of retinal break following intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) injection. A 58-year-old male patient was admitted to our department for visual loss lasting more than 6 months. The patient was diagnosed as having proliferative diabetic retinopathy and diffuse macular edema. Therapy in the form of IVTA injection was given. During the first follow-up examination, 1 week after the IVTA injection, a retinal break with an attached flap on the nasal retinal area was observed. The retinal break was covered with laser photocoagulation. Although a rare possibility, a careful retinal examination during the follow-up period after IVTA injection may prevent retinal detachment."}
{"id": "17139528", "title": "Dilute triamcinolone-assisted peeling of the internal limiting membrane in cases of diffuse diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Dilute triamcinolone-assisted peeling of the internal limiting membrane in cases of diffuse diabetic macular oedema. In this study we evaluated the efficiency of diluted triamcinolone particles in peeling of the internal limiting membrane (ILM) in cases of diffuse diabetic macular oedema. A prospective observational study of thirteen consecutive patients with diffuse diabetic macular oedema who had undergone ILM peeling aided by use of a diluted (1 mg mL(-1)) suspension of triamcinolone particles (0.05 mg). The results were assessed by measurement of visual acuity and intraocular pressure, by ophthalmoscopy, and by fluorescein angiography. ILM peeling in all eyes could be performed easily and completely with the aid of triamcinolone particles homogeneously dispersed over the macular ILM. During the peeling procedure, triamcinolone particles resulted in clear contrast between the peeled and unpeeled ILM thus enabling us to easily find the edge of the ILM and to be able to continue peeling at further attempts. In twelve of the thirteen eyes the macular oedema was completely resolved or reduced. Visual acuity improved by at least two lines in nine eyes (70%). The intraocular pressure increase did not exceed 21 mmHg in any of the patients. The diluted triamcinolone suspension enables good visualisation of the ILM during the ILM peeling procedure in cases of diffuse diabetic macular oedema. Use of a diluted suspension may reduce the risk of intraocular pressure increase and the potential toxicity of triamcinolone."}
{"id": "17063373", "title": "The correlation between optical coherence tomographic features and severity of retinopathy, macular thickness and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "The correlation between optical coherence tomographic features and severity of retinopathy, macular thickness and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema. To investigate the correlation between the features of optical coherence tomography (OCT) and the severity of concurrent retinopathy, central macular thickness (CMT), and best-corrected visual acuity in clinically significant diabetic macular edema. In a prospective study, OCT was performed in 55 eyes of 55 patients with clinically significant diabetic macular edema, in 58 eyes of 30 patients with diabetes without retinopathy, and in 40 eyes of 21 healthy control subjects. The OCT features were categorized into: type 1, sponge-like retinal swelling; type 2, cystoid macular edema; type 3, serous retinal detachment; and type 4, vitreofoveal traction. The CMT in eyes with diabetic macular edema was significantly higher than in eyes of healthy controls or in eyes of diabetic patients without retinopathy (P < 0.001). Visual acuity correlated with CMT in diabetic macular edema (r = 0.558, P < 0.001). The prevalence of OCT type 1 was significantly higher in eyes with mild-to-moderate non-proliferative retinopathy (NPDR) than in eyes with severe NPDR to proliferative retinopathy (PDR) (P = 0.0069). The prevalence of OCT types 3 and 4 was significantly higher in eyes with severe NPDR to PDR than in eyes with mild-to-moderate NPDR (P = 0.0056). OCT type 1 showed the least CMT (P < 0.001) and the best visual acuity (P = 0.002). There was a significant correlation between OCT patterns of clinically significant diabetic macular edema and severity of retinopathy, CMT, and visual acuity."}
{"id": "16779572", "title": "Vitrectomy seems to be beneficial for advanced diffuse diabetic macular oedema not responding to laser treatment.", "content": "Vitrectomy seems to be beneficial for advanced diffuse diabetic macular oedema not responding to laser treatment. To evaluate the surgical efficacy of vitrectomy, with optical coherence tomography, in patients with non-ischemic and ischemic diffuse diabetic macular oedema not responding to laser treatment. Ten eyes from nine patients (aged 46.0 +/- 20 years, diabetes duration 12.4 +/- 4 years) operated with vitrectomy for diabetic macular oedema not responding to laser treatment were evaluated before and 6 months postoperatively. Retinal thickness was assessed with optical coherence tomography, OCT, measuring the mean values of the centre of fovea and the second and third concentric rings from foveola. Four patients with type 1 diabetes had ischemic and five patients (6 eyes) with type 2 diabetes had non-ischemic diffuse macular oedema diagnosed on fluorescein angiography (FA). All eyes had an attached vitreous diagnosed on OCT. Mean foveal thickness for the three concentric rings from centre and out was significantly less 6 months postoperatively 437 +/- 125 vs. 286 +/- 67 microm; p = 0.027, 426 +/- 105 vs. 308 +/- 35 microm; p = 0.019 and 404 +/- 69 microm vs. 318 +/- 29 microm; p = 0.011 respectively. The decrease in foveal thickness was similar for eyes with and without signs of ischemic maculopathy. There was a trend toward improved visual acuity (VA) 6 months after surgery 0.4; range 0.2-0.6 compared to 0.3; range 0.1-0.5 before vitrectomy; p = 0.107). Vitrectomy seems to be a beneficial treatment for both ischemic and non-ischemic advanced diffuse diabetic macular oedema not responding to laser treatment."}
{"id": "16365798", "title": "Trans-Tenon's retrobulbar injection of triamcinolone acetonide for diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Trans-Tenon's retrobulbar injection of triamcinolone acetonide for diffuse diabetic macular edema. To determine whether a trans-Tenon's retrobulbar injection of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) is a safe and effective treatment for diffuse diabetic macular edema. Thirty-nine eyes of 30 diabetic patients with persistent macular edema were treated with 20 mg of TA injection. Central macular thickness (CMT) determined by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and visual acuity were evaluated before the injection and at 1, 2, 3, and 6 months, and up to 1 year in some eyes, after the injection. The CMT decreased significantly from 478 +/- 129 microm (mean +/- SD) before injection to 316 +/- 102 microm at 1 month, 307 +/- 104 microm at 2 months, and 275 +/- 89 microm at 3 months after a single injection of TA. A 20% reduction of CMT from the initial value was maintained by a single injection of TA in 27 of 39 eyes (69.2%) at 3 months, in 14 of 22 eyes (63.6%) at 6 months, and in 5 of 7 eyes at 12 months. A recurrence of macular edema was observed in 10% of the eyes at 3 months, and in 22.7% at 6 months. The 17 eyes in which vitrectomy had been carried out had a more significant improvement in CMT than the eyes without vitrectomy. A 20-mg trans-Tenon's retrobulbar TA injection is a safe and effective treatment for diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "16329060", "title": "Posterior sub-tenon triamcinolone for refractory diabetic macular edema: a randomized clinical trial.", "content": "Posterior sub-tenon triamcinolone for refractory diabetic macular edema: a randomized clinical trial. To evaluate the effect of posterior sub-tenon triamcinolone acetonide (TA) injection on clinical, angiographic, and optical coherence tomographic (OCT) parameters in refractory diabetic macular edema (DME). In a double-masked placebo-controlled clinical trial, 64 eyes were randomly assigned to two groups. The treatment group (32 eyes) received 40 mg posterior sub-tenon injection of TA and the placebo group (32 eyes) received subconjunctival injection of a placebo. The injections were repeated after 2 months in both groups. Complete ophthalmologic examination, fluorescein angiography, and OCT were performed before intervention and after 4 months. Quantitative measurement of angiographic variables such as the amount of hard exudates (HE), size of foveal avascular zone (FAZ), and leakage severity was performed by computer, using Photoshop software. Initial best-corrected visual acuity (VA) was 0.93+/-0.39 logMAR in the placebo group and 0.75+/-0.38 logMAR in the treatment group. At 4 months, corrected VA was 0.88+/-0.48 logMAR in the controls versus 0.71+/-0.42 logMAR in the cases. Mean central macular thickness measured by OCT before and 4 months after injection was 392 and 377 microns in the treatment group and 388 and 357 microns in the placebo group, respectively. No statistically significant difference was detected between the two groups. The difference was also not significant in HE, FAZ, and leakage in the angiograms. Two injections of posterior sub-tenon TA had no therapeutic effect on refractory DME."}
{"id": "16310507", "title": "Modified grid laser photocoagulation versus pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Modified grid laser photocoagulation versus pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal in diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "16303968", "title": "Circadian fluctuations of macular edema in patients with morning vision blurring: correlation with arterial pressure and effect of light deprivation.", "content": "Circadian fluctuations of macular edema in patients with morning vision blurring: correlation with arterial pressure and effect of light deprivation. This study explored the causes of vision fluctuations in patients with chronic macular edema. Fifteen patients (16 eyes) with vision blurring at awakening due to post-central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) macular edema underwent three examination sessions over 24 hours (at 7 PM, immediately after awakening at 7 AM, and at 7 PM), which comprised assessment of Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study score and measurement of macular thickness (MT) by optical coherence tomography. Ocular perfusion pressure was calculated from ambulatory arterial pressure measurement. In addition, after the 7 AM measurements, the patients were randomly selected for monocular light deprivation during the day to evaluate the role of retinal illumination in these fluctuations. Circadian fluctuation of MT was documented in all patients. At 7 AM, mean visual acuity (VA) was worse (mean +/- SD of the difference: 6.5 +/- 7.2 points; P < 0.002) and mean MT was higher (57.4 +/- 34 microm; P < 0.001) than at 7 PM. Fluctuations of MT were correlated to fluctuation of arterial pressure (P = 0.05), but were not influenced by monocular light deprivation. In most patients complaining of visual fluctuations due to macular edema secondary to CRVO, MT and VA were found to undergo a circadian cycle. These short-term anatomic and functional variations were associated with arterial pressure variations (that is, macular thickening was inversely correlated to the arterial pressure drop during the night), but were not due to light deprivation."}
{"id": "16299134", "title": "Comparison of optical coherence tomography models OCT1 and Stratus OCT for macular retinal thickness measurement.", "content": "Comparison of optical coherence tomography models OCT1 and Stratus OCT for macular retinal thickness measurement. To compare the values measured for retinal macular thickness with the first and last generations of the optical coherence tomograph (OCT1 and Stratus OCT, Zeiss, Humphrey Division). This was a cohort study. 59 eyes were examined: 17 had a normal macula and 42 had a diabetic macular oedema. In each eye, mean retinal thickness (RT) was measured automatically in the nine macular Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study areas and at the foveal centre, using OCT1 and Stratus OCT. The paired mean RT values for each area and the type and proportion of artefacts were compared. Of the 590 automatic measurements, 505 had no artefact, either with OCT1 or Stratus OCT. The mean difference between the OCT1 and Stratus OCT measurements was 25 (SD 26.2) microm (p<0.0001). With Stratus OCT, RT values were significantly higher, by 8.1% (7.8%), than with OCT1. Artefacts were only observed in cases of diabetic macular oedema and were significantly more frequent with OCT1 than Stratus OCT (10.5% versus 4.4, p<0.0001). The macular retinal thickness values measured with Stratus OCT were significantly higher than those measured with OCT1. Stratus OCT has the advantage of producing fewer artefacts than OCT1 in pathological cases."}
{"id": "16281735", "title": "One year of intravitreal injections of steroids.", "content": "One year of intravitreal injections of steroids. Chronic macular oedema sometimes does not respond to classic treatment such as laserphotocoagulation, periocular and systemic steroids or carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. High dose intravitreal injection of steroids can be a valuable alternative in these patients. Sixty-four eyes of 51 patients with chronic macular oedema, refractory to conventional treatments, received an intravitreal injection of 4 mg Kenacort (triamcinolone acetonide). At postoperative controls (1 day, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year), the visual acuity, intraocular pressure, central retinal thickness on OCT II were analyzed retrospectively. In the diabetic group, but also in cases of chronic uveitis, retinal vein thrombosis, birdshot chorioretinopathy, Irvine Gass syndrome, cellophane maculopathy and age-related macular degeneration with classic subfoveolar neovascular membrane, dramatic decrease of the oedema was observed on funduscopy and OCT. A statistically significant reduction of mean central foveal thickness of 61% at 1 week and 49% at 3 months post-injection was demonstrated on OCT. Considerable gain in visual acuity was noted. The highest benefit in post-operative visual acuity was achieved after 3 months and averaged a gain of +3.55 Snellen lines (n=39). In 17% of eyes a rise in intraocular pressure was noted. Unfortunately we had one case of endophthalmitis in a poorly regulated diabetic woman. Six eyes were retreated because of recurrence of macular oedema. Intravitreal injection of steroids can dramatically help in some cases of chronic macular oedema, not reacting to classic treatment. The injection should be performed under sterile conditions since endophthalmitis is a potential risk. The most frequent complication seems to be a rise in intraocular pressure in cortisone responders."}
{"id": "16240464", "title": "[Surgical therapy of diabetic retinopathy].", "content": "[Surgical therapy of diabetic retinopathy]."}
{"id": "16238040", "title": "The use of optical coherence tomography to determine the severity of radiation retinopathy.", "content": "The use of optical coherence tomography to determine the severity of radiation retinopathy. Radiation retinopathy can present many years after the application of either brachytherapy or teletherapy to the head or neck. If severe, it drastically reduces visual acuity due to macular ischemia or edema. This is the first article, to the author's knowledge, to document the use of optical coherence tomography in the assessment of radiation-induced maculopathy."}
{"id": "16226541", "title": "Optical coherence tomography findings in tamoxifen retinopathy.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography findings in tamoxifen retinopathy. To describe optical coherence tomography (OCT) findings in two cases of typical tamoxifen retinopathy. Observational cases report. Two patients with tamoxifen retinopathy were imaged with fluorescein angiography and OCT 3. Fluorescein angiography showed foveolar hyperfluorescence. OCT revealed a foveolar cystoid space with focal disruption of the photoreceptor line. There was no evidence of macular edema or thickening. In both cases, OCT findings are not consistent with previous descriptions of tamoxifen retinopathy, based on fundus examination and fluorescein angiography, which include a description of macular edema. This new imaging suggests that tamoxifen maculopathy may include a foveolar cystoid space different from macular edema."}
{"id": "16226521", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone compared with macular laser grid photocoagulation for the treatment of cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone compared with macular laser grid photocoagulation for the treatment of cystoid macular edema. To evaluate the outcome of cystoid macular edema (CME) treated with intravitreal injections of triamcinolone acetonide (TA), macular laser grid photocoagulation (MLG), or both (TA+MLG). Prospective, randomized, interventional, parallel, three-arm clinical trial. Institutional clinical study. Fifty-six patients (63 eyes) affected by diabetic or retinal vein occlusion CME. Twenty-two eyes received intravitreal injections of 4 mg TA; 21 eyes underwent MLG; and 20 eyes received intravitreal injection of 4 mg TA, and after 3 months, MLG. Best-corrected visual acuity (VA), central macular thickness (CMT) (by optical coherence tomography), and postoperative complications. Mean follow-up was 9 +/- 2 months (range 6 to 12 months). Baseline VA (logarithm of minimal angle of resolution [logMAR]) and CMT were, respectively, 0.82 +/- 0.19 and 556 +/- 139 microm microns for the TA group, 0.84 +/- 0.15 and 601 +/- 102 microm microns for the MLG group, and 0.83 +/- 0.22 and 573 +/- 106 microm microns for the TA+MLG group (no statistically significant difference among the groups). After the treatment, at 45 days, 3, 6, and 9 months in the TA group, VA had improved (P = .004) by 0.26, 0.25, 0.22, and 0.23 logMAR and CMT had decreased by 37%, 33%, 29%, and 31% (P = < .001). In the MLG group, VA was unchanged although CMT had decreased by 5%, 13%, 14%, and 16% (P = .021). In the TA+MLG group, VA had improved (P = .003) by 0.26, 0.24, 0.19, and 0.20 logMAR, and CMT had decreased by 36%, 34%, 28%, and 29% (P = < .001). The groups receiving triamcinolone had better VA and lower CMT values at all time points (P < .05). A reinjection was performed in eight eyes; intraocular pressure increased in nine eyes (treated with medical therapy), and cataract progressed in one eye. No injection-related complications occurred. TA intravitreal injection improves VA and reduces CMT more than MLG, which in triamcinolone-treated eyes does not offer further advantages. Intravitreal TA injection could be used as primary treatment in patients with CME."}
{"id": "16219723", "title": "Repeatability and reproducibility of fast macular thickness mapping with stratus optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Repeatability and reproducibility of fast macular thickness mapping with stratus optical coherence tomography. To determine the repeatability and reproducibility of retinal thickness measurements with the fast macular thickness mapping protocol of Stratus optical coherence tomography. Ten eyes of 10 healthy subjects and 15 eyes of 15 diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema (CSME) underwent 2 scanning sessions before and after pupil dilation during the same visit by 2 experienced examiners. Healthy subjects also received a third scanning session during a second visit. Repeatability and reproducibility for the foveolar center and for each of 9 Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS)-like regions were calculated by their repeatability and reproducibility coefficients and intraclass correlation coefficients. The coefficients of repeatability were less than 8% in healthy subjects and less than 9% in patients with diabetes and CSME. The reproducibility coefficients were less than 10% and 11% in healthy subjects and diabetic patients with CSME, respectively. There was no significant difference between scans acquired by different observers or during different visits. The intraclass correlation coefficients were always greater than 0.80 and 0.98 in healthy subjects and diabetic patients with CSME, respectively. Average +/- SD thickness was found to be 223 +/- 14 and 404 +/- 108 mum for the central ETDRS-like region in healthy subjects and diabetic patients with CSME, respectively. With the fast macular thickness mapping protocol of Stratus ocular coherence tomography, our results indicate that retinal thickness measurements in dilated and undilated eyes of healthy subjects and diabetic patients with CSME are repeatable and reproducible."}
{"id": "16205568", "title": "Frequency and associations of a taut thickened posterior hyaloid, partial vitreomacular separation, and subretinal fluid in patients with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Frequency and associations of a taut thickened posterior hyaloid, partial vitreomacular separation, and subretinal fluid in patients with diabetic macular edema. To determine prospectively among patients with diabetic macular edema (DME) the frequency of a clinically evident taut thickened posterior hyaloid (TTPH), optical coherence tomography (OCT) signs suggestive of partial vitreomacular separation (PVMS), and OCT evidence of subretinal fluid (SRF) and to investigate for associations between these findings. In a prospective case series, patients with DME despite previous laser treatment were examined for the presence of a TTPH. OCT was performed to investigate for PVMS and SRF. One hundred forty patients and eyes were included in the study. A TTPH was present in six patients (4%). PVMS was present in 14 (10%) of 140 patients with DME, of whom 5 also had a TTPH. SRF was present in 15 (11%) of 140 patients, of whom 4 had TTPH. OCT showed that 66% of patients with SRF and DME had neither a clinical TTPH nor partial posterior hyaloid separation. A TTPH was found in 4% of subjects with DME. Partial posterior hyaloid separation and SRF may be found in patients who do not have a TTPH. SRF in patients with DME may not be tractional."}
{"id": "16205562", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone treatment for macular edema associated with central retinal vein occlusion and hemiretinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone treatment for macular edema associated with central retinal vein occlusion and hemiretinal vein occlusion. To assess the efficacy of intravitreal triamcinolone treatment for macular edema from central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) and hemiretinal vein occlusion (HRVO). This study was a retrospective medical records review of 24 eyes of 24 patients (mean age, 71 years) that were injected with 4 mg of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for treatment of macular edema due to CRVO (n = 21) and HRVO (n = 3). Of the 24 eyes, 14 were injected once, 6 were injected twice, 3 were injected 3 times, and 1 received 4 injections. Mean follow-up time was 10 months (range, 3-24 months). The average time between onset of symptoms and first injection was 5.4 months (range, 2-48 months). Available documents on pre- and postinjection optical coherence tomography central foveal thickness in 23 of 39 total injections were evaluated. All injections resulted in reduction in central foveal thickness as determined by optical coherence tomography. The mean central foveal thickness decreased to 55% of preinjection values ([n = 23] 635 vs. 352 mum, respectively; P < 0.001). The average gain in visual acuity was 1.3 Snellen lines (range, -3-7) over the course of the study period. Ten eyes gained > or =2 lines of visual acuity, 3 eyes improved 1 line, 7 eyes remained the same, and 4 eyes worsened. There was no correlation between improvement in foveal thickness and corresponding visual gain (P = 0.24). None of the eyes of diabetic patients (n = 6) or patients with ischemic CRVO (n = 2) improved in visual acuity. The difference in mean baseline (20/167) and mean final visual acuity (20/91) was statistically significant (P = 0.015). The mean best postinjection visual acuity (20/67) was also significantly higher than the mean final visual acuity (P = 0.019). When diabetic and ischemic CRVO patients were excluded, the difference between mean baseline visual acuity and mean final visual acuity was found to be highly significant ([n = 16] 20/133 vs. 20/67, respectively; P < 0.001), while mean final and best postinjection visual acuities (20/50) did not differ (P = 0.085). Eight of 16 phakic eyes showed progression of cataract, 2 of which underwent cataract extraction. Nine of 18 patients without a history of glaucoma developed ocular hypertension and required glaucoma medication during postinjection follow-up. Trabeculectomy was performed on two eyes with glaucoma. Two other eyes developed epiretinal membranes, one of which underwent vitrectomy. Intravitreal triamcinolone may be effective in treating macular edema from CRVO and HRVO. Subjects with concurrent diabetes or ischemic central retinal vein were less likely to have visual improvement."}
{"id": "16205561", "title": "Time course of changes in retinal thickness and visual acuity after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diffuse diabetic macular edema with and without previous macular laser treatment.", "content": "Time course of changes in retinal thickness and visual acuity after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diffuse diabetic macular edema with and without previous macular laser treatment. To describe the changes in retinal thickness (RT) and visual acuity over time in patients with clinically significant diffuse diabetic macular edema (DME) after intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) and to compare patients with and without previous laser treatment. A total of 23 eyes with clinically significant DME received a 4-mg IVTA injection. Twelve eyes were refractory to macular laser treatment (group 1), and 11 eyes received IVTA as primary therapy (group 2). Visual acuity and changes in macular thickening shown by optical coherence tomography were evaluated 48 hours after injection, every 7 days for 1 month, and at 3 months and 6 months of follow-up. RT decreased in all eyes in both groups. The reduction of edema was maximal in the first 7 days after IVTA and tended to remain stable for 3 months. The decrease in RT over time was significant in both groups (P < 0.001). At 6 months, RT had increased in almost all eyes. Visual acuity improved quickly, to a maximum at 2 weeks in both groups, after which it remained stable for 3 months and then decreased. Improvement in visual acuity over time was significant in both groups (P < 0.001). The temporal characteristics of the changes in RT and visual acuity were similar in the two groups (P < 0.05). IVTA was effective in reducing clinically significant DME and improving visual acuity in eyes with and without previous laser treatment. Its action was maximal in the first week and lasted approximately 3 months in this study."}
{"id": "16188001", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide as an adjuvant therapy to panretinal photocoagulation for proliferative retinopathy with high risk characteristics in type 1 diabetes: case report with 22 weeks follow-up.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide as an adjuvant therapy to panretinal photocoagulation for proliferative retinopathy with high risk characteristics in type 1 diabetes: case report with 22 weeks follow-up. To describe a new treatment protocol to deliver panretinal photocoagulation that may avoid further deterioration of vision in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus with proliferative retinopathy with high risk characteristics for severe visual loss and cystoid macular oedema. Fundus photography, measurement of foveal thickness with optical coherence tomography and best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) determined by Snellen and ETDRS charts were measured before and after treatment in a 28-year-old man. Over 9 weeks, BCVA improved from 0.05 to 0.25 and the number of letters read at 2 metres from four to 39 after panretinal photocoagulation and adjuvant intravitreal triamcinolone injection under intraconal anaesthesia. Foveal thickness decreased from 691 microm to 239 microm and cysts disappeared by 15 weeks. By 22 weeks, foveal thickness had increased to 282 microm and small cysts had reappeared, but BCVA remained at 0.2 and the number of letters read at 30. Proliferative retinopathy regressed, cystoid macular oedema disappeared and vision improved after panretinal photocoagulation and adjuvant intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection under intraconal anaesthesia. This represents a feasible option in cases where pain during laser treatment and impairment of vision afterwards due to cystoid macular oedema result in poor compliance with standard laser treatment under topical anaesthesia."}
{"id": "16186372", "title": "Intravitreal injection versus sub-Tenon's infusion of triamcinolone acetonide for refractory diabetic macular edema: a randomized clinical trial.", "content": "Intravitreal injection versus sub-Tenon's infusion of triamcinolone acetonide for refractory diabetic macular edema: a randomized clinical trial. To compare the effectiveness of posterior sub-Tenon's infusion (STi) and intravitreal injection (IVI) of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) for treatment of refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema. Thirty-six phakic diabetic patients with refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema were prospectively enrolled. Patients randomly received either 40 mg STi or 4 mg IVI of TA. Comprehensive ophthalmic evaluation was performed at baseline and 1, 2, 4, 8 +/- 1, 12 +/- 2 and 24 +/- 2 weeks after treatment. Macular morphologic changes detected by optical coherence tomography and visual acuity, intraocular pressure, and lens status were evaluated. Twenty-eight patients (28 eyes) completed the 24-week study. Central macular thickness was significantly reduced in the IVI group when compared with the STi group at 2, 4, 8, 12, and 24 weeks after treatment (P < 0.01). Mean visual acuities (in logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution [logMAR]) at week-4, -8, and -12 follow-up examinations were significantly higher in the IVI group (0.74, 0.75, and 0.82, respectively) when compared with the STi group (0.88, 0.88, and 0.90, respectively; P < 0.01). A significant change from baseline in mean intraocular pressure (mm Hg) was seen at weeks 4 (+/-3.21) and 8 (+/-3.35) in STi the group (P < 0.01), and at week 8 (+/-2.78) in the IVI group (P < 0.05). No patient had cataract progression during the study. Although the number of patients and length of follow-up in this preliminary study were limited, the changes in central macular thickness and visual acuity observed after treatment suggest that IVI TA may be more effective than STi for the management of refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema. Further studies are needed to confirm these preliminary findings."}
{"id": "16167293", "title": "Prospective evaluation of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection in macular edema associated with retinal vascular disorders.", "content": "Prospective evaluation of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide injection in macular edema associated with retinal vascular disorders. To evaluate the effect of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide on visual acuity and macular thickness using optical coherence tomography (OCT) in macular edema associated with various retinal vascular disorders. This prospective nonrandomized clinical interventional study included 81 eyes (76 patients) comprised of Group I, 57 eyes (51 patients) with diabetic macular edema; Group II, 10 eyes (10 patients) with branch retinal vein occlusion; and Group III, 13 eyes (13 patients) with central retinal vein occlusion. All eyes received an intravitreal injection of 4 mg triamcinolone acetonide (with the solvent) in the operation theater under sterile conditions. Mean preinjection central macular thickness was 531.84+/-132 microm in Group I, 458.4+/-149 microm in Group II, and 750.81+/-148 microm in Group III. All groups showed a statistically significant decrease in mean central macular thickness at 1 month (300.7+/-119 microm in Group I, 218.2+/-99 microm in Group II, and 210.5 +/-56 microm in Group III) and 3 months (253.19+/-109 microm in Group I, 187+/-47 microm in Group II, and 182+/-50 microm in Group III) after injection (p < 0.05). Mean follow-up was 22+/-2.4 weeks. Mean visual acuity increased in all three groups (preoperative visual acuity in Group I, 1.2+/-0.4 logMAR units; Group II, 1.24+/-0.5 logMAR units; Group III, 1.1+/-0.4 logMAR units; 1 month postinjection in Group I, 0.88+/-0.3 logMAR units; Group II, 0.67+/-0.3 logMAR units; Group III, 0.86+/-0.4 logMAR units; 3 months postinjection in Group I, 0.84+/-0.4 logMAR units; Group II, 0.59+/-0.3 logMAR units; Group III, 0.82+/-0.5 logMAR units) (p < 0.05). Forty-one eyes completed 6 months and 20 eyes completed 9 months follow-up. Twelve of 20 (41%) eyes in Group I, 2/6 (33%) eyes in Group II, 3/6 (50%) eyes in Group III, and 8/15 (53%) eyes in Group I, 1/3 (33%) eyes in Group II, and 2/2 (100%) eyes in Group III developed recurrence of macular edema with worsening of visual acuity at 6 and 9 months, respectively. Thirty-three (40.7%) eyes developed IOP elevation (at least one reading > 24 mmHg). One eye developed infective endophthalmitis. Intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide may be considered as an effective treatment for reducing macular thickening due to diffuse diabetic macular edema, venous occlusion associated macular edema, and may result in increase in visual acuity at least in the short term. Further follow-up and analysis is required to demonstrate its long-term efficacy."}
{"id": "16154196", "title": "A phase II randomized double-masked trial of pegaptanib, an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor aptamer, for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "A phase II randomized double-masked trial of pegaptanib, an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor aptamer, for diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of pegaptanib sodium injection (pegaptanib) in the treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME). Randomized, double-masked, multicenter, dose-ranging, controlled trial. Individuals with a best-corrected visual acuity (VA) between 20/50 and 20/320 in the study eye and DME involving the center of the macula for whom the investigator judged photocoagulation could be safely withheld for 16 weeks. Intravitreous pegaptanib (0.3 mg, 1 mg, 3 mg) or sham injections at study entry, week 6, and week 12 with additional injections and/or focal photocoagulation as needed for another 18 weeks. Final assessments were conducted at week 36. Best-corrected VA, central retinal thickness at the center point of the central subfield as assessed by optical coherence tomography measurement, and additional therapy with photocoagulation between weeks 12 and 36. One hundred seventy-two patients appeared balanced for baseline demographic and ocular characteristics. Median VA was better at week 36 with 0.3 mg (20/50), as compared with sham (20/63) (P = 0.04). A larger proportion of those receiving 0.3 mg gained VAs of > or =10 letters (approximately 2 lines) (34% vs. 10%, P = 0.003) and > or =15 letters (18% vs. 7%, P = 0.12). Mean central retinal thickness decreased by 68 microm with 0.3 mg, versus an increase of 4 microm with sham (P = 0.02). Larger proportions of those receiving 0.3 mg had an absolute decrease of both > or =100 microm (42% vs. 16%, P = 0.02) and > or =75 microm (49% vs. 19%, P = 0.008). Photocoagulation was deemed necessary in fewer subjects in each pegaptanib arm (0.3 mg vs. sham, 25% vs. 48%; P = 0.04). All pegaptanib doses were well tolerated. Endophthalmitis occurred in 1 of 652 injections (0.15%/injection; i.e., 1/130 [0.8%] pegaptanib subjects) and was not associated with severe visual loss. In this phase II trial, subjects assigned to pegaptanib had better VA outcomes, were more likely to show reduction in central retinal thickness, and were deemed less likely to need additional therapy with photocoagulation at follow-up."}
{"id": "16118745", "title": "[Vitrectomy for diabetic cystoid macular edema -- results of 72 cases].", "content": "[Vitrectomy for diabetic cystoid macular edema -- results of 72 cases]. We evaluated visual outcomes after vitrectomy for diabetic cystoid macular edema and factors possibly influencing final visual acuity. Studied prospectively, pars plana vitrectomy was performed on 72 consecutive eyes of 61 patients with diabetic cystoid macular edema not responsive to laser photocoagulation therapy. Vitreomacular traction was observed on biomicroscopy, B-scan ultrasonography, and optical coherence tomography in 21 eyes, 15 eyes had a complete posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) and 36 eyes had partial peripheral PVD. Vitrectomy with releasing vitreomacular tangential and axial tractional forces was performed. All patients were followed up for at least 6 months. The anatomical results were satisfactory in 69 of 72 eyes (96 %), the final visual acuity improved by 2 or more lines in 45 of 72 eyes (63 %), remained unchanged in 22 of 72 eyes (31 %), and deteriorated after surgery in 5 of 72 eyes (7 %), due to residual cystoid macular edema and massive macular hard exudates. The best results were obtained in edema with tractional predominance and in eyes with a duration of cystoid macular edema shorter than 6 months. Vitrectomy for diabetic cystoid macular edema is an effective procedure for reducing the edema and improving visual acuity. Surgery was beneficial not only in eyes with vitreomacular traction but also in eyes with complete PVD. Visual improvement after vitrectomy is related to duration of edema, therefore the timing of the surgery is an important prognostic factor."}
{"id": "16118744", "title": "[Variations in intraocular pressure (IOP) and necessity for paracentesis following intravitreal triamcinolone injection].", "content": "[Variations in intraocular pressure (IOP) and necessity for paracentesis following intravitreal triamcinolone injection]. Intravitreal triamcinolone injection (IVT) has become a treatment option for macular edema of heterogeneous etiology and neovascular retinal diseases including AMD. Besides the risk for a steroid-induced secondary open-angle glaucoma, the acute rise in intravitreal volume induces IOP elevations immediately after injection. To decrease the intravitreal volume a paracentesis is advocated by many surgeons. The aim of this study was to determine variations in IOP at different time points immediately after IVT in order to assess the necessity for routine paracentesis. The IOP was recorded by Goldmann applanation tonometry preoperatively, 10 minutes, 1, 3 and 24 hours after intravitreal injection of 0.1 mL (4 mg) triamcinolone. A consecutive series of 32 eyes of 32 patients with diabetic macular edema, diffuse edema after central vein occlusion or occult subfoveal choroidal neovascularization due to age-related macular degeneration was included. Statistical analysis was performed with ANOVA test and Bonferroni correction. Compared to baseline (15.24 +/- 0.52 mm Hg) IOP was significantly elevated 10 min postoperatively (22.28 +/- 1.4 mmHg; p < 0.05). One hour after injection IOP decreased to 15.58 +/- 0.69 mmHg (p < 0.05). Three and 24 h after injection mean IOP was not significantly different from preoperative baseline levels. Immediately after IVT light perception was tested and retinal perfusion was evaluated by indirect ophthalmoscopy. In none of the patients was a paracentesis necessary. Intravitreal injection of 0.1 mL triamcinolone led to a moderate transient rise in IOP. Based on these results, a routinely performed paracentesis immediately before or after IVT is not required. As paracentesis bears an additional risk including endophthalmitis it should only be considered if functional testing following injection indicates a relevant impairment of retinal perfusion."}
{"id": "16088239", "title": "Vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema with and without internal limiting membrane removal.", "content": "Vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema with and without internal limiting membrane removal. To compare the efficacy of surgically removing or not removing the internal limiting membrane (ILM) during pars plana vitrectomy on the visual acuity and retinal thickness in eyes with diabetic macular edema. A prospective, case-control study was carried out on 30 eyes of 29 patients undergoing pars plana vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. Fifteen eyes underwent pars plana vitrectomy with ILM removal and 15 eyes without ILM removal. In 7 of 15 eyes (47%) in the ILM-removed group, the visual acuity improved by 0.2 or more log of the minimum angle of resolution (log MAR) units and remained unchanged in 8 eyes (53%). In the ILM-preserved group, the final visual acuity improved in 9 of 15 eyes (60%) and remained unchanged in 6 eyes (40%). The difference in visual acuity between the two groups after 11 months the surgery was not significant (Fisher's exact test, p=0.4938). In the ILM-removed group, the final retinal thickness decreased by more than 20% of the preoperative retinal thickness in 12 of 15 eyes (80%), remained unchanged in 2 of 15 eyes (13%), and increased in 1 of 15 eyes (7%). In the ILM-preserved group, the final retinal thickness decreased in 13 of 15 eyes (87%) and remained unchanged in 2 of 15 eyes (23%). The differences in the changes in the retinal thickness between the two groups were not statistically significant (Fisher's exact test, p=0.5945). Vitrectomy in eyes with diabetic macular edema without ILM removal was as effective in reducing the retinal thickness and improving the visual acuity as eyes with ILM removal. We conclude that ILM need not be removed to treat eyes with diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "16023067", "title": "Vitrectomy for persistent diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Vitrectomy for persistent diffuse diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the potential benefit of vitrectomy in eyes with persistent diffuse macular edema. Prospective randomized comparative clinical trial. Eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema for 6 to 18 months, an attached posterior hyaloid, and grid laser photocoagulation performed at least 4 months before were included. Patients were randomized either to a vitrectomy group or to a control group. Evaluations of Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) visual acuity, reading vision, and retinal thickness were carried out at baseline and 1, 3, and 6 months after enrollment. Fifty-six eyes (100%) were enrolled in this study. Twenty-five eyes (44.6%) were randomized into Gr I (vitrectomy group) and 31 eyes (55.4%) into Gr II (controls). Both groups were comparable in mean age (62.7 years and 63.9 years) and distribution of gender (one third male, two thirds female). ETDRS visual acuity showed a statistical significance in favor of Gr I at all time points (P = .035 to .005 Fisher's exact test). With Jaeger charts a significance for Gr I was found only at the 6-month examination (P = .01). With optical coherence tomography, the different behavior of retinal thickness changes in both groups during follow-up was statistically significant; P values were <.0001 for month 1, 3, and 6, preferring Gr I. We provide evidence that vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane peeling is superior to observation alone in eyes with persistent diffuse diabetic macular edema for 6 to 18 months. Longer follow-up periods and larger series might be needed to confirm these results and gain additional information."}
{"id": "16021497", "title": "Trans-Tenon's retrobulbar triamcinolone acetonide infusion for refractory diabetic macular edema after vitrectomy.", "content": "Trans-Tenon's retrobulbar triamcinolone acetonide infusion for refractory diabetic macular edema after vitrectomy. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of trans-Tenon's retrobulbar triamcinolone acetonide (TA) infusion for the treatment of refractory diabetic macular edema (DME) after vitrectomy. After topical anesthesia, 20 eyes from 20 patients with persistent DME after pars plana vitrectomy were treated with trans-Tenon's retrobulbar infusion of 40 mg TA through an inferotemporal approach. The mean duration (+/-SD) between vitrectomy and trans-Tenon's retrobulbar TA infusion was 11.4+/-7.9 months. The mean follow-up period (+/-SD) after trans-Tenon's retrobulbar TA infusion was 13.3+/-2.8 months. At 1 week after trans-Tenon's retrobulbar TA infusion, the mean central retinal thickness (+/-SD) measured by optical coherence tomography was 381+/-99 mum, which was a statistically significant decrease in comparison with the preoperative thickness (555+/-112 mum) (P<0.001). Additional trans-Tenon's retrobulbar TA infusions were performed in ten eyes (50%), due to the recurrence of DME at 6.6+/-3.0 months after the first TA infusion. At the final examination, macular edema resolved in 13 (65%), improved in four (20%), and remained unchanged in three (15%) of the 20 eyes. At 1 month after trans-Tenon's retrobulbar TA infusion, the mean laser flare value (+/-SD) was 9.6+/-3.0 photon/ms, which was a statistically significant decrease in comparison with the preoperative value (15.5+/-5.9 photon/ms) (P<0.01). Furthermore, in ten eyes (50%) with recurrent DME, re-elevated laser flare values were observed prior to the recurrence of DME. The final best-corrected Snellen visual acuity improved by two or more lines in nine eyes (45%), and remained unchanged in 11 eyes (55.0%). IOP elevation equal to or higher than 21 mmHg was observed in three (15%) of the 20 eyes with TA infusion, and was controlled by topical medications. No other injection-related complications were observed. Trans-Tenon's retrobulbar TA infusion is an effective and safe method for the treatment of refractory DME, which is present even after vitrectomy."}
{"id": "16019075", "title": "Comparison of intravitreal versus posterior sub-Tenon's capsule injection of triamcinolone acetonide for diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Comparison of intravitreal versus posterior sub-Tenon's capsule injection of triamcinolone acetonide for diffuse diabetic macular edema. To compare the safety and efficacy of intravitreal versus posterior Sub-Tenon's capsule injection of triamcinolone acetonide for diffuse diabetic macular edema. Prospective, double-masked, randomized controlled trial. Twelve patients (24 eyes) with bilateral diffuse diabetic macular edema. One eye of each patient was randomly assigned to receive a single 4-mg triamcinolone acetonide intravitreal injection and the fellow eye to receive a 40-mg triamcinolone acetonide posterior Sub-Tenon's capsule injection. Changes in visual acuity and central macular thickness obtained using optical coherence tomography were measured during a 6-month follow-up. Potential treatment complications were monitored, including increases in intraocular pressure (IOP) and cataract progression. Both intravitreal and Sub-Tenon's capsule injections of triamcinolone acetonide resulted in significant but transient improvements in central macular thickness. The mean (+/-standard deviation [SD]) central macular thickness in eyes with intravitreal injection was significantly thinner than in the Sub-Tenon's capsule-injected eyes at 1 month (226.8+/-41.7 microm and 431.5+/-165.8 microm, respectively; P = 0.002) and 3 months (242.3 +/- 93.9 microm and 364.7+/-78.2 microm, respectively; P = 0.005) after triamcinolone acetonide injection. The mean visual acuity (logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution) in the intravitreally injected eyes was significantly better than in the Sub-Tenon's capsule-injected eyes at 3 months post injection (0.832+/-0.293 and 1.107+/-0.339, respectively; P = 0.004). Intraocular pressure did not show any significant difference between the 2 forms of triamcinolone acetonide delivery at any follow-up visit, and no eyes had IOPs >25 mmHg. The findings from our study neither advocate nor support the use of corticosteroids for the treatment of diabetic macular edema, but do imply that both intravitreal and Sub-Tenon's capsule injections of triamcinolone acetonide may be equally tolerated, with short-term performance clearly favoring the intravitreal (4 mg) more than the SBT capsule (40 mg) route for the anatomic and functional aspects of improvement tested in this investigation."}
{"id": "16009835", "title": "A standardized method for reporting changes in macular thickening using optical coherence tomography.", "content": "A standardized method for reporting changes in macular thickening using optical coherence tomography. To describe a standardized method for reporting quantitative changes in macular thickening using optical coherence tomography (OCT). The proposed method consists of calculating the actual change in central foveal thickening (the initial pretreatment thickness minus the posttreatment thickness) using OCT and dividing that value by the potential change (the initial pretreatment thickness minus the normal thickness based on normative data) to provide the total improvement in macular edema as a percentage. We refer to this method as the standardized change in macular thickening (SCMT). To illustrate the effectiveness of this method, we performed a retrospective review of 2 studies that evaluated different strategies for treating refractory macular edema. Patients treated with intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for refractory diabetic macular edema had an overall SCMT of approximately 75%, 78%, and 55% at the 1-, 3-, and 6-month follow-up visits, respectively. More than half of the patients in the study cohort (9 of 16 patients) experienced greater than 80% SCMT at the last follow-up visit. Patients who underwent vitrectomy for a taut, thickened posterior hyaloid on OCT responded with an SCMT of approximately 78% at the 3-month follow-up visit and 87% at the final follow-up visit (mean, 19 months). Patients who underwent vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema unresponsive to laser photocoagulation but with no evidence of vitreomacular traction experienced an SCMT of 37% at the 3-month follow-up visit and 20% at the final follow-up visit (mean, 17 months). The proposed method offers an objective and intuitive basis for evaluating and comparing the efficacy of different therapeutic modalities."}
{"id": "15999709", "title": "[Measurement of retinal thickness (optical coherence tomography) in patients with diabetic retinopathy].", "content": "[Measurement of retinal thickness (optical coherence tomography) in patients with diabetic retinopathy]."}
{"id": "15992756", "title": "Regression of serous macular detachment after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in patients with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Regression of serous macular detachment after intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in patients with diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the effect of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide on serous macular detachment in eyes with diabetic macular edema. Interventional case series. The study population comprised twenty eyes of 20 patients with diabetic macular edema (12 men, eight women), aged 48 to 76 years. The eligibility criteria for this study included clinically detectable macular edema in which the presence of serous macular detachment was documented by optical coherence tomography. After intravitreal injection of 0.1 ml (4 mg) triamcinolone acetonide, visual and anatomic responses were observed. In all eyes, after an injection of triamcinolone acetonide, macular edema and serous macular detachment regressed. At 3 and 6 months, macular edema and serous macular detachment had recurred in eight (40%) and nine eyes (45%), respectively. Patients with recurrence were re-treated. No eyes lost vision at 1 month, and all eyes showed improvement. At 3 months, no eyes had lost vision from baseline, and 17 eyes (85%) showed improvement. At 6 months, again no eyes had lost vision from baseline, and 16 eyes (80%) maintained improved visual acuity. Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide is an effective treatment for serous macular detachment in patients with diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "15992752", "title": "Characterization of macular edema from various etiologies by optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Characterization of macular edema from various etiologies by optical coherence tomography. To use optical coherence tomography (OCT) to characterize the intraretinal changes associated with macular edema (ME) according to its etiology. Observational case series. Seventy-eight eyes of 78 patients with ME were examined retrospectively by OCT, using the Humphrey 2000 OCT system (Humphrey Co., San Leandro, California). ME etiologies were diabetic retinopathy (27 cases), central retinal vein occlusion (18 cases), pseudophakia (15 cases), posterior uveitis (10 cases), and retinitis pigmentosa (eight cases). Macular thickness was measured using OCT mapping software. It was correlated with logarithmic visual acuity. In 72 of 78 cases (92%), ME was located in the outer retinal layers. Serous retinal detachment was present in 29 of 78 cases (37%). It was most frequent in central retinal vein occlusion (10 of 18 cases, 56%). There were no significant differences in visual acuity (P = .26) or macular thickness (P = .95) whether or not serous retinal detachment was combined with ME. The posterior hyaloid was partially detached in 17 of 78 cases (22%) of overall cases. Serous retinal detachment did not correlate with partial posterior hyaloid detachment (P = .6). Mean macular thickness ranged from 506 microm in central retinal vein occlusion to 373 microm in retinitis pigmentosa. Visual acuity correlated with macular thickness in diabetic retinopathy (R = 0.55; P = .0027) and pseudophakia cases (R = 0.66; P = .016). OCT characterized the retinal morphologic changes associated with ME, especially the vitreomacular relationship and sub-clinical serous macular detachment. This detachment did not correlate with poor visual acuity. Macular thickening only correlated with visual loss in diabetic retinopathy and pseudophakia."}
{"id": "15980216", "title": "Overnight thickness variation in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Overnight thickness variation in diabetic macular edema. To study the evening-to-morning variation in retinal thickness in patients with fovea-involving diabetic macular edema. Twelve eyes in 12 patients aged 39 to 78 years (mean, 57) with fovea-involving diabetic macular edema and 14 eyes in 7 healthy volunteers aged 30 to 70 years (mean, 57) were examined by optical coherence tomography, in the evening and in the morning after > or =6 hours of sleep in the recumbent position in darkness followed by 0.5 hour wakefulness in the same position in room light with both eyes open. In patients with diabetic macular edema, macular thickness increased overnight, from 316 +/- 72 microm in the evening to 336 +/- 81 microm in the morning (P = 0.003). Visual acuity decreased from a mean of 41 ETDRS letters (Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study; range, 4-61) in the evening, to a mean of 36 letters (range, 2-60) in the morning (P = 0.03). No overall change was found in mean arterial blood pressure (MABP; P = 0.48), blood glucose (P = 0.25), or corneal thickness (P = 0.26). The overnight change in macular thickness correlated directly with the change in MABP (r = 0.65, P = 0.03) but not with baseline MABP or blood glucose. The overnight increase in retinal thickness remained significant after statistical adjustment for the effect of arterial blood pressure (P = 0.002). Healthy subjects demonstrated no significant change in any parameter. In fovea-involving diabetic macular edema, a reduction in visual acuity accompanies overnight retinal thickening, the magnitude being related to the nocturnal change in blood pressure. The results indicate that deficient regulation of retinal capillary filling pressure promotes edema, but the bulk of the overnight increase in macular edema is caused by other mechanisms, of which postural variation in venous blood pressure and increased retinal metabolism in the dark merit further study."}
{"id": "15976713", "title": "[Diffuse diabetic macular edema surgery: prospective study of seven cases followed up with optical coherence tomography].", "content": "[Diffuse diabetic macular edema surgery: prospective study of seven cases followed up with optical coherence tomography]. A prospective study was performed in seven eyes of seven consecutive patients who had vitrectomy for diffuse diabetic macular edema (DME) with ILM premacular delamination as part of this treatment. All patients had retinopathy and DME. Only one patient had previous grid photocoagulation. In all eyes, there was no ophthalmoscopic evidence of traction from the posterior hyaloid membrane or proliferative tissue, but all patients had no posterior vitreous separation. A clinical examination and optical coherence tomography (OCT) were performed in preoperative and postoperative surgery (1 and 6 months). Pars plana vitrectomy with separation of the posterior hyaloid was performed in seven cases. Only three patients had vitreomacular traction observed on OCT. Statistical analysis revealed a significant decrease in retinal thickness 6 months after surgery. Best corrected visual acuity improved in four patients. Vitreous surgery can improve the visual prognosis of some eyes with DME with or without posterior vitreous separation, whether combined or not with vitreomacular traction observed on OCT."}
{"id": "15965168", "title": "\"Light\" versus \"classic\" laser treatment for clinically significant diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "\"Light\" versus \"classic\" laser treatment for clinically significant diabetic macular oedema. To compare the effectiveness of \"light\" versus \"classic\" laser photocoagulation in diabetic patients with clinically significant macular oedema (CSMO). A prospective randomised pilot clinical trial in which 29 eyes of 24 diabetic patients with mild to moderate non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) and CSMO were randomised to either \"classic\" or \"light\" Nd:YAG 532 nm (frequency doubled) green laser. \"Light\" laser treatment differed from conventional (\"classic\") photocoagulation in that the energy employed was the lowest capable to produce barely visible burns at the level of the retinal pigment epithelium. Primary outcome measure was the change in foveal retinal thickness as measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT); secondary outcomes were the reduction/elimination of macular oedema on contact lens biomicroscopy and fluorescein angiography, change in visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, and mean deviation in the central 10 degrees visual field. Examiners were masked to patients' treatment. 14 eyes were assigned to \"classic\" and 15 were assigned to \"light\" laser treatment. At 12 months, seven (50%) of 14 eyes treated with \"classic\" and six (43%) of 14 eyes treated with \"light\" laser had a decrease of foveal retinal thickness on OCT (p = 0.79). A comparison of reduction/elimination of oedema, visual improvement, visual loss, change in contrast sensitivity, and mean deviation in the central 10 degrees showed no statistical difference between the groups at 12 months (p>0.05 for all groups). This study suggests that \"light\" photocoagulation for CSMO may be as effective as \"classic\" laser treatment, thus supporting the rationale for a larger equivalence trial."}
{"id": "15963467", "title": "Functional VEGF C-634G polymorphism is associated with development of diabetic macular edema and correlated with macular retinal thickness in type 2 diabetes.", "content": "Functional VEGF C-634G polymorphism is associated with development of diabetic macular edema and correlated with macular retinal thickness in type 2 diabetes. Since vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has a strong effect on induction of vascular permeability, VEGF is an attractive candidate gene for development of diabetic macular edema (ME). Among the 378 patients with type 2 diabetes studied, 203 patients had no retinopathy, 93 had non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR), and 82 had proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). ME was present in 16 patients with NPDR and 47 patients with PDR. We genotyped three VEGF polymorphisms: C-2,578A, G-1,154A, and C-634G. Genotype and allele distribution of C-634G, but not C-2,578A or G-1,154A, were significantly different between patients with and without diabetic retinopathy. Logistic regression analysis revealed that the C-634G genotype was a risk factor for DR (p = 0.002), and furthermore for ME (p = 0.047), independently from severity of DR, with the -634C allele increasing the risk. Macular thickness measured by optical coherence tomography was correlated with the C-634G genotype, with the trend increasing with the presence of more -634C alleles (p = 0.006). Stepwise regression analysis showed that duration of diabetes and presence of the C-634G genotype were independent predictors of macular thickness. In addition, basic transcriptional activity levels associated with the -634C allele were greater compared to those seen with the -634G allele in human glioma and lymphoblastic T-lymphocyte cells. These results demonstrate that the VEGF C-634G polymorphism is a genetic risk factor for ME as well as DR."}
{"id": "15962667", "title": "Screening for diabetic retinopathy in rural area using single-field, digital fundus images.", "content": "Screening for diabetic retinopathy in rural area using single-field, digital fundus images. To evaluate the practicability of using single-field, 2.3 million-pixel, digital fundus images for screening of diabetic retinopathy in rural areas. All diabetic patients who regularly attended the diabetic clinic at Kabcheang Community Hospital, located at 15 kilometers from the Thailand-Cambodia border, were appointed to the hospital for a 3-day diabetic retinopathy screening programme. The fundi of all patients were captured in single-field, 45 degrees, 2.3 million-pixel images using nonmydriatic digital fundus camera and then sent to a reading center in Bangkok. The fundi were also examined through dilated pupils by a retinal specialist at this hospital. The grading of diabetic retinopathy from two methods was compared for an exact agreement. The average duration of single digital fundus image capture was 2 minutes. The average file size of each image was 750 kilobytes. The average duration of single image transmission to a reading center in Bangkok via satellite was 3 minutes; via a conventional telephone line was 8 minutes. Of all 150 patients, 130 were assessed for an agreement between dilated fundus examination and digital fundus images in diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy. The exact agreement was 0.87, the weighted kappa statistics was 0.74. The sensitivity of digital fundus images in detecting diabetic retinopathy was 80%, the specificity was 96%. For diabetic macular edema the exact agreement was 0.97, the weighted kappa was 0.43, the sensitivity was 43%, and the specificity was 100%. The image capture of the nonmydriatic digital fundus camera is suitable for screening of diabetic retinopathy and single-field digital fundus images are potentially acceptable tools for the screening. The real-time image transmission via telephone lines to remote reading center, however, may not be practical for routine diabetic retinopathy screening in rural areas."}
{"id": "15953575", "title": "Regional patterns of sight-threatening diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Regional patterns of sight-threatening diabetic macular edema. To define regional patterns of macular thickening in diabetic macular edema (DME). Retrospective case series. Retina practice. Fifty-two normal eyes of 48 patients and 100 eyes of 80 patients with DME. We measured retinal thickness for nine zones and total macular volume using the 3.5-mm display of an optical coherence tomograph (OCT). We determined the normal ranges of values for zones, and then normal ranges of values for the difference in thickness between each pair of zones, termed comparisons. main outcome measures: Frequencies of increased zonal thickness, increased total macular volume, and abnormalities in zonal comparisons. We found the following abnormalities: increased total macular volume 49% (49/100), increased foveal zone thickness 46% (46/100), increased inner parafoveal zone thickness (average 42.2% for the four zones), and increased outer zone thickness (average 34.3% for the four zones). Abnormal two-zone comparisons were found in 1027 of the 7200 possible comparisons (14.3%). Of these abnormal comparisons, the fovea was thicker relative to another zone in 26%; the four inner parafoveal zones were thicker relative to other zones in 8.7% to 15.2% (average 13.0%); and the four outer zones were thicker relative to other zones in 3.9% to 7.6% (average 6%). Eighty-eight percent (88/100) of the eyes chosen on clinical grounds as needing focal laser photocoagulation were detected. A broader concept of OCT abnormality, which includes abnormalities in zonal relationships, may improve automated detection of DME compared with clinical judgment."}
{"id": "15944836", "title": "Radiation retinopathy caused by low dose irradiation and antithyroid drug-induced systemic vasculitis.", "content": "Radiation retinopathy caused by low dose irradiation and antithyroid drug-induced systemic vasculitis. We report on a patient with Graves' disease with radiation retinopathy caused by low-dose irradiation and antithyroid drug-induced antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-positive vasculitis. A 38-year-old woman with Graves' disease presented with bilateral blurred vision, microaneurysms, telangiectasia, and macular edema. The patient was examined by ophthalmoscopy and fluorescein angiography, and radiation retinopathy was diagnosed. The patient had been treated with low-dose irradiation for her Graves' ophthalmopathy a few years earlier. She also had ANCA-positive vasculitis induced by the antithyroid drug (propylthiouracil, PTU) that had been prescribed for her at that time. Because of multiple avascular areas on both retinas, she was treated by intensive retinal photocoagulation to control progressive retinopathy. The radiation doses used to treat Graves' disease ophthalmopathy are low. Nevertheless, there is still a risk of radiation retinopathy developing in patients with PTU-induced ANCA-positive vasculitis."}
{"id": "15944830", "title": "Clinical course of macular edema in two cases of interferon-associated retinopathy observed by optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Clinical course of macular edema in two cases of interferon-associated retinopathy observed by optical coherence tomography. Interferon (IFN)-associated retinopathy is typically characterized by retinal hemorrhages and cotton wool spots at the posterior fundus, but visual function is usually maintained. With the use of optical coherence tomography (OCT), two patients with IFN-associated retinopathy who had developed macular edema and reduced visual acuity during the clinical course of IFN therapy were observed. A 37-year-old man with chronic hepatitis C and a 59-year-old man with chronic myeloid leukemia, both of whom had received IFN therapy, were referred to our outpatient clinic. The former patient had complained once that his visual acuity had decreased after the termination of IFN therapy, and the latter patient complained twice during IFN therapy that his visual acuity had decreased. In both patients, at the time of the visual disturbances, macular edema was clearly observed by OCT. Hypoalbuminemia and thrombocytopenia were observed at this time also. After the remission of the hypoalbuminemia and thrombocytopenia, the macular edema observed by OCT disappeared and visual acuity returned to normal. During and after IFN therapy, OCT is a useful examination technique for revealing macular edema in patients who have decreased vision. Ophthalmologists should be aware of the ocular side effects of IFN therapy and carefully monitor patients for the possible occurrence of hypoalbuminemia and thrombocytopenia. Jpn J Ophthalmol 2005;49:231-234 (c) Japanese Ophthalmological Society 2005."}
{"id": "15933592", "title": "Efficacy of surgical removal of the internal limiting membrane in diabetic cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Efficacy of surgical removal of the internal limiting membrane in diabetic cystoid macular edema. To evaluate the efficacy of surgical removal of the internal limiting membrane (ILM) in diabetic cystoid macular edema (CME). Prospective, noncomparative, interventional case series including 21 eyes of 18 consecutive patients with diabetic CME. Vitrectomy with separation of the posterior hyaloid and induction of posterior vitreous detachment had been performed previously on nine eyes. Pars plana vitrectomy for removal of the ILM was performed. CME resolved in eyes that underwent initial vitrectomy and in those with long-standing (>1 year) CME after previous vitrectomy. Postoperative best-corrected visual acuity improved by >/=2 lines of a Snellen equivalent in 14 eyes (67%) (P < 0.01). The mean foveal thickness (distance between the inner retinal surface and the retinal pigment epithelium) decreased from 553 microm to 221 microm at 4 weeks (P < 0.001). No recurrences or deterioration of CME was observed during the entire follow-up period (mean, 17.8 months; range, 8-34 months). Surgical removal of the ILM might be an effective procedure for reducing CME in patients with diabetes. A prospective, randomized, controlled study is necessary to further evaluate the efficacy of the procedure."}
{"id": "15932526", "title": "Comparison of mean macular thickness using optical coherence tomography and visual acuity in diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Comparison of mean macular thickness using optical coherence tomography and visual acuity in diabetic retinopathy. The purpose of the present study was to quantitatively assess the mean macular thickness in diabetic patients using optical coherence tomography and its correlation with visual acuity. A prospective case series study was undertaken of consecutive diabetic patients referred to a tertiary eye care centre for an eye check up from January 2003 to June 2003. One hundred and five eyes from 55 patients with varying degree of diabetes underwent optical coherence tomography examination. The study patients were divided into four groups: group I, non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR); group II, NPDR with clinically significant macular oedema (CSME); group III, proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR); and group IV, PDR with CSME. The mean macular thickness of the entire group was 256.0 +/- 129.7 microm. A positive correlation (r = 0.424, P < 0.0001) was evident between mean macular thickness and visual acuity. Optical coherence tomography is a useful tool for objectively monitoring macular thickness in patients with diabetic retinopathy. Mean macular thickness correlates with visual acuity."}
{"id": "15931541", "title": "Vitrectomy and radial optic neurotomy for central retinal vein occlusion: effects on visual acuity and macular anatomy.", "content": "Vitrectomy and radial optic neurotomy for central retinal vein occlusion: effects on visual acuity and macular anatomy. Central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) is a common retinal vascular disorder and a leading cause of visual loss. It is thought to arise from vascular obstruction at the level of the lamina cribrosa. The purpose of the study reported here was to evaluate the potential benefit of radial optic neurotomy (RON) and determine its effect on foveal thickness and macular volume in patients with CRVO. We conducted a prospective pilot study of ten patients with CRVO. Visual acuity (VA) score measured with the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study chart and the corresponding Snellen equivalent were assessed before and 6 months after surgery. Colour fundus photography, fluorescein angiography (FA) and optical coherence tomography (OCT) were carried out before and at 2, 6, 12 and 24 weeks after surgery. Foveal thickness and macular volumes were assessed using OCT. Visible reperfusion was observed in four of the ten patients at the time of surgery. VA score improved in eight of the ten patients from a median score of 11.50 (range 0-68) to a median score of 35.00 (range 3-79). Macular volumes decreased in six of seven patients from a median of 4.99 mm3 (range 2.68-6.77) to a median of 3.11 mm3 (range 1.11-5.02). Foveal thickness decreased in six of seven patients from a median of 596.50 microm (range 338.50-745.50) to a median of 330.50 microm (range 118-634.50). Six of ten patients developed a chorioretinal venous anastomosis. Macular oedema on OCT persisted in six of ten patients. We observed an improvement in VA score and a corresponding reduction in foveal thickness and macular volume following RON, but macular oedema persisted in 60% of patients. Whilst optimisation of patient selection criteria remains a challenge, this pilot study suggests that RON has a beneficial effect on VA in patients presenting with CRVO."}
{"id": "15883846", "title": "[Selective RPE laser treatment with a scanned cw laser beam in rabbits].", "content": "[Selective RPE laser treatment with a scanned cw laser beam in rabbits]. Selective RPE laser therapy with sparing of the neurosensory layer is possible by applying repetitive microsecond laser pulses. Macular diseases such as diabetic maculopathy, soft confluent drusen due to age-related macular degeneration or central serous chorioretinopathy were shown to be treated successfully-without concurrent laser scotoma-by this technique. It was the goal of this study to show, if selectivity could also be achieved using a conventional green cw-laser by scanning the beam across the retina during irradiation. A cw-laser beam at 532 nm was coupled to a slitlamp via a single mode optical fiber. The spot (18 microm) was scanned across the retina of Dutch-belted rabbits through a contact lens using a two-dimensional acusto-optical deflector. The scan-field was 300 microm x 300 microm in size and consisted of six separate scan lines. The scanning speed was adjusted so as to produce 5 micros exposure at each absorber in the center of the scan line. The entire scan pattern was applied 100 times at each site at a frame rate of 100 Hz. Dose response curve was measured by variation of the laser power. ED(50)-thresholds for RPE damage were calculated by fluorescein angiographic leakage in irradiated areas after exposure to different laser intensities. The extent of selectivity was examined by light microscopy. Clinically the selective laser-induced RPE defect was demonstrated by fluorescein angiographic leakage and concurrent absence of ophthalmoscopic visibility. The angiographic ED(50)-damage threshold was 161 mJ/cm(2) (66 mW). Ophthalmoscopic visibility was not noticed even with the maximum available radiant exposure of 438 mJ/cm(2) (180 mW). Thus the safety range between angiographic and ophthalmoscopic thresholds had a factor of at least 2.7. First histological examinations revealed selective RPE destruction with intact photoreceptors for irradiation at laser power levels 2 times above angiographic threshold. Selective RPE targeting is feasible with a conventional green cw-laser when scanning the focused laser beam across the fundus with a speed such that every point in exposed RPE is irradiated for duration of 5 micros."}
{"id": "15860284", "title": "Optical coherence tomography assessment of the vitreoretinal relationship in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography assessment of the vitreoretinal relationship in diabetic macular edema. To study the vitreoretinal relationship in diabetic patients with and without diabetic macular edema (DME) using optical coherence tomography. Retrospective case-control study. setting: Institutional practice. patients: Thirty-five consecutive diabetic patients (49 eyes) with DME and 35 sex- and age-matched diabetic control patients without DME (49 eyes). observation procedure: All patients had Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study visual acuity measurement and biomicroscopic examination of the vitreoretinal interface. OCT was performed to obtain cross-sectional images of the vitreoretinal interface of the macular region. Posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) was staged from 0 to 3 as follows: stage 0: absence of PVD; stage 1: perifoveolar PVD with foveolar attachment; stage 2: incomplete PVD with residual attachment to the optic nerve; and stage 3: complete PVD. Retinal thickness was measured using OCT mapping software in all cases. main outcome measures: Prevalence of the different PVD stages in both groups of eyes. The mean age of the patients was 60 years in both groups. Of the eyes with macular edema, 19 (38.8%) were stage 0, 26 (53.0%) stage 1, 1 (2.0%) was stage 2, and 3 (6.2%) were stage 3. In eyes without DME, the corresponding figures were, respectively, 34 (69.4%), 11 (22.4%), 1 (2.0%), and 3 (6.2%). The prevalence of perifoveolar PVD with foveolar attachment was significantly higher in the group of eyes with DME (P =.006). These results show the high prevalence of perifoveolar PVD with foveolar attachment in diabetic patients with macular edema. Even though PVD is not the main factor involved in the pathogenesis of DME, perifoveolar PVD may have a role in the development of this complication."}
{"id": "15860283", "title": "Relation between reduction of foveal thickness and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema treated with intravitreal triamcinolone.", "content": "Relation between reduction of foveal thickness and visual acuity in diabetic macular edema treated with intravitreal triamcinolone. To evaluate the correlation between improvement in visual acuity and the reduction of foveal thickness after a single intravitreal injection of 4 mg of triamcinolone in diabetic macular edema. Prospective, interventional, nonrandomized clinical trial. In a prospective study 24 eyes with diabetic macular edema were treated with an intravitreal injection of 4 mg of triamcinolone acetonide. Best-corrected logMAR visual acuity and optical coherence tomography were performed at baseline and 3 months after the treatment. At baseline the average foveal thickness was 462 +/- 154 microm (95% confidence interval, 397-527 microm) and at 3 months 257 +/-114 microm (95% confidence interval, 209-305 microm) (P < .0001). The best-corrected logMAR average visual acuity was 60.5 +/- 10.5 (95% confidence interval, 56.0-65.0) ETDRS letters at baseline compared with 65.5 +/- 11.1 (95% confidence interval, 60.8-70.1) 3 months after the injection (P = .0001). There was no correlation between the improvement in visual acuity and the reduction of foveal thickness (r = 0.054, P = .8), but there was a correlation between reduction in foveal thickness and the age of the patients (r = 0.53, P = .008). A single injection of 4 mg of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide effectively reduces the foveal thickness in diabetic macular edema and improves visual acuity, but there does not appear to be a strong correlation between the reduction of foveal thickness and the improvement in visual acuity."}
{"id": "15860282", "title": "Modified grid laser photocoagulation versus pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Modified grid laser photocoagulation versus pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal in diabetic macular edema. To compare the effectiveness of pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) and removal of the internal limiting membrane (ILM) with modified grid laser photocoagulation in diabetic macular edema. Randomized, comparative, interventional study. In this prospective study, 24 eyes of 12 patients with bilateral diabetic macular edema were evaluated. PPV with removal of the ILM was performed at random in one eye of 12 patients (ILM group), and a single session of modified grid laser photocoagulation was performed in the fellow eyes (grid group). Main outcome measures were the foveal thickness measured with optical coherence tomography, preoperative, and postoperative visual acuities. Mann-Whitney U and Wilcoxon tests were used in statistical analysis. All patients were followed up for 6 months. In the ILM group, mean foveal thickness was 439.2 +/- 106.5 microm preoperatively and 219.8 +/- 63.2 mum postoperatively (P = .002). In the grid group, mean foveal thickness was 407 +/- 100.2 microm preoperatively and 378.5 +/- 141.6 microm postoperatively (P = .433). A mean decrease in foveal thickness was found to be 219.4 +/- 127.6 microm in the ILM group and 28.5 +/- 90.5 microm in the grid group (P = .001). In the ILM group, best-corrected logMAR visual acuity was 0.75 +/- 0.41 preoperatively and 0.53 +/- 0.41 postoperatively (P = .006). In the grid group, best-corrected logMAR visual acuity was 0.59 +/- 0.27 preoperatively and 0.49 +/- 0.27 postoperatively (P = .058). Visual acuity improved by 2 or more lines in six eyes (50%) in the ILM group and in three eyes (25%) in the grid group. Visual acuity remained stable in six eyes (50%) in the ILM group and in nine eyes (75%) in the grid group. PPV with ILM removal appears to be more effective than a single session of modified grid laser photocoagulation in the treatment of diabetic macular edema. Further studies with a large number of patients are required for a more reliable conclusion."}
{"id": "15840361", "title": "[The conversion of macular function in diabetic macular edema after vitreous surgery].", "content": "[The conversion of macular function in diabetic macular edema after vitreous surgery]. To evaluate the conversion of macular function in diabetic macular edema (DME) after vitreous surgery. Seventeen eyes of 16 patients were assessed after pars plana vitrectomy for DME. Multifocal electroretinogram (mfERG) techniques were used to evaluate the effects of treatment on macular visual function, and retinal foveal thickness was determined by optical coherence tomography before and after vitrectomy. Patients were followed up continually for 7 months. The correlation between the change of tomographic features and visual functions were analyzed. During the follow-up period, the retinal function in macular areas recovered and the foveal thickness decreased gradually. While compared with preoperative values, the response of positive wave (P1) have shown decreases in implicit time and increases in amplitude since the forth and fifth postoperative month respectively (P < 0.05). While compared between each postoperative period, the P1 responses have increased significantly since the forth postoperative month. The correlation between the increase of P1 amplitude in macular area and the decrease of retinal foveal thickness was significant (r = 0.954, P < 0.001). Macular function get improvement gradually in DME after vitreous surgery; The restoration of macular function is coincident with the reduction of macular edema."}
{"id": "15834607", "title": "Binocular fixation topography in patients with diabetic macular oedema: possible implications for photocoagulation therapy (3rd revision).", "content": "Binocular fixation topography in patients with diabetic macular oedema: possible implications for photocoagulation therapy (3rd revision). During retinal photocoagulation for diabetic maculopathy, there is a potential risk of foveal burns, and laser scars may later enlarge to be sight-threatening when involving retinal areas previously used during fixation. Since the retinal area used during binocular steady fixation has been found to vary considerably in the normal test person and central fixation may be even further compromised in patients with diabetic maculopathy, the sight-threatening side effects could possibly be reduced by taking into account the fixation area individually. However, no study has described and quantified the retinal area of fixation binocularly in patients with clinically significant macular oedema (CSME). Sixteen diabetic patients with CSME in one or both eyes were examined. Each examination included visual acuity testing (ETDRS charts), a standard eye examination, central retinal thickness assessment by optical coherent tomography, fluorescein angiography and binocular quantification of fixational eye movements using an infrared recording technique. A negative correlation was found between visual acuity and mean microsaccadic amplitude (R=0.48, p=0.009). The maximal retinal extension of the fixation area ranged between 1.0 degrees and 3.0 degrees , and in two eyes with CSME, this area was estimated to exceed 800 mum on the retinal plane. No correlation was found between retinal thickness and visual acuity, retinal area of fixation, maximal extension of the fixation area or mean microsaccadic amplitude. Large interindividual differences in quantitative measures of binocular fixational eye movements were found. The mean amplitude of fixational eye movements was not correlated to central retinal thickness, and fixation area could only partly be predicted by visual acuity. Two eyes with CSME had an estimated maximal extension of the fixation area exceeding the central 800 mum on the retinal plane; thus, the possible benefit of individualising central photocoagulation according to precise measures of fixation area needs to be investigated on a larger population."}
{"id": "15808274", "title": "Diagnostic methods for macular edema.", "content": "Diagnostic methods for macular edema."}
{"id": "15805924", "title": "Malignant hypertensive retinopathy studied with optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Malignant hypertensive retinopathy studied with optical coherence tomography."}
{"id": "15802932", "title": "Optical coherence tomographic assessment of diabetic macular edema: comparison with fluorescein angiographic and clinical findings.", "content": "Optical coherence tomographic assessment of diabetic macular edema: comparison with fluorescein angiographic and clinical findings. To compare the optical coherence tomographic (OCT) features with clinical and fluorescein angiographic (FA) findings in patients with diabetic retinopathy. In a retrospective study ophthalmologic examination together with FA and OCT images were obtained from 195 eyes of 110 patients with different stages of diabetic retinopathy and OCT images were obtained from 40 eyes of 20 control subjects. Fluorescein leakage characteristics were organized into five groups: no leakage (1), focal (2), diffuse (3), combined focal+diffuse leakage (4) and cystoid (5). The Pearson correlation test was used to test the correlation between visual acuity and central foveal thickness and ANOVA was used for the statistical comparison between the groups. The OCT images demonstrated retinal swelling in 66.1% of eyes, cystoid macular edema (CME) in 11.8% of eyes, serous foveal detachment + swelling in 6.2% of eyes, serous foveal detachment+swelling+CME in 3.6% of eyes and normal foveal structure in 12.3% of eyes. The best-corrected visual acuity was significantly correlated with central foveal thickness (r:-0.528, p<0.01). There was 77% agreement between clinical examination and OCT results. CME was detected with OCT in 15.4% of eyes in our study, 40% of which was not detected with slit-lamp biomicroscopy and 63.3% of which was not evident in FA. None of the serous foveal detachments could be detected during slit-lamp biomicroscopy or FA. OCT-3 provided objective documentation of foveal structural changes in eyes with diabetic retinopathy. Best-corrected visual acuity provided a significant correlation with the retinal thickness at the central fovea. These results indicate that OCT can facilitate deciding on the treatment protocol (surgical or medical) and follow-up of diabetic patients, which is especially important in the early stages of diabetic maculopathy when the structural changes are not yet evident with slit-lamp biomicroscopy or angiographically."}
{"id": "15793254", "title": "Nonhuman primate models for diabetic ocular neovascularization using AAV2-mediated overexpression of vascular endothelial growth factor.", "content": "Nonhuman primate models for diabetic ocular neovascularization using AAV2-mediated overexpression of vascular endothelial growth factor. Neovascularization leads to blindness in numerous ocular diseases, including diabetic retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration, retinopathy of prematurity, and sickle cell disease. More effective and stable treatments for ocular neovascularization are needed, yet there are major limitations in the present animal models. To develop primate models of diabetic retinopathy and choroidal neovascularization, rhesus monkeys were injected subretinally or intravitreally with an adeno-associated virus (AAV)-2 vector carrying the cDNA encoding human vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Overexpression of VEGF was measured by intraocular fluid sampling over time. Neovascularization was evaluated by ophthalmoscopy through angiography, optical coherence tomography, and ultimately histopathology. Overexpression of VEGF through AAV2 results in rapid development of features of diabetic retinopathy or macular edema, depending on the targeted cell type/mode of production of VEGF and diffusion of VEGF. Nonhuman primate models will be useful in testing long-term safety and efficacy of novel therapeutic agents for blinding neovascular diseases."}
{"id": "15767077", "title": "Clinical examination accurately locates capillary nonperfusion in diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Clinical examination accurately locates capillary nonperfusion in diabetic retinopathy. To help the ophthalmologist who wishes to know the perfusion status of the retina outside the macula, we determined whether clinical examination can predict capillary nonperfusion in diabetic retinopathy (DR) as accurately as fluorescein angiography (FA). Prospective observational case series. Clinical practice. Both eyes of 20 patients with clinically significant diabetic macular edema (CSME). The location of capillary nonperfusion was recorded following 90-diopter lens slit-lamp biomicroscopy, and the same measurements made on FA. In the nasal and temporal quadrants of each eye, the clinical results were compared with the \"gold standard\" FA. Most patients (84%) had definite peripheral capillary nonperfusion. Biomicroscopy results were highly correlated with angiography, with only a few differences of clinical importance. Clinical examination can determine the location of capillary nonperfusion in DR with a high degree of accuracy."}
{"id": "15767052", "title": "Pars plana vitrectomy with removal of the internal limiting membrane in the treatment of persistent diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Pars plana vitrectomy with removal of the internal limiting membrane in the treatment of persistent diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the benefit of pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) and removal of the internal limiting membrane (ILM) in eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema refractory to laser photocoagulation. Prospective, consecutive, interventional case series. Diabetic patients with biomicroscopic, angiographic, and tomographic evidence of diabetic macular edema persisting for at least 3 months after numerous sessions of macular photocoagulation were evaluated for inclusion. Patients with biomicroscopic evidence of epiretinal membrane or taut posterior hyaloid, previous vitreoretinal surgery, or active proliferative diabetic retinopathy were excluded. The main outcome measures were macular thickness, as measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and visual acuity (VA). PPV with ILM removal was performed in 11 eyes of 10 patients (four men, six women; mean age = 58.2 years). Six-month follow-up data were available for 10 eyes (91%). At 6 months postoperatively, central macular thickness had improved by at least 20% in eight of 11 eyes (mean preoperative thickness of 421 mum compared with mean postoperative thickness of 188 mum; P = .007). Mean VA improved from 20/352 to 20/94 at 6 months (P = .002). By the most recent visit (range = 6-20 months postoperatively), VA had improved by at least 2 Snellen lines in 6 of 10 eyes treated with surgery alone. The early results of this ongoing study suggest that PPV with ILM removal may provide anatomic and visual benefit in some eyes with chronic diabetic macular edema unresponsive or unamenable to additional laser photocoagulation."}
{"id": "15736312", "title": "[Diabetic retinopathy--staging and laser treatment].", "content": "[Diabetic retinopathy--staging and laser treatment]."}
{"id": "15715582", "title": "Central serous chorioretinopathy following vitrectomy with intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Central serous chorioretinopathy following vitrectomy with intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diabetic macular oedema."}
{"id": "15715560", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for macular oedema: efficacy in relation to aetiology.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for macular oedema: efficacy in relation to aetiology. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of intravitreal triamcinolone in patients with macular oedema of varying aetiology. Two milligrams of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide was injected into 34 eyes with persistent macular oedema (17 eyes with macula oedema secondary to posterior uveitis, 13 eyes with diabetic retinopathy, and four with pseudophakic macular oedema). Best corrected visual acuity was determined and transfoveal optical coherence tomography performed after 1 week, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months. Treatment improved visual acuity and subjective visual quality, and reduced foveal thickness in eyes with posterior uveitis and eyes with macular oedema secondary to diabetic retinopathy. Eyes treated for pseudophakic cystoid macular oedema demonstrated no improvement. A total of 32% of patients experienced a significant post-injection increase in intraocular pressure. Endophthalmitis, rhegmatogenous retinal detachment and cataract were absent. Intravitreal triamcinolone appears to induce marked a improvement in macular oedema secondary to non-infectious uveitis and diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "15715559", "title": "Serous macular detachment in diabetic cystoid macular oedema.", "content": "Serous macular detachment in diabetic cystoid macular oedema. To define serous macular detachment in patients with diabetic cystoid macular oedema (CME). This study involved 78 eyes of 58 patients with diabetic CME. The patients underwent complete ophthalmic examination, fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography (OCT). Eyes with epiretinal membrane or vitreo-macular traction were not included in the study. Optical coherence tomography-3 was used in all patients and fundi were scanned on the horizontal, vertical and four oblique planes through the centre of the fovea. In all cases the increased thickness of the retina was related primarily to the hyporeflective intraretinal cavities. With OCT, 24 of 78 eyes (31%) had serous macular detachment as shown by retinal elevation over a non-reflective cavity with minimal shadowing of the underlying tissues. Fluorescein angiography did not show serous macular detachment in any patient. Our data showed that the incidence of serous macular detachment in diabetic CME was much higher than previously reported. Optical coherence tomography-3 allows an in vivo cross-sectional observation of very subtle serous macular detachment that is difficult to diagnose at the slit-lamp or by fluorescein angiography in patients with diabetic CME."}
{"id": "15689801", "title": "Combined intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide and panretinal photocoagulation for concomitant diabetic macular edema and proliferative diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Combined intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide and panretinal photocoagulation for concomitant diabetic macular edema and proliferative diabetic retinopathy. To present our results of intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) combined with panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) for patients with concomitant clinically significant diabetic macular edema and proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Charts of patients undergoing combined IVTA and PRP were reviewed. Outcome measures included visual acuity, presence of macular edema, and response of proliferative disease to laser photocoagulation. Four patients were included in this study. All patients maintained stable visual acuity during the treatment period. All patients had improvement in the amount of macular edema, despite the application of PRP, as well as complete regression of their proliferative disease. There were no short-term complications associated with IVTA or PRP. Combination treatment with IVTA and PRP may provide benefit in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema who require urgent PRP for proliferative diabetic retinopathy by preventing exacerbation of macular edema."}
{"id": "15670803", "title": "Corticosteroids inhibit VEGF-induced vascular leakage in a rabbit model of blood-retinal and blood-aqueous barrier breakdown.", "content": "Corticosteroids inhibit VEGF-induced vascular leakage in a rabbit model of blood-retinal and blood-aqueous barrier breakdown. Recent clinical studies show that a single intravitreal injection of the corticosteroid triamcinolone acetonide (TAA) may reduce edematous retinal swelling and improve visual acuity in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). In addition, clinical and experimental studies strongly suggest that blood-retinal barrier breakdown in diabetes is induced by vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). These results suggest that corticosteroids may modulate VEGF-mediated responses in vivo. To test this hypothesis directly, the current study evaluated the effects of TAA and dexamethasone (DEX) in a newly developed rabbit model of VEGF-induced blood-retinal barrier and blood-aqueous (iris) barrier breakdown. VEGF165 or vehicle was injected intravitreally in female Dutch Belt rabbits, and scanning ocular fluorophotometry was used to non-invasively measure fluorescein leakage from retinal and iris vasculature. VEGF-induced retinal vasculopathy was further assessed with fundus imaging, fluorescein angiography, and ocular coherence tomography. For pharmacologic studies, rabbits were treated with either DEX (2 mg kg(-1) daily, s.c.), TAA (2 or 4 mg, intravitreal), indomethacin (20 mg kg(-1) daily, s.c.), or vehicle (s.c. or intravitreal). Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) were loaded with the fluorescent Ca2+ indicator dye fluo-4 and treated with dexamethasone (0.1-10 microM) or vehicle for either 2 or 24 hr prior to stimulation with 10 ng ml(-1) VEGF165. VEGF injected intravitreally induced a time and dose-dependent breakdown of the blood-retinal and blood-aqueous barriers. Maximal vascular leakage was measured at 48 hr after intravitreal injection with a dose of 500 ng VEGF. Other effects of VEGF included prominent retinal vasodilation, vessel tortuousity, fluorescein leakage from retinal vessels, and inner retinal edema. These VEGF-mediated responses are transient and approach baseline by 1 week. VEGF-induced blood-retinal and blood-aqueous barrier breakdown was completely blocked by the corticosteroid DEX administered systemically for 3 days. In contrast, the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, indomethacin, had no effect. In a separate study with VEGF injected intravitreally at six different time points over 5 months, a single intravitreal 2 mg dose of TAA completely blocked VEGF-induced retinal and iris leakage for 45 days. VEGF/VEGF receptor-2-mediated Ca2+ mobilization in endothelial cells was not affected by 2 or 24 hr pretreatment with dexamethasone. These results indicate that one mechanism by which corticosteroids block blood-ocular barrier breakdown and edema is via their modulation of signaling or effector proteins downstream of the VEGF receptor."}
{"id": "15657774", "title": "Pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal for macular hole associated with proliferative diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal for macular hole associated with proliferative diabetic retinopathy. We describe the outcome of vitreous surgery in three eyes of three patients with macular hole associated with proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) in the absence of fibrovascular proliferation, a combination of conditions where efficacy is incompletely known. The patients, all male were 62, 65, and 66 years old. Panretinal photocoagulation had been performed preoperatively in all, and one eye had undergone vitreous surgery. No fibrovascular tissue causing macular traction was observed in any case. Fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography (OCT) demonstrated persistent diabetic macular edema surrounding the hole. Affected eyes were treated with vitrectomy including internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling; 20% sulfur hexafluoride gas (SF(6)) was introduced for tamponade. Anatomical closure of the macular hole as well as resolution of macular edema was achieved in all cases, and vision improved considerably by more than two Snellen lines. Vitreous surgery with ILM peeling was effective for macular hole associated with PDR, attaining not only macular hole closure but also resolution of persistent diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "15627822", "title": "Fixation stability and macular light sensitivity in patients with diabetic maculopathy: a microperimetric study with a scanning laser ophthalmoscope.", "content": "Fixation stability and macular light sensitivity in patients with diabetic maculopathy: a microperimetric study with a scanning laser ophthalmoscope. In patients with diabetic maculopathy, evaluation of visual acuity alone may not represent central retinal function sufficiently. Despite good visual acuity, patients may suffer from visual disturbances like waviness, relative scotoma, loss of fixation and decrease of contrast sensitivity. The aim of the study was to assess localized light sensitivity in the central visual field and to determine fixation stability in patients with diabetic maculopathy with moderate visual loss in comparison to healthy controls. Twenty-seven patients (mean age: 54 +/- 15; range 17-81 years) with diabetic maculopathy and 61 controls (mean age: 45 +/- 22; range 18-85 years) were included in the study. Light sensitivity was quantified by presenting stimuli with different light intensity with simultaneous real-time monitoring of the retina (intensity: 0-27.9 dB; size: Goldmann III, wavelength: 633 nm). Eye movements were controlled by semiautomatic fundus tracking. Fixation stability was quantified by measuring the area within 75% of all points of fixation. Fixation stability was significantly decreased in diabetic patients in comparison to controls (43 +/- 22 vs. 31 +/- 16 arc min, p < 0.01). There was a significant difference in macular light sensitivity in diabetic patients compared to controls (19.6 +/- 0.5 dB), both in mean difference (15.6 +/- 1.4 dB) and if affected with macular edema (16.1 +/- 4.5 dB), hard exudates (13.3 +/- 6.7 dB), nonperfusion areas (10.3 +/- 7.9 dB) and laser burns (3.0 +/- 6.1 dB). Temporal parts of the macula were more affected than other parts. No correlation was found between visual acuity and foveal light sensitivity and foveal fixation, respectively. Macular light sensitivity decreased progressively with the kind and severity of retinal alteration independent of visual acuity. The assessment of macular light sensitivity and stability of fixation with automatic threshold microperimetry may help to identify patients with diabetic maculopathy and could improve the management of diabetic maculopathy."}
{"id": "15615752", "title": "A randomised controlled feasibility trial of vitrectomy versus laser for diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "A randomised controlled feasibility trial of vitrectomy versus laser for diabetic macular oedema. (1) To evaluate whether vitrectomy is preferable to further macular laser in improving visual acuity and resolving retinal thickening in patients with diabetic macular oedema (DMO) despite previous laser and no macular traction. (2) To determine the feasibility of further trials in this population in terms of magnitude of comparative clinical effect, rate of recruitment, and loss to follow up. A randomised controlled feasibility study. Patients with DMO and a visual acuity of 0.3 logMAR (6/12) or worse after one or more macular laser treatments were randomised on a 1:1 basis to either pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) with internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling or further macular laser. Patients with a posterior vitreous detachment, biomicroscopic evidence of retinal traction, or a taut thickened posterior hyaloid (TTPH) were excluded. Primary outcome measures were (1) best corrected logMAR visual acuity, (2) mean central macular thickness on optical coherence tomography, and (3) rate of recruitment and loss to follow up. Analysis was on an intention to treat basis. 19 patients were randomised to PPV and 21 to further macular laser. The mean baseline logMAR visual acuity was 0.65 (SD 0.28) for the group randomised to PPV and 0.60 (0.23) for the group randomised to laser. The mean change in best corrected visual acuity of the vitrectomy group was deterioration by 0.05 logMAR, while in the control group the mean change was an improvement of 0.03 logMAR. The median (interquartile range) baseline central macular thickness was 403 (337, 492) for the group randomised to PPV and 387 (298, 491) for the controls randomised to laser. The median change in central macular thickness from baseline to review in the vitrectomy group was a thinning by 73 mum (20%) and by 29 mum (10.7%) in the control laser group. This single centre was able to recruit 40 patients in 18 months with follow up of 82% at 1 year. A randomised controlled trial was found to be potentially feasible in this population, the rate of recruitment was however slow and one in five patients were lost to follow up because of death and ill health. These data provide little evidence in terms of visual acuity and macular thickness of any benefit of vitrectomy over further macular laser in patients with an attached hyaloid, DMO despite previous laser, and no clinically evident macular traction or TTPH."}
{"id": "15586288", "title": "The effect of intravitreal triamcinolone on diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "The effect of intravitreal triamcinolone on diabetic macular oedema. Diabetic macular oedema is a frequent cause of visual loss in patients with diabetic retinopathy. The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in reducing diabetic macular oedema and improving visual acuity. In this prospective study 12 eyes of 12 patients with diabetic macular oedema unresponsive to prior laser treatment received an intravitreal injection of 4 mg triamcinolone acetonide. Examinations were performed 1 day preoperatively and at 1 week and 1, 3, 6, and 9 months after surgery and included slit-lamp examination, measurement of IOP, assessment of distance as well as reading visual acuity and assessment of macular thickness using optical coherence tomography (OCT). Mean age of the patients (mean+/-SD) was 66.6+/-8.6 years. Mean best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) for distance (LogMAR using ETDRS charts) improved from 1.0+/-0.4 preoperatively to 0.9+/-0.4 (p=0.01) 1 week and to 0.9+/-0.4 (p=0.02) 1 month postoperatively. Mean BCVA for reading vision (LogRAD using Radner Reading Charts) improved from 1.1+/-0.4 preoperatively to 0.9+/-0.4 (p=0.002) 1 month postoperatively. Mean macular thickness decreased from 450+/-190 (microm) preoperatively to 305+/-153 (p=0.02) 1 month postoperatively. No significant improvement in VA and no significant reduction of macular thickness could be observed 3, 6, and 9 months postoperatively. Mean intraocular pressure significantly increased from 14.7+/-2.7 mmHg preoperatively to 16.9+/-3.0 mmHg at 1 month (p=0.02). A single intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide led to a significant improvement in mean VA in patients with diabetic macular oedema. However, the significant effect was not permanent and persisted for only 1 month."}
{"id": "15578081", "title": "Improved visual acuity and macular thickness 1 week after intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Improved visual acuity and macular thickness 1 week after intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular oedema. To evaluate the clinical and volumetric improvement 1 week after an injection of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in eyes with diabetic macular oedema. Seven phakic eyes of seven diabetic patients diagnosed with clinically significant macular oedema were treated with a single 4-mg intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide (0.1 ml). LogMAR best corrected visual acuity (logMAR BCVA), best corrected reading ability (RA), and central macular thickness (CMT) with optical coherence tomography (OCT) were assessed prior and 1 week subsequent to treatment. Mean improvement in logMAR BCVA was 0.146 (P=0.03). Mean reduction in CMT was 150.9 mum (P=0.02, Wilcoxon signed-rank test). Mean improvement in RA was 3 lines. Reduction in macular oedema was demonstrated on OCT at 1 week, in most cases associated with improvement in central visual function, in particular, reading ability. Total resolution of diabetic macular oedema may occur at 1 week following intravitreal steroid injection."}
{"id": "15389275", "title": "Phacoemulsification with intravitreal triamcinolone in patients with cataract and coexisting diabetic macular oedema: a 6-month prospective pilot study.", "content": "Phacoemulsification with intravitreal triamcinolone in patients with cataract and coexisting diabetic macular oedema: a 6-month prospective pilot study. To assess the safety and efficacy of phacoemulsification with intravitreal triamcinolone (ivTA) injection in diabetics with cataract and clinically significant macular oedema (CSMO). A total of 19 eyes of 15 consecutive diabetic patients with cataract and CSMO were prospectively recruited. Patients underwent phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implantation with 4 mg ivTA injection at completion of surgery. Patients were followed up on day 1, then weekly for 1 month, and thereafter monthly until 6 months postoperatively. Best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), central macular thickness (CMT) measured by optical coherence tomography, and adverse events were recorded. In total, 17 eyes completed 6 months of follow-up. In all, 58.8% showed improvement in BCVA of >or=2 lines, with statistically significant improvement in mean Snellen BCVA of 2.4 lines at 6 months. The peak BCVA was achieved at 4 months. The mean CMT decreased from a baseline of 449 microm to a minimum of 321+/-148 microm (28.5% reduction) achieved at 2 months, with statistically significant reduction at all postoperative time intervals until 6 months. Of 17 eyes, 4 (23.5%) developed transiently elevated intraocular pressure that normalised by 6 months in all but one patient. No injection- or surgery-related complications were encountered. Phacoemulsification with concurrent 4 mg ivTA injection appears to be a safe option for managing diabetics with cataract and CSMO. However, large-scaled randomised controlled trials are necessary for delineating the relative contributions of cataract removal and CMT reduction to visual improvement. Moreover, the transient effect on CMT may warrant further studies to determine optimal timing and dosage of further ivTA injections."}
{"id": "15359258", "title": "Diabetic vitreopapillary traction and macular oedema.", "content": "Diabetic vitreopapillary traction and macular oedema. To describe an association between optic disc traction and diabetic macular oedema (DME) unresponsive to laser treatment. A retrospective review of all patients with DME who attended our clinic between September 2001 and November 2003 was undertaken. The patients had undergone ophthalmic history and examination, fluorescein angiography, and optical coherence tomography (OCT) of the macular area and optic nerve head (ONH). A total of 10 nonvitrectomized eyes that were found to have an elevation of the ONH secondary to vitreopapillary traction were included in the analysis. Eyes with additional traction at the posterior pole were excluded. Out of the 10 eyes (seven patients, aged 47-79 years) with vitreo-papillary traction, nine had previously undergone argon laser photocoagulation(s) for DME. In seven eyes (seven patients), OCT verified the vitreopapillary traction as the sole traction, whereas in the fellow eyes of three patients vitreomacular traction was evident as well. In the seven eyes with only vitreopapillary traction, OCT demonstrated parapapillary serous retinal detachment in two eyes and a diffuse DME in all eyes (mean foveal thickness, 396+/-144 microm). Maximal thickness of the papillo-macular bundle site was adjoining the elevated ONH in three eyes, and was maximal at the central macula in the other four eyes. Ultrasonography (n=5) revealed an incomplete detachment of the posterior hyaloid in each, adherent only at the ONH. Diffuse DME unresponsive to laser treatment may be associated with vitreopapillary traction. Further studies should indicate whether these two phenomena could suggest a cause and effect in such eyes."}
{"id": "15351898", "title": "[Screening for diabetic retinopathy and optic disc topography with the \"retinal thickness analyzer\" (RTA)].", "content": "[Screening for diabetic retinopathy and optic disc topography with the \"retinal thickness analyzer\" (RTA)]. The RTA features a fundus photography mode and optic disc topography. Those two new modes were investigated regarding their clinical use. First, the combination of wide-field photography with a retinal thickness map was assessed for tele-screening for diabetic retinopathy in 31 eyes. Second, normal values of the optic disc were collected on 30 non-glaucomatous probands in the non-mydriatic mode and compared to the results of the mydriatic mode, for which reproducibility was also investigated. For diabetic retinopathy, the RTA yielded mean 93% sensitivity for proliferative diabetic retinopathy and 100% sensitivity for detecting diabetic macular edema compared to clinical examination at specificities ranging from 58 to 96%. Regarding the measurements of the optic disc, the normal values in mydriasis coincided with those in miosis in all but 4 of 12 parameters. The RTA is suitable for application in tele-screening for diabetic retinopathy. The topography of the optic disc is highly reproducible and may be used for glaucoma diagnostics."}
{"id": "15309024", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone as a primary therapy in diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone as a primary therapy in diabetic macular oedema. To evaluate the effect of intravitreal triamcinolone in eyes with diabetic macular oedema that had no previous laser treatment. In all, 12 eyes of 12 patients with diabetic retinopathy, aged 47-70 years (mean 59.2), made up the study. All the eyes had persistent diabetic macular oedema despite having received medical treatment for at least 3 months. In this consecutive case series, none of the eyes received previous laser photocoagulation. Intravitreal injection of 0.1 ml (4 mg) triamcinolone acetonide was offered to treat macular oedema. The visual and anatomic responses were observed as well as complications related to the injection procedure and corticosteroid medication. The follow-up period was between 6 and 10 months (mean 7.9 months) and all eyes completed 6 months of follow-up. Macular oedema was documented for an average of 3.5 months (ranged 3-5 months) before intravitreal corticosteroid injection. Baseline mean central macular thickness was 448.6 microm. At 1 month follow-up, a reduction in mean central macular thickness of 40.8% from 448.6 microm to 265.4 microm was obtained. At 3 and 6 months follow-up, mean central macular thicknesses, were 310 mum and 294.5 mum, respectively. No eyes lost vision at 1 month and 10 eyes (83.2%) showed improvement. At 3 months, no eyes lost vision from baseline and 8 eyes (66.6%) showed improvement. At 6 months, again no eyes lost vision from baseline and 10 eyes (83.2%) maintained improved visual acuity. Intravitreal triamcinolone is a promising therapeutic method in eyes with diabetic macular oedema without previous application of laser treatment. Further study with longer follow-up and large series is warranted to assess the long-term efficacy and safety and the need for retreatment."}
{"id": "15290152", "title": "Pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membranectomy for refractory diabetic macular edema without a taut posterior hyaloid.", "content": "Pars plana vitrectomy with internal limiting membranectomy for refractory diabetic macular edema without a taut posterior hyaloid. This is a retrospective study designed to investigate the effect of pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) with internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling on diabetic macular edema in eyes that do not have a taut hyaloid and have been refractory to standard laser treatment. Review of 26 eyes of 20 patients consecutively were treated with PPV with ILM peel for refractory diabetic macular edema. Eyes were included if they had been unresponsive to conventional treatment defined as at least two focal laser applications by a retina specialist. Paired t-testing was performed to determine if a change in both optical coherence tomography (OCT)-measured retinal thickness and logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) visual acuity occurred prior to and following PPV with epiretinal membrane vitrectomy. In addition, we performed multivariate regression analysis to determine if any clinical variables predicted a change in visual acuity. The mean age in the sample was 65 years (range 29-81 years). The mean follow-up time was 242 days (range 35-939). Sixteen of the 26 eyes were phakic and the remaining ten were pseudophakic. There was a statistically significant improvement of mean visual acuity from a preoperative logMAR vision of 1.0 to a best postoperative vision of 0.75 (p=0.016, paired t-test). Thirteen (50%) of the 26 eyes gained at least two lines of best-corrected Snellen acuity, three (11.5%) had a decline of at least two lines, and ten (38.5%) showed stable visual acuity. Regression analysis demonstrated that baseline worse visual acuity was the only clinical variable that was associated with improvement in visual acuity (beta=0.602, p=0.016; R (2)=28.7). Fourteen eyes had preoperative and postoperative OCT. Thirteen eyes (93%) had a significant decrease in foveal thickness; with an average preoperative thickness of 575 mum compared to a postoperative average of 311 mum (t=3.65, p=0.002). No surgical complications were observed during the follow-up period. Surgery for refractory diabetic edema without a taut hyaloid is associated with a significant improvement in visual acuity and diminution of retinal thickness as measured by OCT. Further investigations are warranted to define the role of surgery in the management of persistent diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "15184968", "title": "Oral fluorescein angiography with the scanning laser ophthalmoscope in diabetic retinopathy: a case controlled comparison with intravenous fluorescein angiography.", "content": "Oral fluorescein angiography with the scanning laser ophthalmoscope in diabetic retinopathy: a case controlled comparison with intravenous fluorescein angiography. To compare the performance of oral fundus fluorescein angiography with a confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO) with intravenous fundus fluorescein angiography (IVFFA) with a fundus camera in the assessment of sight-threatening diabetic retinopathy. A total of 25 patients undergoing IVFFA to investigate their diabetic retinopathy were recruited. Participants returned 1 week later and an oral angiogram with the SLO was performed. Six facets of the oral and intravenous angiograms were scored and compared: visualization of the foveal avascular zone (FAZ); branch retinal identification; macular leakage; identification of microaneurysms in areas of macular leakage; peripheral nonperfusion, and leakage from neovascular complexes. Compared to IVFFA, the FAZ was unreliably visualized with oral angiography (Kappa 0.1, 95% CI 0-0.3). In contrast, macular leakage (Kappa 0.78, 95%, CI 0.72-0.83), identification of microaneurysms in areas of macular leakage (Kappa 0.78, 95%, CI 0.72-0.83), and neovascular complexes (Kappa 1.0) were reliably seen. Analysis of the visualization of peripheral nonperfusion was complicated by the finding that profuse dye leakage from neovascular complexes obscured the view of the peripheral retina. If the five angiograms in which this occurred were excluded, oral angiography identified 23 of the 24 eyes in which significant nonperfusion was found on IVFFA. Oral angiography with the SLO can provide high-quality angiograms that allow judgments to be made about the presence of treatable diabetic maculopathy, proliferative diabetic retinopathy, and peripheral nonperfusion. In the presence of coexisting macular oedema, it proved to be an unreliable technique with which to investigate foveal ischaemia."}
{"id": "15957610", "title": "Morphological and functional changes of the macula after vitrectomy and creation of posterior vitreous detachment in eyes with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Morphological and functional changes of the macula after vitrectomy and creation of posterior vitreous detachment in eyes with diabetic macular edema. The purpose of this study was to determine the morphological and functional changes in the macula after pars plana vitrectomy with the creation of a posterior vitreous detachment in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME). A simple posterior vitreous detachment was created during pars plana vitrectomy accompanied by simultaneous cataract surgery in 19 eyes of 17 patients with DME. The visual acuity (log MAR units), multifocal electroretinograms (mfERGs), and optical coherence tomographically (OCT)-determined foveal thickness were determined preoperatively and at 6 months postoperatively. The median preoperative log MAR visual acuity was 0.7 (20/100; range, 0.3-1.1), and it improved significantly to 0.4 (20/50; range, 0.15-1.0) postoperatively (p = 0.016). The median foveal thickness was 510 (range, 194-800) microm preoperatively and was significantly reduced to 201 (range, 60-631) microm postoperatively (p =0.0002). The median of response density of the mfERGs in the macular area was 6.3 nV/ deg2 (range, 2.8-14.8) preoperatively, and 6.1 nV/deg2 (range, 2.4-14.3) postoperatively, a non-significant change (p = 0.27). The median of peak latency of the macular response was 30.0 ms (range, 25.0-44.2) preoperatively and it decreased significantly to 28.3 ms (range, 26.7-35.0) postoperatively (p = 0.003). In conclusion, vitrectomy with the creation of a PVD in eyes with DME improved the visual acuity and foveal thickness significantly. In addition, a decrease of the peak latency of the macular mfERGs suggested an improvement of the physiological function of the macula although the amplitude of the mfERGs was not changed significantly."}
{"id": "15881258", "title": "Assessment of macular function by multifocal electroretinogram in diabetic macular edema before and after vitrectomy.", "content": "Assessment of macular function by multifocal electroretinogram in diabetic macular edema before and after vitrectomy. The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of vitrectomy on retinal function in macular and paramacular areas in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME). Ten eyes of 9 patients with successful vitrectomy for DME were evaluated by multifocal electroretinogram (mfERG), optical coherence tomography (OCT), and visual acuity preoperatively and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 months postoperatively. Compared with pretreatment values, the response of the positive wave (P1) in macular and paramacular areas tended to decrease in latency from the second postoperative month, and increase in amplitude at the third postoperative month. There was no significant change in response of the negative wave (N1). The tendency in the change of macular function is coincident with that of macular morphology. Therefore, The multifocal ERG may provide objective criteria for the functional evaluation of DME before and after vitrectomy."}
{"id": "15696765", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone injection for diabetic macular edema: a clinical and fluorescein angiographic case series.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone injection for diabetic macular edema: a clinical and fluorescein angiographic case series. A significant number of eyes with diabetic macular edema remain refractory to treatment despite numerous attempts at photocoagulation. Triamcinolone acetonide, a minimally water soluble steroid injected in suspension form, has been reported to be a well-tolerated agent for intravitreal injection, prompting a decrease in diabetic macular edema on optical coherence tomography. We report our experience with this treatment in 19 eyes with persistent diabetic macular edema. We reviewed the charts of 16 patients (19 eyes) from a clinical practice with diabetic macular edema persistent after focal or grid laser photocoagulation. All eyes had received 4 mg of triamcinolone, injected into the vitreous cavity 3.5 mm posterior to the limbus. Fluorescein angiography was performed before and about 2 weeks after the injection. Snellen visual acuity and intraocular pressure (as determined with Goldmann applanation tonometry) were also measured before and after the injection. Fluorescein angiography showed marked improvement of macular edema in 4 eyes (21.0%), mild improvement in 10 eyes (52.6%) and no change in 5 eyes (26.3%); no patient had worsening of macular edema. Visual acuity improved by at least 1 line in 13 eyes (68.4%), by 2 or more lines in 5 eyes (26.3%), by 3 or more lines in 2 eyes (10.5%) and by 4 lines in 1 eye (5.3%); visual acuity remained unchanged in 5 eyes (26.3%) and deteriorated by 1 line in 1 eye (5.3%). Intraocular pressure elevation of 10 mm Hg or greater occurred in two eyes (10.5%) and was successfully treated with topical administration of 0.15% brimonidine.The triamcinolone was well tolerated, and there were no other ocular complications. Intravitreal injection of triamcinolone has potential in the treatment of diabetic macular edema and warrants investigation in a randomized prospective clinical trial."}
{"id": "15687920", "title": "[Diffuse diabetic macular edema and vitreoretinal interface pathology: a study of seven cases (ten eyes)].", "content": "[Diffuse diabetic macular edema and vitreoretinal interface pathology: a study of seven cases (ten eyes)]. Diffuse diabetic macular edema (DDME) is a serious complication, only partially understood. In this study, we have attempted to find a relation between DDME and a pathologic vitreo-retinal interface (VRI). We examined ten eyes using biomicroscopy, fluorescein angiography, B mode echography and for five of these eyes, OCT. We found that DDME and pathological VRI are indeed associated. We hypothesize that structural and biochemical changes of the vitreoretinal interface are closely related to the progression of DDME. We support this hypothesis with anatomical, epidemiological, physiopathological, clinical and paraclinical arguments. Diffuse diabetic macular edema appears to be mediated by vitreomacular traction caused by structural and biochemical changes of the vitreoretinal interface. The pathological inner limiting membrane (ILM) seems to be a risk factor in DDME development. During pars plano vitrectomy, the additional peeling of the ILM could improve the resolution of the macular edema."}
{"id": "15658007", "title": "Diabetic macular edema: an OCT-based classification.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema: an OCT-based classification. More than ten years after ETDRS, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) greatly enhanced our ability to detect macular thickening and has brought new insights on the morphology of edema and on the presence of vitreal traction. In this study we propose a new classification of macular edema based on OCT findings to better catalogue and follow this complex clinical entity. Since January 2000 we analysed with OCT 2 (Zeiss Inc.) more than one thousand and two hundred eyes with DME. The classification takes into account five parameters: retinal thickness, diffusion, volume, morphology and presence of vitreous traction. Standard figures and numerical values for every parameter are given. Although ETDRS guidelines for laser treatment of DME still remain the only proven therapy for this condition, many other strategies are now on trial, and the vast majority of authors use OCT as the best indicator of therapeutic benefit. The amount of information given by OCT demonstrates that macular edema is a complex clinical entity with various morphology and gravity, and disclaimed the limitations of a simple \"clinical\" definition. As in many other examples such as macular holes and choroidal neovascularization, a uniform and precise definition of macular edema would increase the possibility to compare and judge the result of different therapeutic strategies. Aim of this classification is to implement the ETDRS clinical definition of DME with the precise and useful data given by OCT to better diagnose, catalogue and follow macular edema."}
{"id": "15658006", "title": "Diode laser, vitrectomy and intravitreal triamcinolone. A comparative study for the treatment of diffuse non tractional diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Diode laser, vitrectomy and intravitreal triamcinolone. A comparative study for the treatment of diffuse non tractional diabetic macular edema. To determine the effectiveness and safety of diode laser, pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) with gas tamponade, and intravitreal triamcinolone (IVT) as possible treatments for diffuse diabetic macular edema (dDME). To determine whether the new macular edema Classification previously proposed by some of the authors may help as a guide in the choice of treatment. A retrospective, comparative study of 169 eyes with dDME that underwent treatment. The eyes divided into 3 groups: in the PPV Group, 59 eyes received PPV with gas tamponade; in the DIODE Group, 53 eyes received a laser grid; in the IVT Group, 57 eyes received an intravitreal injection of 4 mg of triamcinolone acetonide. The follow up ranged from 6 to 24 months. The eyes were classified according to the new DME Classification based on OCT. Change in foveal thickness as determined by Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT); change in visual acuity; intra and postoperative complications. Mean visual acuity (VA) improved at 3 months with every treatment. At one year only eyes which underwent PPV still had better VA than the pre-op value, while eyes which underwent IVT and laser treatment showed regression. PPV show the greater percentage of eyes which gain 3 or more lines of VA at one year (17%). Mean foveal thickness improved at 3 months with every treatment. Only the eyes into the PPV Group showed relatively low foveal thickness at one year. Better final VA and foveal thickness were obtained if preop VA is > or = 0.3 and if earlier stages of DME were treated according to the new DME Classification. PPV was the treatment which offered the most stable results with at one year or longer. Similar results were observed into the PPV Groups as a whole and into a subgroup of eyes with preoperative PVD. No complications were encountered with laser diode treatment. Long term complications into the IVT Group were elevated IOP (8%), retinal detachment (3.5%) and posterior cataract (15%). Long term complications into the PPV Group were retinal detachment (3.4%) and cataract (90%). Diode laser, PPV with gas tamponade and IVT are effective alternative treatments to decrease foveal thickness and improve visual acuity in eyes with DME. However while the results of PPV are stable in the long term follow-up, diode laser and IVT do not offer stable results. Complications may be severe with PPV and IVT. It is necessary to carefully select cases which would benefit from these types of treatments. The authors think that the OCT Classification may serve as a guide for the choice of treatment."}
{"id": "15628644", "title": "Incidence of patients presenting with exudative maculopathy and neovascular retinal disease in an urban population.", "content": "Incidence of patients presenting with exudative maculopathy and neovascular retinal disease in an urban population. To determine the incidence of exudative macular and neovascular retinal disease presenting within a defined urban population. prospective, observational, consecutive case series. Patients referred to ten ophthalmic centers within a defined 10-week period with a newly diagnosed exudative macular and/or neovascular retinal disease were examined fundoscopically, angiographically and quantified according to age and underlying disease. A total of 527 eyes of 426 patients were referred. The most frequent disease was neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD, 199/527, 37.8%, 184 patients), followed by diabetic maculopathy and/or proliferative diabetic retinopathy (199/527, 37.8%, 128 patients) and venous occlusive disease (67/527, 12.7%, 67 patients). The majority of neovascular AMD consisted of occult without classic choroidal neovascularization (CNV, 115/ 199, 57.8%); predominantly classic CNV was seen more often than minimally classic CNV (43/199, 21.6% vs. 27/ 199, 13.6%). The overwhelming majority of the diabetic cases had diabetic macular edema (179/199, 89.9%); only 10.1% had vasoproliferative disease. All other causes of CNV, macular edema/exudation, and retinal neovascularization were observed in < 5% of all patients. The main causes of exudative maculopathy are CNV due to neovascular AMD and diabetic macular edema. Proliferative diabetic retinopathy is the main cause of retinal neovascularization. The number of patients with neovascular AMD presents a future challenge for ophthalmologists."}
{"id": "15596583", "title": "Vitreous levels of vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal-derived factor 1 in patients with diabetic retinopathy and cystoid macular edema before and after intraocular injection of triamcinolone.", "content": "Vitreous levels of vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal-derived factor 1 in patients with diabetic retinopathy and cystoid macular edema before and after intraocular injection of triamcinolone. Diffuse macular edema (DME) and/or aberrant neovascularization (NV) can cause vision loss in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and may be modulated by growth factors and chemokines. The chemokine stromal-derived factor 1 (SDF-1) is a potent stimulator of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression, the main effector of NV, and the key inducer of vascular permeability associated with DME. Circulating endothelial cell precursors migrating in response to SDF-1 participate in NV. To investigate the relationship between SDF-1 and (VEGF) in vitreous of patients with varying degrees of DR and DME before and after intraocular injection of triamcinolone acetonide, used to treat refractory DME. In this prospective study, 36 patients were included and observed for 6 months. Vitreous VEGF and SDF-1 levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in samples obtained immediately before and 1 month after injection of triamcinolone. Both VEGF and SDF-1 were significantly higher (P<.01) in patients with proliferative DR than in patients with nonproliferative DR. Levels of SDF-1 were markedly increased in patients with DME compared with those without DME. Vascular endothelial growth factor correlated with SDF-1 levels and disease severity (r(2) = 0.88). Triamcinolone administration resulted in dramatic reductions of VEGF and SDF-1 to nearly undetectable levels, eliminated DME, and caused regression of active NV. Our results support a role for SDF-1 and VEGF in the pathogenesis of the adverse visual consequences of DR and suggest that the elimination of DME with regression and/or initiation of fibrosis of NV after triamcinolone injection may be due to the suppression of VEGF and SDF-1."}
{"id": "15592868", "title": "Optic nerve atrophy after vitrectomy with indocyanine green-assisted internal limiting membrane peeling in diffuse diabetic macular edema. Adverse effect of ICG-assisted ILM peeling.", "content": "Optic nerve atrophy after vitrectomy with indocyanine green-assisted internal limiting membrane peeling in diffuse diabetic macular edema. Adverse effect of ICG-assisted ILM peeling. To report anatomic and visual outcomes of vitrectomy and indocyanine green (ICG)-assisted peeling of the retinal internal limiting membrane (ILM) in the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema. In a retrospective interventional case series, 15 eyes of 11 patients with refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema underwent pars plana vitrectomy with removal of the ILM, which was stained by intravitreal injection of ICG (0.1-0.2 ml of 0.5% ICG), performed by a single surgeon. The patients were followed up for 14-28 months (mean 20.5 months). The main outcome measures were assessment of macular edema by optical coherence tomography and determination of visual acuity and visual field. Intravitreal ICG visualized the ILM to facilitate complete removal of the structure. Qualitative assessment of optical coherence tomography images at the end of follow-up revealed that retinal thickness in the macula appeared nearly normal with or without reappearance of foveal pit in 11 of the 15 eyes (73.3%), decreased in 3 eyes (20.0%), and did not change in 1 eye (6.6%). Best-corrected visual acuity at the end of follow-up improved by 2 lines or more in 4 eyes (26.7%), virtually unchanged in 6 eyes (40.0%), and deteriorated by 2 lines or more in 5 eyes (26.7%). The mean logMAR visual acuity was 0.680 (approximately 12/60) preoperatively and 0.812 (approximately 9/60) postoperatively, the difference being not statistically significant (paired t-test, P=0.445). Seven (46.7%) of the 15 eyes developed optic nerve atrophy that occurred gradually within 6 months after surgery and caused irreversible peripheral visual field defect predominantly affecting the nasal field. Intravitreal application of ICG is beneficial in uneventful ILM peeling to help resolution of diffuse diabetic macular edema, but it may potentially damage the optic nerve fibers and lead to unfavorable visual outcomes."}
{"id": "15575825", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular oedema in Chinese patients: six-month prospective longitudinal pilot study.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular oedema in Chinese patients: six-month prospective longitudinal pilot study. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of intravitreal triamcinolone (IVTA) in Chinese patients with diabetic clinical significant macular oedema (CSMO). Eighteen eyes of 17 consecutive patients with CSMO were prospectively recruited and treated with a 4 mg injection of IVTA. Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) on the ETDRS chart and central macular thickness (CMT) on optical coherence tomography were measured at baseline weeks 1, 2, 3, and months 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. Side-effects were monitored. All patients completed 6 months of follow up. The mean baseline BCVA and CMT were 1.20 +/- 0.31 logMAR units and 552 +/- 179 microm, respectively. Improvements in CMT and BCVA were observed as early as at 1 and 2 weeks, respectively (P < 0.05). Mean BCVA peaked at 2 months (0.97 +/- 0.38 logMAR units) while mean CMT was maximally reduced at 3 months (326 +/- 145 microm). Improvements in BCVA and CMT were less afterwards but still statistically significant at 6 months; the final mean BCVA and CMT were 0.99 +/- 0.36 logMAR units and 427 +/- 145 microm, respectively. A total of 5/18 (28%) eyes developed a transient increase in intraocular pressure. Cataract progression was noted in 2/12 (17%) of the phakic eyes. Intravitreal triamcinolone appeared generally safe and effective in Chinese patients with CSMO. Although the improvements in BCVA and CMT were transient, there were residual benefits at 6 months. Due to the transient nature of IVTA, re-treatment seems necessary but the optimal timing and dosage will require further investigations."}
{"id": "15557466", "title": "Retinopathy in monkeys with spontaneous type 2 diabetes.", "content": "Retinopathy in monkeys with spontaneous type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes occurs spontaneously in rhesus monkeys and shows an extraordinary similarity to human diabetes in clinical features and relative time course. The purpose of this study was to investigate clinically and histopathologically the ocular changes in these monkeys. Ophthalmoscopic examinations were performed on aged normal and diabetic monkeys. Retinas from 16 diabetic monkeys and 6 nondiabetic monkeys were incubated postmortem for adenosine diphosphatase (ADPase) activity (labels viable retinal blood vessels) and flat-embedded in JB-4. Tissue sections were cut through areas of interest. Cotton-wool spots, intraretinal hemorrhages, and hard exudates in the macula were observed by ophthalmoscopy in some diabetic monkeys. Dot/blot hemorrhages, cotton-wool spots, and small nonperfused areas were the earliest histologically documented changes in the retinas. Large nonperfused areas extending from optic disc to midfovea were observed in four diabetic monkeys. Formation of small intraretinal microvascular abnormalities (IRMAs) and microaneurysms were associated with the areas of nonperfusion. There were apparent fluid-filled spaces in the outer plexiform layer in three of these maculas, suggesting macular edema. There was a significant correlation between the occurrence of retinopathy and hypertension (P = 0.037 for systolic pressure; P = 0.019 for diastolic pressure). In elastase-digested retinas, the ratio of pericytes to endothelial cells was 0.66:1 in diabetic and 0.64:1 in nondiabetic (P = 0.75) retinas. This is the first detailed analysis of retinopathy in a colony of spontaneous type 2 diabetic monkeys. Monkeys with type 2 diabetes have many of the angiopathic changes associated with human diabetic retinopathy. Hypertension correlates with the severity of the diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "15522370", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema that persists after laser treatment: three-month efficacy and safety results of a prospective, randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled clinical trial.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for diabetic macular edema that persists after laser treatment: three-month efficacy and safety results of a prospective, randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled clinical trial. To determine whether an intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide for persistent diabetic macular edema after adequate laser treatment improves visual acuity. Prospective, double-masked, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial. Sixty-nine eyes of 43 patients were entered into the study, with 34 eyes randomized to receive active treatment and 35 randomized to receive a placebo injection. Sixty-five of 69 eyes (94%) completed the 3-month study visit. Using a 27-gauge needle, 0.1 ml of triamcinolone acetonide was injected through the pars plana. The procedure was performed in a minor procedures area in the outpatient clinic under sterile conditions and using topical and subconjunctival anesthesia. Eyes randomized to placebo received a subconjunctival saline injection using the identical procedure for preparation. The main outcome measures were improvement of best-corrected logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution visual acuity by 5 or more letters and incidence of moderate or severe adverse events. Eighteen of 33 eyes (55%) treated with triamcinolone gained 5 or more letters of best-corrected visual acuity compared with 5 of 32 eyes (16%) treated with placebo (P = 0.002). Macular edema was reduced by 1 or more grades as determined by masked semiquantitative contact lens examination in 25 of 33 treated eyes (75%) versus 5 of 32 untreated eyes (16%; P<0.0001). Optical coherence tomography showed a mean reduction of central retinal thickness of 152 mum in the 21 treated eyes that were examined compared with a reduction of 36 mum in 20 placebo-treated eyes. Infectious endophthalmitis developed in 1 triamcinolone-treated eye that was treated adequately without loss of visual acuity. In the short term, intravitreal triamcinolone is an effective and relatively safe treatment for eyes with diabetic macular edema that have failed laser treatment. Although it will be essential to study longer-term outcomes, the use of intravitreal triamcinolone may be considered in 1 eye of patients who continue to lose vision from diabetic macular edema despite conventional management."}
{"id": "15506606", "title": "Spontaneous resolution of vitreomacular traction associated with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Spontaneous resolution of vitreomacular traction associated with diabetic macular edema. Little information is available about the natural history of vitreomacular traction (VMT) associated with diabetic macular edema. A few cases of spontaneous resolution of VMT associated with diabetic macular edema have been described, but have not been documented by optical coherence tomography (OCT). The authors report the spontaneous resolution of VMT associated with diabetic macular edema 1 month after the end of panretinal photocoagulation therapy (PRP). A 66-year-old woman presented with complicated proliferative diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema associated with VMT, documented by OCT, in the right eye. Left eye examination showed complete PRP and ischemic maculopathy. PRP was immediately realized in the right eye in regard to the presence of complicated proliferative diabetic retinopathy. One month after the end of PRP, right eye visual acuity improved. OCT examination showed complete release of foveal posterior hyaloid traction, and significant reduction in foveal thickness. The follow-up was 1 year. At the end of follow-up, visual acuity slightly improved again; only a small residual foveal retinal thickening remained. The authors report spontaneous resolution of VMT associated with diabetic macular edema, probably facilitated by PRP, with concurrent reduction of macular thickness and visual improvement. As spontaneous resolution may occur in some eyes with diabetic macular edema associated with VMT, a period of observation after the end of the PRP may be considered prior to vitrectomy."}
{"id": "15488781", "title": "Intrasurgical plasmin enzyme in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intrasurgical plasmin enzyme in diabetic macular edema. To evaluate in a prospective study the efficacy of intrasurgical autologous plasmin enzyme (APE) in producing posterior vitreous detachment. Consecutive, interventional case series. A group of 12 eyes of 11 patients with diabetic macular edema secondary to posterior vitreous cortex contraction was considered. A quantity of 0.1- to 0.2-ml containing 0.8 to 1.2 IU of APE prepared by our Coagulation Service was injected into the vitreous body 25 minutes before surgery. The efficacy of the APE was subjectively evaluated. A control group of 10 eyes with the same clinical characteristics underwent the same surgery without APE injection. Complete eye examinations, including optical coherence tomography, were performed on all patients before surgery and during the 1-year follow-up period. During surgery in the APE-treated group, the posterior vitreous cortex was judged adherent in three cases, partially detached in six cases, and totally detached in three cases. In two cases a complete collapse of the vitreous body was observed. During surgery in the non-APE-treated group, the posterior vitreous cortex was judged still adherent in nine of 10 eyes and partially detached in 1 eye. Comparing the postoperative results between the APE-treated group and the non-APE-treated group, we found no significant differences in final postoperative retinal thickness (P = .2552), whereas we found a significant difference in final visual acuity (P = .0121). Autologous plasmin enzyme was useful in inducing a pharmacologic posterior vitreous detachment and in facilitating surgery. It did not seem to interfere with the final retinal thickness, and it ameliorates the final visual acuity."}
{"id": "15465570", "title": "Variation in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Variation in diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "15465568", "title": "Variation in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Variation in diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "15465566", "title": "Variation in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Variation in diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "15459787", "title": "[Optical coherence tomography for macular edema. Classification, quantitative assessment, and rational usage in the clinical practice].", "content": "[Optical coherence tomography for macular edema. Classification, quantitative assessment, and rational usage in the clinical practice]. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) allows for morphological assessment of macular edema of various origins by producing two-dimensional images of the retina. In addition, retinal thickness can be measured quantitatively. In diabetic maculopathy, damage of the blood-retinal barrier can be indirectly assessed by locating the intraretinal fluid accumulation and the progress of maculopathy from diffuse to cystoid edema and even rupture of the retinal structure can be described as well as the formation of neurosensory retinal detachment with subretinal fluid. Increase of retinal thickness correlates with decrease in visual acuity. Detailed interpretation of OCT images can replace fluorescein angiography in certain cases, as has been shown for uveitis. In order to obtain correct classification of macular disease in routine clinical use, all images have to be completely assessed and compared to previous investigations and to the measurements of the fellow eye. More accurate normal values of retinal thickness and volume can be expected in the future. The importance of OCT in routine clinical assessment of macular edema will most probably continue to grow."}
{"id": "15452046", "title": "Pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic modeling of the effect of triamcinolone acetonide on central macular thickness in patients with diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic modeling of the effect of triamcinolone acetonide on central macular thickness in patients with diabetic macular edema. To develop a population model capable of describing the profile of the effect of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in the treatment of diabetic diffuse macular edema. The results of 51 injections in 37 eyes (33 patients) with diffuse diabetic macular edema were studied, by using population pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic modeling, without triamcinolone concentration measurements. This approach was supported by the pharmacokinetic hypothesis that the intravitreal triamcinolone concentration decreases in accordance with an exponential biphasic equation. Central macular thickness (CMT), measured by optical coherence tomography was chosen as the pharmacodynamic parameter. The pharmacodynamic profile of the effect of triamcinolone on CMT was characterized by a curve in three phases: a fast decrease, a steady state, and a relapse. The confidence interval of most of the estimated parameters of the model was narrow. The mean estimated half-life of triamcinolone +/- SD was 15.4 +/- 1.9 days, and the mean maximum duration of its effect (+/-SD), 140 +/- 17 days. Pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic modeling using CMT constitutes a valid alternative to pharmacokinetic studies. This approach worked excellently in the present study, and the results are consistent with those published for the intraocular pharmacokinetics of triamcinolone acetonide in the human eye. The authors conclude that this type of investigation is of interest, as it avoids intraocular measurements as far as possible."}
{"id": "15384839", "title": "[On a classification of changes in the eye fundus as observed in diabetes mellitus].", "content": "[On a classification of changes in the eye fundus as observed in diabetes mellitus]. A classification of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic maculopathy as well as treatment schemes for each stage, which were worked out by the authors, are described in the paper. A stage free of any diabetic changes in the eye fundus is isolated, within the suggested classification, as well as the notion of a high-risk diabetic retinopathy is defined with more precision and in accordance with the modern understanding of importance of the vitreous-retinal interaction and of compensation of carbohydrate metabolism in the disease pathogenesis. Finally, an original classification of diabetic macular edema was introduced."}
{"id": "15361942", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone injection for macular edema secondary to increased retinal vascular permeability.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone injection for macular edema secondary to increased retinal vascular permeability. Macular edema is an important cause of visual loss in various retinal diseases, and may be refractory to conventional treatment. We investigated the efficacy of intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide for the treatment of intractable macular edema. A prospective study was conducted in 17 patients (18 eyes) with a diagnosis of macular edema unresponsive to conventional treatment, resulting from inflammatory or retinal vascular diseases. The underlying diseases associated with the development of macular edema were: diabetic retinopathy (6 eyes), branch retinal vein occlusion (5 eyes), Irvine-Gass syndrome (3 eyes), and central retinal vein occlusion (4 eyes). Triamcinolone acetonide 4 mg was injected intravitreally. Ophthalmological examinations, fundus photography, fluorescein angiography, and optical coherence tomography were performed before treatment, 3 months and 6 months after treatment. During the follow-up period, recurrent macular edema was retreated with the same dosage and followed for another 6 months. Sixteen eyes received a single injection and 2 others (11%) underwent reinjection after the 3-month follow-up examination. Among the eyes that received a single injection, 10 (63%) showed visual acuity gain of 2 or more Snellen lines at the 6-month follow-up. The pretreatment central macular thickness averaged 581 microm [corrected] and reduced to 215 microm [corrected] at the 6-month follow-up. In the 2 eyes that received reinjection, macular edema also showed significant reduction 6 months after retreatment. Sterile endophthalmitis was noted in 3 eyes (17%). Two eyes (11%) developed significant cataract. Three eyes (17%) developed high intraocular pressure; 1 of them (5.5%) ultimately required filtering surgery. Intravitreal injection of triamcinolone temporarily reduced refractory macular edema. Potential complications should be monitored after treatment."}
{"id": "15343118", "title": "[Failure of photocoagulation therapy for diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Failure of photocoagulation therapy for diabetic macular edema]. To analyse clinical and tomographic features of diabetic macular edemas (DME) unresponsive to laser photocoagulation. Retrospective study of 43 consecutive eyes presenting with severe DME defined by a macular thickening 450 microm or more, involving the fovea, and associated with either cystoid spaces and/or hard exudates threatening the center of the macula. All 43 eyes underwent subthreshold grid laser therapy (a mean of 2.3 sessions). Mean follow-up was 21 months. Photocoagulation was beneficial in 39% of the eyes (n=17) and failed in 60% (n=26). Comparing these two groups, we found that some tomographic and clinical signs were strikingly more frequent in the unresponsive eyes than in the responsive ones. OCT findings reported foveal thickening greater than 700 microm (38%), subclinical serous foveal detachment (65%), subclinical vitreomacular interface abnormalities (19%) and as clinical signs, 44% of the unresponsive eyes exhibited rapid progression of retinal ischemia preceding ME constitution. Long-standing diffuse DME carries an unfavorable prognosis. In cases of unresponsive DME exhibiting these tomographic and clinical signs, alternative therapies such as intravitreal injections of steroids and/or vitrectomy with posterior hyaloid removal should be considered, instead of iatrogenic and useless iterative grid laser treatments."}
{"id": "15334015", "title": "Posterior vitreous detachment: clinical correlations.", "content": "Posterior vitreous detachment: clinical correlations. To evaluate the frequency of, and the factors which are primarily and secondarily associated with, posterior vitreous detachment (PVD), and to correlate the presence of PVD with various demographic and ophthalmic entities. The clinical prospective observational cohort study included 1,481 subjects (740 women, 741 men) with a mean age of 63.45 +/- 14.97 years (mean +/- SD; range, 10.3-94.9 years) and a mean spherical equivalent refractive error of +0.68 +/- 2.13 dpt (range, -14.25 to +13.50 dpt). The presence of PVD was assessed by indirect and direct ophthalmoscopy, fundus biomicroscopy and by using a Hruby lens upon pharmacologically dilated pupil. Main outcome measures were frequency of PVD, association with age, refractive error, cataract surgery, diabetes mellitus, arterial hypertension, history of ocular trauma, vitreous hemorrhage, various retinal disorders, nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION) and open-angle glaucoma. The occurrence of PVD was significantly correlated with increasing age (p < 0.001), myopic refractive error (p < 0.001), female gender (p < 0.001), and surgical aphakia (p < 0.001). PVD occurred significantly more often bilaterally than unilaterally (p < 0.001). Patients with unilateral PVD were significantly (p < 0.001) younger than the patients with bilateral PVD. PVD was seen significantly (p = 0.038) less frequently in AION than in the remaining study population. The frequency of PVD was lower in eyes with than without diabetic retinopathy (p = 0.095), optic disc neovascularization (p = 0.07) and retinal neovascularization (p = 0.09). There was no significant association between the presence of PVD and macular hole, macular edema, retinal vascular occlusive disorders, age-related macular degeneration and open-angle glaucoma. These data of a large prospective study of PVD confirm some of the findings of previous smaller and retrospective studies. They also provide new information which may be helpful for the understanding of the pathophysiology of PVD and the role of PVD in the pathogenesis of various retinal and optic disc lesions."}
{"id": "15325193", "title": "Macular edema.", "content": "Macular edema. Macular edema is the final common pathway of many intraocular and systemic insults. It may develop in a diffuse pattern where the macula appears generally thickened or it may acquire the characteristic petaloid appearance referred to as cystoid macular edema. Although macular edema may be associated with protean underlying conditions, it is most commonly seen following intraocular surgery, venous occlusive disease, diabetic retinopathy, and posterior segment inflammatory disease. As well as clinical suspicion, a wide range of investigations may lead to the diagnosis of macular edema. Fluorescein angiography and optical coherence tomography provide enhanced visualization of the geometry and distribution of macular edema. A variety of approaches to the treatment of macular edema have been attempted, with a variable degree of success. These options have included topical and systemic steroids, topical and oral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents and laser photocoagulation treatment. More recently other therapeutic modalities, including immunomodulators, intravitreal injection of triamcinolone, and pars plana vitrectomy have also been employed. Clinical trials are currently looking into the use of a steroid slow-release intravitreal device for the management of macular edema secondary to uveitis and diabetes. This article reviews the clinical entity of macular edema focusing on the current therapeutic strategies for its management."}
{"id": "15317721", "title": "Partial resolution of diabetic macular oedema after systemic treatment with furosemide.", "content": "Partial resolution of diabetic macular oedema after systemic treatment with furosemide."}
{"id": "15317711", "title": "Subthreshold micropulse diode laser treatment in diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Subthreshold micropulse diode laser treatment in diabetic macular oedema. Enlargement of laser scars after retinal argon laser photocoagulation can give rise to deterioration in visual acuity. Subthreshold micropulse diode laser may decrease this risk. The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of subthreshold micropulse diode laser (810 nm) and conventional argon laser (514 nm) photocoagulation for the treatment of clinically significant macular oedema in diabetic patients. 23 eyes of 16 patients were randomised to either treatment. Follow up was conducted for a minimum of 5 months. Changes in visual acuity and macular oedema measured by optical coherence tomography were examined. Visual acuity remained stable in all treatment groups throughout the observation period. Changes in retinal thickness were small both foveally and perifoveally. In patients with focal macular oedema a significant reduction in retinal thickness (9% approximately -26 microm, p = 0.02) was seen foveally 3 months after diode laser photocoagulation. Subthreshold micropulse diode laser and conventional argon laser treatment showed an equally good effect on visual acuity. Subthreshold micropulse diode laser showed a stabilising or even improving effect on macular oedema. The combination of primary diode laser and supplementary argon laser might be particularly favourable in reducing diabetic macular oedema."}
{"id": "15317702", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for the treatment of refractory diabetic macular oedema with hard exudates: an optical coherence tomography study.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for the treatment of refractory diabetic macular oedema with hard exudates: an optical coherence tomography study. To investigate the use of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide (IVTA) for the treatment of diabetic macular oedema (DMO) unresponsive to previous laser photocoagulation. A retrospective, interventional, non-comparative case series. There were 30 eyes of 22 consecutive patients with refractory DMO. An intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide at the dose of 4 mg in 0.1 ml was administered. Best corrected visual acuity was measured at each examination. In addition the central macular thickness was quantitatively measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) examination at each visit. The amount of hard exudates deposition in the macula was subjectively evaluated using colour fundus photographs. 30 eyes of 22 patients completed 6 months or more of follow up and were included in the study. Mean (SD) visual acuity improved from 0.17 (0.12) at baseline to 0.34 (0.18), 0.36 (0.16), and 0.31 (0.17) at the 1, 3, and 6 month follow up respectively. Mean (SD) OCT macular thickness decreased from 476 (98.32) microm at baseline to 277.46 (96.77) microm, 255.33 (95.73) microm, and 331.25 (146.76) microm at the 1, 3, and 6 month follow up period respectively. 18 and seven eyes completed 12 months and 18 months of follow up, respectively. Mean (SD) visual acuity was 0.36 (0.15) and 0.35 (0.16) at the 12 and 18 month follow up period respectively. 12 eyes received two, seven eyes received three, and two eyes received four IVTA injections. The mean (SD) interval between the first and second IVTA injection was 5.7 (2.67) months and between the second and third was 5.7 (3.25) months. Hard exudates were present in the macula at baseline in all eyes. Progressive reduction in the number and size of the hard exudates was noted after IVTA in all cases. Intraocular pressure was raised above 21 mm Hg in 12 (40%) of 30 eyes. Two eyes developed posterior subcapsular cataract and two developed vitreous haemorrhage. IVTA is a promising treatment for patients with DMO refractory to laser treatment. IVTA is effective in improving vision, reducing macular thickness, and inducing reabsorption of hard exudates. Further investigation is warranted to assess the safety of IVTA for the treatment of DMO."}
{"id": "15309977", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide: valuation of retinal thickness changes measured by optical coherence tomography in diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide: valuation of retinal thickness changes measured by optical coherence tomography in diffuse diabetic macular edema. The authors studied the efficacy of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide in a case series of patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema without evidence of vitreous-macular traction refractory to laser photocoagulation. Six eyes with clinically diffuse diabetic macular edema that failed to respond to at least two previous sessions of laser photocoagulation were included. The mean age of selected patients was 72.5+/-13.8 years, with a preoperative best-corrected visual acuity reduced to 1.48+/-0.18 logMar and a mean baseline intraocular pressure (IOP) of 15.17+/-2.64 mmHg. The authors also studied macular thickness measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT 2000 scanner, Humphrey Instruments, San Leandro, CA) - in the preoperative period it was 640.8+/-171.1 microm - and the fluorangiographic (Heidelberg Retina Angiograph, Heidelberg Engineering GmbH, Heidelberg, Germany) patterns, which showed pooling in tardy phases and leakage. Mean follow-up was 4 months. In each patient the authors observed a significant improvement, both functionally and anatomically. Mean best-corrected visual acuity increased in the postoperative period to 0.94+/-0.53 logMar. No patient showed decline of visual acuity at the end of follow-up. Base line macular thickness was reduced in the postoperative period to 312.2+/-157.65 microm measured by OCT and fluorangiographic patterns showed a reduction of pooling and of leakage. The most common complications described in the literature were not observed and the increase of mean IOP in the postoperative period to 18.76+/-5.72 mmHg was not significant. Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide may decrease macular edema and improve visual acuity in eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "15307987", "title": "[Optic neurotomy for central retinal vein occlusion].", "content": "[Optic neurotomy for central retinal vein occlusion]. To investigate the surgical effect and complication of optic neurotomy for ischemic central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). Eight patients elected to undergo optic neurotomy, The age range was 32 - 67 years, Five of the 8 were women and three were men. The duration of the CRVO were 3 - 8 months. Systemic hypertension was present in 3 patients and severe cystoid macular edema was present in 3 patient. No diabetes mellitus was noted in all 8 patients. A standard three-port vitrectomy was performed on 8 patients with severe ischemic CRVO, A microvitreoretinal (MVR) blade was used to relax the scleral ring and adjacent sclera of the optic disk, The depth of the incision into the optic nerve placed the MVR blade just beyond the widest portion of the diamond-shaped tip. The depth of the incision was 2.2 mm approximately. Optic neurotomy was performed in all 8 patients successfully, The small hemorrhage was noted during the surgical procedure in 2 patients limited to the incision site. The follow-up was 3 - 5 months range, All patients had improvement in the retina and macular edema and the appearance of the fundus as documented by photography, fluorescein angiography. And optic coherence tomography (OCT). Postoperative visual acuities were improved in 62.5% of patients and the visual acuities no changes were in 2 patients. Postoperative neovascular glaucoma was in 1 patient and vitreous hemorrhage in 2 patients. Optic neurotomy may improve the intraretinal hemorrhage, macular edema and the visual acuity prognosis in patients with ischemic CRVO."}
{"id": "15305550", "title": "Effective treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema by temporal grid pattern photocoagulation.", "content": "Effective treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema by temporal grid pattern photocoagulation. To determine the effectiveness of laser grid pattern photocoagulation to the macula but not the papillomacular bundle for the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema. Thirty-five eyes of 23 patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema underwent laser grid photocoagulation excluding the papillomacular bundle area. Best-corrected visual acuity by Snellen chart, foveal thickness using a retinal mapping program by optical coherence tomography (OCT), and mean deviation sensitivity by Humphrey automated central perimetry were investigated before and 1, 3, and 6 months after the treatment. Six months after treatment, the visual acuity was improved by 2 or more lines in 16 eyes (43%) and the foveal thickness decreased in 32 eyes (91%). The mean deviation worsened in 34 eyes (97%). There was a significant correlation between the improvement of visual acuity and the initial mean deviation, suggesting that a better visual acuity would be expected with a preoperative mean deviation of approximately -20 dB. Grid pattern photocoagulation without treatment to the papillomacular bundle area was effective in treating diffuse diabetic macular edema, especially in eyes with an initial mean deviation showing moderate dysfunction."}
{"id": "15290890", "title": "Regression of optic nerve head neovascularization in proliferative diabetic retinopathy after intravitreal triamcinolone. Regression of diabetic optic disc neovascularization after intravitreal triamcinolone.", "content": "Regression of optic nerve head neovascularization in proliferative diabetic retinopathy after intravitreal triamcinolone. Regression of diabetic optic disc neovascularization after intravitreal triamcinolone. The aim of this study is to report the clinical outcome of a diabetic patient with optic nerve head neovascularization treated with an intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide. A 52-year-old patient presented with clinically significant diffuse macular edema and optic nerve head neovascularization due to proliferative diabetic retinopathy in her right eye. Despite grid laser photocoagulation in the macular region macular edema progressed and visual acuity declined. The patient received a single intravitreal injection of 4 mg triamcinolone acetonide with topical anesthesia. After injection of triamcinolone acetonide visual acuity increased and macular edema decreased. Furthermore optic nerve head neovascularization had markedly regressed. No complication was observed during follow-up period. Intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide may be useful for treatment of optic nerve head neovascularization in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "15258025", "title": "Alteration of choroidal circulation in the foveal region in patients with type 2 diabetes.", "content": "Alteration of choroidal circulation in the foveal region in patients with type 2 diabetes. To investigate changes in choroidal blood flow (CBF) in the foveal region in patients with type 2 diabetes. Laser Doppler flowmetry was used to determine the CBF in the foveal region in 70 patients with type 2 diabetes and 36 age and sex matched healthy subjects (control group). The patients were classified into three groups: 33 patients (33 eyes) with no diabetic retinopathy (NDR), 20 patients (20 eyes) with non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy and no macular oedema (NPDR/MO-), and 17 patients (17 eyes) with NPDR and MO (NPDR/MO+). Optical coherence tomography was also used to measure the foveal thickness. The group averaged CBF values were 13.5 (4.9), 9.4 (2.5), 10.8 (4.8), and 5.6 (2.0) (arbitrary units) in the control, NDR, NPDR/MO-, and NPDR/MO+ groups, respectively. The group averaged CBF values in the NDR group decreased (30.2%; p<0.01) compared with the control group. The average CBF value in the NPDR/MO+ group was also significantly lower (48.2%; p<0.01) compared with that in the NPDR/MO- group. The CBF in the foveal region significantly decreases in patients with diabetes, especially those with macular oedema."}
{"id": "15234306", "title": "Duration of the effect of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide as treatment for diffuse diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Duration of the effect of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide as treatment for diffuse diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the duration of the effect of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide on visual acuity in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema. Clinical interventional case series. Subjects were 31 patients (38 eyes) with diffuse diabetic macular edema who received an intravitreal injection of 20- to 25-mg triamcinolone acetonide. Mean follow-up time was 13.2 +/- 6.0 months (6.03-25.2 months). Visual acuity and intraocular pressure began to increase significantly (P =.003) within the first week, reaching a plateaulike maximum at 1 to 7 months postinjection, returning to baseline values 8 to 9 months postinjection. The effect of an intravitreal injection of approximately 20- to 25-mg triamcinolone acetonide in patients with diffuse diabetic macular edema lasts approximately 7 to 8 months. This information may be helpful in determining the optimal dosage of intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for the treatment of diffuse diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "15126175", "title": "Optical coherence tomography to detect macular edema in the presence of asteroid hyalosis.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography to detect macular edema in the presence of asteroid hyalosis. To propose the use of optical coherence tomography as an effective diagnostic tool for identifying macular edema in patients with asteroid hyalosis obscuring the fundus view. Case report. Review of clinical chart and images. Private retina practice. One patient diagnosed with diabetic retinopathy and asteroid hyalosis, who was experiencing decreased visual acuity and whose fundus view was inadequate for diagnosis using customary techniques. Usual methods of diagnosis were ineffective until OCT obtained a clear image of the fundus and subsequent macular thickening with vitreomacular adhesion. Optical coherence tomography is an effective diagnostic tool for discovering macular edema in cases of dense asteroid hyalosis where traditional methods fail to obtain a clear image of the fundus."}
{"id": "15051203", "title": "Comparison of the clinical diagnosis of diabetic macular edema with diagnosis by optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Comparison of the clinical diagnosis of diabetic macular edema with diagnosis by optical coherence tomography. To compare the diagnosis of diabetic macular edema (DME) by stereoscopic slit-lamp biomicroscopic examination of the fundus with a 78-diopter noncontact lens with diagnosis by optical coherence tomography (OCT). Prospective, double-masked, noninterventional diagnostic study. Analysis of slit-lamp biomicroscopic findings compared with OCT measurements. Patients with DME from a private retina practice. Presence or absence of macular thickening. The reference range for this clinic was comparable to reference ranges published from other clinics. The clinical detection of DME was less than detection by OCT. Chance-corrected agreements (kappa statistic) of the 2 methods were 0.63 for the foveal zone and 0.36 to 0.42 for the 4 parafoveal zones. The errors committed in clinical examination were primarily of the type in which clinical examination did not detect DME but OCT did (58%-90%) for the 5 zones analyzed. Reference ranges for OCT seem to be similar for different clinical settings, suggesting the usefulness of OCT in multicenter studies. The current standard of care for DME detection, stereoscopic slit-lamp examination of the fundus, is less sensitive than OCT for detection of DME. Because the principal therapy for DME, focal laser photocoagulation, is mainly sight preserving and not sight restoring, the wider use of OCT may beneficially impact visual disability from DME."}
{"id": "15022431", "title": "[Intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide for cystoid macular edema resistant to vitreous surgery].", "content": "[Intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide for cystoid macular edema resistant to vitreous surgery]. To report the efficacy of intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide(TA) for cystoid macular edema remaining after vitreous surgery. Eight eyes of 7 patients aged from 32 to 84 years old were studied. The original diseases that caused macular edema were central retinal vein occlusion in 2 eyes, branch retinal vein occlusion in one eye, Irvine-Gass syndrome in 2 eyes, and diabetic retinopathy in 3 eyes. 4 mg of TA was injected intravitreally and visual acuity and foveal thickness measured by optical coherence tomography(OCT) were evaluated in before and after the surgery. Macular edema resolved rapidly after injection of TA in all cases and cysts were extinguished or diminished. The foveal thickness in OCT was reduced significantly from preoperative 495 +/- 116 (mean +/- standard deviation) microns to 267 +/- 117 microns after one week, and 246 +/- 81 microns after one month. The effect persisted for three months. Visual improvement of more than two Snellen lines was seen in 4 eyes. No side effects were observed except a temporary increase of intraocular pressure in one eye. Intravitreal injection of TA is effective in a short-term for cystoid macular edema remaining after vitrectomy."}
{"id": "15019365", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diabetic diffuse macular edema: preliminary results of a prospective controlled trial.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide for diabetic diffuse macular edema: preliminary results of a prospective controlled trial. To evaluate prospectively the efficacy and safety of 1 intravitreal injection of 4 mg of triamcinolone acetonide for refractory diffuse diabetic macular edema. Interventional case series. Fifteen patients with bilateral diabetic macular edema unresponsive to laser photocoagulation. In all patients, one eye received the injection, and the other served as a control. Intravitreal injection of 4 mg of triamcinolone acetonide under subconjunctival anesthesia. The main outcome measure was central macular thickness (CMT) at 1, 3, and 6 months, measured by optical coherence tomography. Secondary outcomes were Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) scores, intraocular pressure, and cataract progression. In this preliminary report, we give the results for 12 patients who had a follow-up of at least 3 months. Seven of them were followed up for 6 months. Before injection, CMT was 509.6+/-143.5 microm (mean +/- standard deviation [SD]) in injected eyes, versus 474.4+/-82.6 microm in control eyes. Four weeks after injection, it was 207.3+/-44.2 microm in injected eyes and 506.7+/-122.4 microm in control eyes (P<0.001, bilateral Wilcoxon test for paired samples), and after 12 weeks, 207+/-96.7 microm and 469.3+/-117.6 microm, respectively (P = 0.005). The difference between the CMTs of injected and control eyes was no longer significant at 24 weeks because of the recurrence of macular edema in 5 of 12 injected eyes. Before triamcinolone injection, the ETDRS score was 47.8+/-13 (mean +/- SD; range, 28-66) in injected eyes, versus 51.9+/-14.6 (range, 31-71) in control eyes. Twelve weeks thereafter, the corresponding values were 52.7+/-10.8 (range, 34-70) and 50.8+/-14.3 (range, 29-69), respectively, and at 24 weeks, 54.7+/-7.6 (range, 47-68) and 50.6+/-18.4 (range, 28-71). At no time was the difference between the ETDRS scores for injected and control eyes significant. In 6 of the 12 injected eyes, intraocular pressure exceeded 25 mmHg, and was controlled by topical medication. Intravitreal injection of triamcinolone effectively reduces macular thickening due to diffuse diabetic macular edema, at least in the short term. Further studies are required to demonstrate that it provides visual benefit."}
{"id": "15019364", "title": "Temporal variation in diabetic macular edema measured by optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Temporal variation in diabetic macular edema measured by optical coherence tomography. To determine, by optical coherence tomography (OCT), whether there is a quantitative decrease in macular edema in diabetic subjects over the course of a day. Observational case series. Ten subjects with diabetic macular edema in 1 or both eyes. Subjects were admitted to the hospital the evening before the study so that they would remain in the recumbent position until immediately before study measurements began. They then underwent 4 OCT measurements of macular thickness in both eyes, at 8:00 am, 11:00 am, 2:00 pm, and 5:00 pm. At each of these times, they also had refractions and visual acuity measurements using the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study protocol. Macular thickness measurements determined by the Zeiss-Humphrey (Dublin, CA) optical coherence tomograph for each eye of each subject were plotted as a function of time. Temporal changes in retinal thickness in each of the 9 macular sectors defined by the OCT protocol and in the entire macula of each eye, averaged from all 9 sectors; temporal changes in refractive error and visual acuity. Four of the 10 subjects showed consistent decreases in macular thickness over the course of the day in 1 or more of the retinal sectors in 1 or both eyes. When macular thickness values were averaged over all 9 sectors for all subjects, both eyes showed consistent declines in mean thickness throughout the day. By t test, the 8 am value in each eye was significantly higher (P<0.0005) than any of the 3 later values, which did not differ significantly from each other. However, comparison of all 4 values by analysis of variance showed no significant differences. With the exception of 1 subject, there were no consistent changes in refractive error or in best-corrected visual acuity over the course of the study. This study, using quantitative OCT determinations, seems to confirm the much earlier report by Sternberg et al, which used more subjective methods, that macular edema might vary over the day. That the 8 am value, obtained just after waking, was higher than the 3 later values (highly significant by 1 test) suggests that the decrease in macular thickness is most likely due to the shift from recumbent to upright body position, although our study protocol did not exclude other possible mechanisms. Although changes in macular thickness over the course of the day did not occur in all subjects, therapeutic studies for macular edema that use OCT as an outcome measure should control for time of day when these measurements are carried out."}
{"id": "15006844", "title": "Detection of diabetic foveal edema: contact lens biomicroscopy compared with optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Detection of diabetic foveal edema: contact lens biomicroscopy compared with optical coherence tomography. To compare contact lens biomicroscopy with optical coherence tomography (OCT) for the detection of diabetic foveal edema. Study participants consisted of a convenient cohort of consecutive patients with diabetes mellitus seen at the Wilmer Eye Institute's Retinal Vascular Center, Baltimore, MD. Case characteristics were recorded and eyes were examined by 1 of 4 retina specialists by means of contact lens biomicroscopy. Edema involving the center of the macula was assessed as definitely present, questionably present, or definitely not present. The OCT testing was performed and interpreted by trained technicians, masked to the physicians' assessment of foveal edema. Agreement between OCT and contact lens examination for the absence or presence of foveal edema was evaluated. One hundred seventy-two eyes of 95 patients with diabetes were enrolled in August and September 2002. Foveal thickness was objectively measured by OCT in 170 (99%) of 172 cases. We found excellent agreement between OCT and contact lens examination for the absence or presence of foveal edema when OCT thickness was normal (<or=200 microm) or moderately to severely increased (>300 microm). However, agreement was poor when foveal thickness was mildly increased on OCT (201-300 microm). Agreement between contact lens examination and OCT for the detection of diabetic foveal edema is poor when OCT thickening is mild. This suggests that contact lens biomicroscopy is relatively insensitive for the detection of mild foveal thickening apparent on OCT. Additional studies are needed to investigate the natural course of cases with mildly increased foveal thickness on OCT that do not appear thickened clinically."}
{"id": "14986010", "title": "Vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal for clinically significant macular oedema.", "content": "Vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane removal for clinically significant macular oedema. Little has been published on internal limiting membrane (ILM) removal for clinically significant macular oedema (CSME) in eyes not improving following maximal laser treatment. Retrospective review of the charts and intraoperative video films of 30 consecutive eyes of 27 patients undergoing vitrectomy, ILM peeling, and gas tamponade by a single surgeon. The average patient was 52 years old; 56% were males. The oedema was caused by diabetes in 87% of the eyes, 42% of which had proliferative disease. The oedema was diffuse in 16 eyes (53%) and cystoid (CME) in 14 (47%). In 21% of eyes, spontaneous vitreous detachment was present or the eye had already undergone vitrectomy. All but one eye had at least 6 months of follow-up (mean 12 months). The oedema resolved completely in 26 eyes (90%) and partially in 3 eyes (10%). The visual acuity improved at least two Snellen lines in 19 eyes (66%) and one line in 4 eyes (14%); the average improvement was 4 lines. The acuity was unchanged in three eyes (10%) and worsened in three eyes (10%), all due to cataract. Among the 14 eyes with CME, 11 (79%) became completely dry and the visual acuity improved in 11 eyes (79%). No ILM-related complication was encountered in any eye. Vitrectomy with ILM peeling is a promising approach to eyes with CSME. It appears to offer visual improvement at a much higher rate than laser therapy and with a longer-lasting effect than that of intravitreal triamcinolone. A larger study is necessary to confirm these preliminary findings."}
{"id": "14985312", "title": "Reduction of diabetic macular edema by oral administration of the kinase inhibitor PKC412.", "content": "Reduction of diabetic macular edema by oral administration of the kinase inhibitor PKC412. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of PKC412, an orally administered kinase inhibitor, in subjects with diabetic macular edema. This was a randomized (1:1:1:1), multicenter, double-masked, parallel-group study in which subjects (n = 141) received placebo or PKC412 (50, 100, or 150 mg/d) for up to 3 months. Subjects were 18 to 85 years of age and had retinal thickening that met predefined criteria and best corrected visual acuity of 55 letters or more. Efficacy was based on changes in retinal thickening measured by grading of fundus photographs and optical coherence tomography (OCT) and changes in visual acuity. Grading of fundus photographs showed a statistically significant decrease in the area of greatest retinal thickening in patients receiving 150 mg/d of PKC412 (P = 0.032). OCT demonstrated that the two higher doses of PKC412 caused a significant decrease in thickening in the region of greatest thickening and in the fovea (P < or = 039), with response in the high-dose group significantly different from that in the placebo group (difference = -66.69 micro m [95.2% CI: -128.57 to -4.81]; P = 0.030). Retinal volume for all locations also showed a significant decrease from baseline in the 100- and 150-mg/d PKC412 groups (P < or = 004), and the 150-mg/kg group showed significantly less retinal volume than the placebo group at 3 months (difference = -0.46 mm(3) [95.2% CI: -0.86-0.06]; P = 0.019). There was a small (4.36 letters), but significant (P = 0.007), improvement in visual acuity at 3 months compared with baseline in the 100-mg/d PKC412 group. Gastrointestinal side effects (diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting) were the most common adverse events attributed to the drug. Dose-related effects were observed for tolerability, glycemic control, and liver toxicity. Orally administered PKC412 at doses of 100 mg/d or higher may significantly reduce macular edema and improve visual acuity in diabetic subjects. However, concern regarding liver toxicity with systemic therapy makes local delivery an appealing approach."}
{"id": "14962423", "title": "The correlation between fluorescein angiographic and optical coherence tomographic features in clinically significant diabetic macular edema.", "content": "The correlation between fluorescein angiographic and optical coherence tomographic features in clinically significant diabetic macular edema. To assess the correlation between the features of optical coherence tomography (OCT) and fluorescein angiography in clinically significant diabetic macular edema. Retrospective observational case series. This study involved 145 eyes (91 patients) with clinically significant diabetic macular edema. The fluorescein angiography features were categorized into focal leakage type, diffuse leakage type, and diffuse cystoid leakage type. The OCT features were categorized into four types: type 1, thickening with homogeneous optical reflectivity; type 2, thickening with markedly decreased optical reflectivity in the outer retinal layer; type 3A, foveolar detachment without traction; and type 3B, foveolar detachment with apparent vitreofoveal traction. The correlation between fluorescein angiography types and OCT types were analyzed, and their associations with visual acuity, central foveal thickness. and stages of diabetic retinopathy were evaluated. The prevalence of OCT type 1 was higher in the focal leakage type (73.0%) and in the diffuse leakage type (58.9%) than in the diffuse cystoid leakage type (3.8%) of fluorescein angiography (P <.0001). The prevalence of OCT type 2 and 3A was higher in the diffuse cystoid leakage type (57.7% and 34.6%, respectively) than in the focal leakage type (20.6% and 3.2%) or diffuse leakage type(28.6% and 10.7%; P <.0001). The stages of retinopathy correlated with fluorescein angiography types (P =.016). Optical coherence tomography type 1 and the focal leakage type of fluorescein angiography showed the least foveal thickness and the best visual acuity (P <.05). There was a significant correlation between the features of OCT and fluorescein angiography in clinically significant diabetic macular edema. The combined data from both OCT and fluorescein angiography may provide a clearer understanding of the anatomic and physiologic characteristics of clinically significant diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "14746571", "title": "Effects of losartan on diabetic maculopathy in type 2 diabetic patients.", "content": "Effects of losartan on diabetic maculopathy in type 2 diabetic patients."}
{"id": "14744906", "title": "Supplemental oxygen improves diabetic macular edema: a pilot study.", "content": "Supplemental oxygen improves diabetic macular edema: a pilot study. Diabetic macular edema (DME) is the most common cause of moderate visual disability in persons of working age in the United States. The pathogenesis of DME is poorly understood. In this study, the effect of retinal hypoxia in the development and maintenance of DME was investigated. Five patients with chronic DME despite at least one focal laser photocoagulation treatment (nine eyes) received 4 L/min of inspired oxygen by nasal cannula for 3 months. Best corrected visual acuity (VA) and retinal thickness, assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT), were measured at baseline, during 3 months of oxygen treatment, and for 3 months after stopping oxygen. After 3 months of oxygen therapy, nine of nine eyes with DME at baseline showed a reduction in thickness of the center of the macula. Foveal thickness (FTH) above the normal range was reduced by an average of 43.5% (range, 14%-100%), excess foveolar thickness (CEN) was reduced by an average of 42.1% (range, 13%-100%), and excess macular volume was reduced by an average of 54% (range, 35%-100%). Statistical analyses suggested that these changes were unlikely to be due to chance (P = 0.0077 by Wilcoxon signed-rank test). Three eyes showed improvement in VA by at least 2 lines, one by slightly less than 2 lines, and five eyes showed no change. Three months after discontinuation of oxygen, five of the nine eyes showed increased thickening of the macula compared with when oxygen was discontinued. Supplemental inspired oxygen may decrease macular thickness due to DME, suggesting that retinal hypoxia is involved in the development and maintenance of DME."}
{"id": "14744905", "title": "Comparison of Heidelberg Retina Tomograph II and Retinal Thickness Analyzer in the assessment of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Comparison of Heidelberg Retina Tomograph II and Retinal Thickness Analyzer in the assessment of diabetic macular edema. To compare the within-session variability of the Macular Edema Module of the Heidelberg Retinal Tomograph II (HRT II; Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany) and the Retinal Thickness Analyzer (RTA, Talia Technology Ltd., Neve-Ilan, Israel) in patients with diabetes and nondiabetic subjects and to determine the agreement of both instruments to clinical observation. Seventeen patients with diabetic macular edema (DME) and 17 nondiabetic subjects were examined. Three scans of the posterior pole were acquired for each volunteer with both the HRT II and the RTA. The edema index and foveal average thickness were derived for a 600- micro m radius circle centered on the fovea for the HRT II and RTA scans. The coefficient of variation (COV) was calculated. Clinical examination of detectable edema was performed using stereo fundus biomicroscopy and the level of agreement between each instrument and clinical observation was determined using a zonal analysis. Individual COVs for the HRT II and RTA ranged from 2.3% to 24.6% (median 8.3%) and 2.1% to 46.7% (median 6.4%), respectively, in diabetic subjects and 2.0% to 37.5% (median 6.0%) and 2.3% to 14.7% (median 8.5%), respectively, in nondiabetic subjects. Clinical assessment identified edema in a total of 47 sectors in patients with DME. In comparison to clinical assessment, the HRT II gave a sensitivity of 92% and a specificity of 68% and the RTA gave a sensitivity of 57% and a specificity of 71%. Both instruments have good within-session repeatability. The HRT II showed better agreement with clinical assessment than the RTA. The agreement between instruments was poor."}
{"id": "15146607", "title": "[Non-insulin-dependent diabetes: an expanding disease. Diabetic ophthalmopathy: diabetic retinopathy facts].", "content": "[Non-insulin-dependent diabetes: an expanding disease. Diabetic ophthalmopathy: diabetic retinopathy facts]. Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is the 5th cause of blindness in the population of less than 50 years old in industrialized countries. Sample survey showed a lack of detection of DR and a discrepancy between the medical practices and the guidelines during the follow-up. Moreover the number of ophthalmologists is decreasing and the number of diabetics increasing. Faced with this public health problem, an organization for detecting the DR is in progress: non mydriatic digital camera are used by non medical technicians connected with reading centres. Diabetic macular edema (DME) is the most common cause of visual impairment. Recently, optical coherence tomography (OCT), a new imaging tool has showed the role of vitreous tractions in some DME. OCT provides clear diagnostic elements for vitrectomy indications. Very recently, vitrectomy proved to be favorable in DME with vitreous tractions."}
{"id": "14733133", "title": "[Relationship between vitrectomy and the morphology and function of the retina].", "content": "[Relationship between vitrectomy and the morphology and function of the retina]. Pathological processes in the vitreous will be reflected in the morphology and function of the retina, and these processes can originate from sources outside the vitreous. The purpose of vitreous surgery is to remove the qualitatively and/or morphologically diseased vitreous. Successful vitrectomy will be manifested by an improvement in the structure and/or function of the retina. We have evaluated the morphology of the vitreoretinal interface, and the function of the retina before and after vitreous surgery. Plasmin-assisted vitrectomy was used in some cases to remove the diseased vitreous more efficiently and less invasively. The effect of this procedure was assessed by examining the morphology and function of the retina. First, the relationship between the qualitative and structural abnormality of the vitreous in macular diseases was studied. In aphakic/pseudophakic eyes with cystoid macular edema, there was a depression of retinal function over the entire retina which may have been caused by chemical mediators released into the vitreous. These mediators may have been produced by inflammation in the anterior segment of the eye. In eyes with an idiopathic macular hole, optical coherence tomographic (OCT) images suggested that the progression of the macular hole might depend on a balance between foveal adhesion and the posterior vitreous. Second, the efficacy, surgical damage, and limitations of vitreous surgery were investigated. The recovery of macular function was assessed by focal macular electroretinograms (FMERGs) after vitrectomy for epiretinal membrane, choroidal neovascularization, and diabetic macular edema. The concurrent examination by optical coherence tomography (OCT) suggested that a decrease in retinal thickness contributed to the functional recovery. Macular functional recovery was delayed and limited after macular translocation, diabetic macular edema, and internal limiting membrane peeling. Third, we studied the effect of plasmin-assisted vitrectomy on the retina. The plasmin was used to remove the vitreous more completely and less invasively. In rabbits, ERG, OCT, and histological examinations demonstrated that the use of commercially-available plasmin at a concentration used on human patients resulted in temporary adverse effects on the retina. For human patients, we purified the plasmin from the patients' serum at the Nagoya University Hospital and the activity was about the same as in previous reports. The purified plasmin was approved by our hospital's institutional review board, and written informed consent was obtained from each patient. Patients with macular edema, idiopathic macular hole, and epiretinal membrane without posterior detachment underwent plasmin-assisted vitrectomy and were evaluated morphologically and electrophysiologically. The efficacy of the plasmin in separating the vitreo-retinal interface was demonstrated by an occasional spontaneous posterior vitreous detachment with or without core vitrectomy, and the presence of less vitreous cortex attached to the internal limiting membrane that was removed during vitrectomy. This was the first histological demonstration of the effectiveness of plasmin in the living eye. Full-field ERGs before and after surgery demonstrated clear evidence that no alteration of retinal functional had occurred, although we did detect a possible osmotic effect by an increase in OCT-determined retinal thickness by the high-molecular weight autologous plasmin. In future studies, the proper concentration and reaction time for each condition of the vitreous should be determined. In conclusion, the pathophysiology of the vitreous should reflect the retinal function. The recovery of the structure of the retina is important for the recovery of retinal function. This should always be the primary goal of surgeons who perform quality surgery."}
{"id": "14733132", "title": "[Vitreous and macular diseases].", "content": "[Vitreous and macular diseases]. We investigated the vitreous in its origin, morphology, metabolism and regeneration, and its role in various vitreomacular diseases. Focal vitreous liquefaction developed anterior to a laser induced chorioretinal scar in rabbit eyes, which suggested that a normal retina is necessary to maintain the integrity of the vitreous. We measured levels of hyaluronic acid and of the precursor of type II collagen in vitreous samples obtained by vitrectomy. Those levels declined with age in women. The precursor of type II collagen was at the same level in the samples from vitrectomy and those obtained by fluid air exchange, which suggested a persistent secretion of type II collagen into the vitreous cavity even after vitrectomy. We found a posterior precortical vitreous pocket in human autopsied eyes whose vitreous was stained with fluorescein. Using the same methods, we confirmed the presence of intravitreal fibrous membranes in the \"tractus\" in the anterior vitreous. In clinical studies using biomicroscopy, observations during surgery, scanning laser ophthalmoscopy, and optical coherence tomography (OCT), we clarified the role of premacular vitreous cortex which forms the posterior wall of the \"pocket\" in the premacular membrane and macular hole. The premacular vitreous cortex seems to be the main structure of the premacular membrane and its contraction may cause macular hole. Ring-shaped proliferation tends to develop along the outer margin of the \"pocket\". OCT demonstrated that some diabetic macular edema is caused by traction of the premacular vitreous cortex. Vitrectomy appear to be effective for diabetic macular edema by eliminating vitreous traction and the accumulated cytokine in the \"pocket\". The retina appears to have a program for vitreous metabolism throughout life, including the premacular pocket formation."}
{"id": "14669032", "title": "[Diagnosis and follow-up of non-diabetic macular edema with optical coherence tomography (OCT)].", "content": "[Diagnosis and follow-up of non-diabetic macular edema with optical coherence tomography (OCT)]. Objective and quantitative follow-up of macular edema with present clinical methods is limited. We studied to what extent optical coherence tomography (OCT) may be clinically useful in diagnosis and follow-up of non-diabetic macular edema. We evaluated 106 eyes with non-diabetic macular edema retrospectively considering diagnosis, foveal retinal thickness in OCT, fluorescein angiographic findings and visual acuity. In 60 of 61 eyes (98%) the diagnosis of macular edema was confirmed by fluorescein angiography. There was only a minor correlation between visual acuity and foveal retinal thickness (r=0.32, p=0.001). Follow-up of 24 eyes showed a statistically significant decrease of foveal retinal thickness under therapy from 420+/-165 microm to 354+/-165 microm (p=0,035) as well as a small improvement in visual acuity from 0.30 to 0.38 (p=0.025). OCT can diagnose macular edema non-invasively and thus may replace fluorescein angiography as an invasive method. The reduction of macular edema in the course of therapeutic measures can be documented objectively with OCT."}
{"id": "14644723", "title": "Quantifying alterations of macular thickness before and after panretinal photocoagulation in patients with severe diabetic retinopathy and good vision.", "content": "Quantifying alterations of macular thickness before and after panretinal photocoagulation in patients with severe diabetic retinopathy and good vision. To investigate the alterations of macular thickness during and after panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) in patients with severe diabetic retinopathy and good vision, and to compare the outcomes of weekly and biweekly treatments. Prospective, comparative interventional case series. Thirty-six patients with severe nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy or non-high-risk proliferative diabetic retinopathy whose visual acuity was 20/20 or better before PRP. Seventy-two eyes of 36 patients underwent scatter PRP in 4 sessions. The macular thickness was measured by optical coherence tomography. The photocoagulation sessions were performed weekly to one eye and biweekly to the other eye. Each eye was selected at random. Best-corrected visual acuity and macular thickness. Visual acuities were maintained in 89% of eyes with weekly treatments and 92% of eyes with biweekly treatments. Macular thickness was increased transiently in the central macula in both eyes, more in the weekly treated eyes, and then decreased to control levels in eyes treated biweekly but remained thickened in eyes treated weekly. For eyes with severe diabetic retinopathy and good vision, PRP with either weekly or biweekly treatment did not affect postoperative visual acuity. However, biweekly treatments allowed faster recovery of macular thickening after PRP than weekly treatments."}
{"id": "14597033", "title": "Macular translocation surgery with 360-degree peripheral retinectomy following ocular photodynamic therapy of choroidal neovascularization.", "content": "Macular translocation surgery with 360-degree peripheral retinectomy following ocular photodynamic therapy of choroidal neovascularization. To determine the visual outcomes of eyes that underwent macular translocation surgery with 360 degrees peripheral retinectomy and silicone oil tamponade (MTS360) following ocular photodynamic therapy (OPT) with verteporfin for subfoveal choroidal neovascularization (CNV) associated with age-related macular degeneration (ARMD). Observational case series. A retrospective review of patients who underwent MTS360 with silicone oil tamponade from August 5, 1998 through December 1, 2002. Patients who had at least one episode of OPT with verteporfin before surgery were identified. The number of OPT session, best-corrected Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) visual acuity, complications (including postoperative CNV, retinal detachment [RD]), the presence or absence of cystoid macular edema (CME) by optical coherence tomography (OCT) were recorded. Eight eyes of eight patients were identified that fulfilled the inclusion criteria. All eyes had at least one episode of OPT (mean, 1.5 treatments). All of these patients at the time of MTS360 demonstrated continued visual loss following the most recent OPT session. The mean preoperative visual acuity was 56 letters. Four of the eight eyes demonstrated CME by OCT on preoperative examination. There were no significant postoperative complications other than one eye that had a successful repair of an RD. At 3 months, the mean visual acuity was 54 letters. At last follow-up (mean, 10 months), the mean visual acuity was 61 letters (P =.5). The final mean visual acuity change for the patients who had only one prior OPT (five eyes) was +10 letters. The mean final visual acuity change for the patients who had multiple OPT sessions (three eyes) was -1 letter. Three of the four eyes that had preoperative CME continued to demonstrate CME at last follow-up. Two eyes that had concurrent cataract extraction surgery with MTS360 did not develop CME. No eyes developed a recurrent CNV during the postoperative period. MTS360 with silicone oil tamponade for CNV associated with ARMD appears to be a viable option for patients who are continuing to lose vision in their better seeing eye following OPT with verteporfin. MTS360 appears to be effective in stabilizing vision, especially in patients who had previously undergone only one OPT session. Further studies are indicated to evaluate the efficacy of MTS360 in this current era of OPT."}
{"id": "14566626", "title": "Role of OCT in the diagnosis and follow up of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Role of OCT in the diagnosis and follow up of diabetic macular edema. The aim is to present, along with a brief literature review, the results of OCT scan in eyes with diabetic macular edema (DME), as well as examples of the utility of OCT for different therapeutic approaches. One-hundred and thirty-six eyes with diabetic retinopathy were analyzed with OCT to explore the different patterns of DME. Some eyes with DME were studied with OCT pre and postoperatively to determine the efficacy of photocoagulation and vitrectomy to restore a normal macular profile. Sixty-eight eyes with a central foveal thickness of 200 mu or more were considered \"edematous\". Three different patterns of DME were recognized and analyzed: macular thickening, cystoid macular edema and shallow retinal detachment. The change in macular profile and internal retinal structure after laser or surgical treatment are well visible with OCT. OCT contributes in understanding the anatomy of DME and the intraretinal damage and seems to be the technique of choice for the follow-up of macular edema. We think that this tool should always be used in monitoring the effect of therapies in future studies."}
{"id": "14514597", "title": "Tele-screening for diabetic retinopathy with the retinal thickness analyzer.", "content": "Tele-screening for diabetic retinopathy with the retinal thickness analyzer. To compare the effectiveness of tele-screening using a novel enhanced retinal thickness analyzer (RTA) with onsite routine ophthalmologic examination for diabetic retinopathy. A consecutive series of 31 eyes from diabetic patients were included. All underwent ophthalmologic examination, including stereoscopic dilated funduscopy and scanning with the RTA. The RTA reports consisted of a wide-angle, red-free fundus photograph and a macular-region retinal thickness map. Reports were graded by three independent graders in a masked manner. The diagnoses of proliferative retinopathy, macular edema, and treatment decisions made by the RTA graders and the clinical examiner were compared. On clinical examination 5 of 31 eyes were diagnosed with proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). All five were referred for treatment by two graders and four eyes by one grader. All eyes with PDR and 12 of the 26 eyes with nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy showed severe macular edema. Seven of the 12 eyes with macular edema were clinically eligible for focal laser treatment, and all of them were detected by all RTA graders. Macular thickening was detected in eight eyes by RTA where no treatment was necessary, as judged by clinical examination. Thus, sensitivity was 93% (mean) for detecting PDR and 100% for detecting macular edema, with a specificity of 58-96% depending on the grader. The RTA did not allow valid assessment due to poor image quality in only one case. Screening for diabetic retinopathy with a combination of wide-angle fundus photography and macular thickness mapping by an objective method, such as optical coherence tomography or the RTA, offers the prerequisites for establishing a successful tele-screening program."}
{"id": "14507894", "title": "Changes in focal macular electroretinograms and foveal thickness after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Changes in focal macular electroretinograms and foveal thickness after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the changes in the focal macular electroretinogram (FMERG) and foveal retinal thickness after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema (DME). FMERGs were elicited from 25 eyes of 21 patients (ages 29-75 years) who underwent vitrectomy for DME by a 15 degrees stimulus. A posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) was created during surgery in 19 eyes (group 1), and 4 eyes had a PVD before surgery (group 2). In the remaining 2 eyes, a PVD could not be created (group 3). FMERGs were recorded before and 3, 6, and 12 months after vitrectomy. The foveal thickness, determined by optical coherence tomography (OCT), and visual acuity were measured on the same day as the FMERG recordings. The postoperative visual acuity (logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution [logMAR]) improved gradually after the surgery and was significantly better at 12 months in eyes in group 1 (P = 0.0393). The postoperative mean foveal thickness was significantly less at 3 months after surgery in group 1 eyes (P = 0.0006), and there was a further decrease thereafter. In the 2 eyes in group 3, the decreased foveal thickness 3 and 6 months after surgery became thicker at 12 months. The mean b-wave amplitude of the FMERGs increased significantly at 12 months in group 1 eyes (P = 0.0297). The mean implicit time of a- and b-waves was more delayed at 3 months, and the change in a-wave was statistically significant in group 1 eyes (P = 0.0474). There was a wide range of changes in the b-wave amplitude at 12 months, however, the increase in the b-wave was correlated with the decrease in foveal thickness (r =.49, P = 0.012). A disparity in the time course and degree of recovery of the foveal thickness and macular retinal function was found in eyes with DME after vitrectomy. Part of the functional recovery could be attributed to decreased retinal thickness and the absorption of the subretinal fluid."}
{"id": "12967819", "title": "Potential pitfalls from variable optical coherence tomograph displays in managing diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Potential pitfalls from variable optical coherence tomograph displays in managing diabetic macular edema. To describe potential pitfalls in the use of optical coherence tomography for management of diabetic macular edema. Prospective, noninterventional case series. Review of optical coherence tomographs in 13 eyes with clinically significant diabetic macular edema from 11 consecutive patients in a private retina practice. Optical coherence tomography displays are based on 3.5-mm or 6-mm diameter circular grids that look very similar and have identical sector names but schematize different areas of the macula. The numeric outputs for the identically named sectors in the two displays do not differ significantly for retinal thickness but differ significantly in all sectors except the fovea for retinal volume because of the different areas represented by the sectors. Failure to explicitly note the scale of the optical coherence tomography display can potentially misdirect planned focal and grid laser treatment for diabetic macular edema. Failure to explicitly verify identical optical coherence tomography display scales in longitudinal studies of laser treatment for diabetic macular edema can potentially lead to errors in interpreting treatment efficacy."}
{"id": "12963628", "title": "Interpretation of objectively acquired retinal thickness values.", "content": "Interpretation of objectively acquired retinal thickness values."}
{"id": "12918269", "title": "[Ischemic type of diabetic maculopathy].", "content": "[Ischemic type of diabetic maculopathy]. The pathogenesis of diabetic maculopathy is discussed. The possibility of different diagnostic methodic (OCT, FAG and etc.) is shown. Positive results of selective coagulation of pigment epithelium are achieved."}
{"id": "12910195", "title": "[Efficiency of surgical treatment for chronic macular edema due to branch retinal vein occlusion].", "content": "[Efficiency of surgical treatment for chronic macular edema due to branch retinal vein occlusion]. Internal limiting membrane peeling has recently given interesting results in the management of macular edema in diabetic patients, even in the absence of vitreomacular tractions. This study was conducted to evaluate the results of a surgical treatment for macular edema resulting from branch retinal vein occlusion. A nonrandomized prospective study was conducted between March 2001 and April 2002 on 12 eyes of 12 consecutive patients with a visual acuity of 20/40 or less resulting from branch retinal vein occlusion with macular edema. Internal limiting membrane peeling associated with arteriovenous crossing sheathotomy was performed on six eyes and internal limiting membrane peeling alone was performed on six eyes. Patients were tested with ETDRS visual acuity, fluorescein angiography, automated perimetry, and OCT pre- and postoperatively (at 3 and 6 months). At 6 months, postoperative visual acuity was improved in all patients (mean VA=20/40; range, 20/125-20/20), with an average gain of three lines of vision (or 14 ETDRS points) (p=0.002). Fundus examination and fluorescein angiography results were improved in all patients. At 6 months, on automated field testing, the mean corrected defect improved from 3.4+/-0.9dB to 2.3+/-0.9dB (p=0.008). On OCT, mean foveal thickness decreased from 419+/-57 micro m to 233+/-10 micro m (p=0.02). No difference was noted between simple vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane peeling and arteriovenous crossing sheathotomy in terms of visual acuity (p=0.5), visual field (p=0.2), or foveal thickness (p=0.6) improvement. Our findings suggest that internal limiting membrane removal for macular edema may improve the functional prognosis in patients with branch retinal vein occlusion. Adventitial sheathotomy did not yield further functional benefits in these cases."}
{"id": "12859696", "title": "Effects of losartan on diabetic maculopathy in type 2 diabetic patients: a randomized, double-masked study.", "content": "Effects of losartan on diabetic maculopathy in type 2 diabetic patients: a randomized, double-masked study. Diabetic maculopathy (DMa) is a leading cause of visual loss in the western world. Preliminary studies have suggested that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors might be effective in preventing the progression of diabetic retinopathy, but no studies have quantitatively assessed the effect of this treatment on macular oedema in patients with DMa. We evaluated the effect of treatment with the angiotensin II receptor antagonist losartan on macular oedema and hard exudates in patients with an advanced stage of DMa. Randomized, placebo-controlled, double-masked and parallel-group trial. Academic medical centre. Twenty-four type 2 diabetic patients with DMa. Subjects were randomly assigned to a 4-month treatment with either losartan (50 mg o.d.) or placebo. (i) Degree of macular oedema as estimated by optical coherence tomography scanning of the retina; (ii) fundus photography and flourescein angiography; (iii) 24-h ambulatory blood pressure (BP); (iv) urinary albumin excretion (UAE); and (v) transcapillary escape rate of albumin (TERalb). Central retinal thickness increased from 244 +/- 16 to 256 +/- 31 microm in the losartan group, whilst there was no change in the placebo group (245 +/- 36 microm vs. 242 +/- 30 microm), P = 0.017. Day BP were lowered in the losartan group (from 144/83 +/- 17/10 to 138/78 +/- 20/11 mmHg) compared with the placebo group (140/81 +/- 14/5 to 139/82 +/- 13/9 mmHg), P = 0.27 for systolic and P = 0.009 for diastolic BP. Importantly, there were no changes in night BP in any of the groups. We found no changes in the number of hard exudates, semiquantitative retinopathy grade, visual acuity, UAE, or TERalb in any of the groups. Type 2 diabetic patients with maculopathy do not seem to benefit from short-term treatment with losartan (50 mg once daily) as far as retinal thickness is concerned, as this dose may increase retinal thickness in the central macular area. Long-term studies are required to assess the clinical implications of these findings."}
{"id": "12815194", "title": "Vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema: effect of glycemic control (HbA(1c)), renal function (creatinine) and other local factors.", "content": "Vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema: effect of glycemic control (HbA(1c)), renal function (creatinine) and other local factors. To determine the effect of preoperative factors on the foveal thickness following vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. Fifty-eight eyes of 47 patients underwent vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. In all eyes, no clear, visible vitreomacular traction was present. Twelve eyes were pseudophakic before vitrectomy, and 31 eyes underwent concurrent phacoemulsification and intraocular lens (IOL) implantation. Multiple logistic regression analysis was used to assess the independent effect of age, history of photocoagulation, diabetic retinopathy status, preoperative posterior vitreous detachment, HbA(1c) and serum creatinine levels within 2 weeks before surgery, lens status after surgery and follow-up period on the foveal thickness determined by optical coherence tomography. The median preoperative visual acuity was 20/100 (range from 20/500 to 20/20), and the median postoperative visual acuity was 20/70 (range from 20/500 to 20/13). The preoperative visual acuity (logarithm of minimal angle of resolution; logMAR) was 0.73 +/- 0.36 (mean +/- SD; 20/107 Snellen acuity), and the mean postoperative logMAR visual acuity was 0.60 +/- 0.39 (20/80), which was significantly better than the mean preoperative value (Wilcoxon signed rank test, p = 0.011). The mean +/- SD of preoperative foveal thickness was 475.9 +/- 172.5 micrometer, and the mean postoperative foveal thickness was 277.3 +/- 171.9 micrometer. The mean postoperative foveal thickness was significantly thinner than the preoperative thickness (Student's paired t test, p < 0.0001). Multiple logistic regression analysis showed that a preoperative low HbA(1c) and postoperative pseudophakia were independently associated with the decrease in foveal thickness (p = 0.01, p = 0.04, respectively). The greater reduction in foveal thickness in eyes with an IOL probably resulted from a relatively larger amount of vitreous being removed during the vitrectomy. Because the decrease in foveal thickness may be related to the preoperative glycemic control and the amount of vitreous, these factors should be considered in the planning for vitrectomy."}
{"id": "12642310", "title": "Correlation of a scanning laser derived oedema index and visual function following grid laser treatment for diabetic macular oedema.", "content": "Correlation of a scanning laser derived oedema index and visual function following grid laser treatment for diabetic macular oedema. To correlate change of an oedema index derived by scanning laser tomography with change of visual function in patients undergoing grid laser photocoagulation for clinically significant diabetic macular oedema (DMO). The sample comprised 24 diabetic patients with retinal thickening within 500 micro m of the fovea. Inclusion criteria included a logMAR visual acuity of 0.25, or better. Patients were assessed twice before a single session of grid laser treatment and within 1 week of, and at 1, 2, 4, and 12 weeks after, treatment. At each visit, patients underwent logMAR visual acuity, conventional and short wavelength automated perimetry (SWAP), and scanning laser tomography. Each visual function parameter was correlated with the mean oedema index. The mean oedema index represented the z-profile signal width divided by the maximum reflectance intensity (arbitrary units). A Pearson correlation coefficient (Bonferroni corrected) was undertaken on the data set of each patient. 13 patients exhibited significant correlation of the mean oedema index and at least one measure of visual function for the 10 degrees x 10 degrees scan field while 10 patients correlated for the 20 degrees x 20 degrees scan field. Seven patients demonstrated correlation for both scan fields. Laser photocoagulation typically resulted in an immediate loss of perimetric sensitivity whereas the oedema index changed over a period of weeks. Localised oedema did not impact upon visual acuity or letter contrast sensitivity when situated extrafoveally. Correlation of change of the oedema index and of visual function following grid laser photocoagulation was not found in all patients. An absence of correlation can be explained by the localised distribution of DMO in this sample of patients, as well as by differences in the time course of change of the oedema index and visual function. The study has objectively documented change in the magnitude and distribution of DMO following grid laser treatment and has established the relation of this change to the change in visual function."}
{"id": "12570009", "title": "Increased diode laser uptake in inner retinal layers after indocyanine green staining of the internal limiting membrane.", "content": "Increased diode laser uptake in inner retinal layers after indocyanine green staining of the internal limiting membrane. Intraoperative use of indocyanine green to stain the internal limiting membrane assists in its visualization and removal. This article describes increased uptake of diode laser energy by the superficial layers of the retina after indocyanine green staining of the internal limiting membrane in a patient with diabetic macular edema and a taut, attached posterior hyaloid. The patient was undergoing pars plana vitrectomy, removal of the posterior hyaloid, and indocyanine green-assisted peeling of the internal limiting membrane. In addition, panretinal diode laser endophotocoagulation was performed after discovering retinal neovascularization. In areas that were more intensely stained with indocyanine green, the clinical appearance and optical coherence tomography scans demonstrated markedly increased laser energy uptake in the superficial layers of the retina. This case indicates near-infrared or infrared laser procedures performed in areas of indocyanine green-stained internal limiting membrane may necessitate adjustment of laser power and technique."}
{"id": "12566041", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for refractory pseudophakic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for refractory pseudophakic macular edema. To evaluate the efficacy of intravitreal triamcinolone in refractory pseudophakic cystoid macular edema. A prospective, interventional case series. Three eyes of three patients with longstanding pseudophakic cystoid macular edema following uncomplicated cataract surgery, refractory to any medication, were treated with 8 mg of intravitreal triamcinolone. All three eyes were evaluated before injection and throughout follow-up with the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study's visual acuity chart, fluorescein angiography, and macular mapping using optical coherence tomography. A month after intravitreal triamcinolone injection, a dramatic decrease in macular thickness was noted by optical coherence tomography in all three eyes (from a mean of 502-233 microm). Mean improvement in visual acuity was 3.7 Snellen lines. Two to 4 months after triamcinolone injection, however, the edema recurred in all cases, to the same degree as before the injection, combined with a decrease in vision. Two eyes underwent a second injection of triamcinolone, and macular thickness decreased, but the edema again recurred 3 months after injection. Intravitreal injection of triamcinolone induces striking regression, within 1 month, of chronic refractory macular edema. This regression appears to be transient, however, even after a second injection."}
{"id": "12566020", "title": "Optical coherence tomography for evaluating diabetic macular edema before and after vitrectomy.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography for evaluating diabetic macular edema before and after vitrectomy. To report the use of optical coherence tomography (OCT) for evaluation of diffuse diabetic macular edema (DME) before and after vitrectomy. Interventional case series. A retrospective study was made of 15 consecutive eyes of 13 patients that had vitrectomy for diffuse DME and OCT preoperatively and postoperatively. In seven eyes of six patients (group 1), vitrectomy was performed because of vitreomacular traction observed on biomicroscopy or OCT. In the other eight eyes of seven patients (group 2), vitrectomy was performed for DME not responsive to laser photocoagulation, with no vitreomacular traction on biomicroscopy or OCT. Mean +/- standard deviation (SD) follow-up after vitrectomy was 18 +/- 10 months (range, 6 to 33 months). In group 1, mean +/- SD retinal thickness decreased significantly from 661 +/- 181 microm preoperatively to 210 +/- 32 microm at the end of follow-up (P =.018). Median best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) improved from 20/100 before surgery (range, 20/250 to 20/50) to 20/80 at the end of follow-up (range, 20/250 to 20/25; P =.046). In one eye in group 1, vitreomacular traction was only observed on OCT and not on biomicroscopy. In group 2, mean +/- SD retinal thickness decreased from 522 +/- 103 microm preoperatively to 428 +/- 121 microm at the end of follow-up (P =.2). Median BCVA was 20/100 before vitrectomy (range, 20/320 to 20/63) and 20/200 at the end of follow-up (range, 20/250 to 20/63; P =.78). Vitrectomy was beneficial in eyes with diffuse DME combined with vitreomacular traction but not in eyes without traction. Optical coherence tomography allowed diagnosis of subtle vitreomacular traction and provided precise preoperative and postoperative assessments of macular thickness."}
{"id": "12504718", "title": "Resolution of diabetic cystoid macular edema associated with spontaneous vitreofoveal separation.", "content": "Resolution of diabetic cystoid macular edema associated with spontaneous vitreofoveal separation. To report spontaneous resolution of diabetic cystoid macular edema (CME) associated with spontaneous vitreofoveal separation. Interventional case series. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) was performed on three eyes of three diabetic patients with CME before and after vitreofoveal separation. In all three eyes, OCT showed cystic changes at the fovea with a slightly detached posterior hyaloid, which remained attached to the optic disk and the fovea. After spontaneous separation of the hyaloid at the fovea, there was resolution of the cystic cavities and restoration of the foveal depression. In some eyes of diabetic patients, CME is caused by a vitreous traction. Resolution of CME may occur after spontaneous vitreofoveal separation."}
{"id": "12504691", "title": "Early postoperative retinal thickness changes and complications after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Early postoperative retinal thickness changes and complications after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. To determine the early postoperative changes in retinal thickness and complications after pars plana vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. Consecutive interventional case series. Studied retrospectively, pars plana vitrectomy was performed on 65 consecutive eyes of 63 patients with diabetic macular edema. The follow-up interval ranged from 6 to 36 months (12.6 +/- 7.4 months [mean +/- standard deviation (SD)]). The indications of pars plana vitrectomy in this study were (1) diffuse diabetic macular edema, (2) preoperative visual acuity less than 20/40, and (3) noneffective macular photocoagulation therapy. Preoperative and postoperative examinations by stereoscopic biomicroscopy, color fundus photography of the macula and optical coherence tomography (OCT) were performed on all eyes. Preoperatively, direct photocoagulation to microaneurysms in the macula had been performed in 48 eyes, and focal/grid photocoagulation had been performed in five eyes. Preoperative examination showed that epiretinal membranes were observed in 20 eyes, cystoid macular edema in 40 eyes, and 23 eyes had a complete posterior vitreous detachment (PVD). Epimacular membranes, removed during surgery, were examined histopathologically. The postoperative mean best-corrected visual acuity (logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution [logMAR] = 0.696 +/- 0.491 [mean +/- SD]) was significantly better than the preoperative mean best-corrected visual acuity (0.827 +/- 0.361; P <.0001; Wilcoxon signed-rank test). The final visual acuity improved by 2 or more lines in 32 of 65 eyes (45%), remained unchanged in 32 of 65 eyes (49%), and exacerbated after the surgery in 4 of 65 eyes (6%) due to neovascular glaucoma (2 eyes) and residual cystoid macular edema (2 eyes). The postoperative foveal retinal thickness (224.9 +/- 116.9 microm) at the last visit was significantly thinner than the preoperative foveal retinal thickness (463.7 +/- 177.3 microm; P <.0001; Wilcoxon signed-rank test). The foveal retinal thickness did not decrease linearly but fluctuated: The mean postoperative retinal thickness had decreased significantly 7 days after surgery, then remained unchanged for approximately 1 month, and thereafter gradually decreased until 4 months. The intraoperative and postoperative complications included peripheral retinal tear in 3 of 65 (4.6%) eyes, postoperative rhegmatogenous retinal detachment in 1 of 65 (1.5%) eyes, neovascular glaucoma in 3 of 65 (5%) eyes, recurrent vitreous hemorrhage in 1 of 65 (1.5%) eyes, hard exudates in the center of the macula in 3 of 56 (4.6%) eyes, postoperative epiretinal membrane formation in 9 of 65 (13.8%) eyes, and a lamellar macular hole in 1 of 65 (1.5%) eyes. Vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema is an effective procedure for reducing the edema and improving visual acuity. Because the postoperative reduction in retinal thickness is not complete until 4 months, the assessment of vitrectomy on foveal thickness should not be made until this time. In addition, there are severe complications from vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema, and careful preoperative and postoperative examinations and surgical methods are required."}
{"id": "12585705", "title": "A contribution of image processing to the diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy--detection of exudates in color fundus images of the human retina.", "content": "A contribution of image processing to the diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy--detection of exudates in color fundus images of the human retina. In the framework of computer assisted diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy, a new algorithm for detection of exudates is presented and discussed. The presence of exudates within the macular region is a main hallmark of diabetic macular edema and allows its detection with a high sensitivity. Hence, detection of exudates is an important diagnostic task, in which computer assistance may play a major role. Exudates are found using their high grey level variation, and their contours are determined by means of morphological reconstruction techniques. The detection of the optic disc is indispensable for this approach. We detect the optic disc by means of morphological filtering techniques and the watershed transformation. The algorithm has been tested on a small image data base and compared with the performance of a human grader. As a result, we obtain a mean sensitivity of 92.8% and a mean predictive value of 92.4%. Robustness with respect to changes of the parameters of the algorithm has been evaluated."}
{"id": "12510717", "title": "Macular thickness measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) in diabetic patients.", "content": "Macular thickness measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT) in diabetic patients. 1) To compare macular thickness (MT) by optical coherence tomography (OCT) in diabetics and controls; 2) to assess the relationship between MT and stage of diabetic retinopathy (DR) and macular edema (ME); 3) to quantify MT changes after laser treatment for ME. One-hundred and thirty-seven patients with diabetes mellitus (216 eyes) were admitted to the study and examined by stereo-color fundus photos, retinal fluorangiography and OCT. DR was classified as: 1) no DR (46 eyes: 21.3%); 2) background DR (66 eyes: 30.6%); 3) pre-proliferative DR (50 eyes: 23.1%); 4) proliferative DR (54 eyes: 25%). The study group was then divided into three ME groups: 1) no edema (65 eyes: 30.1%); 2) not clinically significant ME (no CSME) (45 eyes: 20.8%); 3) clinically significant macular edema (CSME) (106 eyes: 49.1%). Three-month follow-up tomograms were taken to evaluate eyes laser-treated only for ME. The control group consisted of 50 eyes of 50 non-diabetic, age- and sex-matched subjects. MT was 369.3 +/- 163.2 microm in diabetics and 161.9 +/- 12.9 microm in controls (p < 0.001). In the four DR groups it was: 1) 211.0 +/- 37.6 microm; 2) 370.8 +/- 159.6 microm; 3) 419.1 +/- 138.2 microm; 4) 456.1 +/- 162.0 microm (p<0.001). In the three ME groups, MT was: 1)227.8 +/- 53.4 microm; 2) 321.8 +/- 124.2 microm; 3) 476.2 +/-146.6 microm (p < 0.001). In the 52 eyes treated with laser photocoagulation of the posterior pole only and with a follow-up > 3 months, MT before and after treatment was 468.2 +/- 83. 17 microm and 372.1 +/- 120.63 microm. MT was greater in diabetics than controls and tended to increase with DR and ME severity. OCT is a sensitive technique for detecting early diabetic macular abnormalities and quantifying their reduction after laser treatment."}
{"id": "12507629", "title": "Mechanisms for monitoring changes in retinal status following therapeutic intervention in diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Mechanisms for monitoring changes in retinal status following therapeutic intervention in diabetic retinopathy. Trials of new compounds (e.g., protein kinase C inhibitors) for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema historically have used tools such as seven-field stereoscopic fundus photography to grade retinopathy, and endpoints such as the need for retinal photocoagulation to evaluate efficacy. Improvements in diabetes care have led to slower spontaneous progression of retinopathy than anticipated, however. A consequence of this trend is that clinical trials for diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema are expected to last for many years and require large numbers of patients before evidence-based conclusions can be made. Therefore, interest in new assessment tools is growing. This review briefly describes the basic pathophysiologic factors involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic macular edema to provide a basis for the introduction of new quantitative and objective endpoints. Special consideration is given to measuring fluorescein permeability of the blood-retinal barrier. The quantitative measurement of retinal thickness using optical coherence tomography is a promising noninvasive method. Microaneurysm counts, assessment of length and diameter of retinal vessels, and computerized quantification of all pathologic elements may also be useful as diagnostic tools and/or efficacy endpoints."}
{"id": "12476103", "title": "Retinal thickness in diabetic retinopathy: a study using optical coherence tomography (OCT).", "content": "Retinal thickness in diabetic retinopathy: a study using optical coherence tomography (OCT). The authors conducted a controlled study to quantify macular retinal thickness in diabetic retinopathy using optical coherence tomography (OCT) as an objective and noninvasive tool. The relationship between retinal thickness and standard methods of evaluating macular edema was investigated. A total of 136 patients in different stages of diabetic retinopathy were examined with OCT. In addition, fluorescein angiograms as well as standard eye examinations were conducted. The control group consisted of 30 individuals with a normal macula. In the controls, retinal thickness was 153 +/- 15 microm in the fovea, 249 +/- 19 microm in the temporal parafoveal region, and 268 +/- 20 microm in the nasal parafoveal region. In diabetic patients, retinal thickness was increased to 307 +/- 136 microm in the fovea, 337 +/- 88 microm in the temporal retina, and 353 +/- 95 microm in the nasal retina, respectively. The differences between diabetics and controls were highly significant (P < 0.001). Retinal thickening correlated with fluorescein leakage in the angiograms to some extent. There was an intermediate correlation between retinal thickness and visual acuity, particularly in patients without macular ischemia. Sensitivity of detecting clinically significant macular edema by measuring foveal retinal thickness was 89% and specificity was 96%. Optical coherence tomography allows us to quantify retinal thickness in diabetic retinopathy with excellent reproducibility. OCT is able to detect sight-threatening macular edema with great reliability."}
{"id": "12453981", "title": "Macular edema reflects generalized vascular hyperpermeability in type 2 diabetic patients with retinopathy.", "content": "Macular edema reflects generalized vascular hyperpermeability in type 2 diabetic patients with retinopathy. Diabetic maculopathy (DMa) is the most prevalent sight-threatening type of retinopathy in type 2 diabetes and a leading cause of visual loss in the western world. The disease is characterized by hyperpermeability of retinal blood vessels and subsequent formation of hard exudates and macular edema, the degree of which can be estimated by measurement of retinal thickness. We examined associations between retinal thickness as evaluated by optical coherence tomography scanning (OCT), glomerular leakage as evaluated by urinary albumin excretion rate (UAE), and general vascular leakage as evaluated by the transcapillary escape rate of albumin (TER(alb)) in type 2 diabetic patients with and without DMa. In 20 type 2 diabetic patients with DMa and 20 type 2 diabetic patients without retinopathy matched for age, sex, and duration of diabetes, we performed OCT, fundus photography, fluorescein angiography, and 24-h ambulatory blood pressure measurement. UAE was determined by radioimmunoassay. TER(alb) was determined as the initial disappearance of intravenously injected (125)I-labeled human serum albumin. Patients with diabetic maculopathy had higher HbA(1c) (8.5 +/- 1.5 vs. 7.4 +/- 1.2%, P < 0.05) and higher total cholesterol (5.8 +/- 0.7 vs. 5.2 +/- 0.9 mmol/l, P < 0.05) than patients without retinopathy. UAE was higher in the DMa group than in the group with no retinopathy (9.3 x// 3.1 vs. 3.9 x// 1.9 micro g/min, P < 0.01). There was no difference in TER(alb) between the two groups (6.0 +/- 1.6 vs. 6.6 +/- 1.5%, NS). In the group with DMa, OCT, TER(alb), and UAE correlated significantly (OCT versus TER(alb): r = 0.55, P < 0.05; OCT versus UAE: r = 0.58, P < 0.01; UAE versus TER(alb): r = 0.81, P < 0.01). Conversely, there were no correlations between these three parameters in the group without retinopathy. Macular edema seems to reflect a generalized vascular leakage in type 2 diabetic patients."}
{"id": "12430038", "title": "[Fundus autofluorescence after selective RPE laser treatment].", "content": "[Fundus autofluorescence after selective RPE laser treatment]. The selective RPE laser treatment is a new technique which selectively damages the RPE and avoids adverse effects to the neural retina. A problem is the ophthalmoscopically non-visibility of the laser lesions. The aim of the study was to investigate whether fundus autofluorescence (AF), which is derived from the lipofuscin contained by the RPE cells, is changed due to the RPE damage, and thus may be used for non-invasive treatment control. A total of 26 patients with macular diseases, i.e. diabetic maculopathy (DMP), soft drusen maculopathy (AMD) and central serous retinopathy (CSR), were treated with repetitive short laser pulses (800 ns) from a green Nd:YAG laser (parameters: 532 nm, 100 and 50 pulses at 500 and 125 Hz, retinal spot diameter 200 micrometer, pulse energies 70-175 microJ). AF was excited by 488 nm and detected by a barrier filter at 500 nm (HRA, Heidelberg engineering). Patients were examined by ophthalmoscopy, fluorescein angiography and autofluorescence measurements at various times after treatment (i.e. 1 h, 1 and 6 weeks, 3, 6 and 12 months). None of the laser lesions was ophthalmoscopically visible during treatment although fluorescein angiography showed leakage of the irradiated areas. Identification of the lesions was possible by AF imaging showing an intensity decay in the irradiated area in 22 out of 26 patients, predominantly in patients with CSR and AMD. Lesions could be identified as hypoautofluorescent spots 1 h after treatment. During follow-up the laser spots became hyperautofluorescent. In patients with DMP some AF images were less helpful due to diffuse edema and larger retinal thickness. Imaging of non-visible selective RPE laser effects can be achieved by AF measurements predominantly in patients without retinal edema. Thus AF may replace invasive fluorescein angiography in many cases to verify therapeutic laser success."}
{"id": "12181877", "title": "[Results of vitrectomy in cystoid diabetic macular edema detected by optical coherence tomography].", "content": "[Results of vitrectomy in cystoid diabetic macular edema detected by optical coherence tomography]. To evaluate the surgical results of the pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) with separation of the posterior hyaloid (PH) with the cystoid diabetic macular edema (DME) using optical coherence tomography (OCT). PPV with removing of the PH was performed in 10 eyes of 10 patients with cystoid DME. The macular structure, the vitreoretinal interface and the foveal thickness before and after PPV was evaluated using OCT and was correlated with a slit lamp biomicroscope. All 10 eyes had undergone panretinal and macular photocoagulation. OCT demonstrated postoperatively in all 10 eyes the regression of cystoid DME and the presence of foveal depression. Visual acuity (VA) has improved by 2 and more Snellen lines in 6 eyes with preoperative decrease of VA not longer than 5 months. PPV with separation of PH is efficient method in treatment of cystoid DME. Duration of cystoid DME is a significant factor for determination of functional prognosis. OCT facilitates the follow-up of the dynamics of regression of the structure and thickness of the fovea."}
{"id": "12022281", "title": "Retinal thickness in healthy and diabetic subjects measured using optical coherence tomography mapping software.", "content": "Retinal thickness in healthy and diabetic subjects measured using optical coherence tomography mapping software. To define the normal retinal thickness in healthy subjects using optical coherence tomography (OCT) mapping software and to assess the ability of OCT to detect early macular thickening in diabetic patients. Six radial scans centered on the fixation point were done on 60 healthy eyes and 70 eyes of 35 diabetic patients without macular edema on biomicroscopy. Retinal thickness was measured automatically with OCT mapping software. Mean retinal thickness was compared in subgroups of healthy patients based on age, sex, and eye, and in the eyes of diabetic patients and healthy subjects. Thickening was diagnosed if mean retinal thickness of an area was greater than the mean thickness + 2SD in the corresponding area in healthy subjects; or if the difference between right and left eye exceeded the mean difference + 2 SD in a given area in healthy subjects. In healthy subjects, mean retinal thickness in the central macular area 1000 microm in diameter was 170+/-18 microm. There was no significant difference according to age, or left or right eye, but central macular thickness was significantly greater in men than women (p=0.0139). No difference was observed between the eyes of healthy subjects and diabetic patients without macular edema on biomicroscopy, but OCT detected early macular thickening in 12 diabetic eyes. In this study average retinal thickness and mean local variations in a normal population were defined using a commercially available mapping software. OCT seems a sensitive tool for detecting early retinal thickening."}
{"id": "11986098", "title": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for refractory diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Intravitreal triamcinolone for refractory diabetic macular edema. To determine if intravitreal injection of triamcinolone acetonide is safe and effective in treating diabetic macular edema unresponsive to prior laser photocoagulation. Prospective, noncomparative, interventional case series. Sixteen eyes with clinically significant diabetic macular edema (CSME) that failed to respond to at least two previous sessions of laser photocoagulation. Eyes were diagnosed with CSME and treated with at least two sessions of laser photocoagulation according to Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study guidelines. At least 6 months after initial laser therapy, the response was measured by clinical examination and optical coherence tomography (OCT). Eyes with a residual central macular thickness of more than 300 microm (normal, 200 microm) and visual loss from baseline were offered intravitreal injection of 4 mg triamcinolone acetonide. The visual and anatomic responses were observed as well as complications related to the injection procedure and corticosteroid medication. Visual acuity and quantitative change in OCT macular thickening were assessed. Potential complications were monitored, including intraocular pressure response, cataract progression, retinal detachment, vitreous hemorrhage, and endophthalmitis. All patients completed 3 months of follow-up, and 8 of 16 patients (50%) completed 6 or more months of follow-up. Mean improvement in visual acuity measured 2.4, 2.4, and 1.3 Snellen lines at the 1-, 3-, and 6-month follow-up intervals, respectively. The central macular thickness as measured by OCT decreased by 55%, 57.5%, and 38%, respectively, over these same intervals from an initial pretreatment mean of 540.3 microm (+/-96.3 microm). Intraocular pressure exceeded 21 mmHg in 5, 3, and 1 eye(s), respectively, during these intervals. One eye exhibited cataract progression at 6 months. No other complications were noted over a mean follow-up of 6.2 months. Reinjection was performed in 3 of 8 eyes after 6 months because of recurrence of macular edema. Intravitreal triamcinolone is a promising therapeutic method for diabetic macular edema that fails to respond to conventional laser photocoagulation. Complications do not appear to be prohibitive. Further study is warranted to assess the long-term efficacy and safety, and the need for retreatment."}
{"id": "11980878", "title": "Retinal thickness study with optical coherence tomography in patients with diabetes.", "content": "Retinal thickness study with optical coherence tomography in patients with diabetes. To quantitatively assess retinal thickness by optical coherence tomography (OCT) in normal subjects and patients with diabetes. This study was intended to determine which retinal thickness value measured with OCT best discriminates between diabetic eyes, with and without macular edema. OCT retinal thickness was measured by a manual technique in a total of 26 healthy volunteers (44 control eyes) and 85 patients with diabetes (148 eyes) with the clinical diagnosis of no diabetic retinopathy (45 eyes), nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy without clinically significant macular edema (CSME; 54 eyes), proliferative diabetic retinopathy without CSME (21 eyes), and 28 eyes with diabetic retinopathy with CSME. Independent predictors of the presence of CSME were quantified by using univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were generated to evaluate and compare the predictor variables. The correlation of retinal thickness measurements and visual acuity was calculated. There were statistically significant differences in foveal thickness between control eyes and all the other eye groups (P = 0.001). Diabetic eyes with CSME had a statistically significant greater thickness in each of the areas compared with the other groups. In a multivariate logistic regression model, foveal thickness was a strong and independent predictor of CSME (odds ratio [OR], 1.037; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.02-1.05). The area under the ROC curve of this predictor variable was 0.94 (P = 0.001). For a cutoff point of 180 microm, the sensitivity was 93%, and specificity was 75%. Foveal thickness correlated with visual acuity in a log minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) scale (Spearman's rho = 0.9, P = 0.001). These results suggest that foveal thickening over 180 microm measured by OCT may be useful for the early detection of macular thickening and may be an indicator for a closer follow-up of the patient with diabetes."}
{"id": "11773037", "title": "Diabetic macular edema assessed with optical coherence tomography and stereo fundus photography.", "content": "Diabetic macular edema assessed with optical coherence tomography and stereo fundus photography. To compare retinal thickening in diabetic macular edema assessed subjectively by evaluation of stereo fundus photographs with that assessed objectively by optical coherence tomography (OCT). Forty-degree stereo fundus photographs of the macular field and OCT scans in 84 eyes of 47 patients with diabetes were compared in terms of both location and area of retinal thickening. Six radiating 6-mm OCT scans at intervals of 30 degrees were obtained, and the retinal thickness was compared with the mean retinal thickness +/- 2 SD of healthy control subjects (33 eyes). Subsequently, retinal thickness was mapped topographically and the subjectively assessed retinal thickening map was overlaid. The degree of agreement on location was evaluated as retinal thickening present or absent in nine subfields of the fundus. Area of retinal thickening was divided into four categories: no retinal thickening, less than 1 disc area (DA), less than 2 DAs, or less than 3 DAs, expressed as the kappa statistic. Exact agreement on location was found in 676 of 756 (84 x 9) observations (89.4%; kappa = 0.69; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.63-0.75). Two eyes in which both methods assessed the same amount of retinal thickening showed no agreement on location. These eyes were compared only in terms of location. Exact agreement on area was found in 69 (84.1%) of 82 eyes. Weighted kappa (kappa(w)) = 0.79; 95% CI: 0.76-0.82). The degree of agreement between subjectively and objectively assessed retinal thickening was very good, implying that changes in diabetic macular edema can be accurately and prospectively measured with OCT."}
{"id": "11755866", "title": "Tomographic assessment of vitreous surgery for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Tomographic assessment of vitreous surgery for diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "14750570", "title": "Use of optical coherence tomography (OCT) and indirect ophthalmoscopy in the diagnosis of macular edema in diabetic patients.", "content": "Use of optical coherence tomography (OCT) and indirect ophthalmoscopy in the diagnosis of macular edema in diabetic patients. To evaluate the use of Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) in the diagnosis of macular edema (ME) in diabetic patients in comparison to indirect ophthalmoscopy (IO) and, in addition, to study the characteristics of these patients. 165 patients were randomly selected to join the study in 1998. Ophthalmological, clinical and laboratory examinations were performed for all these patients. Diabetic retinopathy was identified in 143 eyes (44.7%) and ME in 58 (18.3% of the total and 40.5% of the patients with retinopathy). 82.7% (48) of the eyes with ME could be diagnosed with OCT, against 62.0% (36) with IO. Haemoglobin A1c was the only variable that showed a significant association with ME, when compared to control (p < 0.05). Retinopathy was associated with the presence of nephropathy (p = 0.01) and neuropathy (p = 0.001), but ME was not (NS for both). 68% of patients without ME had a visual acuity of more than 50%. OCT is a new method that can help the evaluation of ME in diabetic patients. It can be used not only to diagnose the lesion, but also to follow up the patients during treatment. High levels of haemoglobin A1c might be associated with the presence of ME. Diabetic complications (nephropathy and neuropathy) are associated with retinopathy but not with macular edema."}
{"id": "11915692", "title": "[Optical coherence tomography in surgical management of macular diseases].", "content": "[Optical coherence tomography in surgical management of macular diseases]. Optical coherence tomography is a new imagistic technique recently introduced in ophthalmology. It is useful for diagnosis of macular diseases and it is extremely important in the management of those surgical ones. The most suitable diseases for postoperative evaluation by optical coherence tomography are: macular holes, epi and subretinal membranes, macular edema of diverse etiology and severe proliferative diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "11723088", "title": "Two-field photography can identify patients with vision-threatening diabetic retinopathy: a screening approach in the primary care setting.", "content": "Two-field photography can identify patients with vision-threatening diabetic retinopathy: a screening approach in the primary care setting. To compare the effectiveness of two 45 degrees photographic fields per eye in the screening for diabetic retinopathy with the routine ophthalmologist's examination and to study the effectiveness of visual acuity measurement in the detection of diabetic macular edema. Type 1 and 2 diabetic patients without a known history of more than minimal retinopathy (n = 469) had a routine examination by an ophthalmologist, including visual acuity measurement, indirect retinoscopy, and biomicroscopy. At the same time, two-field nonstereoscopic retinal photographs were made of both eyes and assessed in a masked fashion by a retinal specialist. The results were compared. The prevalence was 4.3% for vision-threatening retinopathy and 24% for any retinopathy. The sensitivity of two-field photography in identifying diabetic patients with sight-threatening retinopathy was 95% (specificity 99%) and sensitivity for detecting any retinopathy was 83% (specificity 88%). The percentage of referrals to an ophthalmologist was 6.2%. All patients with macular edema detected by biomicroscopy were classified as having vision-threatening retinopathy on the photographs. Two-field retinal photography is a promising alternative to the routine ophthalmologist's examination in the screening for diabetic retinopathy. Visual acuity measurement is not a sensitive tool for the detection of macular edema. Screening for diabetic retinopathy using two-field retinal photography is feasible in a primary care setting and can substantially lower the number of ophthalmic referrals."}
{"id": "11530050", "title": "Vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema: the role of posterior vitreous detachment and epimacular membrane.", "content": "Vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema: the role of posterior vitreous detachment and epimacular membrane. To evaluate the surgical efficacy of pars plana vitrectomy on eyes with diabetic macular edema in the presence or absence of a complete posterior vitreous detachment and with or without an epimacular membrane. Pars plana vitrectomy was performed on 30 eyes of 29 cases with diabetic macular edema. Visual acuity was measured, and retinal thickness was determined by optical coherence tomography before and after vitrectomy. To evaluate the relationship between the effects of vitrectomy and the presence or absence of posterior vitreous detachment and/or epimacular membrane, all eyes were placed into one of four groups: group A, eyes with posterior vitreous detachment and epimacular membrane; B, eyes with posterior vitreous detachment and without epimacular membrane; C, eyes without posterior vitreous detachment and with epimacular membrane; and D, eyes without posterior vitreous detachment and without epimacular membrane. The expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and interleukin-6 was investigated immunohistochemically in epimacular membrane specimens obtained from seven eyes with diffuse diabetic macular edema. The postoperative mean visual acuity (0.653 +/- 0.350: mean +/- SD logarithm of minimal angle of resolution [logMAR]) was significantly better than the mean preoperative visual acuity (0.891 +/- 0.319 logMAR; Wilcoxon signed-rank test, P =.0007). The postoperative foveal thickness (264.5 +/- 118.6 microm) was significantly thinner than the preoperative foveal thickness (477.8 +/- 147.7 microm; Wilcoxon signed-rank test, P <.0001). There were no significant differences in the improvement of visual acuity and decrease of foveal thickness between the four groups (Kruskal-Wallis test, P =.13, P =.65, respectively). All of the epimacular membranes obtained at surgery expressed vascular endothelial growth factor and interleukin-6. These results demonstrated that vitrectomy with removal of epimacular membrane is generally an effective procedure in reducing diabetic macular edema, and the outcome does not depend on the presence absence of posterior vitreous detachment and epimacular membrane."}
{"id": "11521426", "title": "[Effectiveness of bio-regulators in the treatment of diabetic retinopathy].", "content": "[Effectiveness of bio-regulators in the treatment of diabetic retinopathy]. Treatment of diabetic retinopathy remains a most important problem of modern ophthalmology. Bioregulatory therapy has been widely used in recent years as one of promising trends in clinical medicine. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficiency of peptide bioregulators in combined treatment of diabetic retinopathy. A total of 104 patients were administered bioregulatory therapy (retinal preparation retinalamine, epiphysis preparation epithalamine, cerebral cortex preparation cortexine,) and 42 patients were controls. Peptide bioregulators in 90% cases promoted improvement of vision acuity, improved the ophthalmoscopic picture of the fundus oculi (resolution of hemorrhages, plasmorrhages, decreased macular edema) and in all cases improved the functional activity of the retina and retinal bloodflow. No negative changes in the clinical picture were observed after peptide bioregulators in any of the cases. Peptide bioregulators normalized carbohydrate metabolism (sugar level and glycosylated hemoglobin in the blood), phagocytosis, and improved the subjective well-being of patients. Hence, the data indicate a pathogenetic effect of this therapeutic method and its good prospects in ophthalmology."}
{"id": "11483079", "title": "Reproducibility of retinal mapping using optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Reproducibility of retinal mapping using optical coherence tomography. To assess the reproducibility of retinal thickness measurement using commercially available mapping software of optical coherence tomography (OCT). Six radial scans, 6 mm long and centered on the fixation point, were performed on 10 eyes of 10 healthy volunteers and 10 eyes of 10 diabetic patients with clinically significant macular edema. Retinal thickness was measured automatically using the mapping software of OCT in the 9 macular Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study areas and in a central area 500 microm in diameter. Measurement reproducibility was tested by means of 3 series of scans performed by 2 different observers on 2 different days. Results were assessed by their repeatability and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs). In healthy subjects, intraobserver, interobserver, and intervisit reproducibility of retinal thickness measurements were excellent, with a repeatability coefficient of less than 7 microm and ICCs of greater than 0.89. In diabetic patients, the repeatability coefficient was less than 21 microm in all areas of the macula except one, with an ICC of greater than 0.98. Relative variations in measurements were small in both healthy and diabetic subjects, with reproducibilities of +/- 5% and +/- 6%, respectively. Retinal mapping software of OCT allows reproducible measurement of retinal thickness in both healthy subjects and diabetic patients with macular edema."}
{"id": "11475391", "title": "Structural changes of the retina in retinal vein occlusion--imaging and quantification with optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Structural changes of the retina in retinal vein occlusion--imaging and quantification with optical coherence tomography. To evaluate the potential of optical coherence tomography (OCT) for imaging and quantifying structural changes in the retinal architecture following venous occlusive disease. We studied 20 patients with retinal venous occlusive disease: 5 patients suffered from branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO), and 15 from central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO). Patients with CRVO were studied within 72 hours after the first onset of symptoms. Patients were examined by OCT after a complete ophthalmologic examination including fluorescein angiography. A standard set of linear scans through the center of fixation and individual scans over areas of special interest were performed. Scans were qualitatively evaluated and quantitative measurements were performed on single A-scans at 5 locations of linear scans. Measurements were taken in the center of fixation, at the foveal rim, and at the edge of the scan. We measured total retinal thickness, thickness of cystoid spaces, and thickness of the highly reflective outer band. OCT produced detailed images of retinal thickening, intra- and subretinal hemorrhage, intra- and subretinal fluid accumulation, and formation of intraretinal cystoid spaces. Quantitative evaluation revealed a mean central retinal thickness of 274 +/- 181 microm (72-760 microm) in patients with central retinal vein occlusion. Visual acuity did not correlate with central or extrafoveal retinal thickness. Optical coherence tomography is a useful imaging technique for studying changes of retinal architecture following venous occlusive disease. Even minor changes like localized subretinal fluid accumulation or beginning epiretinal membrane formation can be visualized in detail. In contrast to other diseases like diabetic maculopathy, quantitative assessment of macular thickness does not correlate to visual acuity. Nevertheless, because of detailed imaging, OCT might become a useful tool in the follow-up and treatment of individual patients."}
{"id": "11401636", "title": "Quantitative assessment of retinal thickness in diabetic patients with and without clinically significant macular edema using optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Quantitative assessment of retinal thickness in diabetic patients with and without clinically significant macular edema using optical coherence tomography. To assess patients with diabetic macular edema quantitatively using optical coherence tomography (OCT). OCT was performed in 14 eyes with diabetic retinopathy and ophthalmoscopic evidence of clinically significant macular edema (CSME) and in 19 diabetic eyes without CSME. Retinal thickness was computed from the tomograms at fovea and other 36 locations throughout the macula. The mean +/- standard deviation foveal thickness was 255.6 +/- 138.9 microm in eyes with CSME, and 174.6 +/- 38.2 microm in eyes without CSME (p = 0.051). Within 2000 microm of the center of the macula, eyes with CSME had significantly thicker retina in the inferior quadrant than those without CSME (p < 0.01). The foveal thickness was correlated with logMAR visual acuity (gamma = 0.68, p < 0.01). OCT identified sponge-like retinal swelling and/or cystoid macular edema in 11 (58%) eyes without CSME, and in 12 (86%) eyes with CSME. Criteria of CSME seem to be insufficient in really identifying macular edema. OCT may be more sensitive than a clinical examination in assessing diabetic macular edema and is a quantitative tool for documenting changes in macular thickening."}
{"id": "11372551", "title": "Morphological and functional analyses of diabetic macular edema by optical coherence tomography and multifocal electroretinograms.", "content": "Morphological and functional analyses of diabetic macular edema by optical coherence tomography and multifocal electroretinograms. To determine the correlation between the tomographic features and the visual functions of eyes with diabetic macular edema. Optical coherence tomographic (OCT) images and multifocal electroretinograms were obtained from 45 eyes of 25 patients with diabetic macular edema and from 21 eyes of 21 normal subjects. The OCT images showed cystoid macular edema in 18 eyes and diffuse retinal swelling without cystoid edema in the other 27 eyes. The fovea was significantly thicker in eyes with cystoid macular edema and in those with diffuse retinal swelling than in normal eyes. The fovea of eyes with cystoid edema was significantly thicker than the fovea of eyes with diffuse swelling. The best-corrected visual acuity and the electrical response density from the macular area were significantly reduced in eyes with diabetic macular edema, particularly in those with cystoid edema. The best-corrected visual acuity and macular response density of the multifocal ERGs were inversely correlated, and the implicit times were directly correlated with foveal thickness. The visual acuity was correlated significantly with morphological changes revealed by OCT and with multifocal ERGs. The combination of OCT and multifocal ERGs may provide objective criteria for the evaluation and assessment of diabetic macular edema."}
{"id": "11318279", "title": "Cystoid macular oedema in uveitis: an unsolved problem.", "content": "Cystoid macular oedema in uveitis: an unsolved problem. Most papers on the subject of CMO associated with uveitis are retrospective, combine patients with different disease aetiologies, at different stages of evolution, and often describe patients who were previous treatment failures with other therapies besides the one under consideration. There are almost no prospective randomised double-masked controlled studies. This is perhaps in part due to the relative sparsity of uveitis patients seen by many uveitis centres. At the moment, treatment is largely empirical, based in large part on the studies, and others, quoted above. The need to regularly repeat courses of therapy, loss of efficacy of certain form of therapy after repeated use, and cumulative side-effects, all need to be taken into consideration when interpreting results and deciding upon the best approach to be adopted. The risks to the patient's well-being increase with the addition of systemic medication, and long-term steroid use can cause hypertension, induce or exacerbate diabetes, cause premature osteoporosis, cushingoid features, peptic ulceration and aseptic necrosis of the femoral head. Immunosuppressive drugs can be nephrotoxic, hepatotoxic, cause hypertension, gastric disturbances and excessive hair growth. The assessment of macular changes, both structurally and functionally, is the key aspect in understanding visual loss in CMO and also in predicting potential visualrecovery. The combined use of the various tools mentioned here, such as SLO, OCT and electrodiagnostic tests, may give us some of the necessary answers in this process. However, all these tests will need to be validated. A prospective analysis of CMO in cases of uveitis, especially if coupled with therapeutic intervention, will give us the opportunity to achieve this objective."}
{"id": "11300646", "title": "Three-dimensional analysis of macular diseases with a scanning retinal thickness analyzer and a confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope.", "content": "Three-dimensional analysis of macular diseases with a scanning retinal thickness analyzer and a confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope. To compare three-dimensional analysis of macular diseases obtained using the scanning retinal thickness analyzer (RTA) with that obtained using the confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope, Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT). Both the RTA and the HRT were used to examine 50 eyes of 36 patients with diabetic macular edema, macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion, age-related macular degeneration, and idiopathic macular holes. In most macular diseases, the retinal thickness map constructed using the RTA agreed with the image obtained with the HRT. The two maps were not consistent with each other, however, in patients with dense retinal hemorrhages and with extrafoveal fixation. Although both the RTA and the HRT give additional information to clinically evaluate macular diseases, they do have limitations. The discrepancy between these two analyses in some specific macular pathologies might be caused by the different wavelengths of the laser beam and the different methodologies used to scan the retina."}
{"id": "11272778", "title": "Contrast sensitivity following focal laser photocoagulation in clinically significant macular oedema due to diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Contrast sensitivity following focal laser photocoagulation in clinically significant macular oedema due to diabetic retinopathy. To evaluate the influence of focal aser photocoagulation on contrast sensitivity in diabetic patients with clinically significant macular oedema (CSMO). A prospective non-comparative interventional study was performed on a group of patients with CSMO at Dr Rajendra Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, New Delhi, a tertiary eye care centre. Thirteen diabetc patients (14 eyes) with CSMO and no history of prior photocoagulation were recruited for this study. Direct focal photocoagulation of all leaking microaneurysms was performed using an argon green laser (514 nm). A contact lens was used as a slit lamp delivery system. Evaluation of the best corrected Snellen visual acuity, contrast senstivity, slit lamp biomicroscopy, macular status on direct ophthalmoscopy and fluorescein angiography was carried out 1 month and 3 months after laser photocoagulation. Following direct focal laser photocoagulation, focal CSMO resolved completely in all but one eye, 4-8 weeks later, as seen on slit lamp biomicroscopy and/or fluorescein angiography. Post-treatment, visual acuity remained stationary in eight eyes, improved by one line in three eyes, by two lines in two eyes and by three lines in one eye. The mean +/- SD pretreatment and post-treatment decimal visual acuities were 0.49+/-0.30 and 0.59+/-0.28, respectively. The mean +/- SD pre-laser contrast sensitivity score was 121.3+/-83.6, which increased significantly to a mean +/- SD of 151.6+/-80.5 fo lowing direct focal photocoagulation. Focal argon laser photocoagulation in CSMO in diabetics helps in improving the contrast sensitivity and stabilizes the visual acuity. The changes in contrast sensitivity and visual acuity are independent of each other."}
{"id": "11251686", "title": "Analysis of methods of ocular examination in screening for diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Analysis of methods of ocular examination in screening for diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "11220267", "title": "[Optical coherence tomography].", "content": "[Optical coherence tomography]. Optical coherence tomography has become an established method for imaging retinal diseases. It is now an accepted method for making quantitative measurements in studies on the cause and course of macular holes, vitreoretinal traction, pigment epithelial detachment, macular edema, and diabetic retinopathy. Its potential benefit in the evaluation of age-related macular degeneration and a variety of other diseases is currently under investigation. In clinical practice optical coherence tomography images add information to the biomicroscopic findings and results of other imaging techniques or functional testing and can significantly help in making critical decisions. Its future role in routine clinical practice will depend on further technical development and the results of long-term studies."}
{"id": "11162979", "title": "Tomographic findings of foveal hard exudates in diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Tomographic findings of foveal hard exudates in diabetic macular edema. To report the intraretinal location of foveal hard exudates after vitrectomy to treat diabetic macular edema and to evaluate the visual outcome. In a prospective study, the tomographic features of 11 eyes (8 patients) with diabetic macular edema were evaluated with optical coherence tomography after vitrectomy. The intraretinal location of hard exudates at the fovea (anatomic foveola) and the relationship with visual acuity were investigated. With optical coherence tomography, hard exudates were observed as highly reflective spots in the cross-sectional images. In six of 11 eyes (54.5%), the hard exudates were in the inner portion of the neurosensory retina; the final best-corrected visual acuity averaged 20/70 in the six eyes. In the remaining five eyes (45.5%), hard exudates were deposited not only in the neurosensory retina but also in the subretinal space. In optical coherence tomographic images, subretinal hard exudates were observed as highly reflective plaques, which were slightly elevated over the retinal pigment epithelium. The five eyes developed a serous retinal detachment at the fovea before or after vitrectomy. Subretinal hard exudates bridged the detached neurosensory retina and the retinal pigment epithelium in two eyes. The average final visual acuity level in the five eyes was 20/300. The visual outcome was significantly worse in five eyes with subretinal hard exudates than in six eyes with an intraretinal one (P <.05, Wilcoxon rank sum tests). If serous retinal detachment develops before or after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema, hard exudates tend to accumulate not only in the neurosensory retina but also in the subretinal space. The visual prognosis is worse in cases of subretinal exudation."}
{"id": "11162978", "title": "Macular traction detachment and diabetic macular edema associated with posterior hyaloidal traction.", "content": "Macular traction detachment and diabetic macular edema associated with posterior hyaloidal traction. To review the clinical, photographic, fluorescein angiographic, and optical coherence tomographic findings in patients with the diabetic macular traction and edema (DMTE) associated with posterior hyaloidal traction (PHT). We performed a prospective review of nine eyes of nine patients with diabetic macular edema (DME) and PHT on clinical examination. The patients had a comprehensive ophthalmic history and examination, color photographs, fluorescein angiography, and optical coherence tomography (OCT). All patients had diabetic retinopathy and DME. Of the nine eyes, eight patients had previous focal or grid photocoagulation. All nine eyes had a thickened, taut, glistening posterior hyaloid on clinical biomicroscopic examination with no posterior vitreous separation. Fluorescein angiography was performed on seven eyes, and all had early hyperfluorescence with deep, diffuse, late leakage in the macular area consistent with DMTE associated with PHT. Optical coherence tomography scans of the macular region revealed retinal thickening in all eyes with a mean retinal thickness of 556.9 +/- 114.7 microns. In addition, eight of the nine eyes had a shallow macular traction detachment associated with PHT. Eyes with DME associated with PHT may have a shallow, subclinical, macular detachment. Optical coherence tomography may be useful in evaluating patients with DME to see if a macular detachment is present."}
{"id": "11133709", "title": "Sensitivity and specificity of a new scoring system for diabetic macular oedema detection using a confocal laser imaging system.", "content": "Sensitivity and specificity of a new scoring system for diabetic macular oedema detection using a confocal laser imaging system. To assess the use of the Heidelberg retina tomograph (HRT) in screening for sight threatening diabetic macular oedema in a hospital diabetic clinic, using a new subjective analysis system (SCORE). 200 eyes of 100 consecutive diabetic patients attending a diabetologist's clinic were studied, all eyes had an acuity of 6/9 or better. All patients underwent clinical examination by an ophthalmologist. Using the HRT, one good scan was obtained for each eye centred on the fovea. A System for Classification and Ordering of Retinal Edema (SCORE) was developed using subjective assessment of the colour map and the reflectivity image. The interobserver agreement of using this method to detect macular oedema was assessed by two observers (ophthalmic trainees) who were familiarized with SCORE by studying standard pictures of eyes not in the study. All scans were graded from 0-6 and test positive cases were defined as having a SCORE value of 0-2. The sensitivity of SCORE was assessed by pooling the data with an additional 88 scans of 88 eyes in order to reduce the confidence interval of the index. 12 eyes in eight out of the 100 patients had macular oedema clinically. Three scans in three patients could not be analysed because of poor scan quality. In the additional group of scans 76 out of 88 eyes had macular oedema clinically. The scoring system had a specificity of 99% (95% CI 96-100) and sensitivity of 67% (95% CI 57-76). The predictive value of a negative test was 87% (95% CI 82-99), and that of a positive test was 95% (95% CI 86-99). The mean difference of the SCORE value between two observers was -0.2 (95% CI -0.5 to +0.07). These data suggest that SCORE is potentially useful for detecting diabetic macular oedema in hospital diabetic patients."}
{"id": "11309739", "title": "Vitrectomy for refractory diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Vitrectomy for refractory diabetic macular edema. Diabetic macular edema may occur or worsen as a consequence of vitreomacular traction in some eyes. The precise role of the posterior hyaloid in the pathogenesis of diabetic maculopathy remains unclear. The determination of which eyes might benefit from vitrectomy is the most challenging aspect in the treatment of this condition. Fluorescein angiography, B-scan untrasonography, and optical coherence tomography may be helpful in this regard. Most often, vitreous surgery is performed when diabetic macular edema persists despite multiple laser treatments. All reports published to date regarding vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema are uncontrolled and nonrandomized patient series. Visual improvement after vitrectomy is related to the duration of edema, as well as the extent of intraretinal lipid and vascular nonperfusion."}
{"id": "11124292", "title": "Perifoveal microcirculation before and after vitrectomy for diabetic cystoid macular edema.", "content": "Perifoveal microcirculation before and after vitrectomy for diabetic cystoid macular edema. To quantify the perifoveal microcirculation in diabetic eyes before and after successful vitreous surgery for cystoid macular edema without posterior vitreous detachment, and to determine whether improvement in perifoveal microcirculation is associated with improvement in postoperative visual acuity. In a prospective study, vitreous surgery was performed on 11 eyes of nine consecutive diabetic patients with cystoid macular edema, and their mean perifoveal capillary blood flow velocity was measured by fluorescein angiography with a scanning laser ophthalmoscope. Visual acuity was measured preoperatively and postoperatively, and the results were converted to the logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR). The correlation between changes in logMAR visual acuity and capillary blood flow velocity was evaluated. In all nine eyes of seven patients with successful vitreous surgery, the cystoid macular edema resolved within 6 months after surgery, and the mean capillary blood flow velocity was significantly increased compared with that before surgery (2.19 mm per second versus 2.68 mm per second, P =.021); the changes in capillary blood flow velocity were significantly correlated with the changes in the logMAR visual acuity (P =.024). Vitreous surgery may improve perifoveal microcirculation in the eyes of diabetic patients with cystoid macular edema and resolve the macular edema. Improvement of perifoveal microcirculation may be an important factor affecting visual outcome."}
{"id": "11124291", "title": "Optical coherence tomography of idiopathic macular epiretinal membranes before and after surgery.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography of idiopathic macular epiretinal membranes before and after surgery. To examine the preoperative and postoperative anatomical features of the macula using optical coherence tomography in patients who underwent surgery for epiretinal membrane and to correlate these features with functional results. In a noncomparative interventional series, 62 eyes of 62 consecutive patients operated on for an idiopathic epiretinal membrane were followed up using a standardized protocol. Preoperative and postoperative examination included best-corrected visual acuity using an Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study chart, biomicroscopy of the fundus with a contact lens, fundus photography with blue and green filters, fluorescein angiography, and optical coherence tomography. Median preoperative visual acuity was 20/60 (range, 20/32 to 20/320). Median postoperative visual acuity was 20/40 (range, 20/20 to 20/160). Fifty-one eyes (82%) obtained visual acuity of 20/50 or better. Preoperatively, all eyes had increased macular thickness (mean, 419 +/- 105 microm; range, 265.5 to 689 microm), with disappearance of the foveal pit. An epiretinal membrane was visible on optical coherence tomography scans in 26 cases (42%). Intraretinal cystic spaces were present in the thickened macular tissue in 15 cases but corresponded to cystoid macular edema on fluorescein angiography in only three. Postoperatively, mean macular thickness decreased to 300 +/- 65 microm (range, 185 to 511 microm) but returned to normal in only three eyes. The foveal pit reappeared in 20 eyes. Preoperatively, visual acuity correlated with macular thickness (r = 0.56, P <.0001), but not postoperatively (r = 0.12, P =.37). Macular thickness decreases after epiretinal membrane surgery, but the macular profile rarely returns to normal. However, this does not preclude satisfactory improvement of visual acuity."}
{"id": "11053311", "title": "Photoreceptor function in eyes with macular edema.", "content": "Photoreceptor function in eyes with macular edema. The irreversible loss of visual acuity in macular edema is usually attributed to permanent loss of photoreceptor cells, although there is hardly any information on changes in photoreceptor function in macular edema. The purpose of this study was to assess photoreceptor function in various stages of macular edema and to relate the findings to visual acuity and angiographic changes. Directional sensitivity (optical Stiles-Crawford effect) and visual pigment density of foveal cones was measured with a custom-built scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO) in 19 eyes of 19 patients. Twelve eyes exhibited macular edema: five of inflammatory origin, and seven of diabetic origin. Seven eyes with an intraocular inflammatory disease without clinical or angiographic evidence of edema were also included (four of which had previous macular edema and one of which had shown development of macular edema at the 1-year follow-up). Results of SLO measurements were related to findings using fluorescein angiography and Snellen visual acuity, both assessed at the time of SLO measurement and 6 months thereafter. Eyes with macular edema exhibited diminished directional sensitivity of photoreceptor cells in the fovea compared with eyes without (P = 0.02). Visual pigment density of eyes with macular edema was decreased and associated with both initial and follow-up visual function and with the angiographic macular edema grade at follow-up. Abnormal directional sensitivity and pigment density were already present in eyes with slight edematous changes and normal visual acuity. Eyes with inflammatory or diabetic macular edema showed decreased directional sensitivity and visual pigment density in the macular area. These findings may support a role for SLO measurements in detecting retinal damage due to macular edema."}
{"id": "11021132", "title": "[Optical coherence tomography].", "content": "[Optical coherence tomography]. Optical coherence tomography is a novel, noninvasive, noncontact and repetitive imaging technique which produces high depth resolution cross-sectional tomographs of ocular tissue. It's value is given by the possibility of achieving pseudo-histological images of the target tissue. It is optically based, analogue to ultrasound B-scan examination and similar to laser reflectometry. Optical coherence tomography involves shining low-level infrared light on a tissue specimen, an interferometer and a computerized imaging system. The most attractive applications of optical coherence tomography are the diseases of the retina such as: central serous retinopathy, macular hole, chronic macular edema, age-related macular degenerescence."}
{"id": "11004110", "title": "Improvement of reproducibility of macular volume measurements using the Heidelberg retinal tomograph.", "content": "Improvement of reproducibility of macular volume measurements using the Heidelberg retinal tomograph. To develop a more reproducible method of macular volumetric analysis in order to facilitate serial monitoring of changes in retinal oedema with time. The Heidelberg retinal tomography (HRT) machine was used to scan the macula of 20 normal subjects and 40 diabetics with macular oedema. The volume above reference plane (VARP) within a 2 mm diameter and 3 mm diameter circle was measured twice in each eye. The position of the circle to be measured was carefully defined relative to major retinal vessels. As a modification to the previously published technique, fluctuation of the height of the contour line relative to the focal plane of the eye is compensated for by an adjustment of the reference plane. The position of the circle was controlled relative to major retinal vessels using an acetate. The reproducibility of VARP measurement was assessed by three variables-the standard error of the difference on two isolated VARP measurements, the standard error of the difference between the average of three readings on two different occasions, as well as the coefficient of variation (COV). Both the 2 mm and 3 mm circles showed good reproducibility in VARP measurements. In normal subjects, the COV of VARP for 2 mm circles and 3 mm circles were 13% and 12% respectively. In patients with macular oedema, the COV of VARP for 2 mm circles and 3 mm circles were 9% and 11% respectively. The modification of VARP measurements between scans of the same eye has improved the COV from 31% to 9% in eyes with diabetic macular oedema."}
{"id": "10955657", "title": "Lack of correlation between visual acuity and fixation stability after photocoagulation for diabetic maculopathy.", "content": "Lack of correlation between visual acuity and fixation stability after photocoagulation for diabetic maculopathy. To study the correlation between changes in visual acuity and changes in fixation stability after retinal photocoagulation for diabetic maculopathy. Twenty-four patients with diabetic maculopathy and visual acuity (VA) ranging between 0.05-0.77 were studied at baseline and 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after retinal photocoagulation. Fixational eye movements were quantified from video recordings of the ocular fundus obtained with the Rodenstock scanning laser ophthalmoscope. No correlation was found between the changes in the quantitative measures of the fixational eye movements (amplitude and retinal area of fixation) and the changes in VA 12 months after retinal photocoagulation. Three patients all with VA<0.31 at baseline had the fixation centre located more than 3 deg from the centre of the foveal avascular zone (FAZ) at one or more of the follow-up examinations, and one of these patients used three different locations of fixations during the follow-up period. Changes in fixation stability after retinal photocoagulation are complex but not related to changes in visual acuity."}
{"id": "10847494", "title": "Optical coherence tomography after laser photocoagulation for clinically significant macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography after laser photocoagulation for clinically significant macular edema. To demonstrate the utility of optical coherence tomography (OCT) for documenting an early response to laser photocoagulation in clinically significant macular edema (CSME) secondary to diabetes. Five eyes of four patients were selected for review based on the diagnosis of CSME. All eyes had a clinical diagnosis of CSME based on slit lamp biomicroscopy. All eyes underwent focal/grid laser photocoagulation to areas of retinal thickening detected by OCT and clinical exam. Pre and post-treatment optical coherence tomograms were obtained for all patients. All eyes selected for review had an early positive response to focal laser photocoagulation. OCT was useful for demonstrating areas of retinal thickening prior to laser treatment. Serial macular maps demonstrated the resolution of retinal thickening after laser photocoagulation in all eyes. OCT is a useful tool for evaluating and documenting CSME both before and after focal/grid laser photocoagulation. OCT is capable of detecting an early positive response to photocoagulation for macular edema."}
{"id": "10847493", "title": "Optical coherence tomography findings in diabetic macular edema before and after vitrectomy.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography findings in diabetic macular edema before and after vitrectomy. To assess the role of optical coherence tomography (OCT) in the evaluation and follow-up after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema. The 18 eyes of 12 patients affected by presumed diabetic vitreous-induced macular edema underwent biomicroscopy with a Goldmann contact lens, fluorescein angiography, and OCT. OCT revealed two patterns of edema. The first group (15 eyes) was characterized by widespread thickening of the neurosensory retina with an increased nonhomogeneous reflectivity of the inner retinal layers; cystoid-like spaces of absent or reduced reflectivity in the neurosensory retina were also present. In the second group (3 eyes), a cystoid macular edema with a dome-shaped foveal profile because of a markedly increased retinal thickness in the foveal region was observed. The disappearance of the physiologic foveal profile was always seen. Biomicroscopy revealed an increased reflex of the inner limiting membrane in the first group and minimal alterations in the second one. Four patients (7 eyes) underwent vitrectomy with posterior hyaloid removal. In 5 eyes, the patients experienced a visual improvement greater than two Snellen lines. The restoration of the normal foveal profile and the reduction of the retinal thickness on the OCT were evident in all cases one month after surgery. OCT appears to be a useful tool in the diagnosis and management of diabetic macular edema and in the monitoring of the morphological changes after vitrectomy."}
{"id": "10847492", "title": "Optical coherence tomography for retinal thickness measurement in diabetic patients without clinically significant macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography for retinal thickness measurement in diabetic patients without clinically significant macular edema. To evaluate the potential of optical coherence tomography (OCT) as a screening method for retinal thickness measurements in diabetic patients. We used a previously described pattern of six 5 mm OCT scans through the center of fixation in 45 diabetic patients without clinically significant macular edema: 22 patients (group 1) had no diabetic retinopathy (ETDRS classification); 18 (group 2) had nonproliferative retinopathy; 5 patients with peripheral neovascularization did not enter statistical analysis; 25 normal healthy subjects were used as a control group. Retinal thickness was measured at five locations in each scan: in the fovea, at the foveal rim, and outside the macula. Measurements were identified in nonaligned images and taken from raw data A-scans. Locations were grouped into hemispheres, quadrants and rings, and mean values tested for statistically significant differences using Mann-Whitney U-Wilcoxon rank sum W test. Differences in retinal thickness were found to be significant in the macula (controls vs group 2 P = 0.0266), at the foveal rim (controls vs group 1 and 2: P = 0.0386 and P = 0.0193), in the nasal and superior hemisphere (controls vs group 2: P = 0.0251 and P = 0.0187), and in the superior nasal quadrant (controls vs group 1 and group 1 vs group 2: P = 0.0022 and P = 0.0462). Significant differences of retinal thickness between patients with diabetic retinopathy and normals can be detected by OCT even in the absence of clinically significant macular edema. Significant differences between diabetic patients with and without retinopathy are most likely to be found in the superior nasal quadrant."}
{"id": "10783942", "title": "Diagnosis of vitreoretinal adhesions in macular disease with optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Diagnosis of vitreoretinal adhesions in macular disease with optical coherence tomography. To compare the relative incidence of vitreoretinal adhesions associated with partial vitreous separation within the macula diagnosed with optical coherence tomography (OCT) with that of those diagnosed with biomicroscopy. The authors obtained linear cross-sectional retinal images using OCT in patients with selected macular diseases. Additional studies included biomicroscopy, fundus photography, fluorescein angiography, and B-scan ultrasonography. Optical coherence tomography was performed on 132 eyes of 119 patients. Vitreoretinal adhesions within the macula were identified using OCT in 39 eyes (30%) with the following diagnoses: idiopathic epiretinal membrane (n = 13), diabetic retinopathy (n = 7), idiopathic macular hole (n = 7), cystoid macular edema (n = 7), and vitreomacular traction syndrome (n = 5). Biomicroscopy identified vitreoretinal adhesions in only 11 eyes (8%). Two distinct vitreoretinal adhesion patterns were identified with OCT, each associated with partial separation of the posterior hyaloid face: focal (n = 25) and multifocal (n = 14). Optical coherence tomography is more sensitive than biomicroscopy in identifying vitreoretinal adhesions associated with macular disease."}
{"id": "10764858", "title": "Tomographic assessment of vitreous surgery for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Tomographic assessment of vitreous surgery for diabetic macular edema. To evaluate the retinal structure before and after vitrectomy for diabetic macular edema and to assess the correlation between thickness of neurosensory retina and best-corrected visual acuity. Tomographic features of 13 eyes (nine patients) with diabetic macular edema were prospectively evaluated with optical coherence tomography before and after vitrectomy. The foveal thickness (the distance between the inner retinal surface and the retinal pigment epithelium) and the retinal thickness (thickness of neurosensory retina) were measured by optical coherence tomography preoperatively and postoperatively. The correlation of the best-corrected visual acuity with foveal and retinal thickness was determined. All 13 eyes had retinal swelling with low intraretinal reflectivity. In addition to retinal swelling, there were cystoid spaces in five (38%) of 13 eyes, a serous retinal detachment in three (23%), and both cystoid spaces and serous detachment in three (23%). Six months postoperatively, the mean foveal thickness significantly decreased from 630 +/- 170 to 350 +/- 120 microm (P <.01, paired t test) and the mean thickness of neurosensory retina decreased from 540 +/- 160 to 320 +/- 140 microm (P <.01, paired t test). A serous retinal detachment occurred transiently in 3 eyes. Compared with the preoperative level, the postoperative best-corrected visual acuity level improved by more than 2 lines in five of the 13 eyes (38%), remained the same in seven eyes (54%), and decreased in one eye (8%). The postoperative thickness of neurosensory retina at the fovea and best-corrected visual acuity level at the sixth postoperative month had a strong negative correlation (correlation coefficient, -0.76; P <.01, Spearmans rank test). Vitrectomy was generally effective in treatment of diabetic macular edema. Optical coherence tomography demonstrated the intraretinal changes of macular edema and the process of edema absorption. During the process of macular edema absorption, intraretinal fluid appeared to move into the subretinal space in some cases. Best-corrected visual acuity improvement was greater in eyes with less preoperative increase in thickness of neurosensory retina."}
{"id": "10682989", "title": "Optical cross-sectional observation of resolved diabetic macular edema associated with vitreomacular separation.", "content": "Optical cross-sectional observation of resolved diabetic macular edema associated with vitreomacular separation. To describe the resolution of cystoid macular edema associated with vitreomacular separation in a diabetic patient. Case report. A 58-year-old man who had cataract surgery 3 years earlier developed diabetic macular edema after panretinal laser photocoagulation. For a detailed fundus examination, we performed neodymium: YAG (Nd:YAG) laser capsulotomy in the left eye as the initial management. Two days after the laser capsulotomy, fundus biomicroscopy and B-mode ultrasonography disclosed a vitreomacular separation in the left eye that was not detectable preoperatively. Optical coherence tomography through the macula disclosed a dramatic decrease in the size of intraretinal cystoid spaces with an improvement of visual acuity. Scanning retinal thickness analysis also confirmed the decrease of retinal thickness at the macula with the resolution of cystoid macular edema. Resolution of diabetic macular edema with subsequent visual recovery is potentially associated with the vitreomacular separation in a patient after Nd:YAG laser capsulotomy."}
{"id": "10929973", "title": "Treatment of macular disease with a binocular indirect ophthalmoscope laser delivery system.", "content": "Treatment of macular disease with a binocular indirect ophthalmoscope laser delivery system. Some patients with macular disease, because of physical infirmity or disability, cannot be treated with laser photocoagulation using a typical slit lamp delivery system. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the binocular indirect ophthalmoscope could be used to deliver treatment to the macula when photocoagulation would otherwise be very difficult, if not impossible, to perform. Ten eyes of 10 patients who could not sit for slit lamp laser delivery were treated with binocular indirect ophthalmoscope laser photocoagulation over a 36 month period. Eight had subfoveal choroidal neovascularization (CNV) from age-related macular degeneration (AMD), and 2 patients had clinically significant macular edema (CSME) from diabetes mellitus. Argon laser photocoagulation was delivered to the choroidal neovascular membrane in patients with exudative AMD, and a grid treatment was given to eyes with diabetic macular edema. Six of 8 patients with exudative AMD were successfully treated with eradication of the CNV. Two required retreatment within 6 months of original treatment. Both patients with CSME had resolution of their edema at 3 and 6 months after treatment. Best corrected visual acuity did not change by more than 2 Snellen lines in any patient with CNV and 1 Snellen line in patients with CSME. No complications of treatment were encountered. In certain circumstances, laser photocoagulation of the macula using the indirect ophthalmoscope laser delivery system should be considered when more conventional treatment strategies cannot be implemented."}
{"id": "10896351", "title": "Diabetic maculopathy induced by vitreo-macular traction: evaluation by optical coherence tomography (OCT).", "content": "Diabetic maculopathy induced by vitreo-macular traction: evaluation by optical coherence tomography (OCT). To evaluate the role and efficacy of optical coherence tomography (OCT) in the evaluation of diabetic maculopathy induced by vitreo-retinal traction. 12 patients affected by diabetic maculopathy induced by vitreo-retinal traction were examined using biomicroscopy with a three-mirror contact lens, fluorescein angiography (FA) and OCT scanning in order to identify the presence of a vitreomacular traction. OCT revealed two patterns of maculopathy which were characterised by a thickening of the superior profile of the OCT tomogram or by the disappearance and inversion of the physiologic foveal depression respectively. OCT may be useful in the characterisation and monitoring of diabetic maculopathy induced by vitreo-retinal traction."}
{"id": "10896350", "title": "Reproducibility of volumetric macular measurements in diabetic patients with the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph.", "content": "Reproducibility of volumetric macular measurements in diabetic patients with the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph. To quantify diabetic macular edema by confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy and assess its usefulness by determining the reproducibility of topographic measurements at the macula. The volumes above reference plane bound by a 2 mm diameter circle centred on the fovea were measured by two observers. The reference plane was adjusted to the lowest point of the height variation of the contour line. The reproducibility of this technique was assessed in 20 eyes of 20 diabetic patients of which 8 eyes had macular edema. Three HRT scans of each eye were obtained. The measurements of volume above reference plane of each scan were repeated three times. For all diabetic eyes, the intra scan coefficients of variability measured 14.71% to 21.21%, the inter scan coefficient of variability was 30.46%. The average standard deviations were 0.053 mm3 for one examination per scan, 0.047 mm3 for two examinations per scan and 0.044 mm3 for three examinations per scan. Linear regression demonstrated an increase in standard deviation with greater volumetric measurements (p < 0.001). We found good correlation (r = 0.959, p < 0.001) and strong agreement between the two observer's findings for all 20 eyes. For the 8 eyes with macular edema, the coefficients of variability were similar to those calculated for all 20 eyes. The average SD for one examination per scan were 0.078 mm3, 0.069 mm3 for two examinations per scan and 0.062 mm3 for three examinations per scan. We found good correlation (r = 0.945, p < 0.001) and strong agreement between the two observer's findings in eyes with edema. The reproducibility of this technique has been demonstrated in diabetic eyes. This may have useful clinical applications for the quantification of diabetic macular edema and monitoring of laser therapy."}
{"id": "10896349", "title": "Novel imaging techniques for diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Novel imaging techniques for diabetic macular edema. Retinal edema should be defined as any increase of water of the retinal tissue resulting in an increase in its volume. It may be of cytotoxic or vasogenic origin. Development of vasogenic macular edema is dependent on a series of factors such as blood pressure, blood-retinal barrier permeability, retinal cell damage, retinal tissue osmotic pressure and retinal tissue compliance. Objective measurements of retinal thickness are now possible using the Retinal Thickness Analyser. Localised measurements of blood-retinal barrier permeability may also be obtained using the Retinal Leakage Analyser, a modified confocal scanning laser fluorometer, while obtaining simultaneously angiographic images of the choroid and retina. These new imaging techniques show that cytotoxic and vasogenic retinal edema may occur independently in the early stages of diabetic retinopathy. These findings offer new perspectives for designing novel therapeutic strategies."}
{"id": "10896348", "title": "Optical coherence tomography (OCT) in macular edema.", "content": "Optical coherence tomography (OCT) in macular edema."}
{"id": "10896343", "title": "The pathogenesis and clinical presentation of macular edema in inflammatory diseases.", "content": "The pathogenesis and clinical presentation of macular edema in inflammatory diseases. Cystoid macular edema (CME) is a classical complication of ocular inflammation. This syndrome was already described by Irvine in 1953 but the pathogenesis of this condition remains unclear. Cystoid macular edema can result either from a rupture of the inner or from the outer blood ocular barrier. Clinical CME that is responsible for a low visual acuity must be differentiated from angiographic CME that can be present even without any decrease in visual acuity. Fluid progressively accumulates into the outer plexiform layer of the retina and pools into cystic spaces. Fluid accumulation can now be better seen with optical coherence tomography (OCT). In chronic CME fluid accumulation is associated with thinning of the retina and fibrosis. At this stage irreversible lesions are present and CME does not respond to medical therapies. Inflammatory CME must be differentiated from CME resulting from irreversible vascular damage such as in diabetic CME or due to vein occlusions. Experimental research on cystoid macular edema has been hampered by the lack of animal model: most of laboratory animals have no macula, monkeys appear to be highly resistant to macular edema. Five major causes have been suspected to be at the origin of CME: (1) photic retinopathy, (2) trauma of ocular tissue, (3) secondary irritation of the ciliary body, (4) vitreous traction and (5) pharmaceutically induced CME. Clinical experience has shown that pseudophakic CME usually responds well to local therapy of steroids and non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and/or in association with systemic acetazolamide. Acetazolamide is increasing fluid resorption through the retinal pigment epithelium. Postoperative CME rarely needs additional posterior subtenon's injections to resolve. But in CME occurring secondary to uveitis additional posterior sub-Tenon's steroid injections or systemic steroids may be necessary to decrease the constant release of inflammatory mediators."}
{"id": "10896334", "title": "The historical discovery of macular edema.", "content": "The historical discovery of macular edema. The occurrence of macular edema, or of intraretinal fluid in general, was largely unknown prior to the invention of the ophthalmoscope. One of the first reports on 'Retinitis in Glycosuria', a disease complex, which today would partly be described as diabetic maculopathy, was published in 1856 by Jaeger. His observations were confirmed less than twenty years later by Nettleship in London, and in 1875 Appolinaire Bouchardat from Paris described fluid and lipid accumulation in the macula which led--in his words--to a glucose induced amblyopia. The first pathophysiological hypotheses of fluid accumulation in the posterior pole were then put forward in 1882 by Tartuferi, who thought the edema represented swelling of photoreceptor sheaths. In 1896, the Frenchman Nuel coined the term 'oed\u00e8me maculaire' which he had observed in a retinitis pigmentosa patient. However, it was not until the end of the first World War, that the Swiss ophthalmologist Alfred Vogt observed macular edema in a variety of other ocular conditions such as iridocyclitiOFF macular edema to a macular hole. A quarter of a century later Bangerter coined the German term 'Zystoides Makula\u00f6dem', and in 1950, Hruby was the first to draw attention to the development of macular edema after cataract extraction. Three years later this was followed by Irvine's classical paper on cystoid macular edema after intra- and extracapsular cataract extraction which had been complicated by incarceration of the vitreous in the anterior segment with consecutive tugging on the macula. A decade later, the phenomenon of cystic fluid accumulation in the macula after cataract extraction was further characterised by Gass and Norton using fluorescein angiography. The ensuing years saw the emergence of new concepts regarding the blood-retinal barrier and the paramount role of its dysfunction in the development of macular edema."}
{"id": "10758221", "title": "Micropulse laser in the treatment of diabetic macular edema.", "content": "Micropulse laser in the treatment of diabetic macular edema. The micropulse laser is a new development in laser therapy. Micropulsing is frequent short pulses of subthreshold intensity applied to retinal lesions. It has been shown to be effective in diabetic macular edema, branch vein occlusion, and drusen. Although the initial landmark studies showed it to be effective, the exact parameters have not been established. This article illustrates the current state of its use."}
{"id": "10450371", "title": "Assessment of the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph in the detection of sight-threatening diabetic maculopathy.", "content": "Assessment of the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph in the detection of sight-threatening diabetic maculopathy. To assess the potential role of the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT) in screening for sight-threatening macular oedema in diabetes. One hundred and thirty-one eyes of 81 consecutive diabetic patients who fitted the inclusion criteria were included in the study. On HRT, the volume above the reference plane bound within a 2 mm diameter circle centred at the fovea was measured. The volumetric indices were compared with the mean measurement index in a group of 20 age-matched controls (mean score = 1, mean +2 SD score = 1.8). We also assessed the sensitivity of the subjective analysis of the intensity image and the addition of the three-dimensional map to the intensity image for detecting macular oedema and clinically significant macular oedema (CSMO). One hundred and twelve eyes of 71 patients had a corrected Snellen visual acuity of 6/9 or better. When considering eyes with 6/9 or better vision only, the system's sensitivity for detecting CSMO was 58.33% 'per eye' examined, and 81.82% 'per patient' examined using a cut-off volumetric index of 1.8. In our study eyes with 6/9 or better vision, we found a 21% prevalence of CSMO. The predictive values of a positive test were 38.89% and 45% (cut-off score 1.8, 'per eye' and 'per patient' respectively) for CSMO. The predictive values of a negative test were 86.84% and 90.48% (cut-off score 1.8, 'per eye' and 'per patient' respectively) for CSMO. The volumetric assessment of diabetic maculopathy by HRT is a potentially useful method for screening eyes at risk. A larger group of patients with a greater number of eyes with minimal or no maculopathy is required to establish the specificity of this technique."}
{"id": "10372879", "title": "Patterns of diabetic macular edema with optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Patterns of diabetic macular edema with optical coherence tomography. We report cross-sectional images of diabetic macular edema and correlation between tomographic features and visual acuity with best correction by means of optical coherence tomography. In a prospective study, optical coherence tomography was performed in 59 eyes of 42 patients with diabetic macular edema and in 10 eyes of 10 normal control subjects. Optical coherence tomography showed three patterns of structural changes in diabetic macular edema: sponge-like retinal swelling (52 [88%] of 59 eyes), cystoid macular edema (28 [47%] of 59 eyes), and serous retinal detachment (9 [15%] of 59 eyes). Some eyes had more than one pathologic change. Retinal swelling was more pronounced in the outer rather than the inner retinal layers. Cystoid macular edema was located mainly in the outer retinal layers. In eyes with long-standing cystoid macular edema, cystoid spaces had fused, resulting in a large cystoid cavity involving almost the entire retinal layer. Hard exudates were seen as highly reflective areas located in the outer retinal layers. The retinal thickness at the central fovea and the visual acuity with best correction showed an intermediate negative correlation in eyes without cystoid macular edema (correlation coefficient: -0.61, P < .01). Diabetic macular edema involved three structural changes, including sponge-like retinal swelling (88%), cystoid macular edema (47%), and serous retinal detachment (15%). Visual acuity with best correction moderately correlated with retinal thickness regardless of the different tomographic features."}
{"id": "10756859", "title": "[Diabetic papillae].", "content": "[Diabetic papillae]. We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of all diabetic patients with benign, transient disc swelling who were evaluated at our institution from 1992 to 1996. The clinical profile of diabetic papillopathy can be expanded to include people who are older or have type II diabetes and that affected eyes commonly have retinal vascular changes and macular edema that can adversely affect the visual outcome. Last, a small physiologic cup may represent an anatomic predisposition to the condition."}
{"id": "9828771", "title": "Reproducibility of volumetric measurements of normal maculae with the Heidelberg retina tomograph.", "content": "Reproducibility of volumetric measurements of normal maculae with the Heidelberg retina tomograph. The Heidelberg retina tomograph (HRT) is a scanning laser ophthalmoscope with confocal optics. The reproducibility of the optic nerve head topography is accurate and reliable. The authors describe a new technique for the assessment of macular thickening by volumetric quantification and present the results of its reproducibility in normal subjects. Topographic images of the macula, centred on the fovea were obtained in one eye of 44 normal subjects. The volumes above the reference plane bound by a 1 mm, 2 mm, and 3 mm diameter circle were measured. The reference plane was adjusted to the lowest point of the height variation of the contour line at each examination. The reproducibility of repeated measurements within a 2 mm diameter circle was assessed in 20 eyes selected at random. Three HRT scans of each eye were obtained. The measurements of volume above reference plane of each scan were repeated three times on three separate days. The intrascan coefficients of variability measured 7.12-9.57%. The 95% confidence interval for the geometric mean ratio of single volume measurements was 0.92 to 1.24 for scans 1 and 2, 0.89 to 1.17 for scans 1 and 3, and 0.81 to 1.12 for scans 2 and 3. When the mean of three measurements of one scan were compared with the mean of three measurements of a second scan, the 95% confidence interval for their geometric mean ratio was 0.89 to 1.20 for scans 1 and 2, 0.89 to 1.16 for scans 1 and 3, and 0.84 to 1.13 for scans 2 and 3. The average standard deviation (SD) for one measurement per scan was 0.02 mm3, and 0.019 mm3 for two or three measurements per scan. Linear regression demonstrated a significant increase in SD as volumetric measurements increased (p = 0.003). Age did not significantly affect the SD of volumetric measurements (p = 0.797). The authors found no significant differences in volumetric measurements across all ages for all three circles (p = 0.314, p = 0.471, p = 0.267). Good reproducibility for volumetric measurements at the macula was found with the HRT using the above technique in normal subjects. This method may be extremely useful for the identification and quantification of diabetic macular oedema and for monitoring the effects of argon laser photocoagulation."}
{"id": "9805683", "title": "[Macular imaging with optical coherence tomography].", "content": "[Macular imaging with optical coherence tomography]. Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) is a novel noninvasive and noncontact imaging technique providing cross-sectional representations of the eye structures. OCT is analogous to Ultrasound B-scan, except that it analyzes the reflection of a 850 nm light wave. The aim of this study was to assess the potential of ocular coherence tomography for diagnosing and monitoring macular diseases. Cross-sectional images were performed with the Zeiss-Humphrey OCT. Over one year period, we examined approximately 300 patients with idiopathic full thickness macular hole, lamellar hole, cystoid macular edema, choroidal new vessels, epiretinal membrane, diabetic maculopathy, and central serous chorioretinopathy. OCT can provide new information concerning the posterior pole diseases mentioned above. OCT can also be useful in thickness measurements. OCT allows tomographic analysis of macular diseases. The information obtained is different from that obtained by histologic study which is sometimes hard to interprete. OCT is mostly useful in studying internal layers of the retina. Further applications may be developed."}
{"id": "9802759", "title": "Improved visual function in IDDM patients with unchanged cumulative incidence of sight-threatening diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Improved visual function in IDDM patients with unchanged cumulative incidence of sight-threatening diabetic retinopathy. To evaluate trends in visual acuity and the cumulative incidence of diabetic retinopathy in a clinic-based observational follow-up study. All patients visiting Hvidore Hospital in 1984 whose diagnosis of IDDM had been made before 41 years of age and between 1965 and 1979 (n = 356) were followed until 1994 or until their deaths. All patients were Caucasians and resided in Copenhagen. Patients were divided into three prevalence cohorts based on time of diabetes onset: group A, 1965-1969 (n = 113); group B, 1970-1974 (n = 130); and group C, 1975-1979 (n = 113). Fifteen years after diabetes onset, the visual acuity was significantly improved in patients with increasing calendar year of the disease onset. The median (interquartile range) visual acuity was 1.0 (0.8-1.0), 1.0(0.9-1.0), and 1.0 (1.0-1.0) in groups A, B, and C, respectively (P < 0.01 overall; P = 0.28 for group A vs. group B; and P < 0.01 for group A vs. group C) with 60, 66, and 93 having a visual acuity of 1.0 in groups A, B, and C, respectively. The cumulative incidence (+/-SEM), expressed as a percentage and calculated according to the life-table method, of proliferative retinopathy, maculopathy, and laser-treated retinopathy 15 years after onset of diabetes were, respectively, 13+/-3, 11+/-3, and 12+/-3 in group A; 16+/-3, 12+/-3, and 21+/-4 in group B; 11+/-3, 5+/-2, and 12+/-3 in group C, respectively (NS). The development of proliferative retinopathy was associated with the degree of retinopathy and albuminuria at baseline and the mean HbA1c during follow-up. The study revealed an improvement in visual acuity with increasing calendar year of diabetes onset but an unchanged cumulative incidence of diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "9627656", "title": "Volumetric analysis of early macular edema with the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph in diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Volumetric analysis of early macular edema with the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph in diabetic retinopathy. This study describes a new method for the quantification of diabetic macular edema by volumetric analysis with the Heidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT) scanning laser ophthalmoscope. Topographic images of the macula were obtained in 25 consecutive patients who fitted the inclusion criteria. Twenty age-matched control subjects were randomly selected for a similar examination. Twenty normal control eyes and 32 eyes of 25 patients with diabetes mellitus were studied. Patients with diabetes were examined by HRT and slit-lamp biomicroscopy with a contact lens. On HRT, the volumes above reference plane bound by three consecutive circles centered at the fovea (diameter, 1, 2, and 3 mm) were measured. Measurements were repeated three times in a masked fashion, and the mean measurements were used for the analysis. Visual acuity, macular edema, and volume above reference plane were measured. There were 19 diabetic eyes with clinical macular edema (deemed positives) and 13 without edema (deemed negatives). Diabetic eyes with macular edema had statistically greater volumes above reference plane than did diabetic eyes without edema (P < 0.001) and greater than the control eyes (P < 0.001) for all three circles. There was no statistically significant difference between volumes measured in eyes without macular edema and control eyes (P = 0.42 for the 1-mm diameter circle; P = 0.72 for the 2-mm diameter circle; and P = 0.19 for the 3-mm diameter circle). For the two smallest circles only, the sensitivity of the HRT was 78.94%, and the specificity was 84.61%. None of the patients missed on the two smallest circles would have been positively identified on the 3-mm diameter circle. The HRT can detect and quantify macular edema in diabetes by volumetric analysis with the method the authors have described. It is sufficient to measure the volumes above reference plane of two circles centered on the fovea and measuring 1 and 2 mm in diameter because the 3-mm diameter circle does not increase the system's sensitivity."}
{"id": "9625561", "title": "Examination of patients with cystoid macular edema using a scanning laser ophthalmoscope with infrared light.", "content": "Examination of patients with cystoid macular edema using a scanning laser ophthalmoscope with infrared light. To report a noninvasive method for evaluating eyes with cystoid macular edema. We obtained infrared images of cystoid macular edema in eight eyes of eight patients using a scanning laser ophthalmoscope with the dark-field mode of a 780-nm diode laser. Differences between infrared images and fluorescein angiograms in the imaging of cystoid changes were examined. With the scanning laser ophthalmoscope, we observed cystoid macular changes as images that resembled three-dimensional pictures in the dark-field mode with infrared light. Cystoid changes observed by this method generally agreed with changes observed by fluorescein angiography. Scanning laser ophthalmoscopy with infrared light in a dark-field mode is noninvasive, and the results in eyes with cystoid macular edema generally agreed with results obtained by fluorescein angiography. This method is useful for examining eyes with cystoid macular edema."}
{"id": "9479300", "title": "Topography of diabetic macular edema with optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Topography of diabetic macular edema with optical coherence tomography. This study aimed to develop a protocol to screen and monitor patients with diabetic macular thickening using optical coherence tomography (OCT), a technique for high-resolution cross-sectional imaging of the retina. A cross-sectional pilot study was conducted. A total of 182 eyes of 107 patients with diabetic retinopathy, 55 eyes from 31 patients with diabetes but no ophthalmoscopic evidence of retinopathy, and 73 eyes from 41 healthy volunteers were studied. Six optical coherence tomograms were obtained in a radial spoke pattern centered on the fovea. Retinal thickness was computed automatically from each tomogram at a total of 600 locations throughout the macula. Macular thickness was displayed geographically as a false-color topographic map and was reported numerically as averages in each of nine regions. Correlation of OCT with slit-lamp biomicroscopy, fluorescein angiography, and visual acuity was measured. Optical coherence tomography was able to quantify the development and resolution of both foveal and extrafoveal macular thickening. The mean +/- standard deviation foveal thickness was 174 +/- 18 microns in normal eyes, 179 +/- 17 microns in diabetic eyes without retinopathy, and 256 +/- 114 microns in eyes with nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy. Foveal thickness was highly correlated among left and right eyes of normal eyes (mean +/- standard deviation difference of 6 +/- 9 microns). Foveal thickness measured by OCT correlated with visual acuity (r2 = 0.79). A single diabetic eye with no slit-lamp evidence of retinopathy showed abnormal foveal thickening on OCT. Optical coherence tomography was a useful technique for quantifying macular thickness in patients with diabetic macular edema. The topographic mapping protocol provided geographic information on macular thickness that was intuitive and objective."}
{"id": "9312314", "title": "[Prevalence of patients with diabetes mellitus without and with retinopathy in an ophthalmology practice].", "content": "[Prevalence of patients with diabetes mellitus without and with retinopathy in an ophthalmology practice]. In a prospective study 10,000 consecutive patients were interviewed and examined in a German ophthalmology practice to evaluate the prevalence of diabetes mellitus and diabetic retinopathy. Out of all patients 496 (4.96%) suffered from diabetes. In most patients (488:230 male, 258 female; mean age: 66 +/- 15 years) a clinical workup including demographic data and binocular ophthalmoscopy was performed. Diabetic retinopathy (DR) was present in 130 (26.6%) of the 488 diabetic patients. Subgroup analysis showed a higher prevalence of diabetic retinopathy in patients with insulin therapy (85 of 149; 57%) to those treated with oral antidiabetics (37 of 198; 19%) or diet only (8 of 141; 6%). The prevalence was significantly correlated with the duration of diabetes in the groups treated with insulin (P < 0.01) and with oral antidiabetic drugs (P < 0.001). Mild or moderate non-proliferative DR was found in 93 patients (19%), severe non-proliferative DR in 23 patients (4.7%) and proliferative DR in 14 of 488 patients (2.9%; 13 with insulin-dependent diabetes). Clinically significant diabetic macular edema was identified in 41 patients (8.4%). In 48 (9.8%) laser coagulation had already been performed: 13 cases with panretinal scatter, 18 with a focal coagulation, 17 cases with both. The prevalence of diabetes mellitus in a German ophthalmological referral practice is similar to the total prevalence in Germany (4.9%). Diabetic retinopathy was found in fewer patients than reported in the Wisconsin Epidemiologic Study and other recent studies in other countries. The data in this study showed that regular screening of all diabetic patients is mandatory."}
{"id": "9044202", "title": "Screening for diabetic eye disease by optometrists using slit lamps.", "content": "Screening for diabetic eye disease by optometrists using slit lamps. Diabetic patients were screened for diabetic eye disease by hospital-based optometrists using a slit lamp with a 78-dioptres Volk lens. Visual acuity and intraocular pressure were also measured. Of 622 patients screened, 149 (24.0%) had background and 32 (5.1%) advanced retinopathy/maculopathy. The fundus was inadequately visualised in four (0.6%) patients. Following screening, 86 (13.8%) patients were referred to the ophthalmology clinic for appropriate treatment and follow up. Hospital-based optometrists using a slit lamp offer a useful new method for screening for diabetic eye disease. They can identify previously unrecognised sight-threatening diabetic eye disease and important non-diabetic eye disease requiring intervention, and are relatively cheap. This method is ideally suited for rapid referral to the specialist. The results merit larger-scale studies both to confirm the effectiveness of this method and to assess whether hospital trained optometrists could perform screening in the community."}
{"id": "9091712", "title": "[Quantification of cystoid changes in diabetic macular edema].", "content": "[Quantification of cystoid changes in diabetic macular edema]. Cystoid changes in diabetic macular oedema can result in severe visual consequences and were previously difficult to quantify. This study was performed to introduce reliable measurements of the area covered by cysts, of their quantification and relation to visual acuity. 58 diabetic patients suffering from cystoid macular oedema were examined by means of a scanning laser ophthalmoscope. Fluorescein angiography provides a detailed recognition of well demarcated cystoid formations in the early transit. In three different sampling areas from the center of the fovea (1.2 deg, 2.5 deg and 5 deg) and in the foveal avascular zone (FAZ) itself the area covered by cystoid changes was quantified as well as the number of cysts and their shortest distance from the center of the FAZ. The mean area covered by cystoid formations in the 2.5 degrees area was 0.128 +/- 0.08 micron2, the number of cysts ranged from 1 to 7. In all sampling areas there was a significant correlation between area of cysts and visual acuity. Their number and distance from the center of the FAZ did not show a significant correlation to vision. Measurements within the 2.5 degrees area seem to have the highest predictability concerning visual function. Fluorescein angiography allows the quantification of number and area covered by cystoid formations in patients with diabetic macular oedema. There is a significant correlation of visual acuity to the area covered by these cystoid changes. The distance of cysts from the center of the FAZ does not correlate significantly to visual acuity. These measurements can prove useful in following cystoid changes and in monitoring the effect of currently used therapy regimen."}
{"id": "8738460", "title": "Grid pattern photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema--long-term visual results.", "content": "Grid pattern photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema--long-term visual results. The authors reviewed the data of 226 eyes in 124 patients with clinically significant diabetic macular edema treated by grid pattern photocoagulation from 1986 to 1994 at the Ophthalmological Clinic of Innsbruck University Hospital. On the basis of baseline visual acuity (VA), eyes were classified in four groups: group 1 = VA < 0.1; group 2 = VA 0.1-0.2; group 3 = VA > 0.2-0.5; group 4 = VA > 0.5. The development of VA from the baseline examination until the last checkup in treated eyes is reported. This classification showed a better visual outcome after photocoagulation in eyes with a decreased VA at baseline (groups 1, 2) compared with eyes with a good initial VA (groups 3, 4). The difference in visual outcome between the second and third groups as well as between the third and fourth groups was statistically significant (p < or = 0.001). A correlation of initial VA with visual outcome after treatment was demonstrated (R = -0.558; p = 0.0001). Clinical conclusions of these results are discussed."}
{"id": "8643241", "title": "Risk factors of age-related maculopathy in a population 70 years of age or older.", "content": "Risk factors of age-related maculopathy in a population 70 years of age or older. To evaluate possible risk factors for age-related maculopathy (ARM) in an epidemiologic cross-sectional population study of inhabitants 70 years of age or older in a rural area in Oulu County, Northern Finland. Five hundred of the 560 (89 percent) eligible subjects were examined. The diagnosis of ARM was based on fundus photographs in 83 percent of the population or on ophthalmoscopic findings in 13 percent; in 4 percent, the fundi could not be seen. Both early and late forms of ARM were included. The prevalence of ARM increased steadily with age without overall significant difference between men and women. The condition was, however, related to high body mass index in men. The ARM appeared to be also associated with the presence of cataract, broad peripapillary atrophy, and severe sclerosis of the retinal arteries, but after controlling for age, these associations were nonsignificant. No association was found between ARM and systemic hypertension, diabetes, smoking, working outside, myopia, glaucoma, or the presence of exfoliation. In logistic regression analysis, age was the only statistically significant risk factor for ARM in both sexes. In men, a high body mass index also was found to be a predictor for ARM. The presence of ARM was associated with cataract and signs of age-related vascular changes in the eyes. Of the general factors, age in both sexes and high body mass index in men were found to be the only predictors of ARM."}
{"id": "8601122", "title": "Screening for sight threatening eye disease. Stereoscopic viewing of the retina needed to identify maculopathy.", "content": "Screening for sight threatening eye disease. Stereoscopic viewing of the retina needed to identify maculopathy."}
{"id": "7662623", "title": "Macular microcirculation in cystoid maculopathy of diabetic patients.", "content": "Macular microcirculation in cystoid maculopathy of diabetic patients. In patients with diabetic macular oedema and central cysts ischaemia of the retina appears to be an important contributing factor in the pathogenesis of cysts. This study was performed to further elucidate the role of the inner retinal microcirculation in diabetic cystoid macular oedema (CMO). Video fluorescein angiography allows visualisation of the macular microvasculature and measurements of the capillary blood velocity (CBV), foveal avascular zone (FAZ), and perifoveal intercapillary area (PIA, characterising capillary density). Twenty three diabetic subjects with CMO, matched diabetic patients without macular oedema (n = 23), and healthy subjects (n = 23) were included. CBV, PIA, and FAZ did not differ significantly among diabetic groups regardless of presence of cystoid changes. CBV was significantly reduced (p < 0.0001) and PIA was more than doubled in both diabetic groups (p < 0.0001) when compared with healthy subjects. Furthermore, FAZ showed a nearly doubled size in diabetic patients without macular oedema (p < 0.01) and a less pronounced enlargement (by 29%) in diabetics with CMO (p < 0.05). The results indicate that the retinal microcirculation in diabetic patients is markedly altered when compared with healthy subjects, regardless of CMO presence. In CMO patients the microcirculatory changes are similar to those of diabetic patients without macular oedema. Thus inner retinal perfusion does not contribute to tissue ischaemia leading to cystoid formations in diabetic maculopathy."}
{"id": "7639652", "title": "Quantitative assessment of macular edema with optical coherence tomography.", "content": "Quantitative assessment of macular edema with optical coherence tomography. To evaluate optical coherence tomography, a new technique for high-resolution cross-sectional imaging of the retina, for quantitative assessment of retinal thickness in patients with macular edema. Survey examination with optical coherence tomography of patients with macular edema. Referral eye center. Forty-nine patients with the clinical diagnosis of diabetes or diabetic retinopathy and 25 patients with macular edema secondary to retinal vein occlusion, uveitis, epiretinal membrane formation, or cataract extraction. Correlation of optical coherence tomograms with slit-lamp biomicroscopy, fluorescein angiography, and visual acuity. Optical coherence tomograms of cystoid macular edema closely corresponded to known histopathologic characteristics. Quantitative measurement of retinal thickness is possible because of the well-defined boundaries in optical reflectivity at the inner and outer margins of the neurosensory retina. Serial optical coherence tomographic examinations allowed tracking of both the longitudinal progression of macular thickening and the resolution of macular edema after laser photocoagulation. In patients with diabetic retinopathy, measurements of central macular thickness with optical coherence tomography correlated with visual acuity, and optical coherence tomography was more sensitive than slit-lamp biomicroscopy to small changes in retinal thickness. Optical coherence tomography appears useful for objectively monitoring retinal thickness with high resolution in patients with macular edema. It may eventually prove to be a sensitive diagnostic test for the early detection of macular thickening in patients with diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "7580708", "title": "Sensitivity and specificity of photography and direct ophthalmoscopy in screening for sight threatening eye disease: the Liverpool Diabetic Eye Study.", "content": "Sensitivity and specificity of photography and direct ophthalmoscopy in screening for sight threatening eye disease: the Liverpool Diabetic Eye Study. To evaluate different methods for community based screening for sight threatening diabetic eye disease. Prospective study. Mobile screening unit visiting inner city community clinics; hospital assessment clinic (tertiary centre). 395 diabetic patients registered with four general practices in an inner city location. Community based photography with mydriasis and direct ophthalmoscopy through dilated pupils by an experienced ophthalmologist, both compared with reference standard of slit lamp biomicroscopy by a consultant specialist in medical retinal disease. Sensitivity and specificity of screening method and prevalence of sight threatening diabetic eye disease (moderate preproliferative retinopathy, circinate maculopathy, exudate within 1 disc diameter of fixation, other diabetes related eye disease). 358 subjects underwent photography, 326 attended hospital clinic for ophthalmoscopy, and six were ungradable on photographs and biomicroscopy, leaving 320 for analysis. Of these 295 (91%) attended clinic within four months of photography. Sensitivity of detection of eye disease by photography was 89% (95% confidence interval 80% to 98%), significantly better than for direct ophthalmoscopy (65% (51% to 79%)). Analysis of patients with false negative results indicated possible improvement of photographic sensitivity to 93% by addition of stereoscopic macular pair photographs. Specificity of detection of sight threatening eye disease was 86% (82% to 90%) for photography and 97% (95% to 99%) for direct ophthalmoscopy. Since high sensitivity is essential for an effective screening programme, a photographic method should be considered as preferred option in national, community based screening programmes. Even in the hands of an experienced ophthalmologist, direct ophthalmoscopy is limited by weaknesses inherent to the instrument."}
{"id": "1595515", "title": "Retinal vein occlusion.", "content": "Retinal vein occlusion. Retinal vein occlusion is a common form of retinal vascular disease, especially in middle-aged and older individuals. The diagnosis is based on the funduscopic finding of retinal vein dilatation in association with retinal hemorrhages and cotton-wool spots. The pathology can involve the entire venous system or can be limited to a branch of the central retinal vein. Retinal vein occlusion can be distinguished clinically from diabetic retinopathy and other retinal diseases. Treatment for the acute phase of retinal vein occlusion has been disappointing. However, some late complications, such as persistent macular edema and neovascularization of the iris and retina, respond well to retinal photocoagulation. The family physician has an important role in detecting and controlling risk factors for retinal vein occlusion, including hypertension, diabetes mellitus and hyperviscosity syndromes."}
{"id": "1480872", "title": "Screening for diabetic retinopathy by general practitioners.", "content": "Screening for diabetic retinopathy by general practitioners. To assess the quality of screening for diabetic retinopathy by 19 general practitioners (GPs) using ophthalmoscopy, the GPs' performance was compared with the performance of ophthalmologists. The GPs had received special training in retinal examination. Direct ophthalmoscopy was performed after mydriasis of both eyes. Later, one of the ophthalmologists at the local hospital performed ophthalmoscopy in the same way as the GP. The ophthalmologist's diagnosis was used as the criterion for retinopathy. 252 NIDDM patients were analysed. The ophthalmologists found 23 cases of retinopathy, of which one patient was referred immediately for photocoagulation. The GPs diagnosed 12 and missed 11 of these 23 cases (false negatives): sensitivity 52%. In 37 of the 229 negative cases the GPs reported a retinopathy: specificity 84%. Of the 11 missed cases, 7 had stage I retinopathy and four showed more serious abnormalities (hard and soft exudates, macular oedema) Further training of GPs in the art of ophthalmoscopy is recommended."}
{"id": "2064492", "title": "Improved detection and referral of patients with diabetic retinopathy by primary care physicians. Effectiveness of education.", "content": "Improved detection and referral of patients with diabetic retinopathy by primary care physicians. Effectiveness of education. We studied the effect of a 4-hour course in recognition and management of diabetic retinopathy on the ability of nonophthalmologist physicians to detect and to appropriately refer patients with sight-threatening diabetic retinopathy. Participants completed a written examination covering case management and performed a total of 340 dilated ophthalmoscopic examinations on selected patients before and 2 weeks following the teaching session. Accuracy of ophthalmoscopy was assessed by comparison with standardized grading of fundus photographs. Scores on the written examination increased from a mean of 49% to 78% correct. The likelihood of failing to detect and appropriately refer patients with proliferative or preproliferative retinopathy decreased from 60% to 15%. Similarly, for patients with maculopathy, the likelihood of failure to detect and to appropriately refer decreased from 83% to 15.6%. These data suggest that education may significantly improve the ability of nonophthalmologists to detect and to appropriately refer patients who are at risk for vision loss."}
{"id": "1951588", "title": "Pathologic findings of photic retinopathy in the human eye.", "content": "Pathologic findings of photic retinopathy in the human eye. The macular retina of a patient whose eye was scheduled for enucleation because of progressive growth of a malignant melanoma that had invaded the iris and filtration angle was exposed to unfiltered light from the operating-room microscope for 60 minutes. Photic maculopathy was documented with fundus photography and fluorescein angiography 67 hours after light exposure. Seventy-two hours after light exposure, the eye was enucleated, fixed in Trumpe's solution, and studied with light microscopy and electron microscopy. Findings included localized necrosis of the retinal pigment epithelium; loss of the apical villi, plasma membranes, and cytoplasmic organelles; extrusion of pigment granules; and extensive disruption of the outer lamellae of the photoreceptors. The inner segments of the photoreceptors were edematous and contained swollen mitochondria. Near the margins of the photic retinopathy, thinned retinal pigment epithelial cells appeared to have migrated under injured retinal pigment epithelial cells, suggesting early attempts at repair. Additional findings included M\u00fcller-cell swelling."}
{"id": "1757035", "title": "[Microcoagulation of the fundus. Experimental results of repeated laser pulse exposure].", "content": "[Microcoagulation of the fundus. Experimental results of repeated laser pulse exposure]. Angiographically visible lesions were produced in the fundus of rabbit eyes with repetitive 5 microseconds pulses and continuous wave exposures with 50-ms to 1-s pulse duration from an modified argon laser (514 nm). The ophthalmoscopic and the fluorescein angiographic findings showed less damage in the neural retina and the choroid after repetitively pulsed irradiation. Light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy showed that the neural retina and the choroid can mostly be spared by using repetitive 5 microseconds pulses, even though the damage to the retinal pigment epithelium is similar to the damage caused by continuous wave irradiation. Possible clinical applications, e.g. for macular edema and central serous retinopathy, are discussed."}
{"id": "1703024", "title": "Comparison of non-mydriatic retinal photography with ophthalmoscopy in 2159 patients: mobile retinal camera study.", "content": "Comparison of non-mydriatic retinal photography with ophthalmoscopy in 2159 patients: mobile retinal camera study. To determine whether non-mydriatic Polaroid retinal photography was comparable to ophthalmoscopy with mydriasis in routine clinic screening for early, treatable diabetic retinopathy. Prospective study of ophthalmoscopic findings according to retinal camera screening and ophthalmoscopy and outcome of referral to ophthalmologist. Outpatient diabetic clinics of three teaching hospitals and three district general hospitals. 2159 Adults selected randomly from the diabetic clinics, excluding only those registered as blind or those in wheelchairs and unable to enter the screening vehicle. Numbers of patients and eyes correctly identified by each technique as requiring referral with potentially treatable retinopathy (new vessel formation and maculopathy) and congruence in numbers of microaneurysms, haemorrhages, and exudates reported. Camera screening missed two cases of new vessel formation and did not identify a further 12 but indicated a need for referral. Ophthalmoscopy missed five cases of new vessel formation and indicated a need for referral in another four for other reasons. Maculopathy was reported in 147 eyes with camera screening alone and 95 eyes by ophthalmoscopy only (chi 2 = 11.2; p less than 0.001), in 66 and 29 of which respectively maculopathy was subsequently confirmed. Overall, 38 eyes received laser treatment for maculopathy after detection by camera screening compared with 17 after ophthalmoscopic detection (chi 2 = 8.0; p less than 0.01). Camera screening underestimated numbers of microaneurysms (chi 2 = 12.9; p less than 0.001) and haemorrhages (chi 2 = 7.4; p less than 0.01) and ophthalmoscopy underestimated hard exudates (chi 2 = 48.2; p less than 0.001). Non-mydriatic Polaroid retinal photography is at least as good as ophthalmoscopy with mydriasis in routine diabetic clinics in identifying new vessel formation and absence of retinopathy and is significantly better in detecting exudative maculopathy."}
{"id": "2748100", "title": "Macular lesions in malignant arterial hypertension.", "content": "Macular lesions in malignant arterial hypertension. We produced experimental renovascular malignant arterial hypertension by a modified Goldblatt's procedure in 60 rhesus monkeys (25 one-kidney model and 35 two-kidney model), and studied various macular lesions by detailed serial ophthalmoscopy, and stereoscopic color fundus photography and fluorescein fundus angiography on a long-term follow-up. The various lesions which developed in the macular region included retinal edema, cystic retinal changes, serous retinal detachment, retinal pigment epithelial changes (initially acute focal and later degenerative lesions), and lipid deposits. In addition to these, the usual retinal lesions associated with hypertensive retinopathy, e.g., focal intraretinal periarteriolar transudates, cotton-wool spots and retinal hemorrhages, were also frequently seen in the macular retina. Findings on the various lesions are described in detail, and the pathogenesis of macular edema in malignant arterial hypertension is discussed."}
{"id": "2748099", "title": "Retinal lipid deposits in malignant arterial hypertension.", "content": "Retinal lipid deposits in malignant arterial hypertension. In 60 rhesus monkeys with experimental renovascular malignant arterial hypertension (25 one-kidney and 35 two-kidney model animals), we studied the so-called 'hard exudates' or white retinal deposits in detail (by ophthalmoscopy, and stereoscopic color fundus photography and fluorescein fundus angiography, on long-term follow-up). Some manifestation of hypertensive retinopathy developed in 19 one-kidney and 19 two-kidney animals, and white deposits formed in 14 and 5 monkeys, respectively. The onset of white deposits showed no correlation to severity of arterial hypertension or of retinopathy. All eyes with white deposits had antecedent macular or retinal edema. The deposits were everchanging, taking months or even more than a year to resolve. Our study suggests that in hypertensive retinopathy the white retinal deposits are most probably the result of exudative and/or neural degenerative processes. All the available pieces of evidence indicate that it is more appropriate to call the white deposits 'lipid deposits' than 'hard exudates'."}
{"id": "2740076", "title": "Detection of diabetic macular edema. Ophthalmoscopy versus photography--Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study Report Number 5. The ETDRS Research Group.", "content": "Detection of diabetic macular edema. Ophthalmoscopy versus photography--Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study Report Number 5. The ETDRS Research Group. Clinical and photographic methods were used to assess retinopathy during the examinations of diabetic patients enrolled in the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS). In analyzing available data from eyes randomly selected for deferral of treatment, the authors compare the clinical detection (including contact lens biomicroscopy) with photographic detection (30 degrees stereoscopic color fundus photographs) of diabetic macular edema. Based on clinical detection, 53% (1778 patients) had hard exudates within 1 disc diameter (DD) of the center of macula, 56% (1868 patients) had retinal thickening within this region, and 31% (1027 patients) had thickening at the center of macula. These analyses show agreements of 83, 78, and 83% between retinal specialists and photographic graders when assessing these three characteristics, respectively. Agreement was 81% in the detection of macular edema for which treatment is indicated (clinically significant macular edema). Each method has its advantages but in general there was close agreement between these methods, particularly for clinically significant macular edema, which supports the reliability of each method."}
{"id": "2624726", "title": "Inter-observer comparisons of ophthalmoscopic assessment of diabetic retinopathy.", "content": "Inter-observer comparisons of ophthalmoscopic assessment of diabetic retinopathy. Five hundred patients attending a general diabetic clinic were examined ophthalmoscopically both by a non-ophthalmic practitioner (NOP) and by an ophthalmologist. The findings were recorded on separate data sheets and the staging of diabetic retinopathy (DR) and grading of diabetic maculopathy by the NOP is compared with that of the ophthalmologist. Comparisons are made for NOPs collectively and for subgroups of NOPs of different levels of experience in ophthalmoscopic assessment of DR. A profile is presented of DR occurring in this diabetic clinic population. The comparison studies show significant variations in ability of different observer groups and also between observers of the same status. It is concluded that an ophthalmologist is a necessary member of a diabetic care team."}
{"id": "2589054", "title": "Non-stereo fundus photography as a screening procedure for diabetic retinopathy among patients with type II diabetes. Compared with 60D enhanced slit-lamp examination.", "content": "Non-stereo fundus photography as a screening procedure for diabetic retinopathy among patients with type II diabetes. Compared with 60D enhanced slit-lamp examination. The spectrum of diabetic retinopathy, the need for fundus screening and the evaluation of two presumptive screening methods, was investigated in a population based study among patients with type II diabetes. Retinal evaluation was performed in 86.9% of the known diabetic population. Background diabetic retinopathy was detected in 37.8%, pre-proliferative in 1.1% and proliferative retinopathy in 3.8%. Diabetic maculopathy was found in 24.3% of the patients. Laser therapy was considered in 11.4% of the patients due to diabetic retinopathy, and in 14.6% when venous occlusive diseases were included. Two methods, a slit-lamp observation enhanced by a 60D lens and reading from two non-stereo photographs of the posterior pole, were evaluated among 154 patients willing and mentally capable of being examined by either method. The sensitivity of the photographic method was 87/97% (right eye/left eye) when detecting background retinopathy and 81/80% for maculopathy versus 69/61% and 79/63%, respectively, with the slit-lamp method. The photographic method could be applied in 93% of the patients mentally capable of cooperation. Only 5 or 6 patients could be examined per hour with the 60D slit-lamp compared with 30-35 examined by reading retinal photographs. The photographic method is recommended as an easy and reliable screening device for diabetic retinopathy among patients with type II diabetes."}
{"id": "2476030", "title": "Confocal laser tomographic analysis of the retina in eyes with macular hole formation and other focal macular diseases.", "content": "Confocal laser tomographic analysis of the retina in eyes with macular hole formation and other focal macular diseases. To study the retinal surface in the human eye in normal and diseased states we used laser scanning tomography. The confocal arrangement of the laser tomographic scanner permits examination of retinal topography in the axis perpendicular to the retinal surface. The eyes examined with the laser tomographic scanner included normal eyes, eyes with macular holes, impending macular holes, radiation retinopathy, macular edema, photocoagulation scars, subfoveal scars, and serous detachment of the fovea associated with subretinal neovascularization. The laser tomographic scanner is a new method that allows measurements of the topography of the internal limiting membrane in the macular area and may improve our understanding of the pathophysiologic characteristics and treatment of a variety of disorders of the macula."}
{"id": "4041157", "title": "Argon laser photocoagulation in diabetic retinopathy: five year review of 697 treated eyes.", "content": "Argon laser photocoagulation in diabetic retinopathy: five year review of 697 treated eyes. Diabetic retinopathy has now become a common cause of blindness in Singapore. Fortunately, laser photocoagulation has prevented blindness in the majority of patients who were treated. An analysis of 872 patients treated with argon laser photocoagulation showed that 424 patients (48.6%) were for diabetic retinopathy. Patients with adequate treatment retained useful vision. Those who lost vision frequently had associated target organ involvement besides inadequate laser treatment. Patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy were treated with peripheral retinal photocoagulation. Patients with diabetic maculopathy especially those with focal leaks were treated with localised photocoagulation. A common cause of blindness is failure to recognise the condition early. Physicians and general practitioners must, in the management of diabetics, examine their patients periodically with the pupils dilated in a darkened room."}
{"id": "6676979", "title": "Funduscopically controlled scotometry.", "content": "Funduscopically controlled scotometry. The following is a brief summary of the results in our ten groups of cases. The positive features of laser scotometry are emphasized. The normal response is well defined: there are no uncertain blind spot margins. The peripheral field is probably extended beyond 60 degrees nasally and superiorly. The size and shape of the small central scotomas associated with macular holes are easily defined and correlated directly with the visible edge of the hole. This result is distinct from the intact subjective response with cystoid maculopathy and surface wrinkling retinopathy. Plotting the margins of peripheral abnormalities such as retinal detachments, retinoschisis, and lattice degeneration is easily done. Schisis is distinguished by an absolute scotoma. This scotometry is facilitated by a larger \"normal\" field with the laser instrument. Lattice degeneration causes a field defect. A branch retinal artery occlusion shows a slightly jagged border, difficult to detect by standard methods. A cotton-wool spot does not show a total nerve-fiber-bundle defect. Small absolute scotomas are correlated with degenerative changes within nevi. Degenerative changes over small melanomas--ie, the orange spots--also produce absolute field defects. \"Bear track\" lesions have a normal field, whereas dense black isolated lesions are associated with absolute scotomas. In macular degeneration the bright laser test object is usually visible to the patient within detachments of neuroepithelium, detachments of the pigment epithelium, and over recent subretinal neovascularization. Response is absent over sharply-defined zones of pigment atrophy and over late subretinal fibrovascular mounds. In contrast to the degenerative cases, a selection of hereditary cases showed no direct correlation between the zone of pigment atrophy and the zone of absolute scotoma. The scotoma was much larger than the atrophic region, extending to the edge of the cream-colored subretinal spots. The laser target method sharply defines the absolute scotoma associated with papilledema. It also detects a slit-like nerve-fiber-bundle defect, suggesting progressive damage. Small, but possibly not the earliest, scotomas associated with glaucoma can be detected with laser scotometry. In some cases they are detected when the Goldmann perimetric field is normal. Late residual visual fields are easily defined, since fixation can be directly monitored. The vertical border of hemianopic defects can be defined within one degree of accuracy."}
{"id": "399491", "title": "[Juvenile macula degeneration].", "content": "[Juvenile macula degeneration]. Among the various forms of juvenile macular degeneration, one can distinguish those that primarily involve: 1. The neuro-epithelium: Stargardt's disease; dominant juvenile degeneration; central or pericentral pigmentary retinopathy, progressive dystrophy of the cones and cystoid macular oedema. 2. The pigment epithelium: vitelliform degeneration of the macula, fundus flavimaculatus, Sj\u00f6gren's reticulated pigmentary dystrophy, butterfly shaped pigment dystrophy of the macula and grouped pigmentation of the macular region. 3. Bruch's membrane: the hyaline dystrophies or drusen of the lamina vitrea and dominant progressive foveal dystrophy. 4. The choroid: central areolar atrophy of the choroid and Sorsby's pseudo-inflammatory dystrophy. -- All these macular heredo-degenerations are characterized by the fact that they are bilateral and symmetrical. For diagnosis and differential diagnosis not only the ophthalmoscopic appearance is important, but also the examination of the visual functions, which must include an electroretinographic and electro-oculographic examination, as well as the genetic study of the affected families."}
{"id": "785652", "title": "Cystoid maculopathy.", "content": "Cystoid maculopathy. Cystoid macular edema has become the most common and troublesome complication following cataract extraction. New techniques in cataract extraction, such as phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implants have not eliminated the problem, and careful studies are needed to determine whether they exacerbate or diminish it. Cystoid macular edema occurs in many areas of ophthalmology: cataract surgery, retinal surgery, uveitis, ocular tumors, diabetes, and arteriosclerotic vascular disease. Every ophthalmologist must, therefore, be thoroughly acquainted with methods for its recognition and with the inflammatory and vascular factors in its development. Prognosis and treatment are discussed, and the major gaps in our present understanding of pathogenesis are indicated, including the manner by which the vitreous changes following lens extraction lead to inflammation and the reason for the specific susceptibility of the mascular and disc capillaries to the inflammatory stimulus. Some hypotheses are presented."}
