{"id": "25283742", "title": "Use of endoscopic ultrasound in the preoperative staging of gastric cancer: a multi-institutional study of the US gastric cancer collaborative.", "content": "Use of endoscopic ultrasound in the preoperative staging of gastric cancer: a multi-institutional study of the US gastric cancer collaborative. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) can be used to guide the therapeutic plan for patients with gastric adenocarcinoma (GAC), but data on its use and accuracy remain poorly defined. We sought to define the use of EUS, as well as characterize the diagnostic accuracy of EUS among patients with GAC. We identified 960 patients who underwent resection of GAC between 2000 and 2012 from 7 major academic institutions participating in the US Gastric Cancer Collaborative. Clinicopathologic and EUS data were collected and analyzed using chi and kappa statistics. Of 960 patients, 223 (23.2%) underwent evaluation with preoperative EUS. Among patients who underwent EUS, 74 (33.2%) received neoadjuvant chemotherapy; 149 (66.8%) proceeded directly to resection. Among patients who did not receive neoadjuvant therapy and received curative intent gastric resection, the EUS T classifications were T1 (33.3%), T2 (35.6%), T3 (18.9%), T4 (12.1%) and the N classifications were N0 (68.1%) and N \u2265 1 (31.9%). In contrast, when tumor stage was based on the final surgical specimen, there was a higher proportion of cases with more advanced T stage (T1, 36.4%; T2, 14.4%; T3, 23.5%; T4, 25.7%) and N stage (N0, 51.3%; N \u2265 1, 48.7%). The agreement of preoperative EUS compared with surgical staging for T (kappa\u00a0= 0.28, p < 0.001) and N (kappa\u00a0= 0.33, p < 0.001) classification was only fair. Less than one-quarter of patients with GAC underwent preoperative EUS staging. In patients who did not receive preoperative chemotherapy, tumor stage on EUS often did not correlate with T stage and N stage on final pathologic analysis. Endoscopic ultrasound should be combined with other staging modalities to optimize staging of patients with GAC."}
{"id": "24890418", "title": "EUS-guided, through-the-needle forceps biopsy: a novel tissue acquisition technique.", "content": "EUS-guided, through-the-needle forceps biopsy: a novel tissue acquisition technique."}
{"id": "25531999", "title": "Clinical usefulness of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration for gastric subepithelial lesions smaller than 2 cm.", "content": "Clinical usefulness of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration for gastric subepithelial lesions smaller than 2 cm. There is no evidence of postoperative metastasis of gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) smaller than 2 cm. The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical usefulness of endoscopic ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) for gastric subepithelial lesions (SELs) smaller than 2 cm. Using a prospectively maintained EUS-FNA database, 90 consecutive EUS-FNAs of gastric hypoechoic solid SELs smaller than 2 cm diagnosed by EUS were evaluated retrospectively. The reference standards for the final diagnosis were surgery (n=44) and/or clinical follow-up (n=46) using esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), CT, and/or ultrasonography (US). Additionally, immunophenotyping of specimens obtained by EUS-FNA and surgical resection specimens were compared. The diagnostic rate of EUS-FNA for gastric hypoechoic solid SELs smaller than 2 cm was 73% (66/90). Histological diagnosis of EUS-FNA showed 47 (52%) malignant SELs (44 GISTs, 1 glomus tumor, 1 SEL like cancer, and 1 malignant lymphoma), 19 (21%) benign SELs (14 leiomyomas, 4 ectopic pancreas, and 1 neurinoma), and 24 (27%) indeterminate SELs. In 44 surgically resected cases, the diagnostic accuracy of EUS-FNA using immunohistochemical analysis was 98% (43/44). There were no complications. Appropriate management was performed in 65 out of 66 SELs (98%) diagnosed by definitive EUS-FNA. After surgery, there was no recurrence of malignant SELs. EUS-FNA is an accurate and safe method in the pre-therapeutic diagnosis of gastric SELs smaller than 2 cm. EUS-FNA for gastric SELs smaller than 2 cm is a promising way to permit early management of patients with gastric SELs including GIST."}
{"id": "25526418", "title": "Gastric tuberculosis resembling depressed type, early gastric cancer.", "content": "Gastric tuberculosis resembling depressed type, early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "25518478", "title": "[Early gastric cancer and precancerous conditions diagnostics with confocal laser endomicroscopy].", "content": "[Early gastric cancer and precancerous conditions diagnostics with confocal laser endomicroscopy]. To develop endomicroscopic criteria of early gastric cancer and precancerous conditions 157 suspected for early gastric cancer patients were included in our study. In all cases complex endoscopic examination (narrow-band imaging NBI-HD endoscopy, endosonography (EUS) and endoscope-based confocal laser endomicroscopy (CLE) with precise biopsy) was performed. CLE images compared to pathology data. Precise criteria of intestinal metaplasia in CLE was presence of oval gray goblet cells in epithelium. Gastric adenoma with moderate dysplasia appeared on CLE images as glandular structures in mucosa surface layers. The signs of high-grade dysplastic changes in adenoma were appearing of different shape and size cells with lost polarity. Well-differentiated carcinoma featured destruction of some glands and forming dark cell clusters. Revealed criteria of poor-differentiated carcinoma was total disintegration of glandular structures. Overall accuracy of CLE in early gastric cancer and precancerous conditions diagnostics reached 95,6% (P < 0.001). Selected accuracy in different condition was: 100% in intestinal metaplasia identifying, 86.1%--in adenoma with moderate dysplasia, 96.2% in high-grade dysplasia and cancer in situ, and 100%--in poor-differentiated gastric carcinoma types). As the result of our study we have developed precise endomicroscopic criteria of intestinal metaplasia in stomach, gastric adenoma with moderate and high-grade dysplasia and early gastric cancer--as well-differentiated, as poor-differentiated."}
{"id": "25497562", "title": "Diagnostic imaging and endoscopic finding in dogs and cats with gastric tumors: a review.", "content": "Diagnostic imaging and endoscopic finding in dogs and cats with gastric tumors: a review. Medical imaging is an essential part of the diagnostic workup of many gastrointestinal disorders. This paper reviews imaging and endoscopy of gastric tumors in dogs and cats and the techniques used. The appearance of the normal as well as the various aspects of gastric tumors are described for these different modalities. Plain radiography is widely available but has limited diagnostic value. Contrast radiography has higher sensitivity but is laborious and time-consuming. Ultrasonography (if an adequate acoustic window is available), endosonography and endoscopy are the most appropriate modalities for diagnosing gastric tumors. They are especially useful when obtaining samples for cytologic or histopathologic examination, because the imaging modalities do not always differentiate between inflammatory or infectious conditions and neoplastic disorders. Hydro-helical CT was found helpful for evaluating the location and local invasiveness of the lesion. Ultrasonography and endoscopy are useful modalities for taking adequate biopsies. Die bildgebende Diagnostik ist ein wichtiger Teil zur Diagnosestellung von vielen gastrointestinalen Erkrankungen. Dieser Artikel gibt einen \u00dcberblick \u00fcber die verschiedenen bildgebenden Verfahren, die zur Identifizierung von Magentumoren bei Hunden und Katzen angewendet werden. Sowohl physiologische Erscheinungsbilder als auch pathologische Ver\u00e4nderungen werden beschrieben. R\u00f6ntgenaufnahmen sind im allgemeinen leicht verf\u00fcgbar, haben allerdings nur geringe diagnostische Aussagekraft. Kontraststudien haben einen h\u00f6heren diagnostischen Wert, sind aber zeitaufw\u00e4ndig und arbeitsintensiv. Ultraschall (falls ein ad\u00e4quates akustisches Fenster verf\u00fcgbar ist), Endosonographie und Endoskopie sind die zuverl\u00e4ssigsten diagnostischen Untersuchungsverfahren zur Identifikation von Magentumoren. Da die bildgebende Diagnostik nicht immer zwischen Entz\u00fcndung oder Neoplasie unterscheiden kann, sind sie besonders n\u00fctzlich zur Entnahme von cytologischen oder histopathologischen Proben. Hydro-helical CT ist hilfreich zur Feststellung der Lokalisation und Invasivitaet der L\u00e4sionen. Ultraschall und Endoskopie dienen vor allem zur ad\u00e4quaten Biopsieentnahme. L'imagerie diagnostique est un \u00e9l\u00e9ment important du diagnostic de nombreuses affections gastro-intestinales. Cet article donne un aper\u00e7u des diverses techniques d'imagerie qui peuvent \u00eatre utilis\u00e9es pour identifier des tumeurs gastriques chez le chien et le chat. On d\u00e9crit aussi bien les aspects physiologiques que les alt\u00e9rations pathologiques. Des clich\u00e9s radiographiques sont en g\u00e9n\u00e9ral facilement disponibles, ils n'ont toutefois qu'une valeur diagnostique limit\u00e9e. Les \u00e9tudes utilisant des moyens de contraste ont une meilleure valeur diagnostique mais n\u00e9cessitent du temps et de travail. L'\u00e9chographie (pour autant qu'on dispose d'une fen\u00eatre acoustique ad\u00e9quate), l'endosonographie et l'endoscopie sont les techniques diagnostiques les plus s\u00fbres pour identifier les tumeurs gastriques. Comme les techniques d'imagerie ne permettent pas toujours de diff\u00e9rencier entre inflammation et tumeur, elles sont particuli\u00e8rement utiles pour pr\u00e9lever des \u00e9chantillons pour la cytologie ou l'histopathologie. Le scanner hydro-h\u00e9lical est utile pour d\u00e9finir la localisation et l'extension d'une l\u00e9sion, alors que l'\u00e9chographie et l'endoscopie servent avant tout \u00e0 effectuer des biopsies ad\u00e9quates. La diagnostica per immagini \u00e8 una parte importante della diagnosi di molte malattie gastrointestinali. Questo articolo fornisce una panoramica delle varie tecniche di imaging utilizzate per l'identificazione di tumori gastrici in cani e gatti. Vengono descritti sia le manifestazioni fisiologiche che i cambiamenti patologici. I raggi X sono in genere facilmente disponibili, ma hanno poco valore diagnostico. Studi di contrasto hanno un valore diagnostico superiore, ma necessitano tempi lunghi e elaborazioni intense. Ultrasuoni (se un'adeguata area acustica disponibile), ecografia endoscopica e endoscopia sono i metodi di esame diagnostico pi\u00f9 affidabili per l'identificazione di tumori gastrici. Poich\u00e9 la diagnostica per immagini non sempre pu\u00f2 distinguere tra infiammazione e neooplasia, sono particolarmente utili per la rimozione di campioni citologici o istopatologici. Hydro-TC spirale \u00e8 di aiuto per determinare la localizzazione e l'invasivit\u00e0 delle lesioni. L'ecografia e l'endoscopia sono usate principalmente con un'adeguata biopsia."}
{"id": "25485917", "title": "Cancer of the ampulla of vater: current evaluation and therapy.", "content": "Cancer of the ampulla of vater: current evaluation and therapy. Ampullary cancer is a relatively rare cancer of the digestive tract. In contrast to pancreatic cancer, ampullary cancer is often curable if detected at an early stage. The evaluation and management of ampullary cancer is similar to, but distinct from, that of other pancreaticobiliary tumors. This manuscript will review the current evaluation, diagnosis, and therapy of patients with ampullary cancer. The diagnosis of ampullary cancer is complicated by its similar clinical presentation to pancreatic cancer as well as its nonspecific laboratory findings. Diagnostic modalities such as ERCP, EUS, and biopsy are necessary for differentiating the 2 cancers, and noninvasive imaging techniques such as MRI and CT may be used for tumor staging. Although pancreaticoduodenectomy is considered the primary curative surgical option, consensus guidelines regarding adjuvant and neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapies are lacking."}
{"id": "25418949", "title": "Gastric adenomyoma in the stomach body: a case report.", "content": "Gastric adenomyoma in the stomach body: a case report. Gastric adenomyoma is a rare benign tumor, known to occur in the antrum or pylorus of the stomach. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case reported in the literature of a gastric adenomyoma in the stomach body, but not in the antrum. We report the case of a 79-year-old Korean woman with a gastric subepithelial lesion in the stomach body. The lesion was observed via endoscopy as a bulging mass in the stomach body with a cystic center. It was confirmed via endoscopic ultrasonography. A laparoscopic wedge resection was performed. A biopsy revealed epithelial and smooth muscle proliferation, and a final diagnosis of gastric adenomyoma was made. Gastric adenomyoma can occur in the stomach body and can be treated completely with surgery."}
{"id": "25400740", "title": "Endoscopic interventional treatment for gastric schwannoma: a single-center experience.", "content": "Endoscopic interventional treatment for gastric schwannoma: a single-center experience. Endoscopic Interventional Treatment is of little trauma and less complications in the treatment of gastric schwannoma and leads to faster recovery and fewer days of hospitalization. This study was aimed to investigate the safety and efficacy of endoscopic interventional therapy for gastric schwannoma, including endoscopic submucosal excavation, non-laparoscopic-assisted endoscopic full-thickness resection, endoscopic tunneling submucosal resection, and so on. Six patients of gastric schwannoma diagnosed by pathology examination were retrospectively analyzed ranging from Oct 2011 to Feb 2014 at Shandong Provincial Hospital affiliated to Shandong University. Five of the six patients accepted endoscopic interventional therapy. Among the five patients, there were four males and one female, aged from 48 to 65 years old (the average age was 58 \u00b1 6.4). The lesions located at the fundus, the fundus-cardia, gastric body or gastric antrum, respectively, with the diameters ranged from 8 to 25 millimeter (the average was 17.1 \u00b1 7.8 mm). All the patients were performed endoscopic interventional therapy successfully. Among five patients, one patient was treated by endoscopic tunneling submucosal resection, two by endoscopic submucosal excavation, and the other two were given endoscopic full-thickness resection. Operation duration was about 43 to 83 minutes (the average was 57.6 \u00b1 16.1 minutes). The mass were completely removed, with limited bleeding. During the operation, perforation and pneumoperitoneum occurred in two patients, who finally recovered by endoscopic and conservative treatment. No bleeding, inflammation or infection occurred in these patients. The average follow-up time was (7.4 \u00b1 4.4) months. Neither recurrence nor metastasis was found during follow-up. Endoscopic interventional therapy is a safe and effective treatment for gastric schwannoma."}
{"id": "25400468", "title": "Adjuvant therapy sparing in rectal cancer achieving complete response after chemoradiation.", "content": "Adjuvant therapy sparing in rectal cancer achieving complete response after chemoradiation. To evaluate the long-term results of conventional chemoradiotherapy and laparoscopic mesorectal excision in rectal adenocarcinoma patients without adjuvant therapy. Patients with biopsy-proven adenocarcinoma of the rectum staged cT3-T4 by endoscopic ultrasound or magnetic resonance imaging received neoadjuvant continuous infusion of 5-fluorouracil for five weeks and concomitant radiotherapy. Laparoscopic surgery was planned after 5-8 wk. Patients diagnosed with ypT0N0 stage cancer were not treated with adjuvant therapy according to the protocol. Patients with ypT1-2N0 or ypT3-4 or N+ were offered 5-fluorouracil-based adjuvant treatment on an individual basis. An external cohort was used as a reference for the findings. One hundred and seventy six patients were treated with induction chemoradiotherapy and 170 underwent total mesorectal excision. Cancer staging of ypT0N0 was achieved in 26/170 (15.3%) patients. After a median follow-up of 58.3 mo, patients with ypT0N0 had five-year disease-free and overall survival rates of 96% (95%CI: 77-99) and 100%, respectively. We provide evidence about the natural history of patients with localized rectal cancer achieving a complete response after preoperative chemoradiation. The inherent good prognosis of these patients will have implications for clinical trial design and care of patients. Withholding adjuvant chemotherapy after complete response following standard neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and laparoscopic mesorectal excision might be safe within an experienced multidisciplinary team."}
{"id": "25400441", "title": "Utility of PET/CT in diagnosis, staging, assessment of resectability and metabolic response of pancreatic cancer.", "content": "Utility of PET/CT in diagnosis, staging, assessment of resectability and metabolic response of pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic cancer is one of the most common gastrointestinal tumors, with its incidence staying at a high level in both the United States and China. However, the overall 5-year survival rate of pancreatic cancer is still extremely low. Surgery remains the only potential chance for long-term survival. Early diagnosis and precise staging are crucial to make proper clinical decision for surgery candidates. Despite advances in diagnostic technology such as computed tomography (CT) and endoscopic ultrasound, diagnosis, staging and monitoring of the metabolic response remain a challenge for this devastating disease. Positron emission tomography/CT (PET/CT), a relatively novel modality, combines metabolic detection with anatomic information. It has been widely used in oncology and achieves good results in breast cancer, lung cancer and lymphoma. Its utilization in pancreatic cancer has also been widely accepted. However, the value of PET/CT in pancreatic disease is still controversial. Will PET/CT change the treatment strategy for potential surgery candidates? What kind of patients benefits most from this exam? In this review, we focus on the utility of PET/CT in diagnosis, staging, and assessment of resectability of pancreatic cancer. In addition, its ability to monitor metabolic response and recurrence after treatment will be emphasis of discussion. We hope to provide answers to the questions above, which clinicians care most about."}
{"id": "25384293", "title": "AIRP best cases in radiologic-pathologic correlation: gastroblastoma: a rare biphasic gastric tumor.", "content": "AIRP best cases in radiologic-pathologic correlation: gastroblastoma: a rare biphasic gastric tumor."}
{"id": "25347506", "title": "Can we predict complete or major response after chemoradiotherapy for rectal cancer by noninvasive methods? Results of a prospective study on 61 patients.", "content": "Can we predict complete or major response after chemoradiotherapy for rectal cancer by noninvasive methods? Results of a prospective study on 61 patients. Rectal preservation has been proposed as an alternative to radical resection in patients with presumed complete or major response to chemoradiotherapy (CRT). The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate the accuracy of digital rectal examination (DRE) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to predict major or complete rectal cancer response to CRT. Over 2 years, 61 patients underwent radical resection after CRT for rectal cancer. DRE and MRI were carried out before and 6 to 8 weeks after the end of CRT. Data from DRE and MRI post-CRT were compared with pathological examinations. At pathological examination, major/complete responses were recorded for tumors classified ypT1N0 and ypT0N0, respectively. DRE post-CRT showed major/complete response in 26 cases, of which 14 (54%) were confirmed by pathology. The positive (PPV) and negative (NPV) predictive values of DRE to predict major/complete response were 54 and 88 per cent, respectively. MRI post-CRT showed major/complete response in 12 cases, of which nine (75%) were confirmed by pathology. The PPV and NPV of MRI to predict major/complete response were 75 and 82 per cent, respectively. Data from DRE and RMI post-CRT were concordant in 45 patients. The PPV and NPV of concordant DRE and MRI to predict major/complete response were 82 and 91 per cent, respectively. DRE and MRI do not appear to be sufficiently accurate for safe selection of patients appropriate for a rectum-sparing strategy because the risk of leaving an invasive tumor untreated is 18 per cent."}
{"id": "25333398", "title": "American Pancreatic Association Practice Guidelines in Chronic Pancreatitis: evidence-based report on diagnostic guidelines.", "content": "American Pancreatic Association Practice Guidelines in Chronic Pancreatitis: evidence-based report on diagnostic guidelines. The diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis remains challenging in early stages of the disease. This report defines the diagnostic criteria useful in the assessment of patients with suspected and established chronic pancreatitis. All current diagnostic procedures are reviewed, and evidence-based statements are provided about their utility and limitations. Diagnostic criteria for chronic pancreatitis are classified as definitive, probable, or insufficient evidence. A diagnostic (STEP-wise; survey, tomography, endoscopy, and pancreas function testing) algorithm is proposed that proceeds from a noninvasive to a more invasive approach. This algorithm maximizes specificity (low false-positive rate) in subjects with chronic abdominal pain and equivocal imaging changes. Furthermore, a nomenclature is suggested to further characterize patients with established chronic pancreatitis based on TIGAR-O (toxic, idiopathic, genetic, autoimmune, recurrent, and obstructive) etiology, gland morphology (Cambridge criteria), and physiologic state (exocrine, endocrine function) for uniformity across future multicenter research collaborations. This guideline will serve as a baseline manuscript that will be modified as new evidence becomes available and our knowledge of chronic pancreatitis improves."}
{"id": "25320516", "title": "New approaches to gastric cancer staging: beyond endoscopic ultrasound, computed tomography and positron emission tomography.", "content": "New approaches to gastric cancer staging: beyond endoscopic ultrasound, computed tomography and positron emission tomography. Currently, there is no single gold standard modality for staging of gastric cancer and several methods have been used complementarily in the each clinical situation. To make up for the shortcomings of conventional modalities such as endoscopic ultrasound, computed tomography and (18)F-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography, numerous attempts with new approaches have been made for gastric cancer staging. For T staging, magnifying endoscopy with narrow-band was evaluated to differentiate mucosal cancer from submucosal cancer. Single/double contrast-enhanced ultrasound and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging were also tried to improve diagnostic accuracy of gastric cancer. For intraoperative staging with sentinel node mapping, indocyanine green infrared and fluorescence imaging was introduced. In addition, to detect micrometastasis, real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction system with multiple markers was studied. Staging laparoscopy using 5-aminolevulinic acid-mediated photodynamic diagnosis and percutaneous diagnostic peritoneal lavage were also evaluated. However, most studies reporting new staging methods is preliminary and further studies for validation in clinical practice are needed. In this mini-review, we discuss new progress in gastric cancer staging. Especially, we focus on new diagnostic approach to gastric cancer staging beyond the conventional modalities and briefly review the remarkable clinical results of the studies published over the past three years."}
{"id": "25320515", "title": "Is endoscopic ultrasonography still the modality of choice in preoperative staging of gastric cancer?", "content": "Is endoscopic ultrasonography still the modality of choice in preoperative staging of gastric cancer? The treatment option for gastric cancer is usually based on preoperative staging by imaging modalities. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and computed tomography (CT) have been used as the diagnostic modality of choice in preoperative staging of gastric cancer. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been employed in several studies, and ((18)F) 2-Fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) has emerged as a new promising imaging modality. The purpose of this article is to provide summarized information on preoperative staging using EUS, multi-detector row CT (MDCT), MRI and PET for gastric cancer. In T staging, both EUS and MDCT show high accuracy. MRI seemed to have better performance, but the number of MRI studies is limited. FDG-PET is not able to properly evaluate the depth of invasion. In N staging, the diagnostic accuracy of EUS, MDCT and MRI is not sufficient. In preoperative M staging, MDCT and FDG-PET showed similar diagnostic accuracies. FDG-PET/CT fusion could be expected to show better performance in the future. Physicians should keep in mind that each diagnostic modality has advantages and limitations and choose an appropriate diagnostic strategy tailored for each patient."}
{"id": "25310426", "title": "New TNM staging system for esophageal cancer: what chest radiologists need to know.", "content": "New TNM staging system for esophageal cancer: what chest radiologists need to know. Esophageal cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, and the 5-year relative survival rate remains less than 20% in the United States. The treatment of esophageal cancer should be stage specific for better clinical outcomes. Recent treatment paradigms tend to involve a multimodality approach to management, which includes surgical resection and preoperative or definitive chemoradiation therapy. Accurate pretreatment staging of esophageal cancer is integral for assessing operability and determining a suitable treatment plan. The American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC) have published the seventh edition of the staging manual for cancer in the esophagus and esophagogastric junction. Unlike the sixth edition, the revised staging manual is data driven and harmonized with the staging of stomach cancer. Improvements include new definitions for the anatomic classifications Tis, T4, regional lymph node, N, and M and the addition of nonanatomic cancer characteristics (histopathologic cell type, histologic grade, and cancer location). Given the recent increase in the incidence of adenocarcinoma of the distal esophagus, esophagogastric junction, and gastric cardia, the staging of tumors in the esophagogastric junction has been addressed. Radiologists must understand the details of the seventh edition of the AJCC-UICC staging system for esophageal cancer and use appropriate imaging modalities, such as computed tomography (CT), endoscopic ultrasonography, and positron emission tomography/CT, for initial staging."}
{"id": "25292061", "title": "AIDS-related non-Hodgkin lymphoma: imaging feature analysis of 27 cases and correlation with pathologic findings.", "content": "AIDS-related non-Hodgkin lymphoma: imaging feature analysis of 27 cases and correlation with pathologic findings. Some tumor types are related to HIV, including non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). The morbidity and mortality of NHL has remained high, even after highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) was introduced. We collected cases of AIDS with NHL, and evaluated the imaging features and strategies for diagnosis. There were 27 patients with AIDS and tumors confirmed by pathology. There were 9 patients with Burkitt lymphoma, 16 with diffuse large B cell lymphomas (DLBCLs), and 2 with primary central nervous system (PCNS) lymphomas. All of the patients underwent a series of imaging studies. Three radiologists analyzed the images, and any disagreement was discussed until consensus was reached. The radiologic manifestations of AIDS with NHL were mainly masses and lymphadenopathy, 3 patients having one mass and 12 two or more masses. 7 patients had lymphadenopathy in one site and 3patients had lymphadenopathy in two or more sites. Coarse mucosal folds, thickening of the gastrointestinal wall, and lumen narrowing were typical manifestations of NHL within the gastrointestinal tract. There were 4 patients with masses and 5 with lymphadenopathy inthe 9 with Burkitt lymphoma, and 11 patients with masses 5 with lymphadenopathy in the 16 with DLBCLs. NHL is a malignancy that usually occurs in patients with AIDS. Imaging is an important method by which to evaluate lesions, masses, and lymphadenopathy. Fine needle aspiration biopsy and stereotaxis biopsy are useful methods by which to diagnose NHL."}
{"id": "25283226", "title": "[A case report of endosonography used for the diagnosis of early gastric cancer and gastrointestinal stromal tumor].", "content": "[A case report of endosonography used for the diagnosis of early gastric cancer and gastrointestinal stromal tumor]. A 79-year-old man was referred to our hospital complaining of weight loss. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy revealed a flat, elevated lesion of 30-mm diameter located on the posterior wall of the upper gastric body. The lesion was histologically diagnosed as a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma. Endosonography showed a submucosal tumor under the carcinoma, which was highly suspicious of a gastrointestinal tumor derived from the muscle layer. Adenocarcinoma was diagnosed as an intramucosal lesion, but laparoscopic fundectomy was performed because of the submucosal tumor. Pathological diagnosis was U, less, pType 0-IIa, 18\u00d730 mm, pT1b (SM1), tub2, int, INFa, ly0, v0, pN0, H0, P0, CYX, M0, pStage IA, gastrointestinal stromal tumors, prognostic group 1."}
{"id": "25278693", "title": "Endoscopic features of gastro-intestinal lymphomas: from diagnosis to follow-up.", "content": "Endoscopic features of gastro-intestinal lymphomas: from diagnosis to follow-up. Many progresses have been done in the management of gastrointestinal (GI) lymphomas during last decades, especially after the discovery of Helicobacter pylori-dependent lymphoma development. The stepwise implementation of new endoscopic techniques, by means of echoendoscopy or double-balloon enteroscopy, enabled us to more precisely describe the endoscopic features of GI lymphomas with substantial contribution in patient management and in tailoring the treatment strategy with organ preserving approaches. In this review, we describe the recent progresses in GI lymphoma management from disease diagnosis to follow-up with a specific focus on the endoscopic presentation according to the involved site and the lymphoma subtype. Additionally, new or emerging endoscopic technologies that have an impact on the management of gastrointestinal lymphomas are reported. We here discuss the two most common subtypes of GI lymphomas: the mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue and the diffuse large B cell lymphoma. A general outline on the state-of-the-art of the disease and on the role of endoscopy in both diagnosis and follow-up will be performed."}
{"id": "25234769", "title": "[Gastroenteropancreatic endocrine tumors].", "content": "[Gastroenteropancreatic endocrine tumors]. Gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NET) are a rare, heterogeneous group of neoplasms. Only 2% of gastrointestinal tumors belong to the group of neuroendocrine neoplasms. A wide spectrum of diagnostic imaging modalities is available: apart from ultrasound not only computed tomography (CT) but also magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography CT (PET-CT) play an important role in detection and staging of GEP-NETs. The PET-CT technique with somatostatin analogues is used for staging as well as for evaluation and monitoring of treatment with peptide radionuclide radiation therapy. According to the literature NETs of the small bowel with a size over 3 cm can be detected with a sensitivity of 84.7% and a specificity of 96.6% using CT enteroclysis and MR enteroclysis provides the detection of NETs of the small bowel in 93.3% of cases. 'The sensitivity of MRI in detection of pancreatic NETs is between 74% and 100% and is, therefore, higher than CT. Detection of small primary tumors is carried out using PET-CT and seems to be the most sensitive imaging modality to identify the exact location. On the other hand MRI has to be regarded as the best imaging modality for detection of liver metastases compared to CT and PET-CT. The role of diagnostic imaging is to identify the exact location of the primary tumor and possible metastases, to define an appropriate therapy and to monitor treatment effects; however, the choice of the most appropriate diagnostic imaging modality varies depending on the location and type of the primary tumor. The GEP-NETs are predominantly well-vascularized; therefore, dual-phase CT/MR imaging with the arterial and venous phases after contrast media injection is mandatory for detection and localization of primary tumors and metastases. For whole body staging CT and PET-CT should be performed."}
{"id": "25206285", "title": "Clinical presentations of gastric small gastrointestinal stromal tumors mimics functional dyspepsia symptoms.", "content": "Clinical presentations of gastric small gastrointestinal stromal tumors mimics functional dyspepsia symptoms. To explore whether clinical presentations of gastric small gastrointestinal tumors (GISTs) mimics gastrointestinal dyspepsia symptoms. The endosonographic data of 167 patients who underwent endoscopic submucosal dissection at the Tianjin Medical University General Hospital, China between 2009 and 2011 were analyzed. GISTs and leiomyomas had a similar intragastric distribution and similar locations within the gastric wall. Therefore, patients with GISTs were chosen as the study group and those with leiomyomas were chosen as the control group. Dyspepsia symptom questionnaires were used to investigate and compare the gastrointestinal symptoms of patients with GISTs and those with gastric leiomyomas before and after endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD). The questionnaires evaluated symptoms such as epigastric pain, heartburn, regurgitation, epigastric discomfort, nausea and vomiting, abdominal bloating, and eructation. Symptoms were assessed using a four-point scoring scale. GISTs were the most common gastric submucosal lesion (67 cases, 40.12%), followed by leiomyomas (38 cases, 22.75%). Both groups were similar in terms of gender distribution (P = 0.49), intragastric location (P = 0.525), and originating layer within the gastric wall (P = 0.449), but leiomyomas were more commonly found in the proximal fundus (P < 0.05). Overall, 94.2% of the patients with small GISTs and 93.5% of those with gastric leiomyomas experienced some dyspepsia; however, total symptom scores were significantly lower in the GIST group than in the leiomyoma group (1.34 \u00b1 1.27 vs 2.20 \u00b1 1.70, P < 0.05). Each component of the symptom score demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in the GIST patients after ESD (P < 0.05), including epigastric pain (0.80 \u00b1 0.90 vs 0.13 \u00b1 0.46), heartburn (0.63 \u00b1 1.08 vs 0.13 \u00b1 0.41), regurgitation (0.55 \u00b1 0.87 vs 0.22 \u00b1 0.57), epigastric discomfort (0.70 \u00b1 0.98 vs 0.32 \u00b1 0.47), nausea and vomiting (0.27 \u00b1 0.62 vs 0.05 \u00b1 0.21), abdominal bloating (0.70 \u00b1 0.90 vs 0.27 \u00b1 0.49), and eructation (0.36 \u00b1 0.61 vs 0.21 \u00b1 0.46). For leiomyoma patients, symptoms such as heartburn, nausea, vomiting, and eructation improved after treatment; however, these improvements were not statistically significant (P > 0.05). Thus, the pathophysiology of dyspepsia symptoms may be different between the two groups. Symptoms of gastric small GISTs may mimic those of functional dyspepsia. An alternative diagnosis should be considered in patients with functional dyspepsia and treatment failure."}
{"id": "25162448", "title": "Assessing transgastric Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery prior to clinical implementation.", "content": "Assessing transgastric Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery prior to clinical implementation. The objective was to investigate whether transgastric Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES) could be implemented safely in clinical practice. The experimental studies proved ultrasonography guided access through the stomach to be feasible and safe without iatrogenic complications. Although the technique was safe, further development is needed to increase reproducibility and reduce the procedural time used for gaining access. Closing the gastrotomy after the procedure can be performed easily by application of an endoscopic clip (Over-The-Scope-Clip). Microscopic evaluation of excised gastrorrhaphies revealed that sufficient healing had been achieved after long-term follow-up. A fundamental problem with TG peritoneoscopy is the lack of NOTES specific endoscopes. With the combination of intraluminal EUS and peritoneoscopy with extraluminal EUS, it was possible to achieve sufficient visualisation of anatomical structures of interest in the diagnostics and staging of upper gastrointestinal cancers. Another problem with TG NOTES is the risk of intra-abdominal infections. Using a multimodal decontamination regimen reduced the rate of intra-abdominal pathology, but the risk of intra-abdominal abscess formation as a result of contamination from the access route was still present. To reduce this contamination, mouthwash with chlorhexidine was effective in a human randomised study. The same study also found significant higher bacterial load in the stomach of patients using proton pump inhibitor, emphasising the need to pause PPI prior to future TG interventions. Whether the risk of infectious complications after TG NOTES is comparable between animals and humans is debatable. Despite this, the subject of infectious complications and the safety profile of the TG technique require further research. Based on the evidence available in the literature and current experience, clinical implementation to the benefit of patients does not seem justifiable at present time."}
{"id": "25132764", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography for rectal neuroendocrine neoplasms.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography for rectal neuroendocrine neoplasms. To investigate the diagnostic accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) for rectal neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs) and the differential diagnosis of rectal NENs from other subepithelial lesions (SELs). The study group consisted of 36 consecutive patients with rectal NENs histopathologically diagnosed using biopsy and/or resected specimens. The control group consisted of 31 patients with homochronous rectal non-NEN SELs confirmed by pathology. Epithelial lesions such as cancer and adenoma were excluded from this study. One EUS expert blinded to the histological results reviewed the ultrasonic images. The size, original layer, echoic intensity and homogeneity of the lesions and the perifocal structures were investigated. The single EUS diagnosis recorded by the EUS expert was compared with the histological results. All NENs were located at the rectum 2-10 cm from the anus and appeared as nodular (n = 12), round (n = 19) or egg-shaped (n = 5) lesions with a hypoechoic (n = 7) or intermediate (n = 29) echo pattern and a distinct border. Tumors ranged in size from 2.3 to 13.7 mm, with an average size of 6.8 mm. Homogeneous echogenicity was seen in all tumors except three. Apart from three patients (stage T2 in two and stage T3 in one), the tumors were located in the second and/or third wall layer without involvement of the fourth and fifth layers. In the patients with stage T1 disease, the tumors were located in the second wall layer only in seven cases, the third wall layer only in two cases, and both the second and third wall layers in 27 cases. Approximately 94.4% (34/36) of rectal NENs were diagnosed correctly by EUS, and 74.2% (23/31) of other rectal SELs were classified correctly as non-NENs. Eight cases of other SELs were misdiagnosed as NENs, including two cases of inflammatory lesions and one case each of gastrointestinal tumor, endometriosis, metastatic tumor, lymphoma, neurilemmoma, and hemangioma. The positive predictive value of EUS for rectal NENs was 80.9% (34/42), the negative predictive value was 92.0% (23/25), and the diagnostic accuracy was 85.1%. EUS has satisfactory diagnostic accuracy for rectal NENs with good sensitivity, but unfavorable specificity, making the differential diagnosis of NENs from other SELs challenging."}
{"id": "25127939", "title": "Endoscopy innovations.", "content": "Endoscopy innovations."}
{"id": "25121627", "title": "Gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumor lost in the peritoneum after endoscopic resection.", "content": "Gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumor lost in the peritoneum after endoscopic resection."}
{"id": "25111136", "title": "Deep biopsy via endoscopic submucosal dissection in upper gastrointestinal subepithelial tumors: a prospective study.", "content": "Deep biopsy via endoscopic submucosal dissection in upper gastrointestinal subepithelial tumors: a prospective study. Preoperative pathological diagnosis may improve clinical management decisions in patients with upper gastrointestinal subepithelial tumors (SETs). The aims of this study were to evaluate the diagnostic yield of deep biopsy via an endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) technique, the complications associated with the procedure, and the impact on management of patients with upper gastrointestinal SETs. A total of 68 patients with SETs in the stomach or esophagus were voluntarily assigned to two groups. One group underwent endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and endoscopic deep biopsy using the ESD technique (40 patients), and the other group (28 patients) underwent surgical resection after EUS without obtaining preoperative pathological diagnosis, in accordance with accepted clinical management algorithms. The diagnostic yield of deep biopsy was 90\u200a% (36/40). The results of deep biopsy changed the treatment plans in 14/40 patients (35\u200a%). One patient with lymphoepithelial carcinoma was scheduled for surgical resection, and 13 patients with benign SETs of diameter \u2265 \u200a2\u200acm avoided surgery. Of the 28 patients who underwent surgical resection without preoperative pathological diagnosis, 12 (42.9\u200a%) were confirmed to have benign lesions. The mean procedure time for deep biopsy was 13.7 minutes. There were no procedure-related complications in the deep biopsy group.\u200a Deep biopsy by the ESD technique is a safe, high-yield, diagnostic method in patients with upper gastrointestinal SETs. Pathologic confirmation could improve clinical decision making in the management of patients with upper gastrointestinal SETs. NCT 01993199."}
{"id": "25110449", "title": "Imaging findings of primary gastric plasmacytoma: a case report.", "content": "Imaging findings of primary gastric plasmacytoma: a case report. Primary gastric plasmacytoma (GP) is a rare extramedullary plasmacytoma with clinical and imaging features that are common among other gastric tumors, such as gastric adenocarcinomas, gastric stromal tumors, and lymphomas. Here, we present a histologically con\ufb01rmed case of primary GP examined with biphasic computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and endosonography. A well-circumscribed extraluminal mass appearing as homogeneous attenuation/intensity with gradual enhancement was identified on biphasic enhancement CT and MRI. This mass was hyperintense on diffusion-weighted imaging and hypointense on the apparent diffusion coefficient map, implying that water diffusion in the mass was restricted. In addition, endosonography indicated a low echogenic mass in the gastric wall. These imaging findings increase the available knowledge about imaging of this disease and provide valuable information for differentiating primary GP from common gastric tumors."}
{"id": "25090461", "title": "Burkitt lymphoma presenting as multifocal doughnut-shaped masses in the stomach of a patient with AIDS.", "content": "Burkitt lymphoma presenting as multifocal doughnut-shaped masses in the stomach of a patient with AIDS."}
{"id": "25083097", "title": "Endoscopic submucosal tunnel dissection salvage technique for ulcerative early gastric cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic submucosal tunnel dissection salvage technique for ulcerative early gastric cancer. Endoscopic submucosal dissection is an effective treatment modality for early gastric cancer (EGC), though the submucosal fibrosis found in ulcerative EGC is an obstacle for successful treatment. This report presents two cases of ulcerative EGC in two males, 73- and 80-year-old, with severe fibrosis. As endoscopic ultrasonography suggested that the EGCs had invaded the submucosal layer, the endoscopic submucosal tunnel dissection salvage technique was utilized for complete resection of the lesions. Although surgical gastrectomy was originally scheduled, the two patients had severe coronary heart disease, and surgeries were refused because of the risks associated with their heart conditions. The endoscopic submucosal tunnel dissection salvage technique procedures described in these cases were performed under conscious sedation, and were completed within 30 min. The complete en bloc resection of EGC using endoscopic submucosal tunnel dissection salvage technique was possible with a free resection margin, and no other complications were noted during the procedure. This is the first known report concerning the use of the endoscopic submucosal tunnel dissection salvage technique salvage technique for treatment of ulcerative EGC. We demonstrate that endoscopic submucosal tunnel dissection salvage technique it is a feasible method showing several advantages over endoscopic submucosal dissection for cases of EGC with fibrosis."}
{"id": "25076782", "title": "Gastric glomus tumor diagnosed by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy: report of a case.", "content": "Gastric glomus tumor diagnosed by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy: report of a case. A glomus tumor of the stomach is rare. It is difficult to diagnose the tumor before surgery by only endoscopic biopsy and radiography, and there is no established method of diagnosis before surgical treatment. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) on a 50-year-old Japanese woman revealed a 10 mm submucosal tumor in the anterior wall of the gastric angle. Follow-up EGD revealed an increase in the size of the tumor to 15mm. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) demonstrated a 15mm subepithelial hypoechoic solid tumor with continuity to the proper muscle layer. Histologic diagnosis by endoscopic ultrasonography guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) was glomus tumor. The tumor was treated by laparoscopic local resection. The histologic diagnosis of the resected tumor was similar to the preoperative EUS-FNA results. EUS-FNA would appear to be an effective histologic test for early diagnosis of gastric glomus tumor."}
{"id": "25071361", "title": "Undiagnosed Borrmann type II gastric cancer due to necrosis and regenerative epithelium.", "content": "Undiagnosed Borrmann type II gastric cancer due to necrosis and regenerative epithelium. Endoscopic biopsy is essential to the proper diagnosis and treatment of gastric cancer. Unfortunately, the results of endoscopic biopsy are not always the same as what is expected based on gross endoscopic findings. The results of endoscopic biopsy can be negative for malignancy in Borrmann type IV advanced gastric cancer (AGCa) or gastric lymphoma. However, in the case of type II AGCa, repeated biopsies negative for malignancy have not been reported. A 49-year-old male patient underwent esophagogastroduodenoscopy three times due to large gastric ulcer suspected to be Borrmann type II cancer. However, three repeat endoscopic biopsies with multiple specimens showed necrosis and superficial regenerative epithelium without malignant findings. The patient underwent laparoscopic distal gastrectomy with D2 lymph node dissection. The surgical specimen revealed that the mucosal layer was completely replaced with regenerative epithelium without cancer cells."}
{"id": "25036658", "title": "Transcardiac tunneling technique for endoscopic submucosal dissection of gastric fundus tumors arising from the muscularis propria.", "content": "Transcardiac tunneling technique for endoscopic submucosal dissection of gastric fundus tumors arising from the muscularis propria. The promising endoscopic resection techniques for upper gastrointestinal submucosal tumors (SMTs) are challenged when performed in the gastric fundus. Here, we report on the development of a transcardiac endoscopic tunneling technique (TCTT) for the resection of tumors in this area. A total of 18 patients with gastric fundus SMTs arising from the muscularis propria on endoscopic ultrasound underwent TCTT. The procedure involved the excavation of a submucosal tunnel from the esophagus, through the cardia, to the gastric SMT for resection. The tunnel was closed by clips after retrieval of the tumor. The mean tumor size was 2.1\u200acm (range 0.8\u200a-\u200a5.0\u200acm). The mean procedure time was 75.1 minutes (range 40\u200a-\u200a100 minutes). Complete resection was achieved in all cases. Iatrogenic perforation occurred in one case. This and one other patient developed mild pneumoperitoneum on the day after the procedure; symptoms resolved under conservative management. No patient developed gastrointestinal leakage, delayed bleeding, or secondary infection. Therefore, in this pilot study, TCTT provided a definitive histological diagnosis as well as a feasible, safe, and easy therapeutic approach for gastric fundus SMTs arising from muscularis propria in the circular area within 8\u200acm below the cardia."}
{"id": "25009400", "title": "Endoscopic full-thickness resection and laparoscopic surgery for treatment of gastric stromal tumors.", "content": "Endoscopic full-thickness resection and laparoscopic surgery for treatment of gastric stromal tumors. To assess the effectiveness of endoscopic full-thickness resection (EFR) and laparoscopic surgery in the treatment of gastric stromal tumors arising from the muscularis propria. Out of 62 gastric stromal tumors arising from the muscularis propria, each > 1.5 cm in diameter, 32 were removed by EFR, and 30 were removed by laparoscopic surgery. The tumor expression of CD34, CD117, Dog-1, S-100, and SMA was assessed immunohistochemically. The operative time, complete resection rate, length of hospital stay, incidence of complications, and recurrence rate were compared between the two groups. Continuous data were compared using independent samples t-tests, and categorical data were compared using \u03c7 (2) tests. The 32 gastric stromal tumors treated by EFR and the 30 treated by laparoscopic surgery showed similar operative time [20-155 min (mean, 78.5 \u00b1 30.1 min) vs 50-120 min (mean, 80.9 \u00b1 46.7 min), P > 0.05], complete resection rate (100% vs 93.3%, P > 0.05), and length of hospital stay [4-10 d (mean, 5.9 \u00b1 1.4 d) vs 4-19 d (mean, 8.9 \u00b1 3.2 d), P >0.05]. None of the patients treated by EFR experienced complications, whereas two patients treated by laparoscopy required a conversion to laparotomy, and one patient had postoperative gastroparesis. No recurrences were observed in either group. Immunohistochemical staining showed that of the 62 gastric stromal tumors diagnosed by gastroscopy and endoscopic ultrasound, six were leiomyomas (SMA-positive), one was a schwannoglioma (S-100 positive), and the remaining 55 were stromal tumors. Some gastric stromal tumors arising from the muscularis propria can be completely removed by EFR. EFR could likely replace surgical or laparoscopic procedures for the removal of gastric stromal tumors."}
{"id": "25000218", "title": "Staging of esophageal and gastric cancer in 2014.", "content": "Staging of esophageal and gastric cancer in 2014. Cancers of the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract; esophageal and gastric carcinomas are highly lethal malignancies that have been ranked among the top 10 most frequent cancers and leading causes of cancer-related mortality. Universally, the tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) staging systems provided by the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and the International Union Against Cancer (UICC) are used for esophageal and gastric cancers. Accurate locoregional staging has become critical for the application of appropriate stage-specific treatment options in the multimodality treatment era in order to achieve better patient outcomes. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) represents a valuable minimally invasive real-time imaging modality for the assessment of upper GI tract tumors providing evidence for tumor invasion depth and regional nodal involvement corresponding to the T and N status of the TNM staging system, but a clear understanding of its diagnostic performance, limits and complementary role to other imaging modalities is required. This review will focus on the literature about the role and value of EUS in the TNM staging of esophageal and gastric carcinoma. In addition, an overview of the description of the current 7th editions of TNM staging and the revisions of the last editions compared to previous editions are presented."}
{"id": "24906096", "title": "Pancreatic metastasis from gastric carcinoma diagnosed by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration.", "content": "Pancreatic metastasis from gastric carcinoma diagnosed by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration."}
{"id": "24895557", "title": "The role of hemoclips reinforcement in the ligation-assisted endoscopic enucleation for small GISTs in gastric fundus.", "content": "The role of hemoclips reinforcement in the ligation-assisted endoscopic enucleation for small GISTs in gastric fundus. Endoscopic ultrasonography- (EUS-) assisted band ligation has been proven to be a safe and effective procedure for the treatment of small gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) apart from the relatively high risk of the postligation perforation of the gastric fundus. The aim of this study is to investigate the efficacy of hemoclip reinforcement in treating small GISTs in the gastric fundus. During a standard endoscopy, a transparent cap attached to the endoscopic tip was placed over the lesion to exert sustained maximal aspiration before a rubber band was released. Once a definite ligation was confirmed by EUS, the tumor was enucleated. Four to 6 hemoclips were placed on the folds around the ligation band to reduce the tension of the ligation site. The small GISTs were resected completely in 192 patients. Two cases of delayed perforation were found 72 hours after the procedure and successfully treated with an ordinary conservative method. Hemoclip-reinforced endoscopic band ligation with systematic follow-up using EUS appears to be a simple and effective technique for the resection of small GISTs in the gastric fundus."}
{"id": "24789149", "title": "Oesophageal papillomatosis, not amenable to endoscopic therapies, treated with oesophagectomy.", "content": "Oesophageal papillomatosis, not amenable to endoscopic therapies, treated with oesophagectomy. Oesophageal papillomatosis is a very rare entity, with only 10 cases (including ours) reported in the literature. We report a 51-year-old man with a 25-year history of dysphagia with solids and liquids who failed a trial of proton pump inhibitors and fluticasone. His initial endoscopy revealed a viliform mass with dense eosinophilic infiltrate without neoplasia. Endoscopic ultrasound examination revealed a 4\u00d71.6\u00d70.7 cm mucosal hemicircumferential lesion without regional adenopathy. Pathological findings from the oesophagectomy specimen confirmed oesophageal papillomatosis with no malignancy. Surveillance endoscopy 4 months later revealed the lesion had increased in size. Additional ablative therapies failed, and the patient underwent oesophagectomy. Surveillance CT of the chest and abdomen at 3 months and oesophagogastroduodenoscopy at 6 months were negative. This case illustrates that oesophageal squamous papillomatosis not amenable to medical therapy requires surgical treatment."}
{"id": "24784121", "title": "Diagnosis and management of pancreatic cancer.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic cancer remains the fourth leading cause of cancer-related deaths in the United States. Risk factors include family history, smoking, chronic pancreatitis, obesity, diabetes mellitus, heavy alcohol use, and possible dietary factors. Because more than two-thirds of adenocarcinomas occur in the head of the pancreas, abdominal pain, jaundice, pruritus, dark urine, and acholic stools may be presenting symptoms. In symptomatic patients, the serum tumor marker cancer antigen 19-9 can be used to confirm the diagnosis and to predict prognosis and recurrence after resection. Pancreas protocol computed tomography is considered standard for the diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer. Although surgical resection is the only potentially curative treatment for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas, less than 20% of surgical candidates survive five years. The decision on resectability requires multidisciplinary consultation. Pancreatic resections should be performed at institutions that complete at least 15 of the surgeries annually. Postoperatively, use of gemcitabine or fluorouracil/leucovorin as adjuvant chemotherapy improves overall survival by several months. However, more than 80% of patients present with disease that is not surgically resectable. For patients with locally advanced or metastatic disease, chemoradiotherapy with gemcitabine or irinotecan provides clinical benefit and modest survival improvement. Palliation should address pain control, biliary and gastric outlet obstruction, malnutrition, thromboembolic disease, and depression."}
{"id": "24783909", "title": "Gastric cancer staging: EUS and CT.", "content": "Gastric cancer staging: EUS and CT. Gastric cancer is the fourth most common cancer and the second leading cause of death from cancer. Only complete resection of all gross disease with negative microscopic margins (R0 resection) provides a long-term survival benefit, and the overall 5-year relative survival rate is approximately 20%. To improve survival and quality of life, new therapeutic approaches have been introduced. A total of 277 patients (171 men, 106 women) were included in this analysis. The results from the preoperative EUS and MDCT were compared to the postoperative pathological findings. A radial scanning ultrasonic endoscope was used. In patients with early gastric cancer, especially in cases confined to mucosa, endoscopic resection is performed to avoid unnecessary surgical procedures. To achieve R0 resection for locally-advanced gastric cancer, neoadjuvant treatments have been investigated. Laparoscopic surgery has been shown to improve quality of life for both early and locally advanced gastric cancer. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), which is considered to be the most precise method for locoregional staging, was commonly used for differentiating mucosal lesions from submucosal lesions. By contrast, computed tomography (CT) was used to detect the presence of distant metastasis. The difference in accuracy between the < or = 20-mm group and other groups was statistically significant for both EUS and MDCT (P = 0.026 and P = 0.044, respectively). However, recent technological advances with the helical and multi-detector scanners have provided better CT performance."}
{"id": "24782610", "title": "Diagnosis and evaluation of gastric cancer by positron emission tomography.", "content": "Diagnosis and evaluation of gastric cancer by positron emission tomography. Gastric cancer is the second leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide. The diagnosis of gastric cancer has been significantly improved with the broad availability of gastrointestinal endoscopy. Effective technologies for accurate staging and quantitative evaluation are still in demand to merit reasonable treatment and better prognosis for the patients presented with advanced disease. Preoperative staging using conventional imaging tools, such as computed tomography (CT) and endoscopic ultrasonography, is inadequate. Positron emission tomography (PET), using (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) as a tracer and integrating CT for anatomic localization, holds a promise to detect unsuspected metastasis and has been extensively used in a variety of malignancies. However, the value of FDG PET/CT in diagnosis and evaluation of gastric cancer is still controversial. This article reviews the current literature in diagnosis, staging, response evaluation, and relapse monitoring of gastric cancer, and discusses the current understanding, improvement, and future prospects in this area."}
{"id": "24744134", "title": "A case of gastric plexiform fibromyxoma: radiological and pathological findings.", "content": "A case of gastric plexiform fibromyxoma: radiological and pathological findings. Plexiform fibromyxoma is a relatively new pathological category that consists of a rare group of non-gastrointestinal stromal tumors with a peculiar plexiform growth pattern. We report a case of gastric plexiform fibromyxoma in a 60-year-old man. Gastroscopic examination revealed a gastric submucosal tumor in the antrum. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a nodule with distinct signal hyperintensity on T2-weighted images, with strong enhancement peripherally in the early phase to the entire lesion in the delayed phase. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology was performed, and the cytological diagnosis was spindle cell tumor, so partial gastrectomy was performed under a preoperative diagnosis of GIST. The resected tumor demonstrated plexiform architecture, myxoid stroma, prominent vasculature, and spindle cells, reflecting the characteristic findings on MRI. This is the first report to describe radiological findings for gastric plexiform fibromyxoma."}
{"id": "24711267", "title": "Patterns of recurrence after trimodality therapy for esophageal cancer.", "content": "Patterns of recurrence after trimodality therapy for esophageal cancer. Patterns of failure after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and surgery for esophageal cancer are poorly defined. All patients in the current study were treated with trimodality therapy for nonmetastatic esophageal cancer from 1995 to 2009. Locoregional failure included lymph node failure (NF), anastomotic failure, or both. Abdominal paraaortic failure (PAF) was defined as disease recurrence at or below the superior mesenteric artery. Among 155 patients, the primary tumor location was the upper/middle esophagus in 18%, the lower esophagus in 32%, and the gastroesophageal junction in 50% (adenocarcinoma in 79% and squamous cell carcinoma in 21%) of patients. Staging methods included endoscopic ultrasound (73%), computed tomography (46%), and positron emission tomography/computed tomography (54%). Approximately 40% of patients had American Joint Committee on Cancer stage II disease and 60% had stage III disease. The median follow-up was 1.3 years. The 2-year locoregional control, event-free survival, and overall survival rates were 86%, 36%, and 48%, respectively. The 2-year NF rate was 14%, the isolated NF rate was 3%, and the anastomotic failure rate was 6%. The 2-year PAF rate was 9% and the isolated PAF rate was 5%. PAF was found to be increased among patients with gastroesophageal junction tumors (12% vs 6%), especially for the subset with \u2265 2 clinically involved lymph nodes at the time of diagnosis (19% vs 4%). Few patients experience isolated NF or PAF as their first disease recurrence. Therefore, it is unlikely that targeting additional regional lymph node basins with radiotherapy would significantly improve clinical outcomes."}
{"id": "24671350", "title": "Modified laparoscopic intragastric surgery and endoscopic full-thickness resection for gastric stromal tumor originating from the muscularis propria.", "content": "Modified laparoscopic intragastric surgery and endoscopic full-thickness resection for gastric stromal tumor originating from the muscularis propria. This study aimed to evaluate the feasibility and security of the modified laparoscopic intragastric surgery (MLIGS) and the endoscopic full-thickness resection (EFR) for the treatment of gastric stromal tumors (GSTs) originating from the muscularis propria. The study population was 18 patients with GSTs of the intraluminal muscularis propria layer. Eight were treated by MLIGS performed according to the following procedures: (1) gastroscopy was used to expose and confirm the location of the tumor; (2) a laparoscope light was placed in the cavity using the trocar at the navel, with the remaining two trocars penetrating both the abdominal and stomach walls; (3) the operation was performed in the gastric lumen using laparoscopic instruments with gastroscope monitoring, and the tumor was resected; (4) the tumor tissue was removed orally using a grasping forceps; (5) and the puncture holes and perforation in the stomach were sutured using titanium clips. The remaining 10 patients were treated by EFR, which involved (1) injection of normal saline into the submucosa and precutting of the mucosal and submucosal layer around the lesion, (2) a circumferential incision as deep as the muscularis propria around the lesion, (3) an incision into the serosal layer around the lesion, (4) completion of full-thickness incision to the tumor, (5) closure of the gastric wall defect with clips. The GSTs all were resected completely. The two groups did not differ significantly in terms of tumor size, hospital stay, or abdominal pain time. But in the MLIGS group, the operation time and blood loss were significantly decreased compared with the EFR group. No postoperative complications occurred in the MLIGS group, whereas one peritoneal abscess occurred in the EFR group. The pathology of all the resected specimens showed GST. No case of implantation or metastasis was found. Both MLIGS and EFR are feasible and effective treatments for GSTs from the muscularis propria. Moreover, both are minimally invasive."}
{"id": "24659867", "title": "Helicobacter pylori infection in gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma.", "content": "Helicobacter pylori infection in gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma. Gastrointestinal lymphoma is the most common type of extranodal lymphoma, and most commonly affects the stomach. Marginal zone B-cell lymphoma of the mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma are the most common histologic types of gastric lymphoma. Despite its increasing incidence, diagnosis of gastric lymphoma is difficult at an earlier stage due to its nonspecific symptoms and endoscopic findings, and, thus, a high index of suspicion, and multiple, deep, repeated biopsies at abnormally and normally appearing sites in the stomach are needed. In addition, testing for Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection and endoscopic ultrasonography to determine the depth of tumor invasion and involvement of regional lymph nodes is essential for predicting response to H. pylori eradication and for assessment of disease progression. In addition, H. pylori infection and MALT lymphoma development are associated, and complete regression of low-grade MALT lymphomas after H. pylori eradication has been demonstrated. Radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy can be used in cases that show poor response to H. pylori eradication, negativity for H. pylori infection, or high-grade lymphoma."}
{"id": "24646602", "title": "A case of gastric adenocarcinoma in a Shih Tzu dog: successful treatment of early gastric cancer.", "content": "A case of gastric adenocarcinoma in a Shih Tzu dog: successful treatment of early gastric cancer. A 9-year-old castrated male Shih Tzu dog was referred to us, because of chronic vomiting. The patient's hematological, radiographic, ultrasonographic, endoscopic and histological examinations were evaluated for diagnosis. Hematologic analysis indicated moderate anemia and azotemia. Based on the imaging studies, an oval-shaped mass was identified in the gastric pylorus area. A proliferative mass was found on endoscopic examination, and we performed biopsy using grasping forceps. The histopathological findings of the biopsy specimens indicated hypertrophic gastritis, and Y-U pyloroplasty was performed. However, histopathological examination of the surgically resected mass revealed tubular adenocarcinoma of the stomach. Then, carboplatin chemotherapy was performed 4 times for 13 weeks. Clinical signs, such as vomiting, were resolved gradually after surgery and chemotherapy, and the patient's condition was managed favorably until recently (30 months after surgery). This case report describes clinical features, imaging studies, endoscopic characteristics and histopathological and immunohistochemical features of gastric tubular adenocarcinoma as early gastric cancer in a dog."}
{"id": "24636963", "title": "Primary gastric extra-uterine endometrial stromal sarcoma.", "content": "Primary gastric extra-uterine endometrial stromal sarcoma. Endometrial stromal sarcoma (ESS) is an uncommon uterine neoplasm, but its occurrence as an extra-uterine primary (EESS) is exceedingly unusual, and the fine-needle aspiration (FNA) cytopathology of EESS is rarely described. We hereby present 2 women with primary gastric EESS whereby the FNA cytopathology of this rare entity showed a population of cytologically monotonous oval-spindle shaped cells. This cytopathology is correlated with the subsequent histopathology. EESS is another, albeit rare, diagnostic consideration along with gastrointestinal stromal tumor, schwannoma, glomus tumor, and leiomyoma of cytologically bland neoplasms of the stomach that can be encountered using endoscopic ultrasound-guided FNA biopsy."}
{"id": "24628514", "title": "Review article: the investigation and management of gastric neuroendocrine tumours.", "content": "Review article: the investigation and management of gastric neuroendocrine tumours. Gastric carcinoids (GCs) or neuroendocrine tumours (NETs) are increasingly identified at endoscopy, and account for 0.6-2% of all gastric polyps identified. The SEER database in the US has demonstrated a rising incidence of gastric NETs amongst all NETs; from 2.2% between 1950 and 1969 to 6.0% between 2000 and 2007. To review the literature and assist clinicians in managing patients with GCs. A literature search was conducted through MEDLINE using search terms: gastric, carcinoid, neuroendocrine tumour, therapy, endoscopy, mucosal resection, submucosal dissection. Relevant articles were identified through manual review. The reference lists of these articles were reviewed to include further appropriate articles. There are three types of GCs with important epidemiological, pathophysiological, histological and endoscopic differences that affect prognosis and management. Type 1 and 2 GCs develop in the context of hypergastrinaemia that originates from achlorhydria in atrophic gastritis and a gastrinoma, respectively. Type 3 GCs occur sporadically and independent of gastrin. The histological type, grade and Ki67 index are used to determine prognosis and direct clinical management. Type 1 GCs >1 cm in size and type 2 GCs should be assessed for invasion beyond the submucosa with EUS prior to endoscopic resection with EMR or ESD. Type 3 GCs should be managed as per recommendations for gastric adenocarcinoma. The treatment of advanced disease is multimodal. Patients with gastric carcinoids should be discussed in a specialist neuroendocrine tumour multidisciplinary meeting to ensure all treatment options are explored in localised and advanced disease. Areas of controversy exist that need further research."}
{"id": "24598097", "title": "[A case of calcifying fibrous tumor in the abdominal wall, morphologically resembling a gastric submucosal tumor].", "content": "[A case of calcifying fibrous tumor in the abdominal wall, morphologically resembling a gastric submucosal tumor]. We report an extremely rare case of a calcifying fibrous tumor (CFT) occurring in the abdominal wall. A 43-year-old woman was referred to our hospital because of a gastric submucosal tumor. Imaging findings revealed a gastric submucosal tumor with calcification. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration was attempted to obtain a tissue specimen; however, the tumor was not adequately visualized because of calcification. Local excision was performed because of the tumor growth and the risk of progression to gastrointestinal stromal tumor. The tumor was histologically diagnosed as a CFT. We describe the imaging and pathological findings, and discuss the differential diagnosis and histogenesis of CFT."}
{"id": "24561693", "title": "[Synopsis on clinical practice guideline of gastric cancer in Korea: an evidence-based approach].", "content": "[Synopsis on clinical practice guideline of gastric cancer in Korea: an evidence-based approach]. Although, gastric cancer is quite common in Korea, the treatment outcome is relatively favorable compared to that of Western countries. However, there is no Korean multidisciplinary guideline for gastric cancer and thus, a guideline adequate for domestic circumstances is required. Experts from related societies developed 22 recommendation statements for the diagnosis (n=9) and treatment (n=13) based on relevant key questions. Evidence levels based on systematic review of literatures were classified as five levels from A to E, and recommendation grades were classified as either strong or weak. The topics of this guideline cover diagnostic modalities (endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasound, radiologic diagnosis), treatment modalities (surgery, therapeutic endoscopy, chemotherapy, radiotherapy) and pathologic evaluation. External review of the guideline was conducted at the finalization phase."}
{"id": "24551311", "title": "Presence of smooth muscle cell differentiation in plexiform angiomyxoid myofibroblastic tumor of the stomach: a case report.", "content": "Presence of smooth muscle cell differentiation in plexiform angiomyxoid myofibroblastic tumor of the stomach: a case report. Plexiform angiomyxoid myofibroblastic tumor (PAMT) is a recently described distinctive gastric mesenchymal entity with a peculiar plexiform pattern, bland spindle cells and a myxoid stroma rich in arborizing blood vessels. In this study, we report a new case of this rare gastric tumor with a subset of tumor cells derived from smooth muscle differentiation. A 32-year-old Chinese man was admitted with a gastric mass. He did not experience any discomfort, and gastroscopy showed an elevated mass in the anterior wall of the gastric antrum. Endoscopic ultrasound examination revealed a focal hypoechoic lesion protruding into the lumen. A partial gastrectomy was performed, and the patient made an uneventful recovery and remains well 3 years later. The tumor in this case depicted all the typical histopathologic and immunochemical features of gastric PAMT, except that a small subset of tumor cells was partially immunoreactive for desmin and H-caldesmon. Based on the findings of this case, we think that PAMT may contain tumor cells derived from smooth muscle differentiation, and therefore this tumor may be more than just purely myofibroblastic in nature."}
{"id": "24523031", "title": "The SIC-GIRCG 2013 Consensus Conference on Gastric Cancer.", "content": "The SIC-GIRCG 2013 Consensus Conference on Gastric Cancer. The topic chosen by the Board of the Italian Society of Surgery for the 2013 annual Consensus Conference was gastric cancer. With this purpose, under the direction of 2 chairmen, 36 experts nominated by the Regional Societies of Surgery and by the Italian Research Group for Gastric Cancer (GIRCG) participated in an experts consensus exercise, preceded by a questionnaire and mainly held by telematic vote, in accordance with the rules of the Delphi method. The results of this Consensus Conference, presented to the 115th National Congress of the Italian Society of Surgery, and approved in plenary session, are reported in the present paper."}
{"id": "24500321", "title": "[Pancreatic and gastric metastases occurring a decade after nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma].", "content": "[Pancreatic and gastric metastases occurring a decade after nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma]. We report the case of a 64-year-old man who underwent resection on two occasions for recurrent renal cell carcinoma. He first underwent right nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma, and 10 years later, he underwent pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy for pancreatic metastasis. Microscopic extracapsular invasion without lymph node metastasis was observed at that time. Twelve years after the first surgery, he was diagnosed with stomach metastasis. Clinically, metastases to other organs was not observed, and endoscopic ultrasonography revealed no changes in the submucosal layer; endoscopic submucosal dissection was subsequently performed. Pathologically, the tumor was found to be localized in the mucosal layer. There has been no occurrence of metastases for 2 years and 6 months since the last surgery."}
{"id": "24488356", "title": "Clinicopathologic factors and outcomes of histologic discrepancy between differentiated and undifferentiated types after endoscopic resection of early gastric cancer.", "content": "Clinicopathologic factors and outcomes of histologic discrepancy between differentiated and undifferentiated types after endoscopic resection of early gastric cancer. Histologic discrepancies among specimens obtained by forceps biopsy and endoscopic resection (ER) between the differentiated and undifferentiated types often occur in early gastric cancer (EGC). This study aimed to evaluate the predictive clinicopathologic characteristics and clinical implications of histologic discrepancies in EGC. From August 2005 to March 2012, 596 lesions from 579 patients underwent ER for EGC. The lesions studied were diagnosed as the differentiated histologic type from forceps biopsy specimens. The lesions were grouped according to the occurrence of histologic discrepancy between the differentiated and undifferentiated types in specimens obtained by ER as concordant (n = 570) or discordant (n = 26). The main outcome measures were en bloc resection, complete resection, and curative resection rates. The histologic discrepancy rate was 4.4% among the studied lesions. Larger size, lesion location in the mid third of the stomach, easy friability, exudates, and submucosal invasion shown on endoscopic ultrasound were significantly related to histologic discrepancy in the univariate analysis. In the multivariate analysis, lesion location in the mid third of the stomach [odds ratio (OR) 5.34, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.59-19.13] and easy friability (OR 29.26, 95% CI 2.30 to >999.9) were significant factors associated with histologic discrepancy. The complete resection and curative resection rates were significantly lower and the additional operation rates after ER were significantly higher in the discordant group. The EGCs with histologic discrepancy between the differentiated and undifferentiated types changed the therapeutic outcomes of ER. Easily friable lesions located in the mid third of the stomach carry a significant risk for histologic discrepancy in undifferentiated histology when ER of EGCs is performed."}
{"id": "24480200", "title": "Total laparoscopic uncut Roux-en-Y gastrojejunostomy after distal gastrectomy.", "content": "Total laparoscopic uncut Roux-en-Y gastrojejunostomy after distal gastrectomy."}
{"id": "24472342", "title": "Endoscopic mucosal resection with circumferential incision for treatment of rectal carcinoid tumours.", "content": "Endoscopic mucosal resection with circumferential incision for treatment of rectal carcinoid tumours. Endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) is simple and quick and has low complication rates. However, the disadvantage of local recurrence or remnant rate limits the use of this technique. We aimed to analyse the outcomes of conventional EMR and EMR with circumferential incision (CIEMR), a simplified modification of EMR, in the endoscopic treatment of rectal carcinoid tumours. A total of 59 consecutive patients with rectal carcinoid tumours without regional lymph node enlargement confirmed by endoscopic ultrasonography were included in the study. These patients underwent endoscopic treatment from January 2009 to September 2011 and were randomly designated into CIEMR (n = 31) or EMR group (n = 28). En bloc resection rate, pathological complete resection rate, procedure time, complications and follow-up outcomes were analysed. The en bloc resection rate was not significantly different between the CIEMR and EMR groups (100% versus 96.55%, P > 0.05). The pathological complete resection rate was higher in the CIEMR group than in the EMR group (96.7% versus 82.14%, P < 0.05). The overall complication rate, delayed bleeding and procedure time were not significantly different between the two groups. No recurrence was observed in either the EMR or CIEMR group. CIEMR optimises the procedure of EMR and simplifies the technique of endoscopic submucosal dissection; thus, it has a better histologically complete resection rate and more acceptable complication rate than EMR. Thus, CIEMR may be preferable to conventional EMR for resection of rectal carcinoid tumours less than 15 mm."}
{"id": "24415526", "title": "Malignant cell contamination may lead to false-positive findings at endosonographic fine needle aspiration for tumor staging.", "content": "Malignant cell contamination may lead to false-positive findings at endosonographic fine needle aspiration for tumor staging. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) of lymph nodes is used for staging of gastrointestinal malignancies. False-positive rates of 5\u200a%\u200a-\u200a7\u200a% are not well understood. Elements of EUS examinations that contribute to false-positive cytological findings were investigated. 13 patients undergoing EUS staging of gastrointestinal luminal malignancy were consecutively enrolled together with 3 patients with extraluminal tumors (pancreas, lung) defined as controls. After EUS, cellular debris and fluid were collected from the FNA needle catheter, instrument channel, and endoscope tip for cytologic and histologic investigation. 6 of 13 patients (46\u200a%) had malignant cells contaminating the FNA needle catheter, instrument channel, or endoscope tip.\u200aMalignant cells were present in the instrument channel in 5 cases (38\u200a%), exterior tip of echoendoscope in 4 (31\u200a%) and needle catheter in 2 (15\u200a%). Echoendoscopes used for FNA in patients with luminal tumors are at risk for malignant cell contamination of the instrument channel, FNA needle catheter, and echoendoscope tip.\u200aFNA needle contamination can contribute to false-positive findings."}
{"id": "24380991", "title": "Clinical significance of medial approach for suprapancreatic lymph node dissection during laparoscopic gastric cancer surgery.", "content": "Clinical significance of medial approach for suprapancreatic lymph node dissection during laparoscopic gastric cancer surgery. Suprapancreatic lymph node dissection is critical for gastric cancer surgery. Beginning in 2010, a medial approach was adopted for suprapancreatic lymph node dissection during laparoscopic gastrectomy for distal gastric cancer in our institution. The aim of this study was to compare surgical outcomes of the medial approach and conventional approach in laparoscopic gastric surgery. Between January 2007 and December 2012, a total of 100 patients with clinical T1 or T2 tumors underwent laparoscopic distal gastrectomy involving suprapancreatic lymph node dissection by the medial approach (n = 44) and conventional approach (n = 56) with curative intent. The comparison was based on clinicopathological characteristics and surgical outcome. The laparoscopic procedure was not converted to laparotomy in any patient. The patients' demographics and tumor characteristics did not show any statistically significant difference, except for tumor location. In the conventional approach group, the tumors were at a higher position (p = 0.037) and more frequently received Roux-en-Y reconstruction (p < 0.001). Intracorporeal anastomosis was significantly more common in the medial approach group (p < 0.001). Compared with the conventional approach, the medial approach was associated with significantly less operative blood loss (p < 0.001), more retrieved suprapancreatic lymph nodes (p = 0.019), and a shorter hospital stay (p = 0.018). The rates of complications were comparable between the two groups. This study suggests that the medial approach to suprapancreatic lymph node dissection seems to be convenient and useful in laparoscopic gastric cancer surgery."}
{"id": "24369919", "title": "Prognostic assessment and treatment of primary gastric lymphomas: how endoscopic ultrasonography can help in tailoring patient management.", "content": "Prognostic assessment and treatment of primary gastric lymphomas: how endoscopic ultrasonography can help in tailoring patient management. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has recently gained a pivotal role in the management of gastric lymphomas, especially in the diagnostic workup. Its accuracy and reliability have overcome those of other imaging techniques, such that it represents an invaluable tool for the management of gastric lymphomas. Although this technique is operator dependent, its application in large series has proved its reliability. Thus, it has generally been considered a useful tool for providing information crucial in deciding the treatment program, especially for mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphomas, for which EUS can provide an accurate evaluation of disease extension and treatment response probability. Limited-stage disease, confined to the submucosa, has a greater probability to respond to sole Helicobacter pylori eradication. In contrast, the value of EUS in response assessment and follow-up monitoring is still debated, with discordant opinions about its reliability and clinical advantages, because normalization of the EUS findings occurs with a considerable delay compared to the histologic evaluation. In the follow-up setting, preliminary data have indicated that persistently positive EUS findings in low-grade gastric lymphoma could represent a warning for a possible relapse. However, in high-grade gastric lymphoma, such findings do not have any clinical implications."}
{"id": "24366418", "title": "Proposal of the surgical options for primary tumor control during sentinel node navigation surgery based on the discrepancy between preoperative and postoperative early gastric cancer diagnoses.", "content": "Proposal of the surgical options for primary tumor control during sentinel node navigation surgery based on the discrepancy between preoperative and postoperative early gastric cancer diagnoses. There is no consensus on the optimal method of primary tumor control, determined by preoperative clinical factors, during sentinel node (SN) navigation surgery for early gastric cancer (EGC). In this study, we investigated the accuracy of clinical diagnosis based on preoperative examination in patients with EGC and proposed surgical options for primary tumor control during SN navigation surgery. We analyzed 815 patients with clinical stage IA gastric cancer who underwent gastrectomy at the National Cancer Center in Korea between March 2001 and February 2011. The clinical stage was determined by endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasonography, and abdominal computed tomography. The preoperative assessment of tumor depth and tumor size was accurate in 57.5 and 70.8 % of patients, respectively. Tumor depth and size were underestimated in 8 and 25.3 % of patients. The overall accuracy of histologic diagnosis by endoscopic biopsy was 87.2 %. Of those tumors diagnosed preoperatively as differentiated, 20.5 % revealed mixed histology of undifferentiated type. The recommendation for SN biopsy may be limited to tumors sized 3 cm or smaller to avoid positive lateral margins and to minimize the risk of skip metastases. Endoscopic resection may safely be applied to small mucosal cancers, but other surgical options should be employed for undifferentiated large mucosal lesions, given their tendency for diffuse invasion. Full-thickness resection is preferable for submucosal cancers, to secure clear vertical margins."}
{"id": "24355070", "title": "Feasibility and safety of laparoscopic and endoscopic cooperative surgery for gastric submucosal tumors, including esophagogastric junction tumors.", "content": "Feasibility and safety of laparoscopic and endoscopic cooperative surgery for gastric submucosal tumors, including esophagogastric junction tumors. Recently, the use of endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for gastric submucosal tumor (gSMT) and the development of laparoscopic and endoscopic cooperative surgery (LECS) have enabled either preservation of the stomach or minimization of the extent of partial resection. In the present study, the outcomes following the recent introduction of LECS for gSMT are presented. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the feasibility and safety of LECS for gSMT, including esophagogastric junction (EGJ) SMT. LECS is indicated for lesions that have an intragastric growth pattern, or for which fundusectomy can be avoided despite an extragastric growth pattern. We retrospectively evaluated the outcome of LECS carried out in 25 patients including five EGJ SMT. Surgery was completed achieving an R0 resection rate of 100% with no postoperative complications. Mean tumor size was 32.3 \u00b1 13.5 mm and mean resected specimen size was 37.6 \u00b1 13.5 mm. Resection margins were tumor-free in all cases, with adequate minimum surgical margins, and precise conclusive diagnosis was achieved with perfect operative specimens. Endoscopic confirmation of the EGJ enabled the extent of resection to be minimized and the stomach to be preserved, avoiding fundusectomy. Although there were significant differences in tumor size and resected specimen size between EGJ SMT and non-EGJ SMT, there were no significant differences in outcomes of the LECS procedure. LECS is feasible and safe for cases with gSMT including lesions adjacent to the EGJ."}
{"id": "24323063", "title": "Risk factors for submucosal and lymphovascular invasion in gastric cancer looking indicative for endoscopic submucosal dissection.", "content": "Risk factors for submucosal and lymphovascular invasion in gastric cancer looking indicative for endoscopic submucosal dissection. Submucosal and lymphovascular (SM/LV) invasions of early gastric cancer (EGC) are difficult to diagnose accurately prior to endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD), and are occasionally found in resected specimens, requiring additional gastrectomy and lymph node dissection. We performed a retrospective study to determine the risk factors for SM/LV invasions. We analyzed clinicopathological data (age, sex, cancer location, gross morphology, multifocality, tumor size, histological differentiation, depth of invasion, and the presence or absence of lymphovascular invasion) in patients receiving ESD between 2007 and 2012 and presenting with EGC of 2.0 cm or smaller in size, a differentiated-type adenocarcinoma, and without ulceration. Of 208 lesions consecutively resected by ESD, 143 lesions in 132 patients were included in this study. Submucosal and lymphovascular invasions were detected in 16 lesions. Multivariate analysis revealed three independent risk factors for SM/LV invasions: dominant histology of moderately-differentiated or papillary adenocarcinoma, gross type of 0-IIa + IIc or IIc + IIa, and tumor size of \u22651.5 cm. Lesions exhibiting more than two of these three risk factors were associated with having a 47 % increased incidence of SM/LV invasion (odds ratio 15; 95 % confidence interval 4.6-49.0; P < 0.0001). Moderately-differentiated or papillary adenocarcinoma, 0-IIa + IIc or IIc + IIa, and a tumor size of \u22651.5 cm were identified as independent risk factors for SM/LV invasion among EGCs which appeared to be an endoscopically good indication for ESD. Careful surveillances including endoscopic ultrasonography or enhanced computed tomography might be needed for high risk patients before ESD."}
{"id": "24263458", "title": "Outcomes of minimally invasive surgery for early gastric cancer are comparable with those for open surgery: analysis of 1,013 minimally invasive surgeries at a single institution.", "content": "Outcomes of minimally invasive surgery for early gastric cancer are comparable with those for open surgery: analysis of 1,013 minimally invasive surgeries at a single institution. This study aimed to compare the short- and long-term results of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) and open surgery for primary early gastric cancer (EGC) at a single high-volume institution. The clinicopathologic and survival data of primary gastric cancer patients who underwent a minimally invasive radical gastrectomy at Seoul National University Hospital from December 2003 to January 2012 were retrospectively analyzed. For comparison of short-term outcomes, the data for 1,112 patients who underwent a radical open gastrectomy from 2007 to 2011 were collected. For long-term outcome analysis, the data for 962 patients who underwent a radical open gastrectomy from 2004 to 2006 were collected. Because the application of MIS was limited to suspected EGC, the control groups were similarly limited to patients deemed to have EGC as shown by preoperative endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasound, or both. The review of our database identified 1,013 patients who had undergone MIS for gastric cancer. In the short-term outcome analysis, the MIS group showed statistically better results than the open surgery group in terms of postoperative hospital stay (8.7 vs. 11.3 days; p < 0.001), estimated blood loss (75.4 vs. 142.3 ml; p < 0.001), and overall complication rate (17.5 vs. 24.4 %; p < 0.001). In the subset analysis of total gastrectomy, the local complication rate was much higher in the MIS group than in the open surgery group. Both uni- and multivariate analyses showed that not only the surgical approach but also age, chronic liver disease, chronic renal disease, and additional organ resection had significant effects on complications. In the long-term outcome analysis, the two groups showed comparable disease-free survival rates. The use of MIS for EGC showed a shorter operation time, a shorter postoperative hospital stay, and a lower overall complication rate than open surgery but a comparable disease-free survival rate. Total gastrectomy in the MIS group was associated with a higher complication rate than in the open group. Therefore, a new stable surgical technique needs to be established."}
{"id": "24246795", "title": "Metastatic gastric tumor arising from ovarian cancer.", "content": "Metastatic gastric tumor arising from ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "24215757", "title": "Beyond cytology: why and when does the oncologist require core tissue?", "content": "Beyond cytology: why and when does the oncologist require core tissue? There are 2 main reasons why oncologists may require additional tissue and a histologic section in addition to cytopathology from FNA specimens: improved diagnostic accuracy and molecular characterization of tumors. Rather than mutually exclusive diagnostic procedures, EUS-FNA and EUS-CNB must be viewed as supplementary techniques and both approaches should be incorporated as essential tools in the current endoscopic armamentarium."}
{"id": "24154498", "title": "[Treatment of gastric cancer].", "content": "[Treatment of gastric cancer]. From a global perspective, gastric cancer including adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction is the fourth most common malignant tumor and the second most common cause of cancer-related death. Due to the lack of specific symptoms of early cancer, most gastric cancers are diagnosed in advanced stages. Staging should include high-resolution computed tomography of the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis and documented video-endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasound. In mucosal gastric cancer, endoscopic resection can replace surgical resection. In more advanced stages, perioperative chemotherapy has been established as a standard of care. In the metastatic setting, treatment goals are palliative. Chemotherapy can prolong survival, improve symptoms, and enhance the quality of life. Combination chemotherapy including a platinum salt plus fluoropyrimidine is the standard of care. About 16\u2009% of gastric cancers exhibit overexpression of the growth factor receptor HER2. Trastuzumab has shown to prolong survival when combined with chemotherapy in HER2-positive gastric cancer."}
{"id": "24149848", "title": "Minimally invasive surgery for serosa-positive gastric cancer (pT4a) in patients with preoperative diagnosis of cancer without serosal invasion.", "content": "Minimally invasive surgery for serosa-positive gastric cancer (pT4a) in patients with preoperative diagnosis of cancer without serosal invasion. Although surgeons normally use minimally invasive surgery (MIS) for patients with early gastric cancer, in Korea and Japan the procedure is also indicated for serosa-negative tumors. Serosal invasion is regarded to be a potential risk factor for peritoneal dissemination as a result of the effect of pneumoperitoneum and tumor manipulation during the operation. We compared operative outcomes between MIS and conventional open surgery for serosa-involved advanced gastric cancer patients who had a preoperative diagnosis of cancer without serosal invasion. A total of 61 patients (39 patients treated by MIS and 22 by open surgery) treated between 2003 and 2009 who were first diagnosed preoperatively as serosa negative on the basis of computed tomography, endoscopy, and endoscopic ultrasound but then diagnosed as serosa positive upon final pathology were studied. We retrospectively compared recurrence and survival between the two treatment groups. Clinicopathologic characteristics, clinical stage, extent of surgery, and short-term operative outcome did not differ between the groups. 5-year overall survival (73.5 vs. 67.5 %, p = 0.518, respectively) and disease-free survival (67.8 vs. 54.2 %, p = 0.296, respectively) were comparable between the MIS and open surgery groups. There were recurrences in 12 patients in the MIS group and 11 patients in the open surgery group, with a median follow-up period of 64 months. Recurrence patterns did not differ between the groups; moreover, MIS did not increase peritoneal recurrences compared to open surgery (42.0 vs. 54.5 %, p = 0.537, respectively). In multivariate analyses, the type of surgery was not an independent prognostic factor. Similar survival and recurrence patterns were observed in advanced gastric cancer patients preoperatively diagnosed as serosa negative who were treated either by MIS or open surgery. MIS may be safely applied in patients with serosa-positive tumors."}
{"id": "24036993", "title": "Locally advanced gastric cancer complicated by mesenteric invasion and intestinal malrotation.", "content": "Locally advanced gastric cancer complicated by mesenteric invasion and intestinal malrotation."}
{"id": "23992387", "title": "Which treatment for large rectal adenoma? Preoperative assessment and therapeutic strategy.", "content": "Which treatment for large rectal adenoma? Preoperative assessment and therapeutic strategy. In the present review the authors discuss the standard ways of preoperative work-up for a suspected large rectal non-invasive lesion, comparing East and West different attitudes both in staging and treatment. Looking at the literature and analyzing recent personal data, neither pit-pattern classification, nor EUS, nor biopsy histology, nor lifting sign verification, nor digital examination allow a specificity of more than three fourth of such cases. The authors disquisition about which optimal treatment excludes a role for EMR for the impossibility to obtain a single en-bloc specimen, minimum requirement for a correct lateral and vertical margin assessment. For the same reason ESD should be preferred, although a recent meta-analysis of the literature defined that one fourth of patients undergoing ESD for a preoperatively assessed non-invasive large rectal lesion fail to receive an R0 en-bloc resection. This forces about 10% of patients treated by flexible endoscopy to undergo abdominal surgery, which is about fourfold higher than TEM. While awaiting further implementation of modern technologies both to improve staging and to reduce invasiveness, a full-thickness excision of the rectal wall by TEM still represents the standard treatment even for suspected benign diseases."}
{"id": "23635014", "title": "Diagnosis of gastric glomus tumour by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration cytology: a case report.", "content": "Diagnosis of gastric glomus tumour by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration cytology: a case report."}
{"id": "23279745", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound in restaging and predicting pathological response for advanced gastric cancer patients after neoadjuvant chemotherapy.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound in restaging and predicting pathological response for advanced gastric cancer patients after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. To evaluate the role of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in restaging and predicting response after neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with advanced gastric cancer. In all, 48 advanced gastric cancer patients were recruited from June 2007 to December 2010 after providing their written, informed consent. All patients underwent an EUS before and after three cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (FOLFOX 6), and then a radical resection was performed 3-4 weeks after chemotherapy. The results of EUS were compared to the pathological results of the resected specimens. After chemotherapy, the overall sensitivity of EUS for T classification was 63 percent (T2: 44%, T3: 68%, T4: 90%), and overstaging (31%) was more frequent than understaging (6%). The sensitivity and specificity of EUS for N classification were 56 and 50 percent, respectively (N0: without lymph node metastasis, N1: with lymph node metastasis), with 15 percent overstaged and 32% understaged. EUS revealed that T and/or N downstaging occurred in 46 percent (22/48) of patients after chemotherapy, most of whom had a favorable pathological response to the chemotherapy compared with other patients without T and/or N downstaging. No T or N upstaging was observed after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The accuracy of restaging by EUS for T and N classification was not as good as pathological data for locally advanced gastric cancer patients after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. However, T and/or N downstaging confirmed by EUS correlated well with the degree of pathological response to chemotherapy."}
{"id": "24502069", "title": "Endoscopic therapy with curative intent for neoplastic epithelial lesions: indications rewiew and the role of \"water-jet\" technology.", "content": "Endoscopic therapy with curative intent for neoplastic epithelial lesions: indications rewiew and the role of \"water-jet\" technology. Neoplastic lesions of the gastrointestinal tract have a large prevalence worldwide and in Romania. Their therapy is tailored to their TNM stage, which can be estimated using non invasive or minimally invasive imaging studies. Precursor lesions and superficial carcinomas are amenable to endoscopic therapy, providing that their endoscopic and/or endoscopic ultrasound aspect suggest a maximal extension to the submucosal layer. Polypectomy, endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) and endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) are ablative techniques used for their curative intent treatment. Large superficial carcinomas are to be removed by ESD as \"en bloc\" resection is essential to post procedure histological appraisal of the curative oncology nature of their resection. ESD complications rates and duration are nowadays reduced with the aid of \"water-jet\" technology, by combining submucosal fluid jet injection and electro-resection in a single knife."}
{"id": "24483032", "title": "[Difficult and unusual diagnostic and therapeutic gastric Schwannoma case].", "content": "[Difficult and unusual diagnostic and therapeutic gastric Schwannoma case]. Schwannoma is a rare, usually benign, generally slow growing, asymptomatic mesenchymal neoplasm derived from nerve cells. In the gastrointestinal tract the most common localization is stomach and the gastric schwannomas represent about 0.2% of all gastric neoplasms. We present a case of 44-years-old male admitted to 2nd Department of General Surgery and Oncological Surgery Medical University for treatment of a submucosal gastric tumor detected in upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasonography and computed tomography (CT). Patient presented with no gastrointestinal disorders and the random endoscopy revealed a gastric tumor, but the biopsy of the lesion showed no carcinomas' cells and the suspicion of GIST. CT confirms the presence of the 5 cm large gastric tumor and intraabdominal lymphadenopathy. The patient was directed to surgery because of the malignant risk. The subtotal gastrectomy with BII anastomosis was performed and no perioperative complications were observed. The postoperative histopathological examination revealed a typical morphology and immunophenotype of tumor. The neoplastic cells were immunoreactive with S-100 protein, but lacked immunoreactivity with CD 117, CD 34 and smooth-muscle actin (SMA). The histopathologic features and immunohistochemical staining pattern were consistent with a gastric schwannoma. The lymph nodes resected, during the operation revealed reactive inflammatory changes without evidence of neoplastic cells and any malignancy. 10-month after the surgery patient has no complains but the follow up will be continued. This case underscores the importance of including gastric schwannomas in the differential diagnosis when preoperative imaging studies reveal a submucosal, exophytic gastric mass."}
{"id": "24409055", "title": "Refining pathological evaluation of neoadjuvant therapy for adenocarcinoma of the esophagus.", "content": "Refining pathological evaluation of neoadjuvant therapy for adenocarcinoma of the esophagus. To assess tumour regression grade (TRG) and lymph node downstaging to help define patients who benefit from neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Two hundred and eighteen consecutive patients with adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or gastro-esophageal junction treated with surgery alone or neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery between 2005 and 2011 at a single institution were reviewed. Triplet neoadjuvant chemotherapy consisting of platinum, fluoropyrimidine and anthracycline was considered for operable patients (World Health Organization performance status \u2264 2) with clinical stage T2-4 N0-1. Response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) was assessed using TRG, as described by Mandard et al. In addition lymph node downstaging was also assessed. Lymph node downstaging was defined by cN1 at diagnosis: assessed radiologically (computed tomography, positron emission tomography, endoscopic ultrasonography), then pathologically recorded as N0 after surgery; ypN0 if NAC given prior to surgery, or pN0 if surgery alone. Patients were followed up for 5 years post surgery. Recurrence was defined radiologically, with or without pathological confirmation. An association was examined between t TRG and lymph node downstaging with disease free survival (DFS) and a comprehensive range of clinicopathological characteristics. Two hundred and eighteen patients underwent esophageal resection during the study interval with a mean follow up of 3 years (median follow up: 2.552, 95%CI: 2.022-3.081). There was a 1.8% (n = 4) inpatient mortality rate. One hundred and thirty-six (62.4%) patients received NAC, with 74.3% (n = 101) of patients demonstrating some signs of pathological tumour regression (TRG 1-4) and 5.9% (n = 8) having a complete pathological response. Forty four point one percent (n = 60) had downstaging of their nodal disease (cN1 to ypN0), compared to only 15.9% (n = 13) that underwent surgery alone (pre-operatively overstaged: cN1 to pN0), (P < 0.0001). Response to NAC was associated with significantly increased DFS (mean DFS; TRG 1-2: 5.1 years, 95%CI: 4.6-5.6 vs TRG 3-5: 2.8 years, 95%CI: 2.2-3.3, P < 0.0001). Nodal down-staging conferred a significant DFS advantage for those patients with a poor primary tumour response to NAC (median DFS; TRG 3-5 and nodal down-staging: 5.533 years, 95%CI: 3.558-7.531 vs TRG 3-5 and no nodal down-staging: 1.114 years, 95%CI: 0.961-1.267, P < 0.0001). Response to NAC in the primary tumour and in the lymph nodes are both independently associated with improved DFS."}
{"id": "24394026", "title": "[A case of superficial carcinoma in a diverticulum of the thoracic esophagus].", "content": "[A case of superficial carcinoma in a diverticulum of the thoracic esophagus]. An upper gastrointestina(l GI) series revealed a diverticulum in the anterior wall of the middle thoracic esophagus of a 72-year-old man. Endoscopy revealed a type 0-IIc lesion in the esophageal diverticulum. The margin of the lesion was unclear. Biopsy proved that it was squamous cell carcinoma. Endoscopic ultrasonography showed that the deepest layer of the tumor was the lamina propria mucosae (cT1a-LPM) and that the underlying muscularis propria was thinning. No distant metastasis or regional lymph node metastasis was detected. Diverticulectomy or endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) was out of indication due to the unclear margin and thin muscularis propria. We conducted mediastinoscopy-assisted esophagectomy. The pathological diagnosis of the resected specimen was moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma with invasion to the lamina propria mucosae (pT1a-LPM). Pathological examination proved the thinning of the underlying muscularis propria in the diverticulum. The patient is alive without recurrence at 6 months after surgery."}
{"id": "24379641", "title": "DOG1 is useful for diagnosis of KIT-negative gastrointestinal stromal tumor of stomach.", "content": "DOG1 is useful for diagnosis of KIT-negative gastrointestinal stromal tumor of stomach. Approximately 80%-95% of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) show positive staining for KIT, while the other 5%-20% show negative staining. If the tumor is negative for KIT, but is positive for CD34, a histological diagnosis is possible. However, if the tumor is negative for KIT, CD34, S-100, and SMA, a definitive diagnosis is often challenging. Recently, Discovered on GIST-1 (DOG1) has received considerable attention as a useful molecule for the diagnosis of GIST. DOG1, a membrane channel protein, is known to be overexpressed in GIST. Because the sensitivity and specificity of DOG1 are higher than those of KIT, positive staining for DOG1 has been reported, even in KIT-negative GISTs. KIT-negative GISTs most commonly arise in the stomach and are mainly characterized by epithelioid features histologically. We describe our experience with a rare case of a KIT-negative GIST of the stomach that was diagnosed by positive immunohistochemical staining for DOG1 in a patient who presented with severe anemia. Our findings suggest that immunohistochemical staining for DOG1, in addition to gene analysis, is useful for the diagnosis of KIT-negative tumors that are suspected to be GISTs."}
{"id": "24340309", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonographic features of gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma with a 'pseudocircumvolutory' appearance.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonographic features of gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma with a 'pseudocircumvolutory' appearance."}
{"id": "24312703", "title": "Prediction of risk of malignancy of gastrointestinal stromal tumors by endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Prediction of risk of malignancy of gastrointestinal stromal tumors by endoscopic ultrasonography. The accurate preoperative prediction of the risk of malignancy of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) is difficult. The aim of this study was to determine whether tumor size and endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) features can preoperatively predict the risk of malignancy of medium-sized gastric GISTs. Surgically resected, 2 to 5 cm gastric GIST patients were enrolled and retrospectively reviewed. EUS features, such as heterogeneity, hyperechoic foci, calcification, cystic change, hypoechoic foci, lobulation, and ulceration, were evaluated. Tumors were grouped in 1 cm intervals. The correlations of tumor size or EUS features with the risk of malignancy were evaluated. A total of 75 patients were enrolled. The mean tumor size was 3.43\u00b10.92 cm. Regarding the risk of malignancy, 51 tumors (68%) had a very low risk, and 24 tumors (32%) had a moderate risk. When the tumors were divided into three groups in 1 cm intervals, the proportions of tumors with a moderate risk were not different between the groups. The preoperative EUS features also did not differ between the very low risk and the moderate risk groups. Tumor size and EUS features cannot be used to preoperatively predict the risk of malignancy of medium-sized gastric GISTs. A preoperative diagnostic modality for predicting risk of malignancy is necessary to prevent the overtreatment of GISTs with a low risk of malignancy."}
{"id": "24223855", "title": "Comparison of endoscopic ultrasonography and multislice spiral computed tomography for the preoperative staging of gastric cancer - results of a single institution study of 610 Chinese patients.", "content": "Comparison of endoscopic ultrasonography and multislice spiral computed tomography for the preoperative staging of gastric cancer - results of a single institution study of 610 Chinese patients. This study compared the performance of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and multislice spiral computed tomography (MSCT) in the preoperative staging of gastric cancer. A total of 610 patients participated in this study, all of whom had undergone surgical resection, had confirmed gastric cancer and were evaluated with EUS and MSCT. Tumor staging was evaluated using the Tumor-Node-Metastasis (TNM) staging and Japanese classification. The results from the imaging modalities were compared with the postoperative histopathological outcomes. The overall accuracies of EUS and MSCT for the T staging category were 76.7% and 78.2% (P=0.537), respectively. Stratified analysis revealed that the accuracy of EUS for T1 and T2 staging was significantly higher than that of MSCT (P<0.001 for both) and that the accuracy of MSCT in T3 and T4 staging was significantly higher than that of EUS (P<0.001 and 0.037, respectively). The overall accuracy of MSCT was 67.2% when using the 13th edition Japanese classification, and this percentage was significantly higher than the accuracy of EUS (49.3%) and MSCT (44.6%) when using the 6th edition UICC classification (P<0.001 for both values). Our results demonstrated that the overall accuracies of EUS and MSCT for preoperative staging were not significantly different. We suggest that a combination of EUS and MSCT is required for preoperative evaluation of TNM staging."}
{"id": "24150801", "title": "[Oesophageal GIST at the left tracheobronchial angle: resection with right-sided VATS].", "content": "[Oesophageal GIST at the left tracheobronchial angle: resection with right-sided VATS]. The vast majority of submucosal oesophageal tumours are leiomyomas. Gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST) account for only one percent of all gastrointestinal malignancies, whereby an oesophageal location represents a medical rarity. Although surgical resection is the gold standard, the optimal procedure remains a matter of debate. Conventional oesophageal resection is the most common therapeutic choice to ensure complete removal with an appropriate safety margin and avoid dissemination of neoplastic cells. Anyhow, occasional case reports about enucleation of oesophageal GIST have been published. This video paper for the first time describes the use of right-sided video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) as a technique to enucleate an oesophageal GIST within the left tracheobronchial angle. A 68-year-old male patient was evaluated for recurrent haemoptysis and dysphagia and diagnosed with a 1.4 cm sized oesophageal tumour at the left tracheobronchial angle. CT scan showed a submucosal location without signs of invasive growth. After conducting endosonography we suspected a leiomyoma and performed minimally invasive enucleation with right-sided VATS. Employing independent lung ventilation the patient was put into a left lateral position. Four trocars were applied. After incision of the mediastinal pleura the tumour was localised with intraoperative gastroscopy and diaphanoscopy. By mobilisation of the oesophagus and transection of the azygous vein it was possible to bluntly dissect the mass from surrounding oesophageal muscular fibres and safely extract it with a specimen bag. After removal of the thoracic drainage on the first postoperative day the patient was discharged the day after. The further course was uneventful. Histological work-up showed a GIST pT1cN0M0 R0 with a Ki-67 index less than 1 % (UICC I). After 10 months of follow-up the patient is recurrence-free and shows no symptoms. Enucleation of a locally limited oesophageal GIST by right-sided VATS is a feasible and safe surgical procedure with dramatically reduced invasiveness compared to conventional open oesophageal resections."}
{"id": "24131359", "title": "Efficacy and safety of endoscopic submucosal dissection in treating gastric subepithelial tumors originating in the muscularis propria layer: a single-center study of 144 cases.", "content": "Efficacy and safety of endoscopic submucosal dissection in treating gastric subepithelial tumors originating in the muscularis propria layer: a single-center study of 144 cases. OBJECTIVE. Subepithelial tumors (SETs) in the stomach are usually considered benign. However, some do have potential for malignant transformation, especially when originating in the muscularis propria (MP). Our study aimed to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for gastric SETs originating in MP. MATERIAL AND METHODS. A total of 145 gastric MP SETs in 144 patients were treated by ESD between September 2008 and December 2012. Characteristics of patients and SETs, therapeutic outcomes, pathologic characteristics, complications and follow-up outcomes were evaluated. RESULTS. Among the 144 patients, 104 were female (72.22%) and 40 were male (27.78%), and the mean age was 55.75 \u00b1 11.29 years (range 18-78 years). The mean size of the tumors determined by endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) was 15.14 \u00b1 9.70 mm (range 3-50 mm). En bloc complete resection was achieved in 134 of 145 tumors, giving a complete resection rate of 92.41%. The final histopathologic diagnoses included 52 leiomyomas, 89 gastrointestinal stromal tumors, 3 neurogenic tumors and 1 lipoma. Perforations occurred in 21 patients (14.48%) and were endoscopically repaired with clips or nylon bands. Intraoperative bleeding occurred in seven patients (4.83%) and was corrected with argon plasma coagulation (APC) or hot biopsy forceps. No local recurrence or distant metastasis was detected during a mean follow-up of 19.14 \u00b1 10.29 months (range 3-51 months). CONCLUSIONS. ESD appears to be an effective and safe treatment for gastric SETs originating in MP."}
{"id": "24129305", "title": "[CME ultrasound diagnosis. 54. Incidental epigastric finding. GIST tumor of the gastric wall].", "content": "[CME ultrasound diagnosis. 54. Incidental epigastric finding. GIST tumor of the gastric wall]."}
{"id": "24108557", "title": "Beyond the GIST: mesenchymal tumors of the stomach.", "content": "Beyond the GIST: mesenchymal tumors of the stomach. Intramural gastric masses arise in the wall of the stomach (generally within the submucosa or muscularis propria), often with intact overlying mucosa. These tumors are typically mesenchymal in origin and have overlapping radiologic appearances. A combination of features such as location, attenuation, enhancement, and growth pattern may suggest one diagnosis over another. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) account for the majority of intramural tumors and can vary widely in appearance, from small intraluminal lesions to exophytic masses that protrude into the peritoneal cavity, commonly with areas of hemorrhage or necrosis. A well-circumscribed mass measuring -70 to -120 HU is a lipoma. Leiomyomas usually manifest as low-attenuation masses at the gastric cardia. Homogeneous attenuation is a noteworthy characteristic of schwannomas, particularly for larger lesions that might otherwise be mistaken for GISTs. A hypervascular mass in the antrum is a common manifestation of glomus tumors. Hemangiomas are also hypervascular but often manifest in childhood. Inflammatory fibroid polyps usually arise as a polypoid mass in the antrum. Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors are infiltrative neoplasms with a propensity for local recurrence. Plexiform fibromyxomas are rare, usually antral tumors. Carcinoid tumors are epithelial in origin, but often submucosal in location, and therefore should be distinguished from other intramural lesions. Multiple carcinoid tumors are associated with hypergastrinemia, either in the setting of chronic atrophic gastritis or Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Sporadic solitary carcinoid tumors not associated with hypergastrinemia have a higher rate of metastasis. Histopathologic analysis, including immunohistochemistry, is usually required for diagnosis of intramural masses."}
{"id": "24078995", "title": "Gastric heterotopic pancreas can be identified by endoscopic direct imaging with submucosal endoscopy.", "content": "Gastric heterotopic pancreas can be identified by endoscopic direct imaging with submucosal endoscopy. Heterotopic pancreas (HP) is pancreatic tissue found outside the usual anatomical location of the pancreas, typically in the upper gastrointestinal tract. Asymptomatic HP is considered a benign submucosal tumor (SMT) that can be followed without intervention. However, invasive surgery or endoscopic resection is often inappropriately applied in cases of HP due to the difficulty of preoperative diagnosis by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and tissue sampling error. Therefore, it is very important to distinguish HP from neoplastic SMTs, such as gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), preoperatively. Herein, we describe two asymptomatic gastric HP cases that were distinguished by endoscopic direct imaging (EDI) on submucosal endoscopy with a mucosal flap method (SEMF). In the two patients, EUS-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy failed to accurately diagnose two SMTs, consistent with the suspicion of a GIST on EUS. Accordingly, we attempted to perform bloc biopsy using SEMF as a novel method for obtaining tissue samples for two indefinite SMTs. Direct endoscopic imaging via a dissected submucosal tunnel revealed a yellowish, multi-nodular mass identified as pancreatic tissue. Histopathology of the bloc biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of HP. Our findings indicate that the characteristic EDI findings of gastric HP may distinguish these lesions from neoplastic SMTs. Additional evaluations of this approach are warranted."}
{"id": "24078993", "title": "Premalignant lesion of heterotopic pancreas combined with gastritis cystica profunda in gastric fundus.", "content": "Premalignant lesion of heterotopic pancreas combined with gastritis cystica profunda in gastric fundus. Heterotopic pancreas, also known as ectopic pancreas, is found mainly in the stomach, duodenum, or jejunum. Pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN) is the non-invasive precursor of pancreatic cancer and gastritis cystica profunda (GCP) is considered a precursor of gastric cancer. As with most putative cancer precursor lesions, the diagnosis and treatment of these lesions has been controversial. A patient with no history of gastric surgery visited our institution for a regular evaluation. Endoscopy showed a 2 x 2 cm sized, protruding mass lesion with overlying normal mucosa on the fundus of stomach. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and computed tomography (CT) led to the possible diagnosis of a gastrointestinal stromal tumor with cystic change. Laparoscopic gastric wedge resection was performed with intra-operative endoscopic guidance. Microscopic examination identified the mass as pancreatic tissue. Furthermore, it demonstrated PanIN, grade 3 (PanIN-3) mixed pancreatobiliary and intestinal type, arising in the heterotopic pancreas and associated with GCP. This report describes a rare case of a PanIN lesion combined with GCP as precursors of precancerous lesions in heterotopic pancreas and stomach."}
{"id": "24039368", "title": "Clonal immunoglobulin heavy chain and T-cell receptor \u03b3 gene rearrangements in primary gastric lymphoma.", "content": "Clonal immunoglobulin heavy chain and T-cell receptor \u03b3 gene rearrangements in primary gastric lymphoma. To study the diagnostic value of immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) and T-cell receptor \u03b3 (TCR-\u03b3) gene monoclonal rearrangements in primary gastric lymphoma (PGL). A total of 48 patients with suspected PGL at our hospital were prospectively enrolled in this study from January 2009 to December 2011. The patients were divided into three groups (a PGL group, a gastric linitis plastica group, and a benign gastric ulcer group) based on the pathological results (gastric mucosal specimens obtained by endoscopy or surgery) and follow-up. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and EUS-guided biopsy were performed in all the patients. The tissue specimens were used for histopathological examination and for IgH and TCR-\u03b3 gene rearrangement polymerase chain reaction analyses. EUS and EUS-guided biopsy were successfully performed in all 48 patients. In the PGL group (n = 21), monoclonal IgH gene rearrangements were detected in 14 (66.7%) patients. A positive result for each set of primers was found in 12 (57.1%), 8 (38.1%), and 4 (19.0%) cases using FR1/JH, FR2/JH, and FR3/JH primers, respectively. Overall, 12 (75%) patients with mucosal-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma (n = 16) and 2 (40%) patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (n = 5) were positive for monoclonal IgH gene rearrangements. No patients in the gastric linitis plastica group (n = 17) and only one (10%) patient in the benign gastric ulcer group (n = 10) were positive for a monoclonal IgH gene rearrangement. No TCR-\u03b3 gene monoclonal rearrangements were detected. The sensitivity of monoclonal IgH gene rearrangements was 66.7% for a PGL diagnosis, and the specificity was 96.4%. In the PGL group, 8 (100%) patients with stage IIE PGL (n = 8) and 6 (46.1%) patients with stage IE PGL (n = 13) were positive for monoclonal IgH gene rearrangements. IgH gene rearrangements may be associated with PGL staging and may be useful for the diagnosis of PGL and for differentiating between PGL and gastric linitis plastica."}
{"id": "24028888", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration as a diagnostic and staging tool for rectal and perirectal lesions-an institutional experience.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration as a diagnostic and staging tool for rectal and perirectal lesions-an institutional experience. The role of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) in evaluating lesions adjacent to the upper gastrointestinal tract wall is well established. However, this tool is underused in evaluating rectal and perirectal lesions, possibly due to insufficient experience and underrecognized value of this procedure. In this study, we report our institutional experience with EUS-FNA as a diagnostic and staging tool for rectal and perirectal lesions. A retrospective chart review was performed and a cohort of 38 patients who underwent rectal EUS-FNA (41 specimens) at our institution between January 2002 and July 2012 was retrieved. The cytology diagnoses were compared with the concurrent or follow-up histologic and clinical diagnoses. Among the total 41 cases, rectal EUS-FNA was performed as a diagnostic procedure in 22 (54%) and a staging procedure in 19 (46%) cases. On cytology examination, 18 cases (44%) were diagnosed as malignant; 1 (2%), as atypical/suspicious for malignancy; 3 (7%), as benign neoplastic; 13 (32%), as nonneoplastic; and 6 (15%), as nondiagnostic cases. Concurrent or follow-up histologic diagnoses were available in 20 cases (48%), 19 of them had concordant cytological/histologic findings (10 benign, 9 malignant). One perirectal lymph node with negative cytology diagnosis was found to be positive on histologic examination, probably due to sampling error on cytology. The sensitivity and specificity of EUS-FNA for detecting malignant rectal/perirectal lesions in this study were 91% and 100%, respectively. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration is a useful diagnostic tool for rectal/perirectal lesions; it confirms or excludes malignancy for lesions with high or low clinical suspicions. It serves as a reliable staging method to identify patients for proper clinical management."}
{"id": "24021732", "title": "Clinical utility of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration in the diagnosis of mediastinal and intra-abdominal lymphadenopathy.", "content": "Clinical utility of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration in the diagnosis of mediastinal and intra-abdominal lymphadenopathy. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) has proven to be helpful in obtaining tissue samples from enlarged mediastinal and intra-abdominal lymph nodes. This is especially beneficial in the diagnosis and staging of malignancy. We retrospectively reviewed the clinical utility of this method at a tertiary care cancer hospital in Pakistan. The medical records of 183 consecutive patients referred to the gastroenterology service from August 2008 to March 2012 were reviewed in this retrospective study. The mean age of the patients at presentation was 46.7 years (range 6-87; 62% males); 119 patients had mediastinal and 64 had intra-abdominal lymphadenopathy. Major indications for referral were diagnosis of lymphadenopathy of unknown origin detected on CT scan or PET-CT, to exclude lymph node metastasis in patients with a known primary tumor and to rule out relapse of lymphoma following treatment or during follow-up. Rapid on-site evaluation (ROSE) was performed in all patients to confirm the adequacy of sampling, followed by definitive cytopathological evaluation. EUS-FNA with ROSE obtained adequate tissue for cytology in 97.3% of the patients in this cohort. These results were further confirmed on final cytopathological analysis in 96.2% of patients. Two patients (1.1%) had inadequate specimens for final interpretation (97.3 vs. 96.2; p = 0.001). Clinical utility was 95% for mediastinal lymphadenopathy and 98.4% for intra-abdominal lymphadenopathy. Only 1 patient had a serious complication requiring hospitalization and this was successfully managed conservatively. EUS-FNA is safe and has a high clinical utility in diagnosing unexplained mediastinal and intra-abdominal lymphadenopathy."}
{"id": "24009205", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonographic features of gastric linitis plastica in fifty-five Chinese patients.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonographic features of gastric linitis plastica in fifty-five Chinese patients. The objective of this study was to investigate the endosonographic appearance of gastric linitis plastica (GLP) and to study the usefulness of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) for the T and N staging of GLP. EUS examinations of 55 patients with histologically proven GLP were retrospectively studied. In all patients, EUS showed that lesions involved at least one-third of the circumference of the stomach. Based on the findings of the EUS, the 55 patients were divided into two groups. There were 32 (58.2%) patients in the first group. EUS of this group showed that the five sonographic layers had disappeared and had been replaced by a hypoechogenic thickening of the gastric wall. There were 23 (41.8%) patients in the second group. EUS of this group showed that the first three sonographic layers were blurred and thickened, and the fourth layer was significantly thickened. The full thickness of the gastric wall was significantly thicker in first than in the second group of patients (P<0.01). The incidence of perigastric lesions was significantly higher in the first than in the second group of patients (P<0.01). Results for the 15 patients following preoperative EUS were compared postoperatively with histopathologic findings for T and N staging. The overall diagnostic accuracy of the T stage was 73.3% and of the N stage was 60.0%. In eight patients, we used EUS to assess a therapeutic response. No response was observed in five patients and a partial response in three. EUS images of GLP are characteristic. EUS is helpful in diagnosing GLP and for assessing the T and N stages."}
{"id": "23998446", "title": "Gastroesophageal cancer: focus on epidemiology, classification, and staging.", "content": "Gastroesophageal cancer: focus on epidemiology, classification, and staging. Gastroesophageal cancer (GEC), comprising proximal esophagogastric junction (EGJ) and distal gastric cancer (GC), is a significant public health concern. The epidemiology of these tumors has significantly changed over the past several decades especially in developed countries. There is a recognized decrease in incidence and mortality of distal GC and an increase in incidence and mortality of proximal EGJ cancer. The changing epidemiology is thought to be mainly due to changing trends of risk factors such as lower incidence of Helicobacter pylori infection and increasing incidence of obesity and gastroesophageal reflux. Histologically, EGJ cancers are adenocarcinoma (AC), while distal esophagus may be squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) or AC. Distal GC is predominantly AC. Following anatomical and histological distinction, tumors are staged with endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), computerized tomography (CT), and often positron emission tomography (PET) with or without diagnostic laparoscopic and peritoneal washing. Accurate staging of tumors, with emphasis on excluding occult metastasis, is imperative to avoid unnecessary surgical resection. Therefore, it is crucial to understand how these tumors are classified, the associated epidemiology, and the current standards of staging prior to selecting the appropriate course of therapy. In this review we will discuss the epidemiology, classification, and staging of locally advanced GEC."}
{"id": "23995566", "title": "Preoperative diagnosis of abdominal diseases with endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Preoperative diagnosis of abdominal diseases with endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "23992089", "title": "Accuracy of a scoring system for the differential diagnosis of common gastric subepithelial tumors based on endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Accuracy of a scoring system for the differential diagnosis of common gastric subepithelial tumors based on endoscopic ultrasonography. We aimed to validate a new scoring system for the differential diagnosis of gastric subepithelial tumors (SET) based on endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) findings, and to determine its diagnostic yield for different gastric SET. Data of patients with gastric SET treated with endoscopic mucosal resection, endoscopic submucosal dissection or surgical resection from April 2001 to October 2012 at the Soonchunhyang University Hospital (Bucheon, Korea) were retrospectively reviewed. Four variables, including location, shape, layer of origin and echogenicity of the tumor on EUS were used to validate the new scoring system. Among the 226 patients with gastric SET, 69 (30.5%) had gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST), 68 (30.1%) had ectopic pancreas and 35 (15.5%) had leiomyoma. Most GIST were located at the fundus and body (79.7%), whereas most leiomyomas were found at the cardia (80.0%). Ectopic pancreas was mostly found at the antrum (88.2%). GIST were mainly irregular and round in shape, while ectopic pancreas and lipoma were oval and leiomyomas were irregularly shaped on EUS. With a score range of 0-1 for leiomyoma, 2-3 for GIST, 4-6 for ectopic pancreas and 7-8 for lipoma, the sensitivity and specificity of the scoring system were 75.8% and 85.4% for GIST, 84.6% and 73.1% for ectopic pancreas, 75.9% and 99.5% for leiomyoma and 91.7% and 96.7% for lipoma, respectively. The new scoring system was simple and relatively useful for predicting the histology of gastric SET without acquiring tissues. Prospective studies with large sample sizes are needed in the future."}
{"id": "23950077", "title": "[Surgical treatment of carcinomas of the oesophagogastric junction - results achieved in multicentre studies].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of carcinomas of the oesophagogastric junction - results achieved in multicentre studies]. Adenocarcinomas of the oesophagogastric junction are increasingly being considered as a separated tumour entity. The prognosis is rather poorer compared with that for distal gastric cancer. Data from a multicentre study as part of research on clinical care aim to reflect the current situation in surgical treatment after inauguration of neoadjuvant modalities. As part of the ongoing prospective multicentre observational study QCGC 2 (German Gastric Cancer Study 2), 544 adenocarcinomas of the oesophagogastric junction (AEG 1-3) were registered from 01/01/2007 to 12/31/2009. Patients underwent surgical intervention in 108 (76.6 %) of the 141 surgical departments which provided data to the study. In 391 patients (82.5 %), R0 resection was achieved. Almost 60 % of the carcinomas of the oesophagogastric junction were approached in departments with no more than 10 of these tumour lesions through the whole study period (3 years). Endoscopic ultrasonography was performed in 283 cases (53 %); the rate of neoadjuvant treatment was 34.4 % (n = 187). Intraoperative fresh frozen section was only included in intraoperative decision-making in 242 patients (60.8 %). In the revealed heterogeneous spectrum of surgical interventions, a limited number of transthoracic approaches (20 %) and a mediastinal lymphadenectomy rate of only 47 % were found. Hospital lethality was 6.6 %. In the adenocarcinomas of the oesophagogastric junction, a significantly lower median survival (25 months) compared with distal gastric cancer (38 months) was observed depending on the tumour stage. In addition, 5-year survival rate of AEG patients (33.1 %) was distinctly lower than for patients with distal gastric cancer (41.4 %). There was no significantly better survival by neoadjuvant treatment in the group of investigated patients. The results in the treatment of carcinomas of the oesophagogastric junction in the multicentre setting including surgical departments of each profile and region even after introduction of multimodal therapeutic concepts are not satisfying. In particular, modern diagnostic and surgical strategies need to be widely used or their percentage has to be increased. In this context, centralisation of the surgical care of this specific tumour entity appears reasonable."}
{"id": "23945921", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound-assisted endoscopic submucosal dissection of a gastric subepithelial tumor.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound-assisted endoscopic submucosal dissection of a gastric subepithelial tumor."}
{"id": "23943115", "title": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for early gastric cancer with undifferentiated histology: could we extend the criteria beyond?", "content": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for early gastric cancer with undifferentiated histology: could we extend the criteria beyond? Endoscopic submucosal desection (ESD) is an effective treatment for selected patients with early gastric cancer (EGC). The purpose of this study was to examine the short-term and long-term outcomes of ESD of undifferentiated early gastric cancer. Data for 1,241 patients who underwent ESD for treatment of EGC between February 2003 and May 2010 were collected. We performed a retrospective analysis of the medical records of 74 patients diagnosed with undifferentiated EGC. We divided the enrolled cases into two groups: the expanded-criteria group (EC group) versus the non-EC group, according to lesion size, presence of ulceration, and pathologic review. Of a total of 74 lesions with undifferentiated EGC, as a result of pathologic examination the EC group included 29 cases and the non-EC group included 45 cases. The mean diameter of lesions was 19.86 \u00b1 12.5 mm. The overall rates of en bloc resection and complete resection were 90.5% (67/74) and 73% (54/74), respectively. The curative resection rate was low at 31.1%. If limited to the pathologically diagnosed EC group, the curative resection rate was 79.3% (23/29). During median follow-up periods of 34 months (range 7-81), local recurrences were observed in 5.5% (4/74) of patients. All of these were in the non-EC group and all underwent noncurative resection. There was no mortality related to ESD for treatment of EGC during follow-up. ESD may be a feasible treatment for selected patients with undifferentiated EGC; this should be validated by development of new criteria for ESD for treatment of EGC."}
{"id": "23922473", "title": "A feasible modified biopsy method for tissue diagnosis of gastric subepithelial tumors.", "content": "A feasible modified biopsy method for tissue diagnosis of gastric subepithelial tumors. To evaluate the diagnostic yield and safety of a modified technique for the histological diagnosis of subepithelial tumors (SETs). A retrospective review of patients who underwent a modified technique for the histological diagnosis of gastric SETs, consisting of a mucosal incision with a fixed flexible snare (MIF) and deep-tissue biopsy under conventional endoscopic view, from January 2012 to January 2013 was performed. Eleven patients with gastric SETs 10-30 mm in diameter and originating from the third or fourth layer on endoscopic ultrasonography were included. The mean age was 59.8 (range, 45-76) years, and 5 patients were male. The mean size of the SETs was 21.8 (range, 11-30) mm. The number of biopsy specimens was 6.3 (range 5-8). The mean procedure time was 9.0 min (range, 4-17 min). The diagnostic yield of MIF biopsies was 90.9% (10/11). The histological diagnoses were leiomyoma (4/11, 36.4%), aberrant pancreas (3/11, 27.3%), gastrointestinal stromal tumors (2/11, 18.2%), an inflammatory fibrinoid tumor (1/11, 9.1%); one result was non-diagnostic (1/11, 9.1%). There were six mesenchymal tumors; the specimens obtained in each case were sufficient for an immunohistochemical diagnosis. There was no major bleeding, but one perforation occurred that was successfully controlled by endoscopic clipping. The MIF biopsy was simple to perform, safe, and required a shorter procedure time, with a high diagnostic yield for small SETs."}
{"id": "23910174", "title": "Primary synovial sarcoma of the stomach--a case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Primary synovial sarcoma of the stomach--a case report and review of the literature. Synovial sarcoma (SS) is a mesenchymal spindle cell tumor which displays variable epithelial differentiation. It commonly arises around the major joints or tendon sheaths in young adults, but is not commonly seen in the stomach. We experienced a case of primary gastric SS. The patient is a 22-year-old male, who presented with epigastric pain. Upper endoscopy showed an ulcer of 25 mm in diameter with marginal elevation on the posterior mid-gastric body. Biopsy of the ulcer base showed monotonous proliferation of small spindle-shaped cells on HE-stain. On immunohistochemical staining, these cells were positively stained with vimentin, cytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen, and CD99, but were negative for KIT, CD34, desmin, and S-100 protein. These findings were compatible with SS of monophasic type. Diagnosis of primary gastric SS was made because there were no other primary lesions, nor metastatic lesions. The wedge resection was performed. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), using the RNA from frozen neoplastic tissue of the resected specimen, detected a fusion gene called SYT-SSX1, specific for SS. Though SS arising in the stomach is rare, it should be considered in the differential diagnosis of KIT-negative gastric spindle cell tumor."}
{"id": "23902569", "title": "Submucosal tumors: comprehensive guide for the diagnosis and therapy of gastrointestinal submucosal tumors.", "content": "Submucosal tumors: comprehensive guide for the diagnosis and therapy of gastrointestinal submucosal tumors. Small submucosal tumors (SMT) without symptoms are frequently found by endoscopic and radiological examinations. To find proper diagnostic measures and therapeutic indications for histologically undiagnosed SMT, we reviewed published articles in PubMed between 1990 and March 2013 using the key words 'submucosal tumor' and the name of a specific disease. SMT is observed in a wide range of gastrointestinal (GI) diseases and conditions, including compression by extra-GI organs and lesions, congenital tumors, inflammation, and benign as well as malignant neoplastic lesions. In the diagnosis of diseases and decision-making for therapy, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) may play a key role. Symptomatic SMT and SMT histologically diagnosed as malignant or potentially malignant tumors such as gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) should be treated by surgery. SMT >5 cm, SMT increasing in size and those with'high-risk features' including irregular border, heterogeneous internal echo such as anechoic area, and heterogeneous enhancement by contrast media may also be removed by surgery. Laparoscopic approach is feasible for gastric GIST <5 cm and this is considered less invasive than the open approach. Emerging techniques using flexible endoscopes appear less invasive, but require further evidence and are still under clinical study. Correct diagnosis of SMT is challenging; however, EUS and EUS-FNA are useful in the histological diagnosis and clinical decision-making. In the future, minimally invasive approaches may be a mainstream of surgical treatment for small SMT."}
{"id": "23859450", "title": "The role of endoscopic ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) in non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients: SEED-SEPD-AEG Joint Guideline.", "content": "The role of endoscopic ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) in non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients: SEED-SEPD-AEG Joint Guideline. Lung cancer is one of the most frequent neoplasms in our environment, and represents the first cause of cancer related death in western countries. Diagnostic and therapeutic approach to these patients may be complicated, with endoscopic ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA), classically performed by gastroenterologists, playing a very important role. As this disease is not closely related to the \"digestive tract\", gastroenterologists have been forced to update their knowledge on this field o adequately diagnose this significant group of patients. The recent advent of modern and promising techniques like endobronchial ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration (EBUS-FNA) have prompted new approaches for diagnosis and staging of this type of patients. In this clinical guideline, the \"Sociedad Espa\u00f1ola de Endoscopia Digestiva\" (SEED), \"Sociedad Espa\u00f1ola de Patolog\u00eda Digestiva\" (SEPD) and the \"Asociaci\u00f3nEspa\u00f1ola de Gastroenterolog\u00eda\", have jointed efforts to update the existing knowledge on the field and provide their members with evidence based recommendations."}
{"id": "23855544", "title": "Bleeding gastric hemolymphangioma: endoscopic therapy is feasible.", "content": "Bleeding gastric hemolymphangioma: endoscopic therapy is feasible."}
{"id": "23837259", "title": "Predictive value of endoscopic ultrasound in diagnosis and staging of primary gastric lymphoma.", "content": "Predictive value of endoscopic ultrasound in diagnosis and staging of primary gastric lymphoma. The aim of the paper is to investigate significance of the endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in diagnostic and staging of gastric lymphoma. Retrospective clinical study was conducted at the Clinic for Hematology and Clinic for Gastroenterology of the University Clinical Center of Sarajevo in the period of years 2002 to 2009. Patients (N = 40) with diagnosis of gastric lymphoma confirmed by pathohistological diagnosis were included in the study. Stage of the disease was determined based on EUS, proximal endoscopy, CT and ultrasound of abdomen, and classified according to the Ann Arbor classification. 39 patients had various types of non Hodgkin lymphoma and one patient had Hodgkin lymphoma. Based on morphological characteristics of gastric tumor visualized with EUS in 16 patients a gastric cancer was suspected. In 40% patients EUS finding was not confirmed by pathohistological finding. Compared both to CT and ultrasound of abdomen, EUS showed statistically significant higher frequency of establishing existence of infiltration (p < 0.001). In patients with primary gastric lymphoma EUS has more significant role in determination of stage of disease spread than for the diagnosis itself. Therefore EUS should be included into algorithm of patient diagnostic protocol when suspected to the malignant gastric disease."}
{"id": "23831658", "title": "[A case of undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma of the stomach showing rapid growth].", "content": "[A case of undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma of the stomach showing rapid growth]. We report an extremely rare case of undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma of the stomach. A 74-year-old woman was admitted for abdominal discomfort. A 13-cm gastric submucosal tumor and multiple liver and bone metastases were detected by computed tomography. The tumor had not been detected 8 months earlier. We performed EUS-FNAB for a suspected mesenchymal tumor, but the immunohistochemical test (c-kit, CD34, desmin, SMA, S-100) findings were negative. The tumor was confirmed as wild type for c-kit and PDGFR\u03b1. It grew rapidly and the patient died 2 months after admission. Pathological analysis of the EUS-FNAB specimens and autopsy revealed an undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma."}
{"id": "23801875", "title": "Esophageal mucosal metastasis from adenocarcinoma of the distal stomach.", "content": "Esophageal mucosal metastasis from adenocarcinoma of the distal stomach. Dissemination of gastric cancer may usually occur by direct spread through the perigastric tissues to adjacent organ, lymphatic spread, and hematogenous spread. We report a rare case of gastric cancer with mucosal metastastic lesion on the upper esophagus that was diagnosed by endoscopy and endosonography. A biopsy of the esophageal mass was performed and the pathologic findings with immunohistochemical stain for Mucin-5AC are proved to be identical to that of gastric adenocarcinoma, suggesting metastasis from main lesion of the gastric cancer. The lesion could not be explained by lymphatic or hematogenous spread, and its metastasis mechanism is considered to be different from previous studies. We suggest that the gastroesophageal reflux of cancer cells could be one of the possible metastatic pathways for metastasis of esophagus from an adenocarcinoma of the stomach."}
{"id": "23769459", "title": "Acute lymphoblastic leukemia with gastric involvement initially diagnosed by endoscopy and EUS.", "content": "Acute lymphoblastic leukemia with gastric involvement initially diagnosed by endoscopy and EUS."}
{"id": "23751997", "title": "Early outcomes of video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) Ivor Lewis operation for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: the extracorporeal anastomosis technique.", "content": "Early outcomes of video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) Ivor Lewis operation for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: the extracorporeal anastomosis technique. Although the use of a minimally invasive approach in esophageal cancer surgery is gradually increasing, it is generally performed using cervical anastomosis because of the difficulty of intrathoracic anastomosis. Here, we describe our technique for performing intrathoracic esophagogastrostomy using a typical video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) approach. Between September 2009 and July 2011, VATS esophagectomy and intrathoracic anastomosis was performed in 31 esophageal cancer patients with a utility incision made by a segmental rib resection to enhance the extracorporeal insertion of the end-to-end stapler. We retrospectively reviewed the clinical records of these patients. There were no intraoperative events related to the VATS procedure. The mean VATS time was 180.2 \u00b1 39.2 min. The mean postoperative hospital stay was 15.2 days (range, 11 to 38 d). No significant pulmonary complications were observed. Five patients developed vocal cord palsy due to radical mediastinal lymphadenectomy. No anastomotic complications such as leaking or stricture were observed. Only 1 patient had postoperative pain requiring analgesics. Our technique can be safely and effectively performed for intrathoracic anastomosis in esophageal surgery with favorable early outcomes and reduced postoperative pulmonary complications."}
{"id": "23722535", "title": "Gastric carcinoma: imaging diagnosis, staging and assessment of treatment response.", "content": "Gastric carcinoma: imaging diagnosis, staging and assessment of treatment response. Gastric carcinoma (GC) is one of the most common causes of cancer-related death worldwide. Surgical resection is the only cure available and is dependent on the GC stage at presentation, which incorporates depth of tumor invasion, extent of lymph node and distant metastases. Accurate preoperative staging is therefore essential for optimal surgical management with consideration of preoperative and/or postoperative chemotherapy. Multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) with its ability to assess tumor depth, nodal disease and metastases is the preferred technique for staging GC. Endoscopic ultrasonography is more accurate for assessing the depth of wall invasion in early cancer, but is limited in the assessment of advanced local or stenotic cancer and detection of distant metastases. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), although useful for staging, is not proven to be effective. Positron emission tomography (PET) is most useful for detecting and characterizing distant metastases. Both MDCT and PET are useful for assessment of treatment response following preoperative chemotherapy and for detection of recurrence after surgical resection. This review article discusses the usefulness of imaging modalities for detecting, staging and assessing treatment response for GC and the potential role of newer applications including CT volumetry, virtual gastroscopy and perfusion CT in the management of GC."}
{"id": "23680707", "title": "The accuracy of multi-detector row computerized tomography in staging rectal cancer compared to endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "The accuracy of multi-detector row computerized tomography in staging rectal cancer compared to endoscopic ultrasound. Our aim was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of multi-detector row computerized tomography (MDCT) in staging of rectal cancer by comparing it to rectal endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). We prospectively included all patients with rectal cancer referred to our gastroenterology unit for staging of rectal cancer from December 2007 until February 2011, 53 patients whose biopsy had proven rectal cancer underwent both MDCT scan of the pelvis and rectal EUS. Both imaging modalities were compared and the agreement between T- and N-staging of the disease was assessed. We staged 62 patients with rectal cancer during the study period. Of these, 53 patients met the inclusion criteria and were evaluated (25 women and 28 men). The mean age was 57.79 \u00b1 14.99 years (range 21-87). MDCT had poor accuracy compared with EUS in T-staging with a low degree of agreement (kappa = 0.26), while for N-staging MDCT had a better accuracy and a moderate degree of agreement with EUS (kappa = 0.45). MDCT has a poor accuracy for predicting tumor invasion compared to EUS for T-staging while it has moderate accuracy for N-staging."}
{"id": "23617646", "title": "Lessons from imperfect endoscopic submucosal dissection of rectal tumor.", "content": "Lessons from imperfect endoscopic submucosal dissection of rectal tumor. Endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) is a standard endoscopic treatment for gastrointestinal tumors, but resections done in a piecemeal fashion are difficult to diagnose pathologically as curative resections, and the local recurrence rate is relatively high. Recently, endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for colorectal tumors, which provides a higher complete resection rate than conventional EMR, has rapidly come into widespread use in Japan. However, colorectal ESD is still technically difficult and has complications such as perforation, and the procedure time is longer than that of conventional EMR. We report herein a case in which a rectal tumor was resected with an inappropriate specimen due to imperfect ESD. This lesion had severe fibrosis in the submucosal layer because the lesion had been injected with a solution for EMR in another hospital, which resulted in non-lifting signs, and had been subjected to many biopsies. During the ESD in our hospital, the submucosal layer was not clearly identified, and a small injury was caused in the specimen. A precise diagnosis based on histopathological findings could not be made because of the inappropriate specimen. Thus, expertise in both the diagnostic and the therapeutic aspects is required before treating large colorectal tumors."}
{"id": "23613938", "title": "Noninvasive visualization of microRNA-16 in the chemoresistance of gastric cancer using a dual reporter gene imaging system.", "content": "Noninvasive visualization of microRNA-16 in the chemoresistance of gastric cancer using a dual reporter gene imaging system. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated to play a central role in the development of drug resistance in a variety of malignancies. However, many studies were conducted at the in vitro level and could not provide the in vivo information on the functions of miRNAs in the anticancer drug resistance. Here, we introduced a dual reporter gene imaging system for noninvasively monitoring the kinetic expression of miRNA-16 during chemoresistance in gastric cancer both in vitro and in vivo. Human sodium iodide symporter (hNIS) and firefly luciferase (Fluc) genes were linked to form hNIS/Fluc double fusion reporter gene and then generate human gastric cancer cell line NF-3xmir16 and its multidrug resistance cell line NF-3xmir16/VCR. Radioiodide uptake and Fluc luminescence signals in vitro correlated well with viable cell numbers. The luciferase activities and radioiodide uptake in NF-3xmir16 cells were remarkably repressed by exogenous or endogenous miRNA-16. The NF-3xmir16/VCR cells showed a significant increase of (131)I uptake and luminescence intensity compared to NF-3xmir16 cells. The radioactivity from in vivo (99m)Tc-pertechnetate imaging and the intensity from bioluminescence imaging were also increased in NF-3xmir16/VCR compared with that in NF-3xmir16 tumor xenografts. Furthermore, using this reporter gene system, we found that etoposide (VP-16) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) activated miRNA-16 expression in vitro and in vivo, and the upregulation of miRNA-16 is p38MAPK dependent but NF-\u03baB independent. This dual imaging reporter gene may be served as a novel tool for in vivo imaging of microRNAs in the chemoresistance of cancers, as well as for early detection and diagnosis in clinic."}
{"id": "23557836", "title": "Gastric carcinoma with lymphoid stroma resembling a hypoechoic submucosal tumor.", "content": "Gastric carcinoma with lymphoid stroma resembling a hypoechoic submucosal tumor."}
{"id": "23479274", "title": "[Treatment of gastric cancer beyond current guideline: state of the art].", "content": "[Treatment of gastric cancer beyond current guideline: state of the art]. The majority of recommendations in the current S3 guideline on the diagnosis and treatment of gastric carcinoma are based on good clinical practice and lack supporting randomized studies. With the development of endoscopic resection and multimodal treatment concepts, pretherapeutic tumor staging has gained in importance. However, the accuracy of present imaging modalities is still limited with a tendency towards overstaging of locally advanced tumors. Extended lymph node dissection cannot be recommended in cases with advanced lymph node involvement. In cardiac cancer retroperitoneal lymphatic spread to the left renal vein is an early event and should thus not be classified as stage IV disease. In cases of intra-abdominal gastrectomy a pouch reconstruction should be considered in cases with a good overall prognosis. Subgroup analyses indicate a differential therapeutic effect of the established perioperative chemotherapy depending on the location of the primary tumor. There is also good evidence for an additional beneficial effect of radiotherapy in combination with chemotherapy."}
{"id": "23465968", "title": "Staging of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors: how we do it based on an evidence-based approach.", "content": "Staging of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors: how we do it based on an evidence-based approach. In contrast to other common types of malignant tumors, the vast majority of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors are well differentiated and slowly growing with only a minority showing aggressive behavior. It is important to accurately stage patients radiologically so the correct treatment can be implemented and to improve prognosis. In this article, we critically appraise the current literature in an effort to establish the current role of radiologic imaging in the staging of neuroendocrine tumors. We also discuss our protocol for staging neuroendocrine tumors."}
{"id": "23462130", "title": "A rare submucosal tumor of the stomach.", "content": "A rare submucosal tumor of the stomach."}
{"id": "23446466", "title": "[Application and value of preoperative staging in gastric cancer].", "content": "[Application and value of preoperative staging in gastric cancer]. A more differentiated therapy regimen for gastric carcinoma requires more precise preoperative staging. In patients with early gastric cancer (EGC), especially mucosa, endoscopic resection (ER) should be performed to avoid unnecessary surgical procedures. To achieve R0 resection for locally-advanced gastric cancer (AGC), neoadjuvant treatments have been investigated. Clinical staging of gastric cancer has been greatly improved by advance in imaging techniques such as endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), transabdominal ultrasonography (TAUS), multi-slice spiral CT (MSCT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET), combined PET-CT scans, and laparoscopic staging. This review is to summarize the clinical application and the value of preoperative staging in gastric cancer."}
{"id": "23430958", "title": "Intraductal ultrasound substantiates diagnostics of bile duct strictures of uncertain etiology.", "content": "Intraductal ultrasound substantiates diagnostics of bile duct strictures of uncertain etiology. To report the largest patient cohort study investigating the diagnostic yield of intraductal ultrasound (IDUS) in indeterminate strictures of the common bile duct. A patient cohort with bile duct strictures of unknown etiology was examined by IDUS. Sensitivity, specificity and accuracy rates of IDUS were calculated relating to the definite diagnoses proved by histopathology or long-term follow-up in those patients who did not undergo surgery. Analysis of the endosonographic report allowed drawing conclusions with respect to the T and N staging in 147 patients. IDUS staging was compared to the postoperative histopathological staging data allowing calculation of sensitivity, specificity and accuracy rates for T and N stages. The endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreatography and IDUS procedures were performed under fluoroscopic guidance using a side-viewing duodenoscope (Olympus TJF 160, Olympus, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan). All procedures were performed under conscious sedation (propofol combined with pethidine) according to the German guidelines. For IDUS, a 6 F or 8 F ultrasound miniprobe was employed with a radial scanner of 15-20 MHz at the tip of the probe (Aloka Co., Tokyo, Japan). A total of 397 patients (210 males, 187 females, mean age 61.43 \u00b1 13 years) with indeterminate bile duct strictures were included. Two hundred and sixty-four patients were referred to the department of surgery for operative exploration, thus surgical histopathological correlation was available for those patients. Out of 264 patients, 174 had malignant disease proven by surgery, in 90 patients benign disease was found. In these patients decision for surgical exploration was made due to suspicion for malignant disease in multimodal diagnostics (computed tomography scan, endoscopic ultrasound or magnetic resonance imaging). Twenty benign bile duct strictures were misclassified by IDUS as malignant while 14 patients with malignant strictures were initially misdiagnosed by IDUS as benign resulting in sensitivity, specificity and accuracy rates of 93.2%, 89.5% and 91.4%, respectively. In the subgroup analysis of malignancy prediction, IDUS showed best performance in cholangiocellular carcinoma as underlying disease (sensitivity rate, 97.6%) followed by pancreatic carcinoma (93.8%), gallbladder cancer (88.9%) and ampullary cancer (80.8%). A total of 133 patients were not surgically explored. 32 patients had palliative therapy due to extended tumor disease in IDUS and other imaging modalities. Ninety-five patients had benign diagnosis by IDUS, forceps biopsy and radiographic imaging and were followed by a surveillance protocol with a follow-up of at least 12 mo; the mean follow-up was 39.7 mo. Tumor localization within the common bile duct did not have a significant influence on prediction of malignancy by IDUS. The accuracy rate for discriminating early T stage tumors (T1) was 84% while for T2 and T3 malignancies the accuracy rates were 73% and 71%, respectively. Relating to N0 and N1 staging, IDUS procedure achieved accuracy rates of 69% for N0 and N1, respectively. Pre-test likelihood of 52% may not rule out bias and over-interpretation due to the clinical scenario or other prior performed imaging tests. IDUS shows good results for accurate diagnostics of bile duct strictures of uncertain etiology thus allowing for adequate further clinical management."}
{"id": "23374227", "title": "Primary inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor of the stomach in an adult woman: a case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Primary inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor of the stomach in an adult woman: a case report and review of the literature. Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor has been defined as a histologically distinctive lesion with uncertain behaviour. The term inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor more commonly referred to as \"pseudostumor \", denotes a pseudosarcomatous inflammatory lesion that contains spindle cells, myofibroblasts, plasma cells, lymphocytes and histiocytes. It exhibits a variable biological behavior that ranges from frequently benign lesions to more aggressive variants. Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor mostly occurs in the soft tissue of children and young adults, and the lungs are the most commonly affected site, but it has been recognized that any anatomic localization can be involved. Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors in adults are very rare, especially in the stomach. We present a case of a 43-year old woman with primary inflammatory myofibiroblastic tumor in the stomach and a review of the literature."}
{"id": "23372369", "title": "Primary histiocytic sarcoma of the stomach: a case report with imaging findings.", "content": "Primary histiocytic sarcoma of the stomach: a case report with imaging findings. Histiocytic sarcoma (HS) is a rare malignant neoplasm that originates from a histiocytic hematopoietic lineage characterized by histiocytic differentiation and its corresponding immunophenotypic features. We herein reported a case of primary HS of the stomach which was confirmed through histopathologic examination and immunohistochemical staining. A 52-year-old woman presented with progressive difficulty in feeding and dull pain in the epigastric region. Gastroscopy, endoscopic ultrasonography, double contrast examination, and computed tomography revealed a mass located on the posterior wall of fundus and lesser curvature of the stomach. Microscopically, the cytoplasm of the tumor cells was abundant and eosinophilic. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that the tumor cells were positive for CD45RO and CD68. It is difficult to differentiate HS of stomach from other gastric malignancies by radiological evaluation alone. However, HS may be considered when a protruding and ulcerated mass in stomach shows heterogeneous hypervascular features. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report in English language literature that emphasizes the imaging findings of human gastric HS."}
{"id": "23369082", "title": "Mucosal cutting biopsy technique for histological diagnosis of suspected gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the stomach.", "content": "Mucosal cutting biopsy technique for histological diagnosis of suspected gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the stomach. The Japanese Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor (GIST) therapeutic guidelines recommend endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy for histological diagnosis. However, before 2010, this technique was only carried out at a minority of medical institutions in Japan. In the present study, we investigated the usefulness of mucosal cutting biopsy. In 18 asymptomatic gastric submucosal tumors, mucosal cutting biopsies were carried out. We examined tumor size, tumor site (lower third: L; middle third: M; upper third: U), histopathological diagnostic yield and complications. In cases that proceeded to surgical resection with a diagnosis of GIST, we compared the pre- and postoperative histopathological diagnosis, and the histological degrees of malignancy. The tumors had a mean size of 20.3\u2009mm and were located at the L site in five cases, M in four, and U in nine. Histological diagnosis of submucosal tumor was obtained in all the cases. (GIST, n\u2009=\u200913; heterotopic pancreas, n\u2009=\u20092; and leiomyoma, n\u2009=\u20093). No complications (e.g. bleeding, perforation or peritonitis) were seen after this procedure. In all 11 patients with GIST who underwent surgical resection, the histopathological findings from the mucosal cutting biopsy specimens were similar to those from the surgically resected specimens, with agreement between the immunostaining findings and the histological degree of malignancy (90.9%) in 10 patients. The mucosal cutting biopsy technique is a useful diagnostic modality for the diagnosis of gastric GIST and for selection of the appropriate treatment."}
{"id": "23361497", "title": "Local excision with adjuvant imatinib therapy for anorectal gastrointestinal stromal tumors.", "content": "Local excision with adjuvant imatinib therapy for anorectal gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Rectal gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are uncommon, and the role of local excision versus a more extensive resection after the advent of effective targeted chemotherapy with imatinib is not known. Our aim is to present two cases of large anorectal GIST treated with local excision through a new anterolateral trans-sphincteric approach followed by adjuvant therapy with imatinib. Two patients (both males, 68 and 63 years old) presented at our institution with anorectal GIST in the period October-November 2010. Their medical records, pathology results, and imaging studies were retrospectively reviewed. Both patients presented with an anterior perianal mass. Imaging studies were characteristic of GIST originating in the lower rectum, circumscribed by a pseudocapsule, and protruding into the ischiorectal fossa. Both patients underwent local excision via an anterolateral trans-sphincteric approach. Both tumors were removed intact, with microscopically negative margins. The maximum tumor diameter was 8 and 9 cm, and the diagnosis of GIST was confirmed by positive CD117 and CD34 staining in both cases. Both tumors had a high (>5/50HPF) mitotic index. The patients had an uneventful postoperative course and were discharged on days 5 and 6. Both patients were started on imatinib 400 mg bid postoperatively. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography computed tomography were carried out at 12 months and did not reveal any signs of recurrence. The patients are currently disease-free at 24 and 23 months of follow-up. In selected cases, complete excision of rectal GIST with negative margins is feasible via a trans-sphincteric approach. With the use of adjuvant therapy, which is currently advocated in all high-risk cases, it is possible that local excision with its reduced morbidity may become a viable alternative, especially in patients who would otherwise require abdominoperineal excision such as the two presented here. Prospective studies with longer follow-up are needed to confirm adequate oncologic results."}
{"id": "23329369", "title": "Endoscopic holmium:YAG laser ablation of early gastrointestinal intramucosal cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic holmium:YAG laser ablation of early gastrointestinal intramucosal cancer. Various endoscopic techniques are being increasingly used in early gastrointestinal (GI) cancer. The holmium: yttrium-aluminum-garnet (Ho:YAG) laser has precise tissue cutting ability and good hemostatic properties and has been widely applicated to soft tissue, but the use of endoscopic Ho:YAG laser ablation for early gastrointestinal cancer has not been reported. Twenty patients with biopsy-proven early GI cancer who had a high surgical risk or refused surgery were treated by endoscopic Ho:YAG laser ablation. The tumors of all patients were confined to the mucosal layer without ulceration and without lymph node metastasis. The tumor diameter was not more than 2.5 cm. Endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasound, and computed tomography scan were performed 1-3 months after the treatment, and a biopsy was performed to evaluate the effects of the therapy. Long-term endoscopic follow-up was maintained. Complete eradication was achieved in all the 20 patients, including four patients with high-grade dysplasia associated with focal canceration, seven patients with well-differentiated squamous cell cancer, and nine patients with well-differentiated adenocarcinoma, resulting in a complete response rate of 100% at 1-3 months after treatment. No recurrence was found during 36-73 months of follow-up in all 20 patients. No operative or delayed complications were observed in any of the 20 patients. Preliminary study shows that endoscopic Ho:YAG laser ablation may be an effective, safe, and minimally invasive method for selected patients with early GI intramucosal cancer. Further research is required to confirm the safety and efficacy of this technique compared to its alternative techniques in a multicenter randomized controlled trial."}
{"id": "23288709", "title": "Fiber-optic Raman spectroscopy probes gastric carcinogenesis in vivo at endoscopy.", "content": "Fiber-optic Raman spectroscopy probes gastric carcinogenesis in vivo at endoscopy. Intestinal-type gastric carcinogenesis is a complex multi-step disease, and early precursors (e.g. intestinal metaplasia (IM), dysplasia) can be very challenging to identify using conventional white-light endoscopic imaging. This study aims to assess the capability of Raman spectroscopy for multi-class elucidation of intestinal-type gastric carcinogenesis sequence in vivo for improving precancer detection at endoscopy. We employ a novel image-guided Raman endoscopy technique developed for in vivo gastric tissue Raman measurement within 0.5 s during clinical endoscopic examination. We have acquired a total of 1277 in vivo Raman spectra from 83 gastric patients associated with intestinal-type carcinogenesis. In vivo Raman spectroscopy integrated with semi-quantitative spectral modelling (e.g. DNA, lipids, glycoprotein, proteins and blood) reveals the progressive changes of biochemical constituents in gastric tissue associated with preneoplastic and neoplastic transformation (i.e., IM, dysplasia and adenocarcinoma). Multi-class probabilistic partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) diagnostic algorithms based on in vivo Raman spectra are able to identify normal mucosa with sensitivity of 75.88% and specificity of 87.21%; IM with sensitivity of 46.67% and specificity of 87.55%; dysplasia with sensitivity of 83.33%; specificity of 95.80%, and adenocarcinoma with sensitivity of 84.91% and specificity 95.57%, respectively. This work demonstrates that Raman spectroscopy is a sensitive biomolecular probe for monitoring intestinal-type gastric carcinogenesis to realize early diagnosis and detection of precancer and early gastric cancer in vivo during clinical endoscopic examination."}
{"id": "23286261", "title": "Gastric glomus tumor: analysis of endosonographic characteristics and computed tomographic findings.", "content": "Gastric glomus tumor: analysis of endosonographic characteristics and computed tomographic findings. Among submucosal tumors (SMT), gastric glomus tumors are rare vascular tumors, and only a few cases where glomus tumors have been differentiated from other mesenchymal tumors by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) or computed tomography (CT) have been reported. In this case series, we aimed to analyze the EUS and CT characteristics of gastric glomus tumors. Seven patients with gastric glomus tumors were retrospectively enrolled in this study. EUS showed that all the tumors were located in the fourth EUS layer (muscularis propria) and had distinct borders. The tumors had a heterogeneous appearance with either hypo- or hyperechogenicity, and all the tumors except one had the characteristic peripheral halo around them. On CT scans,all the tumors appeared as well-defined SMT with a clear margin and showed the same characteristics in the different phases of CT. During dynamic contrast-enhanced CT, the tumors showed strong enhancement in the arterial phase and prolonged enhancement in the delayed phase. This case series shows the characteristic EUS findings and the distinguishing features of CT scans for gastric glomus tumors; these findings will help in differentiating gastric glomus tumors from other SMT."}
{"id": "23179895", "title": "Very rare case of rectal carcinosarcoma.", "content": "Very rare case of rectal carcinosarcoma."}
{"id": "23158953", "title": "Double pancreatic and gastric adenocarcinomas: a rare association.", "content": "Double pancreatic and gastric adenocarcinomas: a rare association. Synchronous gastric and pancreatic cancers represent a very rare association. The role of tomodensitometry, endoscopic ultrasound and histology is primordial to differentiate between double tumors, local extension or metastasis. We report in our paper two cases of synchronous gastric and pancreatic cancers treated with Folforinox. Then, we discuss the risk factors, the diagnostic methods, the treatment modalities and the prognosis of these rare double cancers."}
{"id": "23052533", "title": "Prognostic relevance of gastric cancer staging by endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Prognostic relevance of gastric cancer staging by endoscopic ultrasound. Recent trials and guidelines have established the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy for resectable UICC stage II to IV gastric cancers. In this setting, preoperative staging is pivotal for correct patient selection. This cohort study was designed to assess the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and the ability to select correctly patients for neoadjuvant chemotherapy on the basis of survival outcome. Eighty-two consecutive Caucasian patients (46 male; median age 72 years) with gastric cancer underwent EUS staging and subsequent surgery without perioperative chemotherapy or radiotherapy. Patients were followed for a median of 800 days postoperatively. Pathology and EUS UICC and T stages were compared and evaluated as predictors of survival using Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analysis. The overall accuracy of EUS for UICC classification compared with pathology was 62 %, and the accuracy for delineation of UICC I was 89 %. For the therapeutically relevant differentiation of early gastric cancer (UICC stage I), EUS (mean survival, 2,298 days, R2 = 0.23) and pathology (2,461 days, R2 = 0.24) predicted survival equally well. Similar results were obtained for T staging by EUS (mean survival, 2,065 days for uT1/2, R2 = 0.24) or pathology (2,185 days, R2 = 0.22). EUS identifies the low risk subgroup (uUICC stage I or uT1/2) with similar performance as pUICC stage I or stage pT1/2 in gastric cancer and very similar survival characteristics. EUS thus may be the noninvasive method of choice for preoperative selection of patients for immediate resection versus neoadjuvant chemotherapy."}
{"id": "23015224", "title": "Preoperative assessment of tumor location and station-specific lymph node status in patients with adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction.", "content": "Preoperative assessment of tumor location and station-specific lymph node status in patients with adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction. In esophageal cancer patients preoperative staging will determine the type of surgical procedure and use of neoadjuvant therapy. Tumor location and lymph node status play a pivotal role in this tailored strategy. The aim of the present study was to prospectively evaluate the accuracy of preoperative assessment of tumor location according to the Siewert classification and lymph node status per station with endoscopy/endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and computed tomography (CT). In 50 esophagectomy patients with adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction (GEJ), tumor location according to Siewert and N-stage per nodal station as determined preoperatively by endoscopy/EUS and CT were compared with the histopathologic findings in the resection specimen. Overall accuracy in predicting tumor location according to the Siewert classification was 70 % for endoscopy/EUS and 72 % for CT. Preoperative data could not be compared with the pathologic assessment in 11 patients (22 %), as large tumors obscured the landmark of the gastric folds. The overall accuracy for predicting the N-stage in 250 lymph node stations was 66 % for EUS and 68 % for CT. The accuracy was good for those stations located high in the thorax, but poor for celiac trunk nodes. Given the frequent discrepancy between the endoscopic and pathologic location of the GEJ and the common problem of advanced tumors obscuring the landmarks used in the assessment of the Siewert classification, its usefulness is limited. The overall accuracy for EUS and CT in predicting the N-stage per station was moderate."}
{"id": "22945338", "title": "Hot biopsy forceps vs. endoscopic ultrasonography in determining the depth of gastric epithelial neoplasia: a simple novel method to decide whether or not to perform endoscopic submucosal dissection.", "content": "Hot biopsy forceps vs. endoscopic ultrasonography in determining the depth of gastric epithelial neoplasia: a simple novel method to decide whether or not to perform endoscopic submucosal dissection. It is of vital importance to determine the depth of lesions to be treated by endoscopic submucosal dissection. This study aimed to compare the accuracy of using hot biopsy forceps method with endoscopic ultrasonography for determination of the depth of gastric epithelial neoplasia. Hot biopsy forceps method and/or endoscopic ultrasonography were used to determine the depth of lesions in 27 patients. With hot biopsy forceps method, we assumed a lesion completely lifted up by a hot biopsy forceps to be confined to the mucosal layer, and one partly lifted up to be located beyond the mucosal layer. The accuracy of hot biopsy forceps method and endoscopic ultrasonography in determining the depth of lesions were compared. Of the 27 patients, 25 underwent endoscopic submucosal dissection and 2 underwent surgery. The total accuracy of hot biopsy forceps method in determining the depth of lesions was 92.6% and that of endoscopic ultrasonography was 81.8%. Overestimation of hot biopsy forceps method and endoscopic ultrasonography were 3.7% vs. 13.6%, respectively. The sensitivity and the specificity of hot biopsy forceps method were 95.5% and 80.0% and those of EUS were 83.3% and 75.0%. Hot biopsy forceps method has a trend towards higher accuracy and lower overestimation than endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "22776721", "title": "Feasibility study of EUS-NOTES as a novel approach for pancreatic cancer staging and therapy: an international collaborative study.", "content": "Feasibility study of EUS-NOTES as a novel approach for pancreatic cancer staging and therapy: an international collaborative study. EUS guided Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES) could be a potentially viable approach for pancreatic surgery. EUS-guided access through the stomach wall may prove to be a safe and effective method for accessing the pancreas. The aim of the study was to assess the EUS-guided diagnostic and therapeutic procedures during NOTES for both anterior and posterior approach of the pancreas. The feasibility of peritoneoscopy through an anterior EUS-guided transgastric approach, as well as direct access to the pancreas through a posterior EUS-guided transgastric approach was tested for ease of access to the tail of the pancreas. Gastric wound closure was finally performed in several animals using various commercial and prototype endoscopic accessories. The results showed the ability of EUS-NOTES technology to facilitate a transgastric approach and provide both an anterior and posterior access the pancreas. Identification the pancreatic tail by EUS with the aid of EUS-guided T-tag insertion, as well as posterior access and subsequent inspection/dissection of the pancreatic tail may also be possible. It is technically possible by EUS-guided NOTES procedures to achieve a systematic anterior and posterior access for NOTES transgastric peritoneoscopy and direct pancreatic endoscopic procedures."}
{"id": "22707246", "title": "Pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms: diagnosis and management.", "content": "Pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms: diagnosis and management. Pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms are uncommon but rising in incidence. There have been recent changes in the WHO nomenclature and a newly proposed American Joint Committee on Cancer TNM staging, which complement each other. These neoplasms are of great medical and radiological interest because of their diverse presenting features and imaging appearances. There is an increased role for both anatomic and functional imaging in the assessment of these neoplasms. A review of the nomenclature, staging, and imaging is presented in this paper."}
{"id": "22642487", "title": "Can common hepatic artery lymph node dissection be safely omitted in surgery for clinical T1N0 thoracic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma?", "content": "Can common hepatic artery lymph node dissection be safely omitted in surgery for clinical T1N0 thoracic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma? Common hepatic artery lymph node dissection is regarded as a standard procedure in esophageal cancer surgery because of aggressive lymphatic dissemination of esophageal cancer. However, lymph node dissection can prolong operation time and may be associated with complications such as chylous ascites. Here, we aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of common hepatic artery lymph node dissection in clinical T1N0 thoracic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Between 1996 and 2009, 1390 patients underwent surgery for esophageal cancer in our institution, and 209 were found to have clinical T1N0 disease. Exclusion criteria were nonsquamous carcinoma, double primary cancer, definite distant metastasis, administration of neoadjuvant treatment, and incomplete abdominal lymph node dissection. We retrospectively analyzed medical records, operative and pathologic data, and follow-up information. Forty-two patients were excluded from the study. Among the 167 enrolled patients, preoperative endoscopic ultrasound evaluation was performed in 160 patients. Fifty-two patients had distal esophageal or esophagogastric junction tumor. Surgery included 2 cases of tri-incisional esophagectomy, 17 cases of transhiatal esophagectomy, and 148 cases of two-field esophagectomy (Ivor Lewis operation). Common hepatic artery lymph node dissection was performed in all cases, and none of the patients had metastasis. Mean follow-up period was 35.4\u2003\u00b1\u200328.7 months. In-hospital mortality was one, and 5-year survival rate was 80.6%. Among the 15 patients with recurrence, there were two distant metastases and five distant and local recurrences but no intra-abdominal recurrence with common hepatic artery lymph node. Common hepatic artery lymph node dissection may be safely omitted in surgery for clinical T1N0 esophageal squamous cell carcinoma when preoperative evaluations including chest computed tomography, positron emission tomography and computed tomography, and esophagogastroduodenoscopy or endoscopic ultrasound are performed."}
{"id": "22633196", "title": "Clinical significance of endoscopic ultrasound for gastric submucosal tumors.", "content": "Clinical significance of endoscopic ultrasound for gastric submucosal tumors. Gastric submucosal tumors (SMTs) are often detected during routine gastroendoscopy but little is known about their natural history. The aim of this study was to evaluate the natural course of gastrointestinal mesenchymal tumors (GIMTs) in the stomach. From October 2001 to November 2011, a total of 228 gastric SMTs were evaluated by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). Based on the findings of EUS and enhanced CT, we diagnosed these tumors as lipomas, cysts, aberrant pancreases, extramural compressions, and GIMTs. The gastric GIMTs which were examined by EUS twice or more were included in this study and the factors associated with an increase in the size of gastric GIMTs were analyzed. Fifty GIMTs were followed by EUS twice or more. The mean age was 66.4 \u00b1 8.3 years old and the mean period of follow-up was 23.8 \u00b1 21.7 months. Fourteen (28%) of 50 GIMTs increased in size and the time taken for gastric GIMTs to double in size was 19.1 \u00b1 18.2 months. In multivariate logistic regression analysis, age (odds ratio [OR]=1.12, 95% confidence interval [CI]=1.03-1.21), non-upper area of the stomach (OR=5.08, 95%; CI=1.37-18.8) and the detection of an anechoic lesion on EUS (OR=5.90, 95%; CI=1.10-31.8) were the factors predicting an increase in size of gastric GIMTs. We evaluated gastric SMTs by EUS and clarified the factors predicting the growth of gastric GIMT. EUS is indispensable for the diagnosis and management of gastric SMTs."}
{"id": "22302678", "title": "Clinical value of endosonography in the assessment of laryngeal cancer.", "content": "Clinical value of endosonography in the assessment of laryngeal cancer. Endosonography has been successfully used in staging gastrointestinal cancer, but its value is as yet undetermined in laryngology. This prospective study includes 84 patients undergoing microlaryngoscopy for laryngeal cancer. The results of endosonography were compared with those of CT and MRI in the 76 surgical cases. In the assessment of laryngal cancer, endosonography was superior to current imaging techniques, whereas CT and MRI showed similar results (accuracy of 89% vs 77% and 77%, respectively). This study confirms that endosonography is highly effective in staging laryngeal cancer. Therefore, the latter may constitute a complementary diagnostic tool in these tumors and additionally may assist in choosing an adequate treatment."}
{"id": "8454156", "title": "Diffuse submucosal cysts of the stomach with multifocal gastric carcinoma: diagnostic role of endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Diffuse submucosal cysts of the stomach with multifocal gastric carcinoma: diagnostic role of endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "2279643", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosis of the extent of gallbladder carcinoma.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosis of the extent of gallbladder carcinoma. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was performed preoperatively in 39 patients with gallbladder carcinoma. Diagnosis of the anatomical extent of gallbladder carcinoma was compared with histologic analysis, and staging accuracy was evaluated according to the TNM classification. Carcinoma considered to be at an early stage with no lymph node metastasis was correctly diagnosed in 87.5%. Differential diagnosis between early and advanced staged tumors was possible in 79.5%. Overall accuracy for depth of tumor invasion (T) was 76.9%. Limitations were due to many stones in the gallbladder and microinfiltration of carcinoma. Assessment of regional lymph node metastasis (N) was at a sensitivity of 81.8% and specificity of 92.9%, for an overall accuracy of 89.7%. We believe endoscopic ultrasonography is useful in the clinical staging of gallbladder carcinoma."}
{"id": "11979247", "title": "Interobserver agreement in staging gastric malt lymphoma by EUS.", "content": "Interobserver agreement in staging gastric malt lymphoma by EUS. EUS is highly accurate for staging gastric lymphoma. Because stage correlates to outcome, interobserver agreement is mandatory. However, previous studies suggest that interobserver agreement might vary according to T-stage. A multicenter evaluation of observer agreement with respect to endosonographic staging of gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma was therefore conducted. Fifty-four patients were studied; 42 were also evaluated after eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection. EUS was performed at different institutions by 10 experienced endosonographers who collected the best photographs for each examination. Interobserver agreement was estimated with kappa statistics. Overall interobserver agreement for T-stage was fair, both before and after treatment (kappa = 0.38 and kappa = 0.37, respectively). Overall interobserver agreement for N-stage was substantial before treatment, but only fair after treatment (kappa = 0.63 and kappa = 0.34, respectively). The lowest values of agreement occurred with T1sm (submucosa) and T2 stage lesions. Interobserver agreement for staging of gastric MALT lymphoma by EUS is suboptimal before as well as after treatment of H pylori infection. This evidence suggests that gastric EUS may be more difficult technically compared with EUS of other organs. Lack of agreement is crucial because it influences the choice of therapy and assessment of response to treatment. Good interobserver agreement would permit better communication concerning the clinical status of patients, comparison of the results of different studies, and stratification of patients within clinical trials."}
{"id": "8365597", "title": "Delineation of the gastric muscularis mucosae and assessment of depth of invasion of early gastric cancer using a 20-megahertz endoscopic ultrasound probe.", "content": "Delineation of the gastric muscularis mucosae and assessment of depth of invasion of early gastric cancer using a 20-megahertz endoscopic ultrasound probe. Using a 20 MHz endoscopic ultrasound system, delineation of the gastric muscularis mucosae and estimation of the depth of malignant invasion was attempted by in vivo scanning during the process of routine endoscopic observation or in vitro scanning of excised sections of 34 early gastric cancers in 32 patients. The muscularis mucosae was visualized as a single hypoechoic layer in 16 of 32 lesions (50%) scanned in vitro. Comparison of lesions in which delineation of the muscularis mucosae was or was not possible revealed no significant differences with respect to either the thickness of the lamina propria and muscularis mucosae or with respect to the degree of inflammatory cell infiltration of the lamina propria or the conditions of the boundary between the lamina propria and the muscularis mucosae. This indicates that improvement of the operability characteristics of the ultrasonic apparatus will be needed to achieve improved delineation of the muscularis mucosae. The accuracy of invasion depth estimation of early gastric cancer was 67% (16 of 24 lesions scanned in vivo) and 73% (8 of 11 lesions) in cases in vivo where the muscularis mucosae and the tumor were delineated on the same screen. The principal factors causing erroneous staging were the presence of dilated benign glandular ducts, ulcer scars, and attenuation of the ultrasound waves."}
{"id": "12397278", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of EUS in the local staging of primary gastric lymphoma: results of a prospective, multicenter study comparing EUS with histopathologic stage.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of EUS in the local staging of primary gastric lymphoma: results of a prospective, multicenter study comparing EUS with histopathologic stage. Grade of malignancy and stage of disease are the decisive prognostic factors and therapeutic determinants in primary gastric lymphoma. It is supposed that EUS allows determination of depth of tumor infiltration and perigastric lymph node involvement, thus defining stages I1, I2, and II1. This multicenter study evaluated the accuracy of EUS in the staging of gastric lymphoma. Data from preoperative EUS procedures performed at 34 centers were compared with the histopathologic stage of resection specimens in 80 patients with newly diagnosed primary gastric lymphoma. Ten patients with stage II2 were excluded from analysis because EUS is inappropriate for the evaluation of nonregional lymph node involvement. EUS correctly classified the lymphoma in 37 of 70 patients (53%). Sensitivity of EUS was as follows: stage I1, 67% (95% CI [38%, 88%]; p = 0.01); stage I2, 83% (95% CI [52%, 98%]; p = 0.01); and stage II1, 71% (95% CI [49%, 87%]; p = 0.02). The accuracy of EUS in the local staging of gastric lymphoma has to be improved if nonsurgical treatment strategies based on the grade of malignancy and stage of the disease are to be used. Because most of the participating centers performed EUS in relatively few patients, no conclusion could be drawn with respect to accuracy in relation to EUS experience available at each center or technical considerations with respect to the types of instruments used."}
{"id": "7672545", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound for staging esophageal cancer, with or without dilation, is clinically important and safe.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound for staging esophageal cancer, with or without dilation, is clinically important and safe. To fully evaluate patients with esophageal cancer by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), the transducer must pass through the entire tumor to the cardia to scan the celiac axis. Dilation may be necessary. Published information suggests that dilation with EUS carries a sizeable risk. In order to assess the complication rate associated with dilation prior to EUS in patients with esophageal cancer and the clinical significance of dilation for complete EUS staging, we reviewed the records of all patients who had undergone EUS for esophageal cancer. Sixty-three patients underwent EUS staging of esophageal cancer. Thirty-nine (62%) had lesions through which the EUS scope was passable (Group I). Ten (16%) patients (Group II) had lesions through which an EUS scope (diameter 13 mm) was unable to pass even after dilation. Fourteen patients (22%) had lesions that were dilated to allow passage of the EUS scope (Group III). All patients in Groups II and III had confirmation of EUS staging by CT and/or surgery. In Group II, five patients had tumors defined as T4 (50%) and five as T3 (50%). In Group III, nine (64%) had T4 tumors, four (29%) had T3, and one (7.7%) had T2. No complications were encountered in any group. EUS, either alone or after dilation, is a safe procedure and the complete EUS examination with celiac node visualization adds prognostically significant information."}
{"id": "14722547", "title": "Detection of occult liver metastases during EUS for staging of malignancies.", "content": "Detection of occult liver metastases during EUS for staging of malignancies. EUS is commonly used in the staging of GI, thoracic, and other malignancies. Studies suggest EUS can detect occult liver metastases, but the frequency with which this occurs is unknown. Records were reviewed for all patients seen during a 3-year period who underwent EUS of the upper-GI tract for staging of known or suspected malignancy. Patients were included if there was histopathologic evidence of malignancy, they had undergone noninvasive liver imaging within 6 weeks of EUS, and liver surveillance was specifically mentioned in the report of the EUS procedure. A total of 222 patients were included. Liver lesions were seen in 27 patients, 17 of whom had an abnormal noninvasive liver imaging test. EUS-guided FNA of the liver was performed in 21 patients and was diagnostic of malignancy in 15 (6.8%), 5 of whom (2.3%) had normal noninvasive imaging. In 6 patients, the EUS-guided FNA result was benign. EUS missed liver lesions in 4 patients known to have abnormalities by other imaging modalities. EUS can detect occult liver metastases in patients in whom noninvasive hepatic imaging studies are normal, although the frequency at which such lesions are detected is low. Liver surveillance during EUS is worthwhile for patients in whom there is another indication for the procedure; but, at present, EUS should not replace traditional imaging modalities."}
{"id": "8929803", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy of lymph nodes.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy of lymph nodes."}
{"id": "9831836", "title": "Clinical implications of endoluminal ultrasonography using through-the-scope catheter probes.", "content": "Clinical implications of endoluminal ultrasonography using through-the-scope catheter probes. Ultrasound catheter probe-assisted endosonography is a relatively new technique. The aim of this prospective multicenter study was to determine its potential clinical impact by assessing changes in diagnostic and therapeutic management affected by catheter probes compared with ultrasound endoscopes. Endosonographers at three centers selected theoretic diagnostic and therapeutic plans that would be followed if neither catheter probes nor ultrasound endoscopes were available. Patients with suitable lesions underwent endosonography with catheter probes followed by an ultrasound endoscope. Diagnostic and therapeutic plans were noted after each examination. Sixty-six patients, of whom 15 had a stenotic esophageal cancer, 39 had a mucosal or submucosal lesion, and 12 had a stricture of the pancreaticobiliary system or the gastrointestinal tract, were enrolled. If neither form of endosonography were available, invasive or surgical diagnostic procedures would have been performed on 23 (35%) patients and surgical therapy would have been planned in 31 (47%) patients. Catheter probe-assisted ultrasonography and endoscopic ultrasonography led to a less invasive diagnostic plan in 11 (16%) and 12 (18%) patients and a less invasive therapeutic plan in 10 (15%) and 14 (21%) patients, respectively (p > 0.1 for differences). Catheter probe-assisted endosonography has a modest effect on diagnostic and therapeutic management, comparable with endoscopic ultrasonography in the same patients. The vast majority of effected changes are toward less invasive management."}
{"id": "15672076", "title": "Prospective evaluation of a jelly-like conducting medium for catheter US probe imaging of esophageal and duodenal lesions.", "content": "Prospective evaluation of a jelly-like conducting medium for catheter US probe imaging of esophageal and duodenal lesions. The catheter probe EUS(C-EUS) relies on luminal water for acoustic coupling. However, in tubular structures, such as the esophagus and the duodenum, instilled water drains away rapidly. The use of water-filled balloons is limited by air artifact and other problems. This study evaluated the image quality, the penetration depth, the tumor staging accuracy, and the safety of C-EUS by using carboxymethylcellulose, an edible, nontoxic, transparent jelly-like substance (JC-EUS). Forty patients with an esophageal or a duodenal submucosal lesion or an esophageal carcinoma were evaluated prospectively in a crossover study with both C-EUS and JC-EUS when using a 12-MHz US catheter probe. Based on still images, depth of US penetration and image quality (by using a predefined 1 to 5 scale) were assessed by a blinded, independent endosonographer. JC-EUS was superior in image quality compared with C-EUS overall (mean score: 4.9 vs. 2.6; p <0.001), as well as in each subgroup (esophageal carcinoma, esophageal submucosal lesion, duodenal submucosal lesion). Penetration depth was not significantly different (2.5 cm). Staging was 100% accurate in 14 patients with esophageal cancer who underwent surgery. There was no procedure-related complication. JC-EUS is safe, provides superior image quality to C-EUS, and is accurate for local staging of esophageal cancer."}
{"id": "2279657", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonographic evaluation of patients with biopsy negative gastric linitis plastica.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonographic evaluation of patients with biopsy negative gastric linitis plastica."}
{"id": "15229425", "title": "Accuracy of linear-array EUS for preoperative staging of gastric cardia cancer.", "content": "Accuracy of linear-array EUS for preoperative staging of gastric cardia cancer. The feasibility of a less invasive operation for early stage cancer of the gastric cardia with a low frequency of lymph node involvement has been previously demonstrated by us. Precise discrimination among mucosal, submucosal, and advanced cancers, as well as accurate evaluation of the proximal tumor margin are prerequisites for such stage-specific treatment. EUS is considered the most reliable staging modality. However, there is no EUS study specifically of cardia cancer. Forty-five patients with gastric cardia cancer who underwent gastrectomy with at least first-tier lymphadenectomy were retrospectively analyzed. The results of preoperative linear-array echoendoscopy (7.5 MHz) with respect to cancer depth, lymph node involvement, and esophageal invasion were compared with postoperative histopathologic findings. Overall diagnostic accuracy for depth of invasion was 71%. Sensitivity for T1, T2, and T3 lesions was 100%, 31% and 75%, respectively. Overstaging of T2 cancers was the main diagnostic error. Mucosal (pT1-m) and submucosal (pT1-sm) cancers were correctly discriminated in 81% of patients. Diagnostic accuracy for lymph node involvement was 80%. EUS had positive and negative predictive values of 90% and 80%, respectively, for esophageal invasion. For gastric cardia cancer, the linear-array echoendoscope yielded satisfactory results with respect to depth of invasion, lymph node involvement, and esophageal invasion evaluation. The information obtained is useful to the performance of stage-specific treatment."}
{"id": "12297753", "title": "EUS in the detection of early gastric cancer.", "content": "EUS in the detection of early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "12297744", "title": "EUS in MALT lymphoma.", "content": "EUS in MALT lymphoma."}
{"id": "9087830", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy using linear array and radial scanning endosonography.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy using linear array and radial scanning endosonography. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) accurately stages gastrointestinal malignancies but is less able to differentiate between neoplastic and inflammatory processes. EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS FNA) has been reported useful for obtaining a diagnosis in suspected gastrointestinal lesions. We report our entire experience with EUS FNA using both radial and linear array endosonography, including our diagnostic accuracy and complication rate. Two hundred eight consecutive patients (119 men, 89 women) referred for EUS evaluation of suspected gastrointestinal or mediastinal masses underwent EUS-guided FNA. We performed EUS FNA using radial scanning or linear array endosonography and a 23 gauge, 4 cm needle or a 22 gauge, 12 cm needle. Data collected included lesion types, number of passes, complications, and diagnostic accuracy. Two hundred eight lesions were targeted, with a total of 705 FNA passes (mean 3.39 passes/patient). Overall diagnostic accuracy for our study population was 87% with a 89% sensitivity and 100% specificity. The diagnostic accuracy for each subgroup was 95% for mediastinal lymph node, 85% for intra-abdominal lymph node, 85% for pancreatic, 84% for submucosal, and 100% for perirectal masses. EUS FNA provided an adequate specimen in 90% of patients. The FNA results were similar for both types of endosonography. We observed immediate complications in 2% (4 of 208) of patients. All complications occurred with EUS FNA of pancreatic lesions and consisted of bleeding and pancreatitis in 2 patients each. For EUS FNA of pancreatic masses there was a 1.2% (2 of 121) risk of pancreatitis, 1% (1/121) risk of severe bleeding, and risk of death in less than 1%. EUS-guided FNA appears to be technically feasible, safe, and accurate for obtaining diagnostic tissue of suspicious gastrointestinal and mediastinal lesions and provides important preoperative information."}
{"id": "11023589", "title": "Gastroduodenal intussusception secondary to a giant solitary gastric heterotopia: a case report.", "content": "Gastroduodenal intussusception secondary to a giant solitary gastric heterotopia: a case report."}
{"id": "8903812", "title": "Interobserver agreement in endoscopic ultrasonography staging of esophageal and cardia cancer.", "content": "Interobserver agreement in endoscopic ultrasonography staging of esophageal and cardia cancer. Endoscopic ultrasonography has been accepted as an accurate means of staging cardioesophageal cancer, but no study has focused on the variability of interobserver interpretation of images so obtained. We compared interpretations recorded by five independent observers in 46 cases examined by endoscopic ultrasonography. One observer then reviewed a subset of 28 examinations 6 months later. Interpretations were in nearly full accord for uT0 and uT4 tumors (kappa = > or = 0.73), in good accord for uT1 and uT3 tumors (kappa = > or = 0.42), but in poor accord for uT2 tumors (kappa = 0.16). Agreement was generally good when pertaining to invasion of adjacent organs, but no agreement was noted for invasion of the pericardium. In assessment of lymph node involvement, agreement was good for intra-abdominal, subcarinal, right lower paratracheal, and paraesophageal nodes (kappa = > or = 0.49), but poor for left lower and upper paratracheal lymph nodes. Intraobserver agreement was excellent for extent of tumor infiltration (kappa = 0.91) and good for lymph nodes (kappa > or = 0.51). In staging cardioesophageal cancer by endosonographic ultrasonography, improvement is needed in cases of uT2 tumors and of tumors invading the pericardium, and in assessment of lymph nodes in the upper mediastinum."}
{"id": "8514069", "title": "Carcinoid tumors of the gastrointestinal tract: evaluation with endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Carcinoid tumors of the gastrointestinal tract: evaluation with endoscopic ultrasonography. To evaluate the usefulness of endoscopic ultrasonography for carcinoid tumors, we examined 29 patients with gastrointestinal carcinoid tumors (5 gastric, 7 duodenal, and 17 rectal). The smallest size detectable by endoscopic ultrasonography was 2 mm in diameter histologically. The cross-sectional image of the tumors was primarily oval to round. The internal echo was generally hypoechoic and homogeneous. The margins were clearly visualized, and the contour was somewhat smooth. The tumors were mainly located in the third layer. The second layer covered the tumor with the third layer at its base, and it abutted the tumor and became indistinct near its upper interface. These findings were especially recognized in lesions with submucosal invasion and were similar at all sites. The overall accuracy of determining the depth of invasion using endoscopic ultrasonography was 75% (27 of 36 lesions). Limited to the lesions detectable by endoscopic ultrasonography, the accuracy was 90%. Endoscopic ultrasonography was useful in determining the presence of local metastases. Moreover, endoscopic ultrasonography allowed direct detection of perigastrointestinal lymph node metastases (75%, three of four patients). In conclusion, endoscopic ultrasonography was found to be useful for the staging of gastrointestinal carcinoid tumors by determining depth of involvement and presence of perigastrointestinal lymph node metastases."}
{"id": "11115949", "title": "Emerging indications for EUS.", "content": "Emerging indications for EUS."}
{"id": "8929804", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonic probes and mucosectomy for early gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonic probes and mucosectomy for early gastric carcinoma."}
{"id": "10840321", "title": "Gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma with a focal high-grade component diagnosed by EUS and endoscopic mucosal resection for histologic evaluation.", "content": "Gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma with a focal high-grade component diagnosed by EUS and endoscopic mucosal resection for histologic evaluation."}
{"id": "11174309", "title": "A case of gastric cancer with features of submucosal tumor.", "content": "A case of gastric cancer with features of submucosal tumor."}
{"id": "9831834", "title": "Pretreatment staging of endoscopically early gastric cancer with a 15 MHz ultrasound catheter probe.", "content": "Pretreatment staging of endoscopically early gastric cancer with a 15 MHz ultrasound catheter probe. The usefulness of and problems associated with an ultrasound catheter probe in the pretreatment staging of endoscopically early gastric cancer remain unexplored. Endoscopic ultrasonography using a 15 MHz catheter probe of 2.6 mm diameter was performed in a prospective study to determine the pretherapy staging of endoscopically early gastric cancer in 78 patients. The results of the ultrasound images were compared with the histologic findings of the specimens obtained by endoscopic mucosal resection or surgical resection. The accuracy of the catheter probe for depth of invasion of endoscopically early gastric cancers was 67% (52 of 78 patients). The accuracy in determining depth of invasion in relation to endoscopic type was significantly higher for the elevated type (91%) than for the depressed type of early cancer (56%) (p < 0.01). The staging accuracy classified by histologic type was significantly higher for differentiated (86%) than for undifferentiated (18%) cancer (p < 0.01). Staging accuracy decreased as tumor size increased. The accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity for nodal staging were 80%, 17%, and 90%, respectively. A 15 MHz ultrasound catheter probe is most useful for determining depth of invasion when the tumor is histologically differentiated and endoscopically of the small elevated type early gastric cancer, but it is unreliable in the diagnosis of metastatic lymph nodes."}
{"id": "10840319", "title": "Stromal tumor as a pitfall in EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology.", "content": "Stromal tumor as a pitfall in EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology."}
{"id": "8929802", "title": "The TNM staging system.", "content": "The TNM staging system. The new TNM staging system for cancer has great importance because of its applicability for imaging techniques, particularly clinical staging by EUS. The close correlation between clinical (EUS) and pathologic staging permits clinicians to define the strategy for treatment based on the stage of the cancer. In cases where lymph node metastasis is suspected, EUS-guided FNA can be performed for confirmation of this diagnosis by cytology. In the era of minimally invasive surgery, EUS will become the most important diagnostic modality for defining early stage malignant disease. In such cases endoscopic or surgical resection can be performed. When a tumor is shown by EUS to be nonresectable, it will become important to avoid explorative surgery. Despite some limitations, both the TNM classification and EUS clinical staging will be used with increasing frequency in the clinical management of patients with cancer. Furthermore, refinements in the TNM staging system, such as adoption of subclassifications of early cancers and clarification of the definition of regional lymph node involvement, will be necessary to optimize clinical staging. Technologic improvement of EUS instruments, particularly in miniaturization of the echoprobe, will improve the integration of EUS as a routine procedure for cancer staging."}
{"id": "7859967", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration. Thirty-eight consecutive patients underwent endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration. Of 46 lesions, 34 were extraluminal (12 pancreatic masses, 8 periesophageal nodes, 6 celiac nodes, 2 pericolonic masses, 1 mediastinal mass, 1 perigastric mass, 1 liver, 1 periduodenal node, 1 perirectal mass, 1 perirectal node) and 12 were submucosal (8 gastric, 3 duodenal, 1 esophageal). One hundred sixty-three passes were made, with an average of 3.5 passes per lesion and 4.3 passes per patient (range, 1 to 8). Adequate specimens were obtained from 91% of targeted lesions. The overall diagnostic accuracy was 87%. In patients with malignant lesions, sensitivity was 91% and specificity 100%. Celiac nodes were successfully sampled and diagnostic in 5 of 6 (83%) patients. No complications occurred. Using this technique, an initial tissue diagnosis of malignancy was made in 66% of cancer patients without a previous diagnosis and the preoperative stage was changed in 44% of cancer patients. The additional information gained by this modality directly influenced the decision not to perform surgery in 26% of patients with a primary malignancy. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration is feasible and can be safely used to evaluate submucosal and extraluminal lesions in both the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract with a high degree of diagnostic accuracy."}
{"id": "12776026", "title": "The role of endoscopy in the assessment and treatment of esophageal cancer.", "content": "The role of endoscopy in the assessment and treatment of esophageal cancer."}
{"id": "9786108", "title": "Transendoscopic ultrasound of esophageal and gastric cancer using miniaturized ultrasound catheter probes.", "content": "Transendoscopic ultrasound of esophageal and gastric cancer using miniaturized ultrasound catheter probes. The aim of this study was to investigate the value of miniaturized ultrasound catheter probes (miniprobes) for preoperative staging of esophageal and gastric cancer. Fifty-one patients with esophageal (n = 21) and gastric cancer (n = 30) underwent endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). All examinations were carried out using mechanical miniprobes (diameter 6F, 12.5 MHz) that were introduced through the instrument channel of the endoscope. EUS with miniprobes was successfully performed in all patients, although stenotic tumors, which could not be traversed with the endoscope, were found in 6 of 21 patients (29%) with esophageal cancer. Miniprobe scanning provided high-resolution images of the gastrointestinal tract. The overall accuracy in the assessment of tumor infiltration depth for esophageal and gastric cancer was 90% and 82%, respectively. However, the value of miniprobe scanning in the assessment of advanced tumors was limited by the imaging depth of the probe (approximately 3 cm). Lymph node involvement was accurately diagnosed in 78% of the patients with esophageal cancer (sensitivity 75%, specificity 80%) and in 80% of the patients with gastric cancer (sensitivity 73%, specificity 89%). EUS with miniprobes can be performed as single-step procedure during diagnostic endoscopy. The 12.5 MHz transducer provides high-resolution imaging and enables accurate staging of tumors with limited infiltration depth."}
{"id": "11323606", "title": "Ectopic pancreas presenting as a submucosal gastric antral tumor that was cystic on EUS.", "content": "Ectopic pancreas presenting as a submucosal gastric antral tumor that was cystic on EUS."}
{"id": "1473669", "title": "Evaluation of endoscopic ultrasonography in the pre-operative staging of carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater and common bile duct.", "content": "Evaluation of endoscopic ultrasonography in the pre-operative staging of carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater and common bile duct. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was performed in 23 patients with carcinoma of the ampulla of Vater (ampulla) and in 16 patients with common bile duct (CBD) carcinoma. These patients all underwent surgery. The layered structures of the duodenum, ampulla, and CBD, and the pancreas, portal vein, and regional lymph nodes were clearly identified by EUS using a transduodenal approach. With this technique, ampullary carcinoma appeared as a hypoechoic mass in 22 of 23 patients, and the 1 remaining cancer was not detected because of its small size. Carcinoma of the CBD also appeared as a hypoechoic mass in 12 of 16 patients. However, the remaining four appeared as hyperechoic masses. For these tumors, EUS had a high tumor detection rate (96 to 100%). In this regard, EUS was comparable to ERCP and was better than ultrasonography (US), CT, and angiography. Using EUS, we were also able to stage the extent of these tumors according to the involvement of the duodenal or CBD walls, invasion of the pancreas and portal vein, and spread to regional lymph nodes. The accuracy rates of cancer extent by EUS were 78% for ampullary carcinoma and 81% for CBD carcinoma when compared with surgical findings. We conclude that EUS is a valuable method for the detection and staging of tumors of the ampulla and CBD."}
{"id": "1612376", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography as an adjunct to fine needle aspiration cytology of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography as an adjunct to fine needle aspiration cytology of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract. Twenty consecutive patients with either extrinsic or submucosal masses or gastric ulcers suspicious for malignancy with previously negative conventional forceps biopsies and/or brush cytology underwent a combined approach of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) followed by fine needle aspiration cytology. Diagnostic results were obtained in 17 of 20 patients. The three patients with indeterminate aspirates had EUS findings strongly supportive of the final diagnosis. EUS combined with fine needle aspiration cytology appears to be of value in the evaluation of extrinsic, submucosal, and ulcerative lesions of the gastrointestinal tract."}
{"id": "9199903", "title": "A comparison of the accuracy of echo features during endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration for diagnosis of malignant lymph node invasion.", "content": "A comparison of the accuracy of echo features during endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration for diagnosis of malignant lymph node invasion. The purpose of this study was to re-evaluate echo features of lymph nodes during endoscopic ultrasound and assess the utility of these echo features and endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration in predicting malignant lymph node invasion. Thirty-five lymph nodes in 25 patients with lung, esophageal, and pancreatic cancer were evaluated by endoscopic ultrasound. Endoscopic ultrasound examinations were performed with a radial scanning echoendoscope. Confirmation of benign lymph nodes was obtained by surgical resection while malignant lymph nodes were confirmed by real-time endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration with a linear array echoendoscope. Nineteen benign lymph nodes and 16 malignant lymph nodes in the mediastinum, celiac axis, and the peripancreatic area were included in the study. The following echo features were compared between benign and malignant lymph nodes: size greater than 1 cm, hypoechoic, distinct margins, and round shape. No single feature independently predicted malignant invasion. When all four of the above features were present in the same lymph node, the accuracy for predicting malignant invasion was 80%. However, all four features of malignant involvement were present in only 25% (4 of 16) of malignant lymph nodes. Our study also suggests that the above echo features may be a less reliable predictor of malignant invasion in pulmonary malignancies when compared to gastrointestinal cancers. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration of lymph nodes in 22 patients revealed malignant lymph node invasion in 16 and benign cells in 6 patients. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration is an important adjunct for accurate lymph node assessment for malignancy."}
{"id": "1511822", "title": "Local staging and assessment of resectability in carcinoma of the esophagus, stomach, and duodenum by endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Local staging and assessment of resectability in carcinoma of the esophagus, stomach, and duodenum by endoscopic ultrasonography. Eighty-eight patients with carcinoma of the esophagus (N = 44), stomach (N = 41), and duodenum (N = 3) who underwent surgery were pre-operatively examined by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). The ability of EUS to accurately predict the T stage and the N stage was 82% and 70% for esophageal carcinoma, 71% and 75% for gastric cancer, and 100% and 66% for duodenal malignancy. In esophageal carcinoma, the accuracy of T staging was only slightly lower in cases with non-traversable tumor stenoses (77%) compared with traversable carcinomas (84%). This was probably due to the fact that all non-traversable tumors were either in stage T3 or T4. The accuracy of EUS in predicting the stages T1 to T3, which correspond to R0 resectability (no macroscopic or microscopic tumor remains), was 92% for adenocarcinoma of the distal esophagus and 85% for gastric cancer. However, in squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus, R0 resection was possible in only 66% of all cases, whereas EUS predicted an 84% R0 resection rate. In adenocarcinoma of the distal esophagus and stomach, EUS prediction of stages T1 to T3 correlated well with the actual rate of R0 resection. These results show that EUS is a reliable diagnostic method for the local staging of upper gastrointestinal cancer. Its impact on treatment and hence on prognosis of patients with these malignancies has yet to be determined."}
{"id": "8365600", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis of colorectal cancer invasion.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis of colorectal cancer invasion. Endoscopic ultrasonography was pre-operatively performed in 164 patients with colorectal cancer, and the resected specimens confirmed to be cancerous histologically. Normal colorectal wall was visualized by endoscopic ultrasonography as a five-layered structure. The first, third, and fifth layers were hyperechoic, and the second and fourth layers were hypoechoic. The first and second layers comprised the mucosa, the third layer the submucosa, the fourth layer the muscularis propria, and the fifth layer the subserosa and serosa (adventitia). By this technique, cancer of the colon appeared as a hypoechoic mass with an intermediate echo level between the third hyperechoic and fourth hypoechoic layers. Endoscopic ultrasonographic determination of the depth of tumor invasion was based on abnormal changes of these layered structures and adjacent organs. Overall, the accuracy rate of endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis of the depth of colorectal cancer was 83%. A hypoechoic round mass adjacent to the cancer was interpreted as a metastatic lymph node. The sensitivity and specificity of endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis of lymph node metastasis were 68% and 70%, respectively. The overall accuracy rate of tumor staging by endoscopic ultrasonography according to Dukes' classification was 62%. Endoscopic ultrasonography is a valuable tool in the management of colorectal cancer. It has a high accuracy rate in determining the depth of tumor invasion. The pre-operative information obtained with this tool may influence the choice of therapy."}
{"id": "15332051", "title": "A case of untreated gastric cancer followed for 7 years.", "content": "A case of untreated gastric cancer followed for 7 years."}
{"id": "11115926", "title": "EUS for gastric lymphangioma.", "content": "EUS for gastric lymphangioma."}
{"id": "8979069", "title": "Staging of non-Hodgkin's gastric lymphoma with endosonography-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy and flow cytometry.", "content": "Staging of non-Hodgkin's gastric lymphoma with endosonography-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy and flow cytometry."}
{"id": "15557945", "title": "Prediction of appropriateness of local endoscopic treatment for high-grade dysplasia and early adenocarcinoma by EUS and histopathologic features.", "content": "Prediction of appropriateness of local endoscopic treatment for high-grade dysplasia and early adenocarcinoma by EUS and histopathologic features. Endoscopic techniques are being developed for the local treatment of early stage esophageal cancer. However, such therapy is not appropriate for patients with lymph node metastasis. The aim of this study was to analyze the histopathologic features of high-grade dysplasia and early stage adenocarcinoma and to relate these to lymph node involvement. Pathology reports were reviewed for all 367 patients who underwent subtotal esophagectomy for high-grade dysplasia or adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or the gastroesophageal junction between January 1993 and December 2001. Patients with histopathologically confirmed high-grade dysplasia or T1 carcinoma were included (n = 77). Pre-operative EUS results were assessed. All lesions were histopathologically subdivided in 6 different stages (mucosal 1-3 and submucosal 1-3). EUS staged 61 patients as N0. EUS correctly predicted the absence of positive lymph nodes in 57 (93%) of these patients. Histopathologically, m1, m2, m3, and sm1 cancers never had lymph node metastases, whereas 3 of 13 sm2 tumors (23%) and 9 of 13 sm3 tumors (69%) had lymph node involvement. Lymphangio invasion was present exclusively in sm2 and sm3 cancers. Factors that predicted the presence of lymph node metastasis were the following: tumor diameter greater than 3 cm, infiltration of malignancy beyond sm1, poor differentiation grade, and lymphangio invasion, although only infiltration beyond sm1 remained significant in the definitive multivariate analysis. EUS and the histopathologic features of high-grade dysplasia and early stage adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or the gastroesophageal junction can predict the presence of lymph node involvement. These data can be used to identify patients for whom local endoscopic treatment may be appropriate."}
{"id": "10502173", "title": "Diagnosis of submucosal tumor of the upper GI tract by endoscopic resection.", "content": "Diagnosis of submucosal tumor of the upper GI tract by endoscopic resection. Submucosal tumors are frequent findings during endoscopy, although definitive diagnosis based on histologic confirmation presents some difficulties. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of endoscopic resection based on endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) findings to reach a definitive diagnosis of submucosal tumor. Fifty-four submucosal tumors of the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract were included in this study. EUS was performed to determine the layer of origin and location of the lesion and to rule out malignancy. En bloc resection was attempted for lesions originating in the muscularis mucosa or submucosa. For tumors originating in the muscularis propria, we performed partial resection limited to the covering mucosa to expose the lesion and obtained a sample with standard biopsy forceps. Sufficient samples were obtained in all 54 cases. There was no perforation. Bleeding occurred in only 5 cases (9%) and was easily managed with endoscopic hemostatic methods. EUS and pathologic findings coincided in 74.1% of cases (40 of 54). Benign lesions (leiomyoma, aberrant pancreas, and others) were predominant (52 of 54), although 2 small lesions were confirmed at pathologic study to be malignant (leiomyosarcoma and leiomyoblastoma). Endoscopic resection based on EUS findings proved to be an effective and safe method to confirm the histologic diagnosis of submucosal tumor of the upper GI tract. Endoscopic resection should be considered a valuable choice for definitive management of benign submucosal tumors originating in the superficial layers."}
{"id": "8929801", "title": "Indications, contraindications, and complications of endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Indications, contraindications, and complications of endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "10625802", "title": "Diagnosis of the extent of gastric cancers by a new endoscopic ultrasonic tactile sensor.", "content": "Diagnosis of the extent of gastric cancers by a new endoscopic ultrasonic tactile sensor. Because gastrointestinal cancers are generally firm, the presence and extent of a tumor can be assessed by touch during surgery. However, an objective scale for evaluating tissue hardness does not exist. We developed a new instrument, the endoscopic ultrasonic tactile sensor, that allows objective evaluation of hardness. In this study the usefulness of this device for diagnosis of the extent of gastric cancers was evaluated. Twenty-three patients with depressed or ulcerated early gastric cancers and 7 patients with active or healed gastric ulcers underwent endoscopic examination with the ultrasonic tactile sensor before gastrectomy. Gastric cancers were significantly harder than normal mucosa or gastric ulcers. The histologic type of gastric cancer and the presence of ulceration did not affect tumor hardness and mucosal cancers could not be differentiated from submucosal or deeper cancers. This new ultrasonic tactile sensor was useful for endoscopic diagnosis of the extent of gastric cancers."}
{"id": "10840300", "title": "Mistakes on EUS staging of colorectal carcinoma: error in interpretation or deception from innate pathologic features?", "content": "Mistakes on EUS staging of colorectal carcinoma: error in interpretation or deception from innate pathologic features? Because endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) accuracy for staging gastrointestinal tract tumors is limited by many factors, this study was designed to analyze potential sources of error in the EUS staging of colorectal carcinoma. All patients referred for EUS evaluation of colorectal carcinoma were staged prospectively by one ultrasonographer and retrospectively by two others with EUS videotape recordings. Pathologic staging was done independently in a blinded fashion. Deceptive pathologic features were defined for T staging by presence of inflammation extending beyond tumor or microscopic spread without inflammation extending to a level consistent with the next stage, and for N staging by large (> or = 10 mm) benign lymph nodes or small (< 10 mm) malignant lymph nodes. Of 22 patients entered into the study, an inflammatory reaction around microscopic tumor spread thought to actually enhance detection by EUS was present in 57.1% of cases. Nine deceptive pathologic lesions were present in 36.4% (8 of 22) of patients (5 T stage, 4 N stage lesions). Of 40 T and N stage mistakes made by the three physicians, 45% were made in the presence and 55% in the absence of deceptive pathologic lesions. Accuracy increased significantly from the presence to absence of deceptive pathologic lesions, from 53.3% to 83.7% (p = 0.029) for T stage, and 8.3% to 73. 1% for N stage (p = 0.0001). Confidence of T staging correlated significantly with accuracy, increasing from 63.3% when unsure to 88. 2% with staging certainty (p = 0.017), an effect not seen for N staging. Inflammation and desmoplasia around colorectal carcinoma are often present, but may actually enhance EUS detection of microscopic tumor spread. Deceptive pathologic lesions are present in only one third of patients, but account for almost half (45%) of the errors in T and N staging by EUS. Diagnostic accuracy for EUS was increased with confidence in T stage assessment (but not N stage) and in the absence of deceptive pathologic lesions. Errors in interpretation still accounted for the majority of mistakes (55%) made in EUS staging of colorectal carcinoma."}
{"id": "15044880", "title": "A prospective evaluation of catheter probe EUS for the detection of ascites in patients with gastric carcinoma.", "content": "A prospective evaluation of catheter probe EUS for the detection of ascites in patients with gastric carcinoma. Gastric carcinoma is known for its propensity to spread to the peritoneum. This study assessed the value of EUS in the detection of ascites not visible on CT in patients with gastric carcinoma. A total of 402 consecutive patients with histopathologically confirmed gastric adenocarcinoma underwent catheter-probe EUS. The accuracy of catheter-probe EUS in the detection of ascites was compared with subsequent findings at laparoscopy or laparotomy. There was a slight predominance of men in the study population (M:F=1.6:1). Mean patient age was 65.4+/-0.7 years. Ascites was noted by catheter-probe EUS in 36 patients (9.0%). There was no procedure-related morbidity or mortality. Ascites and peritoneal seeding subsequently were found in, respectively, 56 (13.9%) and 66 (16.4%) patients. The finding of ascites by EUS was significantly related to the presence of peritoneal seeding (p<0.001). The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of EUS in the detection of ascites were, respectively, 60.7%, 99.4%, 94.4%, and 94.0%. The positive and negative likelihood ratios were, respectively, 105.0: 95% CI[26, 425] and 0.40: 95% CI[0.29, 0.55]. EUS is useful for the detection of ascites in patients with gastric carcinoma."}
{"id": "10570337", "title": "Role of EUS in the preoperative staging of pancreatic cancer: a large single-center experience.", "content": "Role of EUS in the preoperative staging of pancreatic cancer: a large single-center experience. Current methods for staging pancreatic cancer can be inaccurate, invasive, and expensive. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is reported to be highly accurate for local staging of gastrointestinal tumors including pancreatic cancer. The aim of this study was to assess the utility of EUS and CT for staging pancreatic cancer by comparing staging accuracies in surgical patients and evaluating the potential impact of EUS staging and training. This was a preoperative comparison of the diagnostic operating characteristics of these procedures in a referral-based academic medical center. Data were collected on 151 consecutive patients referred with confirmed pancreatic cancer between April 1990 and November 1996. All patients had preoperative CT and EUS performed for staging. In patients undergoing surgery, the surgical staging and/or findings were used to confirm EUS and CT staging. Eighty-one (60%) of 151 patients underwent surgery and made up the study subset. In these 81 patients, surgical exploration provided a final T staging in 93% (75 of 81), N staging in 88% (71 of 81) and data on vascular invasion in 93% (75 of 81). In the surgical patient group, with surgical correlation, EUS accuracy for T staging was as follows: T1 92%, T2 85%, T3 93%, and for N staging was: N0 72%, and N1 72%. CT accuracy for T staging was as follows: T1 65%, T2 67%, T3 38%, and for N staging was as follows: N0 52% and N1 100%. CT failed to detect a mass in 26% of patients with a confirmed tumor at surgery. Overall accuracy for T and N staging was 85% and 72% for EUS and 30% and 55% for CT, respectively. The ability to accurately predict vascular invasion was 93% for EUS and 62% for CT (p < 0.001). EUS was 93% accurate for predicting local resectability versus 60% for CT (p < 0.001). Last, the data were divided into two groups for the senior endosonographer's experience: procedures performed between 1990 and 1992 (98 cases) and 1993 and 1994 (53 cases). This analysis revealed that 7 of 9 instances of mis-staging (78%) occurred in the earlier group, during the learning phase for EUS. EUS is more accurate than CT for staging pancreatic malignancies, including predicting vascular invasion and local resectability. EUS staging was significantly better than CT for T1, T2, and T3 tumors. EUS staging accuracy improved after 100 cases, thus suggesting a correlation between the accuracy of EUS staging and the number of procedures performed."}
{"id": "8365619", "title": "The Japanese experience with endoscopic ultrasonography in the staging of gastric cancer.", "content": "The Japanese experience with endoscopic ultrasonography in the staging of gastric cancer. The Japanese experience with endoscopic ultrasonography in the staging of gastric cancer is reviewed and compared with Western results. Various graphic classifications for prediction of the depth of transmural penetration characterize the Japanese approach. Differentiation of early gastric cancers from advanced cancers has been emphasized, with the concordance rate of the ultrasonographic interpretation and the pathology exceeding 90%. When pre-operative staging by the TNM system was attempted, results were similar to the reports from the West, with overall concordance rate for tumor depth of greater than 80%. The Japanese system of classification may be useful in differentiating advanced cancers from early gastric cancers with co-existing ulceration and fibrosis. The reliability of endoscopic ultrasonography in the pre-operative staging of gastric cancer in Japan is similar to that in the West."}
{"id": "9351036", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for the initial staging and follow-up in patients with low-grade gastric lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue treated medically.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for the initial staging and follow-up in patients with low-grade gastric lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue treated medically. Endoscopic ultrasonography is an appropriate procedure to assess the depth of tumoral infiltration in primary gastric lymphoma. The aims of the present study were to characterize the endoscopic ultrasonographic aspects of low-grade gastric lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue and to determine the value of this procedure in medical treatment assessment. Between 1991 and 1996, 15 patients with low-grade gastric lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue were treated with oral cyclophosphamide and/or anti-Helicobacter pylori treatment. Endoscopic ultrasonography was carried out at the time of the diagnosis in all patients, 8 of whom (4 in complete remission and 4 with a stable or progressive disease) had at least one endoscopic ultrasonography examination within the treatment period (median follow-up 17 months). The initial procedure showed an increased gastric wall thickness from 6 to 12 mm in 8 patients, equal to 5 mm in 5 patients, and normal in 2 patients. The thickening was predominantly of the mucosa alone and/or the submucosa but never extended beyond the muscularis propria. No lymph node was found. Gastric wall thickness returned to normal in the 4 patients in complete remission and remained thick in 3 of the 4 patients with a stable or progressive disease. Of these 3 patients, at least one set of biopsy samples, carried out during follow-up, showed the absence of lymphoma, but histology performed subsequently found evidence of disease. Endoscopic ultrasonography differentiates superficial from infiltrative types of gastric lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue, which may have a prognostic significance and confirms remission or persistence of the disease with medical treatment during follow-up. When the gastric wall remains thick, even if histology is negative, repeated biopsies should be performed to detect evolving disease or relapse."}
{"id": "7672544", "title": "Malignant esophageal strictures: staging accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Malignant esophageal strictures: staging accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography. The prognosis for patients with carcinoma of the esophagus remains poor despite aggressive combination therapies and radical surgical resections. Accuracy of staging esophageal carcinoma by endoscopic ultrasonography is unmatched by that of any other modality. Of patients with esophageal carcinoma, 20% to 36% present with high-grade malignant strictures that preclude passage of the echoendoscope. Aggressive wire-guided dilation followed by complete endoscopic ultrasonographic assessment or endosonography limited to the proximal aspect of the stricture has been used in staging these patients. Of 204 patients with esophageal carcinoma, 51 (25%) presented with high-grade malignant strictures, defined as stenosis precluding passage of the echoendoscope without prior dilation. Thirty-nine of the 51 patients were treated by esophageal resection. Twenty-one of these patients underwent preoperative staging using wire-guided dilation followed by endoscopic ultrasonography, whereas 18 underwent limited endosonographic staging. Correct preoperative assessment of depth of tumor invasion (T stage) was obtained in 33% (7 of 21) of the former group and 28% (5 of 18) of the latter group. Advanced tumor stage (stage III or IV) was present in 90% (35 of 39) of patients presenting with high-grade strictures, indicating a poor prognosis for those patients. The current study demonstrates that (1) approximately 25% of all patients with esophageal carcinoma present with high-grade stricutres that preclude passage of the echoendoscope without prior dilation, (2) the majority of patients with high-grade malignant strictures present with advanced disease (stage III or IV), and (3) because of the low accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography in staging high-grade strictures, the need to subject such patients to invasive staging studies is questionable."}
{"id": "15114303", "title": "Usefulness of three-dimensional, multidetector row CT (virtual gastroscopy and multiplanar reconstruction) in the evaluation of gastric cancer: a comparison with conventional endoscopy, EUS, and histopathology.", "content": "Usefulness of three-dimensional, multidetector row CT (virtual gastroscopy and multiplanar reconstruction) in the evaluation of gastric cancer: a comparison with conventional endoscopy, EUS, and histopathology. The aim of this study was to assess the role of three-dimensional multidetector row CT for detection, precise localization, and staging of gastric cancer by comparison with conventional endoscopy, EUS, and histopathology. Sixty-three patients with gastric cancer (31 early stage, 32 advanced) were evaluated by EGD with biopsies, EUS, and three-dimensional multidetector row CT between January 2003 to August 2003. Three-dimensional multidetector row CT findings were analyzed by a single radiologist blinded to the endoscopic findings. Among 63 patients, the findings were confirmed in 48 at surgery or by EMR. In the remaining cases, the findings were confirmed by EGD and biopsy specimen. The accuracy of three-dimensional multidetector row CT for detection, localization, and staging of gastric cancer was determined, compared with endoscopy, EUS, and histopathology. Among the 63 patients, there were 67 gastric cancers. The overall accuracy of three-dimensional multidetector row CT for detection of gastric lesions was 94% (63/67), with accuracies of 96.7% (30/31) and 100% (32/32) for detection of, respectively, early and advanced stage gastric cancer. The overall accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity for EUS and three-dimensional multidetector row CT in the pre-operative determination of depth of invasion (T stage) were, respectively, 87.5%, 82.4%, and 96%; and 83.3%, 69.1%, and 94.4%. The accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of EUS and three-dimensional multidetector row CT for lymph node staging was, respectively, 79.1%, 57%, and 89.5%; and 75%, 57.4%, and 89.3%. Three-dimensional multidetector row CT, along with virtual gastroscopy is a promising method for pre-operative evaluation of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "10385739", "title": "EUS and EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration for the diagnosis of rectal linitis plastica secondary to prostate carcinoma.", "content": "EUS and EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration for the diagnosis of rectal linitis plastica secondary to prostate carcinoma."}
{"id": "10570330", "title": "Performance, patient acceptance, appropriateness of indications and potential influence on outcome of EUS: a prospective study in 397 consecutive patients.", "content": "Performance, patient acceptance, appropriateness of indications and potential influence on outcome of EUS: a prospective study in 397 consecutive patients. Although there is a large body of data on the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in the diagnosis and staging of various gastroenterological disorders, little has been published on the influence of EUS in the management of patients. Data on the performance of EUS and patient acceptance are also sparse. During a 10-month period, all consecutive EUS examinations were categorized by the examiner according to the appropriateness of the indications. Prior examinations, performance of EUS (duration, premedication, complications), and patient acceptance (assessed using a questionnaire by an independent investigator) were recorded. A mean of 2 months after the procedure, referring physicians were asked about the extent to which the EUS results had influenced their further diagnostic and therapeutic approach. A total of 397 patients were included; they were referred for EUS after a mean of 1. 8 specific tests had been performed. The appropriateness of the indications for EUS was categorized as \"classic,\" \"useful,\" and \"potentially useful\" (categories 1 to 3) in 81% of cases. The referring physicians replied that EUS had provided useful additional information in 55% of cases; the EUS findings prompted further tests in 22% and made further examinations unnecessary in 30%. A change in therapy was believed to be directly due to EUS in only 6% of cases. The duration of the EUS examinations ranged from a mean of 8.1 minutes (esophageal indications) to 18.9 minutes (biliary indications). There were no complications. In patients who were able to remember the EUS examination (42%), 90% found it tolerable, and 83% of all the patients interviewed were willing to have the examination repeated with the same level of sedation. EUS is a safe examination that can be carried out within a reasonable time frame by experienced examiners and without significant patient discomfort when performed under conscious sedation. With regard to patient management, EUS mainly influences further diagnostic tests."}
{"id": "9087845", "title": "The use of DNA fingerprinting to clarify uncertainties about an endoscopic biopsy specimen that unexpectedly revealed gastric cancer.", "content": "The use of DNA fingerprinting to clarify uncertainties about an endoscopic biopsy specimen that unexpectedly revealed gastric cancer."}
{"id": "10502181", "title": "Usefulness of contrast-enhanced EUS in the diagnosis of upper GI tract diseases.", "content": "Usefulness of contrast-enhanced EUS in the diagnosis of upper GI tract diseases. We evaluated the usefulness of contrast-enhanced endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in the diagnosis of upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract diseases. The subjects were 42 patients with upper GI tract diseases: 4 esophageal carcinomas, 30 gastric carcinomas, 5 gastric myogenic tumors, and 3 gastric ulcers. After the lesion was observed by EUS, air-filled albumin (0.22 mL/kg) was intravenously injected at a rate of 1 mL/sec into the right cubital median vein, and observation was continued for 10 minutes. Enhancement of the third and fifth layers was observed in all normal esophageal and gastric walls. No esophageal carcinomas were enhanced. Enhancement was observed in 5 gastric carcinomas that had abundant, enlarged, and winding vascular beds. In all esophageal and the other 25 gastric carcinomas, although the tumors per se were not enhanced, enhancement of the third and fifth layers around the lesions clearly demarcated the tumor boundaries. As a result, accuracy for detection of the depth of gastric carcinoma improved from 76.7% for EUS to 90% for contrast-enhanced EUS. All gastric myogenic tumors were enhanced, and irregularly shaped sonolucent areas within these tumors became clear, but we could not distinguish between leiomyoma and leiomyosarcoma. Contrast-enhanced EUS is a noninvasive, useful diagnostic method for assessment of the depth of invasion of esophageal and gastric carcinomas."}
{"id": "10805852", "title": "Imaging of esophageal tumors with a water-filled condom and a catheter US probe.", "content": "Imaging of esophageal tumors with a water-filled condom and a catheter US probe. High-frequency catheter ultrasound (C-EUS) probes provide high resolution images of the gastrointestinal tract. Their use in the esophagus is limited by the requirement for a water-filled lumen for good acoustical coupling. We have developed a system using a condom that provides a continuous column of water for high resolution C-EUS imaging of the esophagus. Nine patients underwent condom C-EUS for evaluation of esophageal mucosal and submucosal tumors. A standard latex condom was attached to a 2-channel endoscope and filled with water after esophageal intubation. A 20 MHz C-EUS probe placed within the water-filled condom was used to characterize all lesions. The condom C-EUS system provided a 360 degree, high resolution image throughout the length of the esophagus without air artifact and without the risk of aspiration associated with filling the esophageal lumen with water. Complete imaging of the tumor was obtained in all cases, and no additional C-EUS procedures were required. The condom C-EUS was subjectively rated superior overall in comparison to standard C-EUS by 4 independent endosonographers. Condom C-EUS is a new method of high resolution imaging of the esophagus. This method provides a contained column of water within the esophagus that improves image quality and ease of use and may reduce the risk of aspiration."}
{"id": "15933685", "title": "Do physician attitudes and practices limit use of EUS in the staging and the treatment of esophageal carcinoma?", "content": "Do physician attitudes and practices limit use of EUS in the staging and the treatment of esophageal carcinoma? Although EUS provides superior local staging of esophageal carcinoma when compared with other tests, EUS seems to be underused by physicians. We designed this prospective study to determine whether EUS is ordered in the evaluation of esophageal cancer and whether staging information obtained would change management. A total of 114 physicians were mailed a questionnaire that surveyed which tests are used in evaluating patients with esophageal cancer, the order in which they are requested, and their estimated cost. Physicians were asked to estimate prognosis and to indicate which therapy would be used for each specific TNM cancer stage. Of 114 physicians, 71 (62.3%) physicians from 4 disciplines responded. Only 47.3% of physicians would use EUS in the patient workup for esophageal cancer. Physicians would only order EUS after first obtaining an endoscopy, then a barium swallow, and then a CT scan ( p < 0.0001). A significantly greater number of internists (78.9%, p = 0.055) would not order EUS, and 31.6% of internists would not use any staging data before referral to another physician for definitive management. Physicians were accurate in their assessment of the prognosis for each cancer stage and the cost of each test. There was no difference in the use of surgery between disciplines for stages O, I, IIA, and IV. However, significantly more surgeons than nonsurgeons would use surgery for stage IIB (100.0% vs. 71.3%, p = 0.019), with a trend toward greater use by surgeons for stage III (64.3% vs. 34.1%, p = 0.11). Except for significantly greater use of chemotherapy by surgeons and oncologists for stage IIA than internists and gastroenterologists (36.6% vs. 3.1%, p = 0.0006), there were no differences between subspecialties with use of chemotherapy for all other stages or use of radiation therapy for any stage. Clinicians have an adequate understanding of patient survival based on cancer stage and a reasonable appreciation of cost for diagnostic tests regarding esophageal carcinoma. Specific data on cancer staging does impact treatment choices and management decisions. EUS is grossly underused by clinicians for staging esophageal cancer. Although internists may serve as gatekeepers, they fail to order EUS, order EUS only after less accurate tests, or fail to use staging data in management (especially referral) decisions. The ultimate modality of treatment may be more related to the type of physician that the patient is referred to, instead of the specific cancer stage. Education of primary care clinicians may be needed before the full impact of EUS on patient care can be appreciated."}
{"id": "15472700", "title": "EUS-guided trucut biopsy with immunohistochemical analysis of a gastric stromal tumor.", "content": "EUS-guided trucut biopsy with immunohistochemical analysis of a gastric stromal tumor."}
{"id": "9468428", "title": "Simultaneous coexistence of early adenocarcinoma and low-grade MALT lymphoma of the stomach associated with Helicobacter pylori infection: a case report.", "content": "Simultaneous coexistence of early adenocarcinoma and low-grade MALT lymphoma of the stomach associated with Helicobacter pylori infection: a case report."}
{"id": "19111705", "title": "Endoscopic and EUS features of gastric inflammatory fibroid polyps.", "content": "Endoscopic and EUS features of gastric inflammatory fibroid polyps."}
{"id": "14997145", "title": "Endoscopic enucleation of upper-GI submucosal tumors by using an insulated-tip electrosurgical knife.", "content": "Endoscopic enucleation of upper-GI submucosal tumors by using an insulated-tip electrosurgical knife. Submucosal tumors often are found incidentally at upper endoscopy. Although the majority of the ones less than 5 cm in size are benign, periodic monitoring for incremental changes in size, which can be stressful and bothersome to patients, is essential. If relatively easy and safe, an endoscopic method of removal would be optimal treatment. Conventional endoscopic enucleation technically is difficult and often leads to serious complications, such as bleeding and perforation. A novel method for endoscopic enucleation of submucosal tumors with an insulated-tip electrosurgical knife is reported. En bloc enucleation was attempted by using an insulated-tip electrosurgical knife in 15 patients (10 men, 5 women; median age 48 years) with submucosal tumors of the esophagus (5) or stomach (5 cardia/fundus, 4 body, one antrum). EUS was performed to determine the layer of origin and the exact size of the submucosal tumor. Tumors arose in the muscularis propria in 11 cases, submucosa in two, and muscularis mucosa in one. Enucleation was relatively easy and successful in 14 cases. In one case, however, piecemeal resection was unavoidable because of fibrotic adhesions with the surrounding tissue; this tumor later was confirmed to be a glomus tumor. Median procedure time was 35 minutes (8-180 minutes) and median size of the submucosal tumors was 2x1.7 cm. The largest lesion, located in the esophagus, measured 6x3 cm. Histopathologic diagnoses included leiomyoma (9), GI stromal tumor (4), stromal tumor of unknown malignant potential (1), and glomus tumor (1). A small perforation occurred in one patient with a 2.5-cm tumor in the anterior wall of proximal gastric body but was managed successfully by endoscopic clip application. Follow-up endoscopy at 2 months in this patient revealed no tumor recurrence and complete healing of the treatment-related ulcer. En bloc endoscopic enucleation of submucosal tumors by using an insulated-tip electrosurgical knife appears to be safer, easier, and less time consuming compared with previously described methods. However, further investigation and comparative studies are required to confirm the safety and efficacy of this method."}
{"id": "9283880", "title": "Where does gastric leiomyosarcoma originate?", "content": "Where does gastric leiomyosarcoma originate?"}
{"id": "22493423", "title": "Neoadjuvant treatment response as an early response indicator for patients with rectal cancer.", "content": "Neoadjuvant treatment response as an early response indicator for patients with rectal cancer. Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy for rectal cancer is associated with improved local control and may result in complete tumor response. Associations between tumor response and disease control following radical resection should be established before tumor response is used to evaluate treatment strategies. The purpose of this study was to assess and compare oncologic outcomes associated with the degree of pathologic response after chemoradiotherapy. All patients with locally advanced (cT3-4 or cN+ by endorectal ultrasonography, computed tomography, or magnetic resonance imaging) rectal carcinoma diagnosed from 1993 to 2008 at our institution and treated with preoperative chemoradiotherapy and radical resection were identified, and their records were retrospectively reviewed. The median radiation dose was 50.4 Gy with concurrent chemotherapy. Recurrence-free survival (RFS), distant metastasis (DM), and local recurrence (LR) rates were compared among patients with complete (ypT0N0), intermediate (ypT1-2N0), or poor (ypT3-4 or N+) response by using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression. In all, 725 patients were classified by tumor response: complete (131; 18.1%), intermediate (210; 29.0%), and poor (384; 53.0%). Age, sex, cN stage, and tumor location were not related to tumor response. Tumor response (complete v intermediate v poor) was associated with 5-year RFS (90.5% v 78.7% v 58.5%; P < .001), 5-year DM rates (7.0% v 10.1% v 26.5%; P < .001), and 5-year LR only rates (0% v 1.4% v 4.4%; P = .002). Treatment response to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy among patients with locally advanced rectal cancer undergoing radical resection is an early surrogate marker and correlate to oncologic outcomes. These data provide guidance with response-stratified oncologic benchmarks for comparisons of novel treatment strategies."}
{"id": "12712687", "title": "[Cancers, pancreatic diseases and ultrasonographically-guided needle biopsy, the main subject in digestive ultrasonic endoscopy].", "content": "[Cancers, pancreatic diseases and ultrasonographically-guided needle biopsy, the main subject in digestive ultrasonic endoscopy]."}
{"id": "23323018", "title": "Esophageal granular cell tumors: report of 9 cases and a literature review.", "content": "Esophageal granular cell tumors: report of 9 cases and a literature review. Esophageal granular cell tumors (GCTs) are rare tumors of the esophagus. We evaluated the clinical and pathologic features of 9 esophageal GCT patients (5 men and 4 women) from our institute and reviewed the related disease literature. Patient age ranged from 25 to 53 years (mean: 41 years). All the patients were asymptomatic or presented with non-specific symptoms. Most GCTs occurred in the distal esophagus and were less than 6 mm in diameter. Computational analysis showed that the average gray-scale endoscopic ultrasound images of esophageal GCTs were greater than that of esophageal leiomyomas. Eight patients were treated by endoscopic resection, and 1 patient underwent surgical excision. No post-therapy recurrence or metastasis developed during follow-up (mean: 36.4 mo, range: 1-72 mo)."}
{"id": "23290296", "title": "Pretherapeutic evaluation of patients with upper gastrointestinal tract cancer using endoscopic and laparoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Pretherapeutic evaluation of patients with upper gastrointestinal tract cancer using endoscopic and laparoscopic ultrasonography. A detailed and correct pretherapeutic evaluation of stage and resectability is mandatory for an optimal treatment strategy and results in patients with cancer of the esophagus, stomach or pancreas (UGIC). Curative surgery should only be attempted in patients with limited extent of their disease, patients with locally advanced disease should be allocated for neo-adjuvant therapy, while the remaining patients should be referred for palliative measures following a quick, lenient and correct pretherapeutic evaluation. This thorough evaluation and subsequent treatment assignment is also valuable in the identification of uniform patient cohorts for new treatment protocols as well as for the continuing comparison of research data. But despite the importance of accurate pretherapeutic assessment being repeatedly emphasized insufficient staging has been - and is still accepted as - leading to high rates of explorative surgery as well as heterogeneous selection of patients for new treatment trials. Based on the results from the authors PhD thesis he concluded that endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) as a single imaging modality provided detailed information that hitherto had been inaccessible. EUS was considered a significant progress regarding the loco-regional assessment of stage and resectability, but it was also evident that EUS alone was incapable of providing all the necessary information. In addition, there were no evidence regarding the EUS safety profile, patient tolerance of the procedure and no data on the clinical impact of both EUS and EUS guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (EUS-FNA) in UGIC patients. Therefore, the author chose to conduct additional EUS trials and to test the use of EUS-FNA, laparoscopy (LAP), laparoscopic ultrasonography (LUS) and LUS guided biopsy in order to improve the overall pretherapeutic evaluation and thus the patient selection. The aim of this thesis was to describe the sequential development, testing and clinical results of a new pretherapeutic evaluation strategy based on EUS and LUS. The value of EUS and EUS-FNA in the primary diagnosis of esophageal and gastric cancer was limited, but EUS-FNA was diagnostically relevant in 25% of the patients with pancreatic lesions and malignancy was confirmed in 86% of these patients. Comparison with other studies were difficult since no other trials have specifically focused on the clinical need for EUS-FNA regarding the primary diagnosis and resectability assessment. Stage and resectability assessment: TN staging based on EUS only provided accuracies above 80% for all cancer types when compared with histopathological or intraoperative findings. A similar high overall accuracy of EUS regarding pretherapeutic resectability assessment dropped to a significantly lower value when re-evaulated in a larger study under routine settings. There may be several explanations for this observation, but the move from a protocolled trial to a routine setting and the possibility of using LAP and LUS in the latter material may have influenced the decision and thus the results. The number of patients where EUS-FNA was indicated and performed remained constant over time, indicating adherence to the stringent biopsy criteria also outside a protocolled setup. EUS-FNA demonstrated a small (12%) but significant impact on the staging/resectability assessment and subsequent patient management. There were no differences between the impact in esophageal, gastric and pancreatic cancer, and the EUS-FNA verification of distant lymph nodes metastases was the major contributor to these results. Although EUS could detect and biopsy lesions not seen by CT, these imaging modalities were considered supplementary, but neither of these nor a combination of both was able to perform a complete evaluation of the TNM stage or the resectability. EUS tolerability, complications and patient satisfaction: Minor transient complaints after the EUS procedure was seen in one-third of the patients, but re-admission (0.7%), or contact to the patients GP (6.1%) due to complaints thought to be related to the EUS procedure were seldom. Overall EUS related morbidity and mortality in UGIC patients were 0.61% and 0.07%, respectively, and this was comparable to later series. Two-thirds of the complications in this study occurred in esophageal cancer patients as potential life threatening perforations. The conduction and evaluation of patient satisfaction surveys are complex and with a high risk of bias. Despite the reported pain, anxiety and discomfort more than 90% were prepared to undergo another EUS examination, and a similar proportion of patients were satisfied with the level of information provided before and after the examination. Treatment impact of EUS and the combination of EUS and LUS: The impact of EUS on treatment decisions in UGIC patients seemed lower than would have been expected from the EUS test performance. This observation suggested that the final treatment decision was based on several parameters, but at the same time stressed the importance of stringent EUS statements based on predefined standards. Lack of knowledge regarding advantages and limitations of EUS, situations where EUS was performed by non-surgeons, confusing terminology and conclusions as well as different treatment traditions may have influenced the comparison of data on the clinical impact of EUS. The inter-observer agreement on the treatment of UGIC patients was improved by EUS, and the ability to detect patients with non-resectable disease was the main reason for this among the one-third of all patients where EUS led to a change in the treatment approach. The clinical effect of a wrong EUS conclusion was limited, but EUS false positive resectability assessment may have denied up to 2% of the patients of a potentially curative resection. The combination of EUS and LUS solved the majority of problems related to EUS as a single imaging modality and related to the lack of deep vision during laparoscopy. The combination of EUS and LUS predicted R0 resection in 91% of the patients, thus significantly increasing the overall accuracy when compared to EUS alone. The prediction of R1/R2 resections showed similar results but with wide confidence intervals. Following EUS and LUS the number of futile laparotomies was reduced to 5%, and this figure dropped to 2.4% when patients who needed surgical by-pass were excluded. LUS guided biopsy: After having developed and tested a new system for LUS guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy and true-cut biopsy the author evaluated the need for biopsy using the same stringent indications as for EUS-FNA. LUS guided biopsies were indicated in 12% of the patients with a final malignant diagnosis. The major overall indication was lack of biopsy from the primary tumour. Adequate material was obtained in 95% of the biopsies despite being taken by six different surgeons. The overall combined impact of laparoscopic and LUS guided biopsy in patient management amounted to 27%. Cost-effectiveness of different imaging strategies in the detection of patients with non-resectable disease: In a retrospective design monitoring the costs on a departmental level EUS and LUS - or a combination with either of these - was cost-effective regarding the detection of patients with non-resectable or disseminated disease. The combination of non-invasive methods (e.g. CT and EUS) seemed attractive from an economical view-point, but such a strategy would be associated with futile surgery in 20% of the patients. However, the combination of EUS and LUS almost eliminated futile laparotomies, and at the same time remained cost-effective. Although not reported the data proved resistant to significant changes in both costs and effect, and the sequential use of EUS followed by laparoscopy and LUS seemed to be a cost-effective strategy. Combined pretherapeutic EUS and LUS as predictors of long-term survival: The literature has suggested a correlation between specific pretherapeutic EUS findings and the prognosis in UGIC patients. Based on an improved evaluation by the combination of EUS and LUS it was relevant to relate the pretherapeutic findings of this strategy to the final prognosis, and to do a stratified analysis based on both the stage and the resectability assessment. The combined approach of EUS and LUS provided relevant and significant stratification estimates of the prognosis in all three cancer types whether based on stage or on resectability assessment. EUS and LUS seemed superior to other imaging strategies regarding the identification of patients who may undergo a \"true\" R0 resection. Thus, EUS and LUS may have a positive impact on the prognosis of R0 resected UGIC patients. With the results from the present thesis the author has defined and tested a new evaluation strategy based on the combination of EUS and LUS. This combination was supplemented by EUS and LUS guided biopsies in those situations, where a malignant biopsy would change the subsequent treatment strategy. The combination of EUS and LUS was lenient, safe and cost-effective and at the same time provided additional, important pretherapeutic information regarding possible treatment options and the prognosis. It may be speculated if the improved patient selection has had a positive impact on the prognosis of the R0 resected patients. The combined strategy may also allow a more homogenous selection of patients for future treatment trials."}
{"id": "23198557", "title": "[Diagnosis of the depth of gastric cancer invasion by endoscopic ultrasonography].", "content": "[Diagnosis of the depth of gastric cancer invasion by endoscopic ultrasonography]. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is useful to diagnose the depth of invasion because of obtaining tomographic image of gastric cancer. Stomach layer has a 5-layer structure. Gastric cancer is visualized as low echoic tumor image by EUS. Massive invasion of gastric cancer is viewed as low echoic and clear boundary image. Diffuse invasion is imaged unclear boundary echo and visualized thick layer with remaining layer structure. Invasion depth of gastric cancer by EUS is diagnosed according to level of wall destruction. When depressed type cancer has ulceration in cancer nest, echoic image is modified with fibrous tissue. The diagnostic criteria of depressed type cancer classified into EUS imaging of cancer in consideration for image modified by fibrous tissue accompanied ulceration."}
{"id": "23161297", "title": "The efficacy of endoscopic ultrasonography in local staging of rectal tumors.", "content": "The efficacy of endoscopic ultrasonography in local staging of rectal tumors. The purpose of this study was to research the efficacy and reliability of endoscopic rectal ultrasonography in local staging (T and N stages) of rectal tumors. This retrospective study was carried out by the Department of Gastroenterology, \u0130zmir Atat\u00fcrk Training and Research Hospital, which is tertiary level. Thirty-one patients with adenocarcinoma were included in the study. The patients found operable according to computed tomography underwent preoperative local staging by endoscopic ultrasonography. Radial endoscopic ultrasonography and T and N stages were evaluated. It was observed that endoscopic rectal ultrasonography had 80.6% accuracy, 93.4% sensitivity, and 96.5% specificity in T stage; 70% accuracy, 70% sensitivity, and 86% specificity in the detection of presence of lymph node; and 76% accuracy, 100% sensitivity, and 22% specificity in the detection of the nature of lymph node. In this study, it was observed that endoscopic rectal ultrasonography is an efficient and reliable method in the detection of local lymph node and the depth of invasion of rectal tumors (T staging), although it is not reliable enough to determine the characteristics of lymph nodes."}
{"id": "23155323", "title": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for foregut neuroendocrine tumors: an initial study.", "content": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for foregut neuroendocrine tumors: an initial study. To evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for foregut neuroendocrine tumors (NETs). From April 2008 to December 2010, patients with confirmed histological diagnosis of foregut NETs were included. None had regional lymph node enlargement or distant metastases to the liver or lung on preoperative computerized tomography scanning or endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). ESD was attempted under general anesthesia. After making several marking dots around the lesion, a mixture solution was injected into the submucosa. The mucosa was incised outside the marking dots. Dissection of the submucosal layer beneath the tumor was performed under direct vision to achieve complete en bloc resection of the specimen. Tumor features, clinicopathological characteristics, complete resection rate, and complications were evaluated. Foregut NETs were graded as G1, G2, or G3 on the basis of proliferative activity by mitotic count or Ki-67 index. All patients underwent regular follow-up to evaluate for any local recurrence or distant metastasis. Those treated by ESD included 24 patients with 29 foregut NETs. The locations of the 29 lesions are as follows: esophagus (n = 1), cardia (n = 1), stomach (n = 23), and duodenal bulb (n = 4). All lesions were found incidentally during routine upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for other indications, and none had symptoms of carcinoid syndrome. Preoperative EUS showed that all tumors were confined to the submucosa. Among the 24 gastric lesions, 16 lesions in 11 patients were type I gastric NETs arising in chronic atrophic gastritis with hypergastrinemia, while the other 8 solitary lesions were type III because of absence of atrophic gastritis in these cases. All of the tumors were removed in an en bloc fashion. The average maximum diameter of the lesions was 9.4 mm (range: 2-30 mm), and the procedure time was 20.3 min (range: 10-45 min). According to the World Health Organization 2010 classification, histological evaluation determined that 26 lesions were NET-G1, 2 gastric lesions were NET-G2, and 1 esophageal lesion was neuroendocrine carcinoma (NEC). Complete resection was achieved in 28 lesions (28/29, 96.6%), and all of them were confined to the submucosa in histopathologic assessment with no lymphovascular invasion. The remaining patient with NEC underwent additional surgery because the resected specimens revealed angiolymphatic and muscularis invasion, as well as incomplete resection. Delayed bleeding occurred in 1 case 3 d after ESD, which was managed by endoscopic treatment. There were no procedure-related perforations. During a mean follow-up period of 24.4 mo (range: 12-48 mo), local recurrence occurred in only 1 patient 7 mo after initial ESD. This patient successfully underwent repeat ESD. Metastasis to lymph nodes or distal organs was not observed in any patient. No patients died during the study period. ESD appears to be a safe, feasible, and effective procedure for providing accurate histopathological evaluations and curative treatment for eligible foregut NETs."}
{"id": "23132035", "title": "[A case of diffuse cystic malformation in which submucosal tumor-like advanced gastric cancer was identified during 10-year follow-up].", "content": "[A case of diffuse cystic malformation in which submucosal tumor-like advanced gastric cancer was identified during 10-year follow-up]. A 66-year-old man with giant gastric folds had been followed up since February 2000. In March 2010, a submucosal tumor of 35mm was identified with endoscopy and a low echoic mass was identified with endoscopic ultrasonography. After histologic diagnosis by endosonography-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy, he underwent a total gastrectomy. Histologic examination of the resected specimen revealed a tumor 20mm in diameter consisting of well-to-moderately differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma in the thickened wall of the gastric greater curvature, which contained small cystic lesions in the lamina propria. Immunohistochemical staining showed thick gastric wall consisting of not only multiple cysts but also smooth muscle, elastic and collagen fibers. The histologic diagnosis was advanced gastric cancer accompanied by diffuse cystic malformation (DCM). Although it is a rare condition, DCM should be considered in the differential diagnosis of giant gastric folds and as a pre-cancerous lesion."}
{"id": "23108774", "title": "Re: Endoscopic ultrasound staging in gastric cancer: does it help management decisions in the era of neoadjuvant treatment?", "content": "Re: Endoscopic ultrasound staging in gastric cancer: does it help management decisions in the era of neoadjuvant treatment?"}
{"id": "23065169", "title": "Ovarian carcinomatosis: how the radiologist can help plan the surgical approach.", "content": "Ovarian carcinomatosis: how the radiologist can help plan the surgical approach. Ovarian carcinoma is the most common cause of death due to gynecologic malignancy. Peritoneal involvement is present in approximately 70% of patients at the time of initial diagnosis. The disease spreads abdominally by direct extension, exfoliation of tumor cells into the peritoneal space, and dissemination of tumor cells along lymphatic pathways. Carcinomatosis characterizes an advanced stage of disease in which peritoneal disease has spread throughout the upper abdomen (stage IIIC) or in which diffuse peritoneal disease is accompanied by malignant pleural infiltration or visceral metastases (stage IV). Common sites of intraperitoneal seeding of ovarian carcinoma include the pelvis, omentum, paracolic gutters, liver capsule, and diaphragm. Soft-tissue thickening, nodularity, and enhancement are all signs of peritoneal involvement. Advanced-stage disease is treated either with initial cytoreductive surgery (debulking) followed by adjuvant chemotherapy, or with initial neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by debulking. Radiologic imaging plays an important role in the selection of patients who may benefit from neoadjuvant chemotherapy before debulking. However, accurate interpretation of the imaging findings is challenging and requires a detailed knowledge of the complex peritoneal anatomy, directionality of flow of peritoneal fluid, and specific disease sites that are likely to present particular difficulties with regard to surgical access and technique. Although there is as yet no clear consensus on the criteria for resectability of peritoneal lesions, extensive involvement of the small bowel or mesenteric root, involved lymph nodes superior to the celiac axis, pleural infiltration, pelvic sidewall invasion, bladder trigone involvement, and hepatic parenchymal metastases or implants near the right hepatic vein are considered indicative of potential nonresectability. Implants larger than 2 cm in diameter in the diaphragm, lesser sac, porta hepatis, intersegmental fissure, gallbladder fossa, or gastrosplenic or gastrohepatic ligament also may represent nonresectable disease."}
{"id": "23026272", "title": "Diagnosis and staging of cancer of the esophagus and esophagogastric junction.", "content": "Diagnosis and staging of cancer of the esophagus and esophagogastric junction. Esophageal/esophagogastric junction cancer staging in the 7th edition of the AJCC staging manual is data driven and harmonized with gastric staging. New definitions are Tis, T4, regional lymph node, N, and M. Nonanatomic characteristics (histopathologic cell type, histologic grade, cancer location) and TNM classifications determine stage groupings. Classifications before treatment define clinical stage (cTNM or ycTNM). Current best clinical staging modalities include endoscopic ultrasonography for T and N and CT/PET for M. Classifications at resection define pathologic stage (pTNM or ypTNM). Accurate pathologic stage requires communication/cooperation between surgeon and pathologist. Classifications are defined at retreatment (rTNM) and autopsy (aTNM)."}
{"id": "23012716", "title": "[Commentary on the work of M.H. Larsen et al., pp. 759].", "content": "[Commentary on the work of M.H. Larsen et al., pp. 759]."}
{"id": "23001857", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonographic assessment of gastric polyps and endoscopic mucosal resection.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonographic assessment of gastric polyps and endoscopic mucosal resection. Gastric polyps refer to a heterogeneous group of epithelial- and subepithelial-based lesions that vary in histology and malignant potential. Although many gastric polyps have characteristic endoscopic appearances, their diagnosis, classification, and potential for malignant transformation are based on histologic evaluation. Therefore, all types of gastric polyps should be biopsied during the incident endoscopy. Mucosal-based polyps include fundic gland polyps, hyperplastic polyps, adenomatous polyps, and hamartomatous polyps. Inflammatory fibroid polyps may endoscopically appear similar to mucosal-based polyps but actually arise from the submucosa. Certain types of polyps are associated with genetic syndromes or potential precancerous conditions (gastric intestinal metaplasia and chronic atrophic gastritis). If dysplasia is present and the polyp is \u22652\u00a0cm or symptomatic, the polyp should be endoscopically resected with the aim of en bloc resection. There are limited data on the use of adjunctive endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in the evaluation of mucosal-based gastric polyps, and therefore, is not routinely employed in the management of these lesions. EUS is recommended for the evaluation of gastric subepithelial lesions."}
{"id": "22978826", "title": "Modified endoscopic submucosal dissection with enucleation for treatment of gastric subepithelial tumors originating from the muscularis propria layer.", "content": "Modified endoscopic submucosal dissection with enucleation for treatment of gastric subepithelial tumors originating from the muscularis propria layer. Gastric subepithelial tumors are usually asymptomatic and observed incidentally during endoscopic examination. Although most of these tumors are considered benign, some have a potential for malignant transformation, particularly those originating from the muscularis propria layer. For this type of tumor, surgical resection is the standard treatment of choice. With recent advent of endoscopic resection techniques and devices, endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) has been considered as an alternative way of treatment. The aim of this study is to demonstrate the feasibility of a modified ESD technique with enucleation for removal of gastric subepithelial tumors originating from the muscularis propria layer, and to evaluate its efficacy and safety. From November 2009 to May 2011, a total of 16 patients received a modified ESD with enucleation for their subepithelial tumors. All tumors were smaller than 5\u2009cm and originated from the muscularis propria layer of the stomach, as shown by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). The procedure was conducted with an insulated-tip knife 2. Patient's demographics, tumor size and pathological diagnosis, procedure time, procedure-related complication, and treatment outcome were reviewed. Fifteen of the sixteen tumors were successful complete resection. The mean tumor size measured by EUS was 26.1\u2009mm (range: 20-42\u2009mm). The mean procedure time was 52\u2009 minutes (range: 30-120 \u2009minutes). Endoscopic features of the 4 tumors were pedunculated and 12 were sessile. Their immunohistochemical diagnosis was c-kit (+) stromal tumor in 14 patients and leiomyoma in 2 patients. There was no procedure-related perforation or overt bleeding. During a mean follow up duration of 14.8\u2009 months (range: 6-22 \u2009months), there was no tumor recurrence or metastasis. Using a modified ESD with enucleation for treatment of gastric subepithelial tumors originating from the muscularis propria layer and larger than 2\u2009cm, complete resection can be successfully performed without serious complication. It is a safe and effective alternative to surgical therapy for these tumors of 2 to 5\u2009cm in size."}
{"id": "22978534", "title": "Low accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography for detailed T staging in gastric cancer.", "content": "Low accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography for detailed T staging in gastric cancer. The accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) for preoperative staging of gastric cancer varies. The aim of this study was to investigate the accuracy of EUS tumor (T) and node (N) staging, and to identify the histopathological factors influencing accuracy based on the detailed tumor depth of gastric cancer. In total, 309 patients with gastric cancer with confirmed pathological staging underwent EUS examination for preoperative staging at Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, Korea, between January and December 2009. The T and N staging of EUS and the pathologic report were compared. The overall accuracies of EUS for T stage and the detailed T stages were 70.2% and 43.0%, respectively. In detailed stage, tumors greater than 50\u2009mm in diameter were significantly associated with T overstaging (odds ratio (OR) = 2.094). The overall accuracy of EUS for N staging was 71.2%. Tumor size (20\u2009mm \u2264 size < 50\u2009mm, OR = 4.389; and 50\u2009mm \u2264 size, OR = 8.170), cross-sectional tumor location (circumferential, OR = 4.381) and tumor depth (submucosa, OR = 3.324; muscular propria, OR = 6.923; sub-serosa, OR = 4.517; and serosa-exposed, OR = 6.495) were significant factors affecting incorrect nodal detection. Careful attention is required during EUS examination of large-sized gastric cancers to increase accuracy, especially for T staging."}
{"id": "22878576", "title": "[Modern diagnostics and stage-oriented surgery: therapy of adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction].", "content": "[Modern diagnostics and stage-oriented surgery: therapy of adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction]. The basis for decision-making about an individualized surgical treatment of adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction is tumor staging and exact evaluation of the topography of the tumor in the small junctional area. The diagnostics mainly comprise endoscopy, biopsy, endosonography, computed tomography and partially diagnostic laparoscopy. This results in a clinical TNM staging and an evaluation according to the AEG classification from oral to aboral in type I (esophagus), type II (cardia) and type III (subcardia). Endoscopic resection is only appropriate for the infrequent mucosal carcinomas whereas the majority of the junctional carcinomas are treated by surgical resection. This is combined with neoadjuvant treatment in case of T3 or resectable T4 carcinomas. A type I carcinoma is removed by radical transthoracic en bloc esophagectomy with high intrathoracic esophagogastrostomy after gastric pull-up. In case of type II or III carcinomas, a transhiatal extended gastrectomy including distal esophageal resection is performed with reconstruction by Roux en Y esophagojejunostomy in the lower mediastinum. However, some advanced type II carcinomas which cannot be resected R0 at the esophagus need esophagectomy and gastric pull-up. This surgical strategy is justified by the topography of the lesion and the corresponding lymphatic drainage. Very rare indications are seen for a limited resection with interposition of small bowel in some mucosal carcinomas or total esophagogastrectomy with colon interposition in very advanced tumors. The neoadjuvant treatment comprises especially chemoradiation for type I and chemotherapy for type II and III carcinomas and leads to a significant survival benefit compared to surgery alone."}
{"id": "22875693", "title": "[Early asymptomatic GIST of the stomach].", "content": "[Early asymptomatic GIST of the stomach]."}
{"id": "22864063", "title": "Accurate preoperative staging of gastric cancer with combined endoscopic ultrasonography and PET-CT.", "content": "Accurate preoperative staging of gastric cancer with combined endoscopic ultrasonography and PET-CT. Accurate staging of gastric cancer is helpful to determine the most appropriate therapy, but no staging modality has been accepted as the standard. Objective is to evaluate the usefulness of endoscopic ultrasonograph (EUS) combined with position emission tomography and computed tomograph (PET-CT) in gastric cancer staging. A total of 124 patients confirmed with gastric cancer were subjected to staging with EUS and PET-CT scanning. The detection rate of primary tumor was 99.2% by combination use of two modalities and 97.6% by EUS alone (p = 0.6219), but the detection rate was 90.3% (112 of 124) by PET-CT alone (compared with the combination, p = 0.0027; compared with EUS alone, p = 0.0299). The locoregional lymph node invasion was identified in 84/124 (67.7%) by combined PET-CT and EUS, which was obviously higher than that with EUS (52.4%) or PET-CT (43.5%) alone (p = 0.0194 and p = 0.0002, respectively). There was no statistical difference in identification of celiac axis lymph node metastasis among three methods, but the combined examination or PET-CT alone was more effective than EUS alone in the detection of distant metastases (all p < 0.01). Furthermore, the combined EUS and PET-CT was more optimal than using EUS or PET-CT alone in the accurate T and N staging and the effect on change of treatment. The present study indicates that the combination of EUS and PET-CT is an ideal modality in the preoperative staging of gastric cancer and it provides beneficial guidance for the treatment of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "22832999", "title": "Duodenal duplication cyst: a potentially malignant disease.", "content": "Duodenal duplication cyst: a potentially malignant disease. Duodenal duplication cysts constitute a rare congenital anomaly of the gastrointestinal tract. A recent meta-analysis of the literature between 1999 and 2009 reported a total of 47 cases of duodenal duplication cysts.1 These abnormalities are mostly diagnosed in infancy and childhood. In rare cases, they can remain asymptomatic until adulthood, and 38\u00a0% of patients are diagnosed after age 20\u00a0years.1 (,) 2 Duodenal duplication cysts are generally benign lesions; nevertheless, three cases of malignant tumours arising inside have been reported.3 (-) 5 In this multimedia article, we illustrated the case of an 18\u00a0year-old female patient presenting with recurrent episodes of mild pancreatitis. MRI revealed a cystic structure measuring 2.5\u00a0cm in diameter located in the duodenal wall next to the papilla of Vater. Endoscopic ultrasound showed a cystic lesion cephalad to the papilla, protruding into the duodenal lumen. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was not feasible due to the dislocation of the papilla, whose macroscopic aspect was normal. To further elucidate the anatomical relations, 3D reconstruction of the MRI images was performed. There was neither dilatation of the biliary tract nor a visible communication between the common bile duct and the cystic structure. The pancreatic duct also was at distance. Those findings were suggestive of a duodenal duplication. Nevertheless, the differential diagnosis6 of a choledochocele (Todani III) could not be formally excluded. Indication for surgical resection was symptomatic disease in a context of potential malignancy. By right subcostal incision (video), surgical exploration revealed a soft tissue mass palpable at the second portion of the duodenum. Following duodenotomy, the mucosa was incised cephalad to the papilla of Vater, which could previously be localized by methylene blue injection by a catheter inserted into the cystic duct. The cystic structure was dissected and no communication between the cyst and the biliary tract was individualized. The final diagnosis was made by histological examination showing duodenal duplication. There was neither heterotopic gastric mucosa nor excreto-biliary epithelial layer. There were no signs of malignancy. The postoperative course was marked by hematemesis externalised by the nasogastric tube. We reintervened at postoperative day 2 to ensure hemostasis. A clot was removed from the area of duodenal mucosa without any visible active bleeding. Further recovery was uneventful; the patient was discharged at postoperative day 10 and is actually asymptomatic. The ideal treatment of duodenal duplication cysts is complete surgical resection.7 Due to proximity to the bilio-pancreatic duct, total resection sometimes requires pancreaticoduodenectomy. This major surgical procedure entails the disadvantages of high morbidity and mortality with poor quality of life. In our opinion, this procedure should remain an ultimate option. Less invasive approaches have been proposed, including partial resection or internal derivation.7 Marsupialization is a surgical approach that has been accomplished even endoscopically.1 Nevertheless, these techniques do not provide total resection and leave the risk of degenerescence. As cases of malignancy are reported, we decided to realize a complete surgical excision of the lesion. Three-dimensional reconstruction of the biliary anatomy is an innovative procedure, which allowed us to show the absence of any communication between the cyst and either the common bile duct or the pancreatic duct.8 So, the surgical approach could be specified preoperatively ensuring the integrity of the common bile duct. Duplication cysts could be connected to the pancreaticobiliary ducts in about 29\u00a0%.1 Subsequent realization of a total surgical excision combined the advantages of complete resection with minimal invasiveness. For relieving symptoms and preventing further complications, such as pancreatitis or malignant transformation, surgical resection of duodenal duplication cysts is indicated. In cases of difficulties to individualize the neighboring anatomical structures preoperatively, 3D reconstruction is a helpful approach to determine the surgical strategy. Enucleation allows a total excision while minimizing the adverse effects and therefore it is our treatment of choice for duodenal duplication cysts without communication."}
{"id": "22817786", "title": "Assessment of the technical performance of the flexible 19-gauge EUS-FNA needle.", "content": "Assessment of the technical performance of the flexible 19-gauge EUS-FNA needle. A needle made of nitinol has been developed with enhanced flexibility to overcome the limitations of the currently available 19-G EUS-FNA needles. Evaluate the ability to perform transduodenal FNAs, procure histologic specimens, and undertake therapeutic interventions using the flexible 19-G needle. Prospective cohort study. Tertiary-care academic medical center. Consecutive patients with subepithelial masses, pancreatic head or uncinate lesions, or lesions adjacent to the pancreatic head, and patients undergoing therapeutic intervention. Perform tissue acquisition and interventions with the flexible 19-G FNA needle. Evaluate the ability to perform transduodenal passes with the flexible 19-G FNA needle. Also, assess the utility of the needle to yield both cytologic and histologic samples and to perform therapeutic interventions. Of the 50 patients enrolled, tissue acquisition was undertaken in 38 and therapeutic intervention in 12. Of 38 patients from whom tissue was procured, 32 tissue samples were from pancreatic head/uncinate or peripancreatic masses and 6 were from subepithelial masses. Tissue acquisition, which included transduodenal passes, was successful and adequate for cytologic assessment in all 38 patients (100%). Satisfactory histologic specimens were procured from 36 of 38 (94.7%) patients. An onsite diagnosis was established in 35 of 38 (92.1%) patients. In 3 patients with indeterminate/suspicious lesions, a definitive diagnosis was established at histology. A mean of 1.45 \u00b1 0.79 passes per patient was performed. All 12 therapeutic interventions were successful (100%) and included pseudocyst drainage in 5, pelvic abscess drainage in 2, fiducial placement in 2, celiac plexus neurolysis in 2, and cholangiogram in 1. Needle dysfunction or procedural complications were not encountered. Single-center study with limited power. Preliminary data suggest that the flexible 19-G needle can be used for procuring cytologic aspirates and histologic specimens and to undertake therapeutic interventions even by the transduodenal route. Confirmatory studies are required in a larger cohort of patients with varied pathologic conditions to validate these findings."}
{"id": "22814916", "title": "Gastric neuroendocrine tumor with extensive ossification.", "content": "Gastric neuroendocrine tumor with extensive ossification."}
{"id": "22798124", "title": "A case of primary gastric Burkitt-like lymphoma with chemotherapy-induced perforation.", "content": "A case of primary gastric Burkitt-like lymphoma with chemotherapy-induced perforation."}
{"id": "22798116", "title": "Synchronous appearance of gastrointestinal stromal tumor and neuroendocrine tumor in stomach: review of the literature and management strategies.", "content": "Synchronous appearance of gastrointestinal stromal tumor and neuroendocrine tumor in stomach: review of the literature and management strategies. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors represent the most common mesenchymal tumor of the digestive tract. Although the stomach is the most common location for gastrointestinal stromal tumor with the co-primary tumors, the synchronous appearance of a neuroendocrine tumor and gastrointestinal stromal tumor in the stomach is rare. We present here the case of a 48-year-old male with gastric well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumor and gastrointestinal stromal tumor discovered incidentally during surgical treatment of the neuroendocrine tumor. We discuss the current guidelines for the management of small gastrointestinal stromal tumors (&lt;2 cm in diameter) and the gastric carcinoids. We also review the literature for the co-occurrence of gastrointestinal stromal tumor and neuroendocrine tumor in a gastric location."}
{"id": "22797706", "title": "Endosonographic large-bore biopsy of gastric subepithelial tumors: a prospective multicenter study.", "content": "Endosonographic large-bore biopsy of gastric subepithelial tumors: a prospective multicenter study. Once gastric subepithelial lesions (SEL) are found, tissue diagnosis is required, considering the possible differential diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST). Previous studies have shown insufficient accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA) using cytologic analysis. The feasibility and yield of EUS-FNA-based histologic tissue acquisition for gastric SEL, using 19 G large-bore needles, was assessed in a 4-year multicenter, prospective study. All consecutive patients, who were referred for EUS-FNA for all SEL greater than 1 cm, were included. Of 100 patients with suspected gastric SEL, 71 lesions were found to be eligible. Endoscopic biopsies or resections or surgery were used alternatively for a variety of reasons in 25 patients. EUS-FNA using the 19 G needle was finally performed in 46/71 cases (65%) with one to four needle passes. Sufficient material for a definite or a suspected histological diagnosis was obtained in 52 and 7% of the cases, respectively. In 41%, the samples were not informative. Immunohistochemistry was possible in 91% of cases with sufficient amounts of tissue; 30% were GIST. Self-limited, mild hemorrhage occurred in 22%; one patient developed a fatal abscess. Even when intended, EUS-guided 19 G FNA is only feasible in 46% of gastric SEL. The diagnostic yield of 19 G FNA was only 52%, but with excellent differentiation between GIST and leiomyoma. Infectious complications must be prevented."}
{"id": "22752891", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound, endoscopic sonoelastography, and strain ratio evaluation of lymph nodes with histology as gold standard.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound, endoscopic sonoelastography, and strain ratio evaluation of lymph nodes with histology as gold standard. Accurate lymph node staging is essential for the selection of an optimal treatment in patients with upper gastrointestinal cancer. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and fine-needle aspiration (FNA) are considered to be the most accurate method for locoregional staging. Endoscopic sonoelastography (ESE) assesses the elasticity of lymph nodes and has been used to differentiate lymph nodes with promising results. The aim of this study was to evaluate the use of EUS, EUS - FNA, ESE, and ESE-strain ratio using histology as the gold standard. Patients with upper gastrointestinal cancer who were referred for EUS examination were enrolled if surgical treatment was planned and the patient had a lymph node that was accessible for EUS - FNA and EUS-guided fine-needle marking (FNM). The lymph node was classified using EUS, ESE, and ESE-strain ratio. Finally, EUS - FNA and EUS - FNM were performed. The marked lymph node was isolated during surgery for histological examination. The marked lymph node was isolated for separate histological examination in 56 patients, of whom 22 (39 %) had malignant lymph nodes and 34 (61 %) had benign lymph nodes. There were no complications of EUS - FNM. The sensitivity of EUS for differentiation between malignant and benign lymph nodes was 86 % compared with 55 % - 59 % for the different ESE modalities. The specificity of EUS was 71 % compared with 82 % - 85 % using ESE modalities. The use of the EUS - FNM technique enabled the identification of a specific lymph node and thereby the use of histology as gold standard. ESE and ESE-strain ratio were no better than standard EUS in differentiating between malignant and benign lymph nodes in patients with resectable upper gastrointestinal cancer."}
{"id": "22735877", "title": "Diagnosis of an accessory spleen mimicking a gastric submucosal tumor using endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration.", "content": "Diagnosis of an accessory spleen mimicking a gastric submucosal tumor using endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration. Accessory spleen can be mistaken as a gastric subepithelial mass, and may not be differentiated in CT or endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). A gastric subepithelial mass was detected on routine endoscopy in a 39-year old woman with history of splenectomy. In subsequent CT and EUS, the subepithelial mass was located on the fourth layer of the stomach. To make a definite diagnosis, EUS-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) was performed, and a splenic tissue was demonstrated in histologic examination. EUS-guided FNA can be beneficial in the diagnosis of accessory spleen which mimics a gastric subepithelial mass."}
{"id": "22726492", "title": "EUS-guided hepatoesophagostomy for transesophageal biliary drainage (with video).", "content": "EUS-guided hepatoesophagostomy for transesophageal biliary drainage (with video)."}
{"id": "22659358", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in preoperative staging of gastric cancer--demand and reality.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in preoperative staging of gastric cancer--demand and reality. Exact pretherapeutic staging is considered to be essential for decision-making in the therapeutic algorithm of gastric cancer. THE AIM OF THE STUDY was to characterize the role and value of EUS in the diagnostic and therapeutic management of gastric cancer in daily surgical practice. Thousand one hundred thirty nine patients with primary gastric cancer from 80 hospitals of each profile of care were enrolled in this systematic clinical prospective multicenter observational study over a time period of 12 months. The characteristics of the diagnostic management, in particular, of EUS were documented. The preoperative EUS findings were compared with the T stage (T1 to T4) and the N category (N+ or N-) revealed by the histopathologic investigation of the surgical specimen. By the mean of \u03c7\u00b2 test, the impact of EUS on the therapeutic decision-making was determined. Pretherapeutic EUS was only performed in 27.4% (n=312) of all patients. Overall, the diagnostic accuracy for the T stage was 42.6% in average. The subgroup analysis showed the following results: T1, 31.5%; T2, 42.6%; T3, 65.2%; T4, 17.6%. The correct predictive value of the N category was 71.3% reaching a sensitivity of 69.7% and a specificity of 73.3%. Overstaging was observed in 45.8%, understaging in only 10.8%. Additional diagnostic information by EUS was only provided in 4.7% of subjects. The present study indicates the variability, limited reliability and only moderate acceptance of EUS in diagnosing gastric cancer in daily practice. In particular, the prediction of the T stage does not reach the data reported in the literature, which were mostly achieved in specific EUS studies."}
{"id": "22638777", "title": "The rediscovery of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in gastric cancer staging.", "content": "The rediscovery of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in gastric cancer staging."}
{"id": "22632944", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography/fine-needle aspiration and endobronchial ultrasonography/fine-needle aspiration for lung cancer staging.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography/fine-needle aspiration and endobronchial ultrasonography/fine-needle aspiration for lung cancer staging. This article reviews different techniques available for diagnosis and staging of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The advantages and disadvantages of each staging method are highlighted. The role of the gastroenterologist in NSCLC staging is explored. A new algorithm is proposed for the staging of NSCLC that incorporates endoscopic and endobronchial ultrasonography for mediastinal staging in patients with intrathoracic disease."}
{"id": "22623626", "title": "A comparison of the combined ultrasound of the mediastinum by use of a single ultrasound bronchoscope versus ultrasound bronchoscope plus ultrasound gastroscope in lung cancer staging: a prospective trial.", "content": "A comparison of the combined ultrasound of the mediastinum by use of a single ultrasound bronchoscope versus ultrasound bronchoscope plus ultrasound gastroscope in lung cancer staging: a prospective trial. The aim of the study was to compare diagnostic utility of combined (i.e. transbronchial and transoesophageal) ultrasound imaging with needle biopsy of the mediastinum in lung cancer (LC) staging, (a) by use of a single ultrasound bronchoscope (CUSb) and (b) by using two scopes (CUS). In consecutive LC patients, clinical stage IA-IIIB the CUS or CUSb was performed under mild sedation and, if negative, underwent lung resection with confirmatory systematic lymph node dissection. From 214 LC patients, 110 underwent CUS and 104 underwent CUSb (618 biopsies); both revealed metastases in 50% of cases. There was 'minimal N2' in 11 of 14 false negative patients. Diagnostic sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV) of CUS was 91.7%, 98%, 94.6%, 98.2% and 90.7% respectively and of CUSb was 85%, 93.2%, 88.5%, 94.4%, 82%, respectively with no significant difference in yield of CUS vs CUSb (P = 0.255 and P = 0.192). The mean time of CUS (25 \u00b1 4.4 min) was significantly longer as compared to CUSb (14.9 \u00b1 2.3 min) (P < 0.001). No severe complications of either method were observed. The combined ultrasound imaging of the mediastinum by use of CUSb is significantly less time-consuming and equally as effective and safe as the use of CUS for LC staging."}
{"id": "22622756", "title": "Epstein-Barr virus-associated early gastric cancer presenting as an elevated lesion.", "content": "Epstein-Barr virus-associated early gastric cancer presenting as an elevated lesion."}
{"id": "22553412", "title": "Solitary gastric Peutz-Jeghers type stomach polyp mimicking a malignant gastric tumor.", "content": "Solitary gastric Peutz-Jeghers type stomach polyp mimicking a malignant gastric tumor. Most cases of Peutz-Jeghers type polyps of the stomach are associated with mucocutaneous pigmentation and multiple intestinal polyposis. A solitary Peutz-Jeghers type polyp of the stomach is rare. We here report a case of a 71-year-old woman with a solitary Peutz-Jeghers type polyp of the stomach who presented with intolerable epigastric pain and weight loss of 5 kg over the prior two months. During the hospital treatment course for this patient, endoscopic examination revealed a bulging lesion with a central hole, mucosal ulceration, an asymmetrical wall thickness and a narrowing of the gastric lumen. A gastric biopsy further revealed ulceration with moderate dysplasia. The patient received endoscopic ultrasonography which showed a second subepithelial lesion that measured 4 cm \u00d7 3 cm. Computed tomography of the abdomen subsequently showed a thickened gastric wall with three visibly enlarged lymph nodes, all greater than 1 cm. The suspected diagnosis was malignant gastric cancer with lymph node metastases. The other lesion, which measured 2 cm \u00d7 2 cm \u00d7 1 cm was noted in the submucosa of the jejunum during surgery. The patient was treated using a subtotal gastrectomy and partial resection of the jejunal tumor. The final pathological report indicated a gastric Peutz-Jeghers type polyp with proliferation of smooth muscle bundles in the submucosal layer, and hyperplastic glands in the mucosal layer and ectopic pancreas of the jejunum. This is the first reported clinical case of a solitary Peutz-Jeghers type polyp of the stomach accompanying a lymph node enlargement and ectopic pancreas in the jejunum that simulates stomach cancer with lymph node metastases."}
{"id": "22549558", "title": "A prospective evaluation of the utility of 2-deoxy-2-[(18) F]fluoro-D-glucose positron emission tomography and computed tomography in staging locally advanced gastric cancer.", "content": "A prospective evaluation of the utility of 2-deoxy-2-[(18) F]fluoro-D-glucose positron emission tomography and computed tomography in staging locally advanced gastric cancer. The aim of this study was to examine prospectively the utility of adding preoperative [(18) F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET)/computed tomography (CT) to routine CT, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), and laparoscopic staging of localized gastric cancer. Patients with locally advanced gastric/gastroesophageal cancer were screened for 2 institutional review board-approved Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center neoadjuvant chemotherapy protocols. Locally advanced disease was defined as T3 or T4, or lymph node-positive, based on EUS and high-resolution CT scan. All patients underwent both standard FDG-PET/CT and laparoscopy with cytological examination of washings. The sensitivity and specificity of FDG-PET/CT for the identification of metastatic disease not seen on CT was determined. An economic model using Medicare/Medicaid reimbursement charges was developed to assess the cost-effectiveness of these interventions. A total of 113 patients were enrolled from 2003 to 2010. All patients were assessed as having locally advanced disease by CT/EUS. FDG uptake in the primary tumor was associated with male sex, proximal tumors, and nondiffuse Lauren's subtype. 31 (27%) patients had occult metastatic disease detected by PET/CT (n = 11, 10%) and/or laparoscopy (n = 21, 19%), with a single overlap. Economic modeling suggests that the addition of FDG-PET/CT to the standard staging evaluation of patients with locally advanced gastric cancer resulted in an estimated cost savings of \u223cUS $13,000 per patient. FDG-PET/CT identifies occult metastatic lesions in approximately 10% of patients with locally advanced gastric cancer. Because of reduced morbidity from fewer futile surgeries and lower patient care costs, PET/CT should be considered as a component of the standard staging algorithm for localized gastric cancer."}
{"id": "22546130", "title": "Lower mediastinal lymph node metastasis is an independent survival factor of Siewert type II and III adenocarcinomas in the gastroesophageal junction.", "content": "Lower mediastinal lymph node metastasis is an independent survival factor of Siewert type II and III adenocarcinomas in the gastroesophageal junction. We examined clinicopathological features and surgical outcomes in patients with adenocarcinoma in the gastroesophageal junction (GEJ), while also analyzing the survival factors that have a prognostic impact. Between 1991 and 2009, 61 patients with tumors in the GEJ (Siewert type II and III) underwent primary surgical resection. Thirty of 61 patients had type II tumors (49.2%) and 31 had type III tumors (50.8%). The tumor size was larger in type III tumors than type II tumors (P = 0.0026). The overall 5-year survival rates in patients with type II tumors and type III tumors were 44.2 per cent and 41.4 per cent, respectively, with no significant differences (P = 0.1888). The independent survival factors were lower mediastinal lymph node metastasis (P = 0.0323) and a noncurative resection (P = 0.0442). The independent survival factors for patients who underwent curative resections were the tumor size (P = 0.0422), M category (P = 0.0489), and lower mediastinal lymph node metastasis (P = 0.0482). This study showed lower mediastinal lymph node metastasis to be an independent survival factor, and also suggested that lower mediastinal lymph node metastasis was associated with distant metastasis in patients with adenocarcinoma in the GEJ (Siewert type II and III). Therefore, the preoperative early detection of such metastasis is important to improve patient survival."}
{"id": "22528672", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound staging in gastric cancer: Does it help management decisions in the era of neoadjuvant treatment?", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound staging in gastric cancer: Does it help management decisions in the era of neoadjuvant treatment? Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has been shown to be the most accurate test for locoregional staging of upper gastrointestinal tumors; however, recent studies have questioned its accuracy level in daily clinical application. The present retrospective study analyzes the accuracy of EUS in guiding interdisciplinary treatment decisions. 123 primarily operated patients (63 % men, mean age 61.4 years) were included; only cases with tumor-free resection margins and without evidence of distant metastases were selected. EUS and histopathological findings were compared. Main outcome parameter was the distinction between tumors to be primarily operated (T1 /2N0) and those to be treated by neoadjuvant or perioperative chemotherapy (T3/4, or any N + ), based on an assumed algorithm for treatment stratification. Overall staging accuracy of EUS was 44.7 % for T and 71.5 % for N status irrespective of tumor location. Overstaging was the main problem (44.9 % for T, 42.9 % for N staging). The overall EUS classification was correct in 79.7 % (accuracy), with a sensitivity 91.9 % and specificity 51.4 %; only 19 out of 37 cases with histopathological T1/2N0 were correctly classified by EUS. Positive and negative predictive values of EUS in diagnosing advanced tumor stage for assignment to neoadjuvant therapy were 81.4 % and 73.1 %, respectively. Whereas EUS has a high sensitivity in the diagnosis of locally advanced gastric cancer, endosonographic overstaging of T2 cancers appears to be a frequent problem. EUS stratification between local (T1 /2N0) and advanced (T3/4 or any N + ) tumors would thus result in incorrect assignment to neoadjuvant treatment in half of cases."}
{"id": "22514164", "title": "Synchrotron-radiation phase-contrast imaging of human stomach and gastric cancer: in vitro studies.", "content": "Synchrotron-radiation phase-contrast imaging of human stomach and gastric cancer: in vitro studies. The electron density resolution of synchrotron-radiation phase-contrast imaging (SR-PCI) is 1000 times higher than that of conventional X-ray absorption imaging in light elements, through which high-resolution X-ray imaging of biological soft tissue can be achieved. For biological soft tissue, SR-PCI can give better imaging contrast than conventional X-ray absorption imaging. In this study, human resected stomach and gastric cancer were investigated using in-line holography and diffraction enhanced imaging at beamline 4W1A of the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility. It was possible to depict gastric pits, measuring 50-70\u2005\u00b5m, gastric grooves and tiny blood vessels in the submucosa layer by SR-PCI. The fine structure of a cancerous ulcer was displayed clearly on imaging the mucosa. The delamination of the gastric wall and infiltration of cancer in the submucosa layer were also demonstrated on cross-sectional imaging. In conclusion, SR-PCI can demonstrate the subtle structures of stomach and gastric cancer that cannot be detected by conventional X-ray absorption imaging, which prompt the X-ray diagnosis of gastric disease to the level of the gastric pit, and has the potential to provide new methods for the imageology of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "22507517", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration as a diagnostic tool for gastric glomus tumours.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration as a diagnostic tool for gastric glomus tumours."}
{"id": "22465973", "title": "Unusually aggressive type 1 gastric carcinoid: a case report with a review of the literature.", "content": "Unusually aggressive type 1 gastric carcinoid: a case report with a review of the literature. Gastric carcinoids are rare tumors of the stomach. Gastric carcinoid type 1 is associated with chronic atrophic gastritis, and because of a low metastatic potential, is the most benign type. Death from metastatic disease has been reported in only three patients in a review including 724 cases. The present report refers to a 60-year-old man who was affected by type 2 diabetes mellitus and pernicious anemia and died from metastatic gastric carcinoid type 1. In 1998, a well-differentiated 1.2 cm gastric neuroendocrine tumor, immunoreactive for chromogranin A, with a Ki-67 index less than 2% and with infiltration to the submucosal layer was diagnosed and enucleated. In 2002, a new well-differentiated gastric endocrine tumor 6 mm in size with a Ki-67 of approximately 2% was detected, and endoscopic ultrasound confirmed it to be limited to the submucosal layer. The patient refused antrectomy and started long-acting somatostatin analog (lanreotide) in 2005 when the Ki-67 index was 7%, but he stopped the treatment after 4 months. In 2007, despite previous endoscopic stability, endoscopic ultrasound showed an infiltrating gastric lesion of 7 cm. At surgery, the disease appeared to be extended to the liver and to the peritoneum (well-differentiated endocrine carcinoma, Ki-67 40%) with both hepatic and massive peritoneal metastases. A regimen of somatostatin analog was soon restarted; however, the disease continued to spread, and the patient died 6 months later. Overall, despite their generally benign course, type 1 gastric carcinoids may have malignant potential, a finding that should be considered when planning the medical workup of these patients."}
{"id": "22434371", "title": "[S3 guideline - diagnosis and treatment of gastric carcinoma: relevance for radiologic imaging].", "content": "[S3 guideline - diagnosis and treatment of gastric carcinoma: relevance for radiologic imaging]. The new German S3 guideline regarding stomach cancer includes a variety of innovations with respect to the diagnosis and treatment of adenocarcinoma of the stomach and the esophagogastric junction. The guideline has been strongly supported by the \"oncology\" guidelines program consisting of the \"Deutsche Krebshilfe\" and the German Cancer Society and the AWMF (Dr. M. Follmann). This guideline contains evidence-based treatment recommendations and quality indicators for guideline implementation and evaluation in order to improve broad medical care and to facilitate development and subsequent adjustment. The purpose of this article is to introduce the innovations with regard to radiological diagnosis and to discuss the latest literature on the subject."}
{"id": "22407696", "title": "Imaging features of bone metastases in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors.", "content": "Imaging features of bone metastases in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors. To determine the prevalence and imaging features of bone metastases in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). The medical records of 190 patients with pathologically proven GISTs were reviewed, and patients with bone metastases were identified. Computed tomography (CT) scans of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis were examined for features of bone metastases, and findings were correlated with the results of positron-emission tomography (PET) and histopathology. Of 190 GIST patients, six (3.2%) had bone metastases: four patients had multiple bone metastases, and two patients had a solitary metastasis. The maximum diameter of the metastases ranged from 2 to 40 mm, and they most commonly involved the vertebrae, ribs, pelvic bones, and femurs. All lesions were well-marginated and lytic. A soft tissue component was identified in three patients. The bone metastases showed intense fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake. After treatment with imatinib mesylate in three patients, the bone metastases developed peripheral sclerosis on CT and became less FDG-avid on PET. All six primary tumors were morphologically high-grade with high mitotic rates and necrosis. Bone metastases from GISTs are uncommon; when detected with CT, they are characterized by single or multiple lytic lesions with or without soft tissue involvement. A sclerotic rim may appear around the metastatic lesions in response to treatment. Similar to the disease in other sites, bone metastases show intense FDG uptake, which decreases following treatment."}
{"id": "22403513", "title": "A tulip-shaped gastric carcinoid tumor.", "content": "A tulip-shaped gastric carcinoid tumor."}
{"id": "22370287", "title": "Suggested cutoff tumor size for management of small EUS-suspected gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors.", "content": "Suggested cutoff tumor size for management of small EUS-suspected gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Although the incidence of asymptomatic small gastric submucosal tumors increased gradually with routine medical health examination, there was little clinical evidence for management consensus in these small gastric submucosal tumors including endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-suspected gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). We investigated the clinical course of small EUS-suspected gastric GISTs and propose a cutoff value of tumor size for treatment policy. In this retrospective study, 50 patients with EUS-suspected gastric GISTs of sizes less than 3\u00a0cm were enrolled and were followed up by EUS at least twice over a period of more than 24 months (range 24-101 months). An at least 20% increase of the maximal diameter of the tumors was set as a significant change. Significant changes in tumor size were found during the follow-up in 14 patients (28.0%). The one-dimensional 20% change corresponded well to 50% change in two-dimensional area measurement (correlation coefficient\u00a0=\u00a00.929). The receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed that the best cutoff size, associated with tumor progression, was 1.4\u00a0cm having an 85.7% sensitivity, 86.1% specificity, and 86.0% accuracy. A larger tumor size (35.7% vs. 2.8%, p\u00a0=\u00a00.005) and irregular tumor margin on the EUS (71.4% vs. 0, p\u00a0=\u00a00.004) were two significant factors associated with the progression of tumor growth of small suspected gastric GISTs. Small EUS-suspected GISTs, larger than 1.4\u00a0cm, with irregular margin were associated with significant progression. This subgroup is suggested to be monitored by more intensive follow-up."}
{"id": "22370214", "title": "An unusual submucosal tumor of the stomach.", "content": "An unusual submucosal tumor of the stomach."}
{"id": "22356674", "title": "Correlation between magnifying narrow band imaging and histopathology in gastric protruding/or polypoid lesions: a pilot feasibility trial.", "content": "Correlation between magnifying narrow band imaging and histopathology in gastric protruding/or polypoid lesions: a pilot feasibility trial. Several study showed usefulness of microscopic capillaries, seen by magnifying narrow band imaging (NBI) endoscopy for predicting histopathology among superficial depressed or flat elevated gastric neoplasia (GN). Here we assessed the diagnostic efficacy of magnifying NBI for predicting histopathology among gastric protruding/or polypoid lesions. Using endoscopic pictures of magnifying NBI from 95 protruding/or polypoid lesions (19 fundic gland polyps: FGP, 47 hyperplastic polyps: HP, and 29 GN), fine mucosal patterns were classified into four categories: small round, prolonged, villous or ridge, and unclear patterns, and micro vascular patterns were classified into five categories: honey comb, dense vascular, fine net work, core vascular, and unclear patterns. Most suggestive micro vascular patterns for predicting FGP, and HP were honeycomb (sensitivity 94.7%, specificity 97.4%), and dense vascular patterns (sensitivity 93.6%, specificity 91.6%), respectively. Fine net work, core vascular, and unclear patterns presented higher specificity (97%, 100%, and 100%) for predicting GN, and diagnostic efficacy of combined of those patterns was favorable (sensitivity 86.2%, specificity 97.0%). Micro vascular patterns by using magnifying NBI provides meaningful information for predicting the histopathology of gastric protruding/or polypoid lesions."}
{"id": "22281109", "title": "Internal hypoechoic feature by EUS as a possible predictive marker for the enlargement potential of gastric GI stromal tumors.", "content": "Internal hypoechoic feature by EUS as a possible predictive marker for the enlargement potential of gastric GI stromal tumors. There is no clinical predictor for the enlargement potential of gastric GI stromal tumors (GISTs) during the follow-up observation period. The aim of our study was to identify predictive markers for the enlargement potential of gastric GISTs on the basis of various endosonographic features determined at the initial examination. Single-center retrospective analysis. Academic university hospital in Japan. All patients (n = 74) with histologically diagnosed GISTs in the stomach underwent EUS. EUS. We analyzed the following endoscopic and EUS features: mucosal ulceration, irregular shape, irregular border, heterogeneity, internal hyperechoic spot, hypoechoic area, and anechoic area of gastric GISTs in 3 groups according to tumor size. Furthermore, we compared the characteristics between increased growth and unchanged growth of GISTs, that were defined on the basis of the novel tumor growth index: changes in tumor volume/follow-up interval (days between initial EUS and second EUS) (mm(3)/day). The presence of heterogeneity (P = .016) and anechoic area (P = .003) was significantly highest in the group with the largest tumor size. The increased growth group had a higher presence of hypoechoic area than did the unchanged growth group (84.2% vs 51.9%, P = .023). Multivariate analysis showed that the presence of a hypoechoic area was an enlargement-associated factor (odds ratio 5.38; 95% confidence interval 1.19-24.39; P = .029). Retrospective design of the study. The internal hypoechoic area determined by EUS may be a predictor for the enlargement potential of gastric GISTs."}
{"id": "22269290", "title": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for undifferentiated early gastric cancer as the expanded indication lesion.", "content": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for undifferentiated early gastric cancer as the expanded indication lesion. Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) has become the standard endoscopic treatment for early gastric cancer without lymph node metastasis. At present, undifferentiated type intramucosal cancers without ulcer findings <20 mm in size are often chosen as endoscopic treatment lesions for expanded indication. The purpose of this study was to examine the outcome of ESD treatment in undifferentiated carcinomas. Forty-six patients who had undergone ESD from July 2002 until July 2010, where the final pathological diagnosis was undifferentiated carcinoma, were assessed for the en-bloc resection ratio, the accuracy rate of depth or extent of diagnosis and survival. In endoscopic ultrasonography studies, the accuracy rate of mucosal lesions was 86%. The rate of en-bloc resection was 91% (42/46) and 5 cases had a positive margin. Four cases had a positive margin in cases of piecemeal resection. Five cases underwent additional surgery, and residual cancer was found in 1 case. There were 2 cases of perforation, 2 of delayed hemorrhage, and no cases of delayed perforation. One case died of multiple liver metastases and 1 died of hepatocellular carcinoma. After a maximum of 8 years, an average of 3.8 years of observation, including 7 cases who had undergone additional surgery, recurrence occurred in only 1 case of liver metastasis. In this study the lesions of undifferentiated adenocarcinoma, which were limited to the mucosa, <20 mm in diameter and had been completely resected, showed no recurrence and were indicated for endoscopic treatment."}
{"id": "22237654", "title": "A systematic review and meta-analysis of the utility of EUS for preoperative staging for gastric cancer.", "content": "A systematic review and meta-analysis of the utility of EUS for preoperative staging for gastric cancer. Accurate preoperative staging is important in determining the appropriate treatment of gastric cancer. Recently, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has been introduced as a staging modality. However, reported test characteristics for EUS in gastric cancer vary. Our purpose in this study was to identify, synthesize, and evaluate findings from all articles on the performance of EUS in the preoperative staging of gastric cancer. Electronic literature searches were conducted using Medline, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials from 1 January 1998 to 1 December 2009. All search titles and abstracts were independently rated for relevance by a minimum of two reviewers. Meta-analysis for the performance of EUS was analyzed by calculating agreement (Kappa statistic), and pooled estimates of accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity for all EUS examinations, using histopathology as the reference standard. Subgroup analyses were also performed. Twenty-two articles met our inclusion criteria and were included in the review. EUS pooled accuracy for T staging was 75% with a moderate Kappa (0.52). EUS was most accurate for T3 disease, followed by T4, T1, and T2. EUS pooled accuracy for N staging was 64%, sensitivity was 74%, and specificity was 80%. There was significant heterogeneity between the included studies. Subgroup analyses found that annual EUS volume was not associated with EUS T and N staging accuracy (P = 0.836, 0.99, respectively). EUS is a moderately accurate technique that seems to describe advanced T stage (T3 and T4) better than N or less advanced T stage. Stratifying by EUS annual volume did not affect EUS performance in staging gastric cancer."}
{"id": "22214545", "title": "Endoscopic submucosal enucleation of small gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors with cross-shaped incision: report of sixty-nine cases.", "content": "Endoscopic submucosal enucleation of small gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors with cross-shaped incision: report of sixty-nine cases. Gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gastric GISTs) are the most common gastric submucosal tumors with potential for malignant transformation. Our aim was to assess the efficacy and safety of ESE for gastric GISTs. Small gastric GISTs were dealt with ESE between May 2007 and October 2010. A total of 69 patients (42 men, 27 women; mean age 47.28\u00b110.10 years) were treated. The mean diameter of the specimens was 1.87\u00b10.57cm (range 0.7-3.0cm). The rates of intra-operative bleeding, delayed bleeding, perforation and surgery related complications were 7.25% (5/69), 1.45% (1/69), 33.33% (23/69) and 5.80% (4/69), respectively. The rate of perforation was 43.2% (19/44) at the fundus of the stomach and 16% (4/25) at the body (p=0.02). The mean time of the procedure was 41.07\u00b110.79 minutes. Nineteen patients with perforation were treated by titanium clips and the rest by laparoscopy. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the positive rates of CD117 and CD34 were 88.41% and 68.12%, respectively. The gastric GISTs were all at low risk. At a mean follow-up period of 17.97\u00b110.75 months (range 1 to 40 months) all of the patients were disease free. ESE with a cross-shaped incision is possibly a very good choice for small gastric GISTs."}
{"id": "22203456", "title": "Proposed indications for limited resection of early ampulla of Vater carcinoma: clinico-histopathological criteria to confirm cure.", "content": "Proposed indications for limited resection of early ampulla of Vater carcinoma: clinico-histopathological criteria to confirm cure. Limited resection is reserved for patients with high operative risk or benign adenomas. We aimed to define indications for limited resection of early ampulla of Vater carcinoma with curative intent through detailed preoperative examinations and histopathological evaluations. We performed a retrospective cohort study of all consecutive Japanese patients who underwent resection for ampulla of Vater neoplasms at our hospital from 1986 to 2010. A total of 75 patients were identified. Moderately/poorly differentiated histology, lympho-vascular/perineural invasion, and duodenal/pancreatic invasion were significant risk factors for lymph node metastases. Macroscopically, non-exposed protruded- or ulcerative-type disease did not correlate directly with lymph node metastases; however, these tumor types were associated with other invasive features. In a subset of early carcinomas fulfilling the conditions of exposed protruded adenoma or papillary/well-differentiated adenocarcinoma determined by endoscopic biopsy, negative duodenal invasion determined by endoscopic ultrasonography, no tumor infiltration into the pancreatic duct determined by intraductal ultrasound, and diameter of the pancreatic duct \u22643\u00a0mm determined by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (N\u00a0=\u00a011), the incidence of lymph node metastasis and tumor infiltration into the pancreatic duct was 0%. Strictly selected patients with early ampulla of Vater carcinomas may benefit from limited resection if the resected specimen is evaluated to confirm all histopathological criteria."}
{"id": "22155849", "title": "Comparison of multidetector CT and endoscopic ultrasonography in malignant pancreatic mass lesions.", "content": "Comparison of multidetector CT and endoscopic ultrasonography in malignant pancreatic mass lesions. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has been shown to be superior to conventional CT in detecting and staging pancreatic cancer. We conducted a prospective trial to compare EUS and MDCT, in discriminating benign/malignant, in determining local and vascular invasion of a suspected pancreatic cancer and deciding its resectability. The study was performed at the Gastroenterology Department of Izmir Ataturk Training and Research Hospital, from June 2009 to June 2010, all patients with suspected pancreatic and periampullary tumors referred to our department were enrolled. A total of 56 patients were evaluated at the beginning. Five patients having distal CBD tumor (n=2), gallbladder tumor (n=1) and papillary tumor (n=2) were excluded from the study. Analysis was done for the remaining 51 patients. For the diagnosis of resectability/unresectability, EUS alone demonstrated a definite role in 4 (9%) of the 43 patients in confirming surgical and pathologic results and MDCT alone demonstrated a definite role in 6 (14%) of the 43 patients in confirming their results. An accurate diagnostic decision regarding resectability/unresectability was accomplished in 27 (63%) patients with EUS and MDCT. While MDCT is clinically quite effective, in terms of a correct resectability/unresectability decision, EUS should also be used."}
{"id": "22149585", "title": "Pancreatic cancer: an endoscopic perspective.", "content": "Pancreatic cancer: an endoscopic perspective. Pancreatic cancer continues to be a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. The advent of endoscopic ultrasound-guided interventions have brought about a paradigm shift in the endoscopic approach to diagnosis, treatment and palliation of this common malignancy. The last decade has witnessed significant advances in techniques of endoscopic biliary drainage, endoluminal stenting, celiac plexus neurolysis and image-guided radiation therapy, which have transformed the scope of palliation in pancreatic cancer. Moreover, endoscopic ultrasound-aided intratumoral delivery of fiducials, radioisotopes and chemotherapeutic agents have shown promising results and warrant further investigation. This review summarizes the recent advances in endoscopic applications for the management of pancreatic neoplasms."}
{"id": "22113210", "title": "Changes in diagnostic and treatment strategies of oesophageal cancer in the period from 2001 to 2009: a survey in the Netherlands.", "content": "Changes in diagnostic and treatment strategies of oesophageal cancer in the period from 2001 to 2009: a survey in the Netherlands. In 2005, national guidelines on the diagnosis, staging and treatment of oesophageal cancer were published. We investigated whether staging and treatment strategies of oesophageal cancer had changed over the last decade and indeed followed these guidelines. In 2001, a questionnaire investigating staging and treatment strategies for oesophageal cancer was sent to Dutch clinicians (response rate 64%). In 2009, the same questionnaire (response rate 41%) was repeated, thus enabling comparison of staging and treatment strategies for oesophageal cancer between 2001 and 2009 and comparing this with the nationwide guidelines of 2005. The advice to use endoscopic ultrasound for staging was followed by the majority of clinicians [84% in 2009 compared with 58% in 2001 (P<0.001)], whereas positron emission tomography scanning was used by almost half of clinicians (44% in 2009, not asked in 2001). There was a strong support for the use of neoadjuvant chemoradiation in 2009 (68% preferred this treatment for a young patient in good condition without metastases), whereas the Dutch guidelines did not recommend routine use of neoadjuvant treatment in 2005. Stent placement for palliation of dysphagia was reduced [from 92% in 2001 to 27% in 2009 (P<0.001)] due to an increased use of other palliative measures, including brachytherapy. An increased use of chemotherapy (19%) or chemoradiation (39%) was noticed in younger patients (<55 years) with metastatic disease. Major changes in staging and treatment strategies were observed in patients with oesophageal cancer over the last decade. Although these changes in staging strategies were in concordance to the guidelines introduced in 2005, treatment strategies with curative intent were more often diverse in 2009 and not following guidelines. This suggests that in a rapidly evolving field as oncology, guideline recommendations on treatment should be updated frequently to reflect state-of-the-art knowledge with implementation of results of clinical studies."}
{"id": "22098836", "title": "Endoscopic mucosal resection, endoscopic submucosal dissection, and beyond: full-layer resection for gastric cancer with nonexposure technique (CLEAN-NET).", "content": "Endoscopic mucosal resection, endoscopic submucosal dissection, and beyond: full-layer resection for gastric cancer with nonexposure technique (CLEAN-NET). Mucosal cancer in the gastrointestinal tract generally has low risk of lymph node metastasis. Endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) and endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) are techniques of local excision of neoplasia confined to the mucosal layer. Specimens from EMR/ESD contribute to several diagnoses, and histologic results affect treatment decisions. A combined laparoscopic and endoscopic approach to neoplasia with a nonexposure technique allows full-thickness resection of the stomach wall without exposing the gastric lumen to the peritoneal cavity, preventing cancer cell dissemination to the peritoneal cavity. This article reviews EMR/ESD and describes a new full-thickness resection method using the nonexposure technique (CLEAN-NET)."}
{"id": "22098828", "title": "Gastric cancer: endoscopic diagnosis and staging.", "content": "Gastric cancer: endoscopic diagnosis and staging. Gastric cancer is common and is a cause of severe morbidity and mortality. Early diagnosis can improve the chances of cure and prolong survival because prognosis is inversely related to the disease stage. Endoscopy plays an important role in diagnosis. Emerging adjunct technologies such as image-enhanced endoscopy and magnification endoscopy aid in early cancer detection. Endoscopic ultrasonography is an additional useful tool for preoperative staging. Endoscopy for screening, except for high-risk patients, and outside areas of high prevalence, remains controversial."}
{"id": "22087794", "title": "Gastric neuroendocrine carcinoma after long-term use of proton pump inhibitor.", "content": "Gastric neuroendocrine carcinoma after long-term use of proton pump inhibitor. We present a case of a gastric neuroendocrine carcinoma in a patient with a history of long-term proton pump inhibitor (PPI) use. A 49-year-old man using PPI for the last 15 years due to gastroesophageal reflux disease developed progressive dysphagia, dyspepsia and weight loss. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasonography and abdominal CT diagnosed a malignant tumor localized to a hiatal hernia. Fasting serum chromogranin A and gastrin concentrations were elevated (32 nmol/l and 159 pmol/l, respectively). Helicobacter pylori PCR analysis of antral biopsies was negative. Biopsies from endoscopically normal oxyntic mucosa showed enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cell hyperplasia. Tumor biopsies revealed a poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma. Sevier-Munger staining, immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy indicated ECL cell as origin of the tumor cells. Concerns have previously been raised about the safety of long-term PPI use due to a possible increased risk of cancer. This case illustrates a patient with a poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma with ECL cell characteristics probably induced by hypergastrinemia secondary to long-term PPI use."}
{"id": "22083418", "title": "A case of lymph node metastasis following a curative endoscopic submucosal dissection of an early gastric cancer.", "content": "A case of lymph node metastasis following a curative endoscopic submucosal dissection of an early gastric cancer. Currently in Japan, differentiated gastric submucosal invasive cancers <500\u00a0\u03bcm (SM1) with negative lymphovascular involvement are included in expanded pathological criteria for curative endoscopic treatment. This is based on a retrospective examination of surgical resection cases in which patients suitable for such expanded criteria were determined to have a negligible risk of lymph node metastasis. We performed endoscopic submucosal dissection on a 65-year-old male with early gastric cancer in April 2005, and pathology revealed a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma, 21\u00a0\u00d7\u00a010\u00a0mm in size, SM1 invasion depth and negative lymphovascular invasion as well as tumor-free margins, so the case was diagnosed as a curative resection. This case, however, resulted in lymph node metastasis that was diagnosed by endoscopic ultrasonography with fine-needle aspiration biopsy in May 2009. Distal gastrectomy with D2 lymph node dissection was then performed, confirming lymph node metastasis from the original gastric cancer."}
{"id": "22081010", "title": "Duodenal gangliocytic paraganglioma with lymph node metastasis and an 8-year follow-up: a case report.", "content": "Duodenal gangliocytic paraganglioma with lymph node metastasis and an 8-year follow-up: a case report. Gangliocytic paraganglioma (GP) is a rare tumor, usually located in the second part of the duodenum. On pathological examination, GP is characterized by the association of the histological features of paragangliomas, ganglioneuromas, and carcinoid tumors. Classical clinical presentations are upper gastrointestinal bleeding and abdominal pain. Preoperative diagnosis is difficult because of the submucosal site of the tumor, with usually negative mucosal biopsies. Endoscopic ultrasound helps establish the diagnosis and allows lymph node staging, which will guide the choice of the treatment. If GPs usually follow a benign course, metastatic spread to regional lymph nodes treated by surgical resection alone has been reported. We report a case of GP with lymph node metastases treated by duodenopancreatectomy with long-term disease-free survival, suggesting that surgical resection is a reasonable approach for metastatic GPs."}
{"id": "22032850", "title": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for treatment of gastric subepithelial tumors (with video).", "content": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for treatment of gastric subepithelial tumors (with video). Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is a well-accepted method for removing superficial mucosal tumors; however, there is limited data on the use of this method for removing subepithelial tumors. To investigate the efficacy, safety, and outcome of ESD for gastric subepithelial tumors and determine factors related to treatment success. Retrospective analysis of a prospectively maintained database. Single tertiary academic center. From April 2007 to November 2010, 37 patients with gastric subepithelial tumors were treated with ESD. Macroscopically and microscopically complete en block resection rate (R0), complication rate, and endosonographic features predictive of R0 resection. The median tumor diameter was 25.0 mm, (range 10-60 mm, IQR 17-37). The overall rate of R0 resections was 81.1% (30/37, 95%CI: 61.8-90.2%), including 100% (15/15, 95%CI: 78.2-100.0%) of tumors from the submucosa and 68.2% (15/22, 95%CI: 45.1-86.1%) of tumors from the muscularis propria. Seventeen patients had a final diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumor. The severe complication (perforation) rate was 5.4% (2/37, 95%CI: 0.0-9.5%). One patient required surgery; the other was treated conservatively. No recurrence was observed in patients with R0 resections at a median follow up of 21.0 months (IQR 11-35). Successful R0 resections were predicted by the observation of no, or only narrow, tumor connections with the underlying muscle layer during EUS (OR=35.0, 95%CI: 3.7-334.4, p=0.001). Single-center, retrospective analysis, short follow-up. ESD is an effective and relatively safe method for removing gastric subepithelial tumors. Endoscopic ultrasonography findings can predict complete tumor resections."}
{"id": "22023087", "title": "Improving the quality of pretreatment staging in patients with esophageal carcinoma - a fast track study.", "content": "Improving the quality of pretreatment staging in patients with esophageal carcinoma - a fast track study. Current guidelines for esophageal cancer recommend series of diagnostic investigations to determine pretreatment TNM stage. When investigations are done sequentially, diagnostic work-up time may be prolonged considerably. Aim of the study was to determine the feasibility and efficacy of a fast track staging strategy within five days after the first consultation. Between 2007 and 2010 all patients presenting with esophageal cancer at the Department of Gastroenterology in a tertiary referral center were prospectively analyzed. At Day 1 all patients underwent computed tomography (CT), endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and ultrasonography of the neck (US). Results and treatment implications were discussed within a multidisciplinary meeting. This fast track strategy was considered completed successfully if pre-treatment TNM classification was achieved and therapy was proposed to the patient at the outpatient clinic at Day five. In those cases where staging period time was prolonged, the number and type of additional tests were documented including the ensuing time delay. In 111 patients CT, EUS and US were performed in 100%, 88.3% and 97.3% respectively. A final TNM stage and treatment proposal was reached at Day 5 in 60% of the patients. Additional tests were diverse and mainly used to prove local irresectabilty or presence of distant metastasis. Multivariate analysis identified presence of lymphadenopathy (HR 0.25 p = 0.03) and metastasis (HR 0.27 p = 0.03) as significant predictors of not completing the staging period within five days. In 18% of patients overuse of at least one test occurred, most commonly because CT already revealed distant metastasis. Employment of a fast track five day staging strategy in patients with esophageal carcinoma is feasible. Definite TNM stage and treatment proposal can be achieved in 60% of cases, but comes at the expense of test overuse in about one fifth of patients."}
{"id": "21890816", "title": "Long-term clinical outcome of gastric MALT lymphoma after eradication of Helicobacter pylori: a multicentre cohort follow-up study of 420 patients in Japan.", "content": "Long-term clinical outcome of gastric MALT lymphoma after eradication of Helicobacter pylori: a multicentre cohort follow-up study of 420 patients in Japan. A multicentre cohort follow-up study of a large number of patients with gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma was conducted to elucidate the long-term outcome of the disease after Helicobacter pylori eradication. 420 patients with gastric low-grade MALT lymphoma who had undergone successful H pylori eradication and been followed up for at least 3 years were registered from 21 participating institutes. Responders to treatment were defined as patients whose post-treatment biopsies showed complete histological response (ChR) or probable minimal residual disease (pMRD). Treatment failure was defined as the status of progressive disease or lymphoma relapse after ChR/pMRD. 323 patients (77%) responded to H pylori eradication. A logistic regression analysis showed that absence of H pylori, submucosal invasion determined by endoscopic ultrasonography and t(11;18)/API2-MALT1 were independent predictors of resistance to H pylori eradication. During the follow-up periods ranging from 3.0 to 14.6 years (mean 6.5 years, median 6.04 years), the disease relapsed in 10 of 323 responders (3.1%) while progressive disease was found in 27 of 97 non-responders (27%). Thus, 37 of 420 patients (8.8%) were regarded as treatment failures. Of these 37 patients, transformation into diffuse large B cell lymphoma occurred in nine patients. Among the non-responders and relapsed patients, 17 patients were subjected to a 'watch and wait' strategy while 90 patients underwent second-line treatments including radiotherapy (n=49), chemotherapy (n=26), surgical resection (n=6), chemoradiotherapy (n=5), antibiotic treatment (n=2), rituximab monotherapy (n=1) or endoscopic resection (n=1). Probabilities of freedom from treatment failure, overall survival and event-free survival after 10 years were 90%, 95% and 86%, respectively. Cox multivariate analysis revealed endoscopic non-superficial type to be an independent prognostic factor for adverse freedom from treatment failure, overall survival and event-free survival. The excellent long-term outcome of gastric MALT lymphoma after H pylori eradication was confirmed by this large-scale follow-up study."}
{"id": "21842399", "title": "Esophageal cancer characterization with pneumo-64-MDCT.", "content": "Esophageal cancer characterization with pneumo-64-MDCT. Early diagnosis and accurate staging of esophageal cancer are both essential for therapeutic strategy planning. Endoscopic ultrasound, CT, and positron emission tomography have all been used in the preoperative staging of esophageal cancer separately or in various combinations. Each imaging method has its strengths and weaknesses. Depiction of the tumor's anatomic location conditions the surgical strategy. Endoscopic ultrasound and PET have important advantages but neither provides information for surgical planning. CT scans have some limitations for hollow organ assessment in the absence of lumen distension, since the organ wall may be collapsed. Therefore, optimal esophageal distension could be very useful to overcome these limitations. This potential drawback is crucial at the level of the GE junction, a typically difficult region to evaluate. In order to optimize tumor visualization in the esophageal wall and in the GE junction, we developed a technique named pneumo-64-MDCT. We achieve maximum lumen distension, which better highlights the thickened areas in relation to the normal esophageal wall. At the present time, we have performed 200 studies with this technique and it proved useful, safe and accurate to identify esophageal wall thickening and to stage esophageal cancer. The additional stomach distension led to an adequate definition of both the upper and lower borders of the lesion in tumors located in the GE junction, which in turn was helpful to design the surgical approach."}
{"id": "21837458", "title": "How useful is preoperative imaging for tumor, node, metastasis (TNM) staging of gastric cancer? A meta-analysis.", "content": "How useful is preoperative imaging for tumor, node, metastasis (TNM) staging of gastric cancer? A meta-analysis. Surgery is the fundamental curative option for gastric cancer patients. Imaging scans are routinely prescribed in an attempt to stage the disease prior to surgery. Consequently, the correlation between radiology exams and pathology is crucial for appropriate treatment planning. Systematic searches were conducted using Medline, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials from January 1, 1998 to December 1, 2009. We calculated the accuracy, overstaging rate, understaging rate, Kappa statistic, sensitivity, and specificity for abdominal ultrasound (AUS), computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and positron emission tomography (PET) with respect to the gold standard (pathology). We also compared the performance of CT by detector number and image type. A meta-analysis was performed. For pre-operative T staging MRI scans had better performance accuracy than CT and AUS; CT scanners using \u2265 4 detectors and multi-planar reformatted (MPR) images had higher staging performances than scanners with <4 detectors and axial images only. For pre-operative N staging PET had the lowest sensitivity, but the highest specificity among modalities; CT performance did not significantly differ by detector number or addition of MPR images. For pre-operative M staging performance did not significantly differ by modality, detector number, or MPR images. The agreement between pre-operative TNM staging by imaging scans and post-operative staging by pathology is not perfect and may affect treatment decisions. Operator dependence and heterogeneity of data may account for the variations in staging performance. Physicians should consider this discrepancy when creating their treatment plans."}
{"id": "21104163", "title": "Extraparietal or lymphatic late relapse of neoplasms: confirmation by means of EUS-FNA key for the treatment.", "content": "Extraparietal or lymphatic late relapse of neoplasms: confirmation by means of EUS-FNA key for the treatment. After treatment intended to cure systemic neoplasms, a series of monitoring strategies are followed. To analyse our experience in confirming the cases of lymphatic or extraparietal relapse in areas accessible to endoscopic ultrasonography plus fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) in long-term monitoring (>1 year of treatment for the primary neoplasm) and define what implications have been derived with regards histopathological confirmation in relation to treatment. Retrospective analysis was made of all EUS-FNA carried out in our Endoscopy Unit during the period from 1/07/2007 to 28/02/2010 by means of searches in the Endobase (Olympus) database. Medical records of patients and drug therapy were reviewed in order to check the chemotherapy used in each case. From a total of 154 EUS-FNA carried out in our service, we have detected histopathological confirmation of malignancy in primary neoplasm treated with initial curative intention at least 1 year before. Locations were: esophageal extraparietal involvement of a squamous cell carcinoma (one patient), perirectal adenopathy of rectal adenocarcinoma (one patient), multiple lymphatic relapse of melanoma (two patients), perigastric adenopathy relapse of gastric adenocarcinoma (one patient), pancreatic head mass secondary to initial breast ductal carcinoma (one patient). In all cases, this fact has involved a directed treatment: surgery (one patient), radiotherapy (one patient), chemotherapy (four patients). Confirmation by means of EUS-FNA of late relapse in any section of the digestive tract allowed a treatment to be carried out by surgery, radiotherapy, or chemotherapy."}
{"id": "22194049", "title": "Intra- and interobserver agreement of endoscopic sonoelastography in the evaluation of lymph nodes.", "content": "Intra- and interobserver agreement of endoscopic sonoelastography in the evaluation of lymph nodes. There is a lack of studies on the intra- and interobserver variability of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and especially endoscopic sonoelastography (ES). The aim of this study was to evaluate the intra- and interobserver agreement of EUS and ES during the evaluation of a specific lymph node in patients with upper gastrointestinal malignancies (UGIM). The ES strain ratio was used to differentiate between benign and malignant lymph nodes and the interobserver agreement was evaluated. This study prospectively enrolled 62 patients with UGIM. EUS and ES were performed by two observers in randomized order of a specific lymph node using a linear Pentax echoendoscope and the Hitachi EUB-8500 US unit. The lymph node was classified as malignant or benign on the basis of EUS, ES, an ES scoring system, and 5 repeated strain ratio measurements. The intraobserver variation was evaluated by each observer performing 20 strain ratio measurements of the same lymph node. Finally, EUS fine needle aspiration was performed. The kappa statistic was used to test for interobserver variability. One patient was excluded due to inadequate ES imaging. Thus, 61 patients were included in the analysis of the interobserver agreement. Using EUS, ES, and an ES scoring system, the kappa values were 0.80, 0.58, and 0.35, respectively. An ES strain ratio of 3.81 was defined as the cut-off value between benign and malignant lymph nodes using cytology as the gold standard (n = 55). Using this modality, a kappa value of 0.59 was obtained. A t-test comparison of the measured strain ratios for the two observers found no significant differences. ES and ES strain ratio evaluation of lymph nodes were feasible and may be reproduced with good interobserver agreement in a blinded clinical setup. The predefined ES scoring system provided only poor interobserver agreement. Image selection should be part of the intra- and interobserver evaluation. ES strain ratio seemed promising but larger studies are needed to evaluate this new feature."}
{"id": "22166314", "title": "Epidemiology, surgical management and early postoperative outcome in a cohort of gastric cancer patients of a tertiary referral center in relation to multi-center quality assurance studies.", "content": "Epidemiology, surgical management and early postoperative outcome in a cohort of gastric cancer patients of a tertiary referral center in relation to multi-center quality assurance studies. The aim of the study was to analyze epidemiologic parameters, treatment-related data and prognostic factors in the management of gastric cancer patients of a university surgical center under conditions of routine clinical care before the onset of the era of multimodal therapies. By analyzing our data in relation with multi-center quality assurance trials [German Gastric Cancer Study - GGCS (1992) and East German Gastric Cancer Study - EGGCS (2004)] we aimed at providing an instrument of internal quality control at our institution as well as a base for comparison with future analyses taking into account the implementation of evolving (multimodal) therapies and their influence on treatment results. Retrospective analysis of prospectively gathered data of gastric cancer patients treated at a single institution during a defined 10-year time period with multivariate analysis of risk factors for early postoperative outcome. From 04/01/1993 through 03/31/2003, a total of 328 gastric cancer patients were treated. In comparison with the EGGCS cohort there was a larger proportion of patients with locally advanced and proximally located tumors. 272 patients (82.9%) underwent surgery with curative intent; in 88.4% of these an R0 resection was achieved (EGGCS/GGCS: 82.5%/71.5%). 68.2% of patients underwent preoperative endoluminal ultrasound (EUS) (EGGCS: 27.4%); the proportion of patients undergoing EUS increased over the study period. Diagnostic accuracy of EUS for T stage was 50.6% (EGGCS: 42.6%). 77.2% of operated patients with curative intent underwent gastrectomy (EGGCS/GGCS: 79.8%/71.1%). Anastomotic leaks at the esophagojejunostomy occurred slightly more frequently (8.8%) than in the EGGCS (5.9%) and GGCS (7.2%); however, postoperative morbidity (36.1%) and early postoperative mortality (5.3%) were not increased compared to the multi-center quality assurance study results (EGGCS morbidity, 45%); EGGCS/GGCS mortality, 8%/8.9%). D2 lymphadenectomy was performed in 72.6% of cases (EGGCS: 70.9%). Multivariate analysis revealed splenectomy as an independent risk factor for postoperative morbidity and ASA status 3 or 4 as an independent risk factor for early postoperative mortality. The rate of splenectomies performed during gastric cancer surgery decreased substantially during the study period. Preoperative diagnostics were able to accurately predict resectability in almost 90% of patients which is substantially more than the corresponding results of both the EGGCS and the GGCS. In the future, more wide-spread use of EUS will play an increasing role as stage-dependent differentiation of therapeutic concepts gains acceptance. However, diagnostic accuracy of EUS needs to be improved. Our early postoperative outcome data demonstrate that the quality standard of gastric cancer care established by the EGGCS is being fulfilled at our institution in spite of distinct characteristics placing our patients at higher surgical risk. Besides being a valuable instrument of internal quality control, our study provides a good base for comparison with ongoing analyses on future developments in gastric cancer therapy."}
{"id": "22166282", "title": "A prospective study on endoscopic ultrasonography criteria to guide management in upper GI submucosal tumors.", "content": "A prospective study on endoscopic ultrasonography criteria to guide management in upper GI submucosal tumors. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) can differentiate between impression and submucosal tumor (SMT) but it is not known whether EUS criteria can reliably guide management. The aim of this prospective study was to assess an approach to recommend removal versus follow-up investigation based on clinical and EUS criteria, with respect to the predictive values to recognize malignancy versus benign lesions. Over a 7-years time period, all patients referred for the EUS assessment of submucosal upper GI lesions were prospectively enrolled. Extraluminal impressions diagnosed with EUS were not further considered. If submucosal tumors seen with EUS were clearly symptomatic or one of several parameters (tumor size >3 cm, irregular margins, inhomogeneous echotexture and/or enlarged lymph nodes) were found, resection was recommended. The remaining cases were subjected to EUS follow-up. Of cases with 241 submucosal lesions, 65 had impressions and 176 had true submucosal lesions. Of the latter, 29 cases had non-neoplastic lesions (cysts, varices). In 59 cases, removal was deemed necessary due to clinical symptoms and suspicious findings in conventional endoscopy. These subjects underwent either surgical (originating layer, muscularis propria) or endoscopic resection (submucosal origin): 35.6% were malignant, more frequently in the surgical group (41.6% vs 20%). However, in 52.5% (n=31) of the 59 cases with no severe symptoms and true SMT, EUS suggested removal because of their additional criteria. Eighteen patients (12.2%) refused SMT removal and even regular EUS-based follow-up investigation. Clinical follow-up investigation by the family practitioner did not show frank malignancy in these cases (retransferal not registered). Follow-up investigation with EUS was recommended in 70 cases (mean follow-up period, 5 years; range, 1-7 years). The pattern remained unchanged in 67/70, and 2 of the 3 cases with changes underwent surgery for benign leiomyoma (patient refusal, n=1 with no change in the one-year follow-up MRI). An EUS strategy based on defined characteristics to remove SMT with no severe symptoms and suspicious finding in the conventional endoscopy shows a good adherence to the recommended approach and has a reasonable positive predictive value for malignancy (88%). Clinical symptoms alone or with endoscopic finding are frequently too vague to decide for a reasonable SMT resection. The chosen EUS criteria are valuable to: 1) achieve the primary resection of all potentially malignant SMT and 2) avoid to overlook them as shown by the results of the follow-up investigations with no detected malignant lesion."}
{"id": "22149569", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound guided fistulization between left intrahepatic duct and jejunum in a patient with Roux-en-Y anastomosis and jaundice.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound guided fistulization between left intrahepatic duct and jejunum in a patient with Roux-en-Y anastomosis and jaundice."}
{"id": "22147987", "title": "Lipomatous hemangiopericytoma of the stomach: a case report and a review of literature.", "content": "Lipomatous hemangiopericytoma of the stomach: a case report and a review of literature. Lipomatous hemangiopericytomas (LHPCs) are rare soft-tissue tumors that are histologically characterized by hemangiopericytomatous vasculature and the presence of mature adipocytes. We present the clinicopathological features of a case of gastric LHPC in a 56-year-old female, along with a literature review. Endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasound showed a submucosal tumor 0.8 cm across in the greatest dimension in the lesser curvature side of the gastric antrum. Grossly, the well-defined mass had a solid and tan-white cut surface admixed with myxoid regions and yellowish areas. Histological examination revealed a submucosal well-circumscribed lesion composed of cellular nodules with the classic appearance of an hemangiopericytoma admixed with clusters and lobules of mature adipocytes. The ill-defined tumor cells had weakly eosinophilic cytoplasm and contained spindled nuclei with occasional small nucleoli. Nuclei atypia and mitoses were absent, and no cellular atypia, necrosis or vascular invasion was observed. Immunohistochemistry showed that the tumor cells were diffusely positive for CD34, CD99, and vimentin and were focally reactive for bcl-2. This is the first known report of an LHPC in the stomach. The patient was followed for 12 mo without any evidence of metastasis or recurrence."}
{"id": "22088375", "title": "[Establishment of experimental angiogenic models with applications of quantitative digital image analysis].", "content": "[Establishment of experimental angiogenic models with applications of quantitative digital image analysis]. To establish experimental models for tumor neovascularization and to apply quantitative digital imaging analysis in the study. An endothelial tube formation model was established by human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). A vasculogenic mimicry model was established by SGC-7901 gastric cancer cell line. Fertilized eggs were used to establish a chorioallantoic membrane angiogenesis model. Using gene transfection experiment, IRX1 tumor suppressor gene was chosen as a therapeutic target. Image Pro Plus (IPP) analysis software was used for digital vascular images analysis with parameters including points, lines, angles and integral absorbance (IA) for the tubular formation or vasculogenic mimicry. Digital image analysis by IPP showed that HUVEC tubular formation was significantly inhibited in IRX1 transfectant, compared with controls. The tubular numbers in three groups were 12.80 +/- 3.83, 29.00 +/- 5.34 and 28.20 +/- 4.32 (P<0.01). The connection points of tubules in three groups were 13.20 +/- 2.59, 25.00 +/- 2.24 and 24.60 +/- 3.21 (P<0.01). The tubular lengths of three groups were (821.5 +/- 12.5), (930.9 +/- 13.5) and (948.4 +/- 18.1) microm (P=0.022). The IA values of PAS stain in three groups were 3606 +/- 363, 14 200 +/- 1251 and 15 043 +/- 1220 (P<0.01). In chick chorioallantoic membrane model, the angular numbers of tubules in three groups were 6.41 +/- 2.60, 10.27 +/- 2.65 and 9.18 +/- 1.99 (P<0.01). The endothelial tube formation model, vasculogenic mimicry model and chorioallantoic membrane angiogenesis model are useful for gene therapy and drug screening with targeting neoplastic vascularization. Professional image analysis software may greatly facilitate the quantitative analysis of tumor neovascularization."}
{"id": "22020704", "title": "Gastric and pancreatic metastases from pleomorphic lung carcinoma.", "content": "Gastric and pancreatic metastases from pleomorphic lung carcinoma."}
{"id": "21964895", "title": "[Gangliocytic paraganglioma--a rare differential diagnosis of a submucosal duodenal tumor].", "content": "[Gangliocytic paraganglioma--a rare differential diagnosis of a submucosal duodenal tumor]. We report on the case of a 36-year-old male patient who was found to have a submucosal duodenal tumour during the diagnostic work-up of gastrointestinal bleeding. After exclusion of other tumour manifestations complete endoscopic resection was performed. Histologically a gangliocytic paraganglioma was diagnosed, a very rare type of a duodenal neuroendocrine tumour. This case report discusses the epidemiology, diagnostic work-up and therapeutic options for this rare tumour type."}
{"id": "21963065", "title": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for treatment of esophageal submucosal tumors originating from the muscularis propria layer.", "content": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for treatment of esophageal submucosal tumors originating from the muscularis propria layer. The technique of endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD), which was developed for en bloc resection of large lesions in the stomach, has been widely accepted for the treatment of early gastric cancer. It is being used for muscularis propria tumors of the digestive tract and has produced positive therapeutic effects. To study the feasibility of ESD for the removal of esophageal muscularis propria tumors and to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ESD for this treatment. Single-center, retrospective study. University hospital. Thirty esophageal muscularis propria tumors from 28 patients were treated with ESD between December 2008 and December 2010. We defined esophageal muscularis propria tumors as esophageal submucosal tumors originating from the muscularis propria layer. ESD. Tumor characteristics, complications, en bloc resection rate, and local recurrence rate were evaluated. Among the 28 patients, 11 were women (39.3%). The median age was 49.32 years (range 22-62 years). Mean (\u00b1 SD) tumor size was 1.25 \u00b1 0.70 cm (range 0.5-3.0 cm). Except for 2 failed cases (one changed to surgery and the other changed to nylon ligation), 26 cases with 28 tumors (2 cases had 2 tumors) originating from the muscularis propria of the esophagus were successfully resected by ESD. The en bloc resection rate was 93.3% (28/30). The median ESD procedure time was 73.5 minutes (range 30-120 minutes). Perforation occurred in 2 cases during dissection of the lesion, which was closed with metal endoclips. Pneumothorax occurred after the treatment in both cases. Closed thoracic drainages were initiated, and the patients recovered quickly without surgery. Pathological examination confirmed 27 leiomyomas and 1 GI stromal tumor. The curative resection rate was 100% (28/28). There was no recurrence during a 3 to 27-month follow-up period. The limitation of the study was its retrospective design. ESD offers the promise of localized treatment of esophageal muscularis propria tumors with relatively few complications and low mortality. It makes the resection of whole lesions possible and provides precise histologic information."}
{"id": "21960102", "title": "[A case of a neuroendocrine carcinoma in the minor papilla].", "content": "[A case of a neuroendocrine carcinoma in the minor papilla]. Neuroendocrine tumors are usually found in the ileum, appendix, rectum, colon and stomach. Ampullary neuroendocrine tumor is extremely rare and only a few cases of neuroendocrine carcinoma of the minor papilla have been reported. The preoperative diagnosis is very challenging because either asymptomatic or manifests as nonspecific abdominal pain. The tumor is relatively small and located at the deep mucosa and submucosa. Endoscopy with deep biopsy, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and endoscopic ultrasonography are good diagnostic tools. The best therapeutic choice is surgery. We report an unusual case of a 55-year-old woman who underwent endoscopy as part of a regular health checkup and was diagnosed a neuroendocrine carcinoma in the minor papilla, which was successfully resected by pancreaticoduodenectomy. (Korean J Gastroenterol 2011;58:144-148)."}
{"id": "21946028", "title": "An update in endoscopic management of gastric cancer.", "content": "An update in endoscopic management of gastric cancer. Gastric cancer remains a prevalent disease with a 5-year mortality rate of less than 25%. This review focuses on the endoscopic detection, staging, and management of gastric adenocarcinoma. Confocal laser endomicroscopy and narrow band imaging have a 77-99.4% sensitivity for early cancer detection, a significant improvement when compared with white light endoscopy. Proper staging can be accomplished through endoscopic ultrasound and multidetector row-computed tomography, with accuracy as high as 90.1%. Endoscopic management of early gastric cancer is minimally invasive and can be preferable to surgery. In properly selected patients, endoscopic submucosal dissection has been found to have 100% 5-year survival. The recent advances in gastric cancer have greatly improved the care we can offer our patients in gastric oncology. The emerging technologies will hopefully continue to promote this trend."}
{"id": "21940574", "title": "Diagnosis of the invasion depth of gastric cancer using MDCT with virtual gastroscopy: comparison with staging with endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Diagnosis of the invasion depth of gastric cancer using MDCT with virtual gastroscopy: comparison with staging with endoscopic ultrasound. The objectives of this study were to retrospectively evaluate the lesion detection rate of gastric cancer using only virtual gastroscopy generated from MDCT images and the accuracy of invasion depth diagnosis (T staging) using virtual gastroscopy together with contrast-enhanced MDCT with multiplanar reconstruction (MPR) images (virtual gastroscopy with MPR), and to compare the diagnostic performance between virtual gastroscopy with MPR images and endoscopic ultrasound. The subjects consisted of 175 patients with a total of 186 endoscopically proven gastric cancer lesions. All patients underwent dynamic MDCT (arterial and venous phase) for preoperative staging and underwent surgery or endoscopic treatment. In 129 patients (135 lesions) who were also examined using endoscopic ultrasound, the T staging accuracy was also compared between the two modalities. Two endoscopists independently evaluated the lesion detection rate on virtual gastroscopy images alone and determined the T stage on virtual gastroscopy with MPR images. The T staging included the ability to differentiate T1a from T1b lesions. The overall lesion detection rate was 67.7% (126/186). The detection rates of T1a, T1b, and T2 or deeper were 37.8% (28/74), 75.0% (39/52), and 98.3% (59/60), respectively, showing statistically significant differences (p < 0.001). The T staging accuracies were 82.2% (111/135) using virtual gastroscopy with MPR images and 83.7% (113/135) using endoscopic ultrasound, showing no statistically significant difference (p = 0.850). The main causes of over- and understaging were an ulcer or ulcer scar and poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas, non-solid type, respectively. Virtual gastroscopy with MPR imaging is a useful modality in the T staging of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "21936722", "title": "EUS-guided fine needle aspiration and trucut needle biopsy for examination of rectal and perirectal lesions.", "content": "EUS-guided fine needle aspiration and trucut needle biopsy for examination of rectal and perirectal lesions. Few studies have assessed the diagnostic efficacy of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) and/or trucut biopsy (TCB) in patients with rectal and perirectal lesions. We aimed to evaluate the diagnostic utility of EUS-FNA and/or TCB in patients with rectal and perirectal lesions. We also assessed their influence on the management and clinical course of these patients. We performed EUS-FNA and/or TCB in 11 consecutive patients (4 men and 7 women, 33-69 years) with rectal and perirectal lesions for whom conventional diagnostic tools could not provide definitive diagnoses. Patients with definite intraluminal cancer were excluded. The 11 patients underwent 12 procedures, with 9 being EUS-FNA alone and 3 being EUS-FNA and TCB. Seven patients had rectal lesions and four had perirectal lesions. Initial EUS-FNA and/or TCB established a diagnosis of malignancy in five patients and of benign lesions in four. EUS-FNA plus TCB confirmed malignant lymphoma after diagnostic failure of initial EUS-FNA in one patient. In one other patient with suspicious secondary linitis plastica, EUS-FNA could not establish a definitive diagnosis. Correct diagnoses were obtained in 10 out of 11 patients who underwent EUS-FNA and/or TCB. EUS-FNA and/or TCB changed clinical courses, which included avoidance of unnecessary surgeries, having a chance of anal sphincter-saving surgeries, and timely administration of chemotherapy. No serious complications related to the use of EUS-FNA or TCB were evident. EUS-FNA and/or TCB are useful in the diagnostic evaluation of and appropriate therapeutic plan in patients with rectal and perirectal lesions."}
{"id": "21889136", "title": "Clinical impact of EUS-guided Trucut biopsy results on decision making for patients with gastric subepithelial tumors \u2265 2 cm in diameter.", "content": "Clinical impact of EUS-guided Trucut biopsy results on decision making for patients with gastric subepithelial tumors \u2265 2 cm in diameter. Preoperative pathologic diagnosis of a gastric subepithelial tumor (SET) may improve clinical decision making. However, the clinical impact of EUS-guided Trucut biopsy (EUS-TCB) data on decision making in patients with a gastric SET has not been assessed. To evaluate the impact of EUS-TCB information on the clinical management of patients with a gastric SET. Retrospective review of prospectively collected data. Tertiary referral center. Sixty-five patients with gastric SETs 2 cm or larger in diameter. EUS-TCB. The number of patients for whom treatment plans were changed because of EUS-TCB results. Nine SETs were not punctured by the TCB needle because of technical problems, and we were unable to obtain adequate subepithelial tissue from 19 SETs. Treatment plans were changed for 18 of 65 patients (27.7%). The changes were avoiding unnecessary resection (7 benign SETs \u2265 3 cm in diameter), scheduling for definitive treatment (6 GI stromal tumors and 1 carcinoid tumor), and modifying the surgical field (3 large GI stromal tumors and 1 carcinoma). When we assessed treatment plans relative to tumor location, we found that avoiding unnecessary resection was associated with the presence of cardiac SETs. Retrospective study with a small number of patients. EUS-TCB changed or influenced management decisions in 18 of 65 patients (27.7%) with gastric SETs. Patients could receive proper and tailored surgery, medical treatment, or surveillance according to size and location of SETs with EUS-TCB."}
{"id": "21862764", "title": "Extrapulmonary small cell carcinoma: a pictorial review.", "content": "Extrapulmonary small cell carcinoma: a pictorial review. Extrapulmonary small cell carcinoma (EPSCC) is a rare, aggressive neoplasm arising from virtually any organ. Numerous oncologic studies have addressed prognostic indicators and survival rates in EPSCC, however relatively little has been published regarding the imaging features and metastatic patterns of these uncommon tumors. This article provides a pictorial review of EPSCC in multiple organs, emphasizing the imaging appearance at presentation and the radiologic patterns of recurrence/metastasis. Although the appearance of EPSCC is often nonspecific, the typical presentation is large aggressive tumors that, similar to small cell carcinoma in the lung, often respond well to local therapy but tend to recur relentlessly at distant sites."}
{"id": "21839394", "title": "Lymph node metastases and prognosis in oesophageal carcinoma--a systematic review.", "content": "Lymph node metastases and prognosis in oesophageal carcinoma--a systematic review. Oesophageal cancer is the 7th most common cause of cancer-related death in the developed world and the incidence of oesophageal adenocarcinoma is now the fastest growing of any gastrointestinal cancer. Lymph node involvement is the single most important prognostic factor in oesophageal cancer. Imaging to determine the extent of lymph node involvement and plan treatment often requires a combination of modalities to avoid under-staging. The 7th edition of the staging system released by the International Union Against Cancer (IUCC) has stratified lymph node involvement according to the number of lymph nodes involved and redefined its groupings for location of metastatic lymph node involvement. This review discusses the prognostic and treatment implications of these modifications and explores micrometastatic lymph node involvement, capsular infiltration and lymph node ratio as possible additions to the staging system."}
{"id": "21833902", "title": "Diagnostic yield of a novel jumbo biopsy \"unroofing\" technique for tissue acquisition of gastric submucosal masses.", "content": "Diagnostic yield of a novel jumbo biopsy \"unroofing\" technique for tissue acquisition of gastric submucosal masses. Adequate tissue acquisition for the diagnosis of gastric submucosal masses (GSMs) has been challen ging for gastroenterologists. The use of standard biopsy forceps generally recovers non-diagnostic overlying mucosa. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) with fine-needle aspiration (FNA) provides a significant improvement, but is often still inadequate for diagnosis. The aim of the current study was to assess the efficacy of a novel jumbo biopsy unroofing technique (JUT) for tissue acquisition in GSM. This prospective study recruited patients who were referred for EUS for the evaluation of GSM between 2006 and 2009. All patients underwent EUS with FNA when feasible followed by JUT. The primary outcome was diagnostic yield of JUT. A total of 93 patients were enrolled, 72 of whom were included in the investigation; 16 patients were excluded with no evidence of a submucosal mass or extrinsic compression, and five patients were further excluded by pathology confirming mucosal lesions. Of the 72 jumbo biopsies 66 (92%) provided diagnostic tissue without significant complications and 42 (58%) had lesions amenable to FNA. Although 34 of the 42 lesions were deemed adequate at the time of on-site cytological evaluation, only 28 (67%) provided sufficient tissue for final diagnosis. More importantly, only 37/72 (52%) of all patients had lesions that required any further intervention. Utilization of JUT is safe and effective for diagnosis of GSM. The data suggest that the jumbo biopsy unroofing technique should be considered as an initial diagnostic strategy for GSMs found during upper endoscopy."}
{"id": "21830381", "title": "Ectopic gastric pancreatic cancer: report of a case.", "content": "Ectopic gastric pancreatic cancer: report of a case. It is very rare for ectopic pancreas to become cancerous. We herein report on a case of ectopic pancreatic cancer developed in the stomach. A neoplastic lesion was detected in the pyloric part in an upper GIS of a 76-year-old female, requiring biopsy, but because it was classified as Group I, it was observed temporarily. Following blood collection after approximately 2 years, the CA19-9 increased from 177.5 to 279.5, so a GIS was again performed. Although the pyloric part of the stomach became more stenosed than before, it was still considered Group I disease based on biopsy findings. When EUS was performed, the tumor appeared as a submucosal tumor, and was thus suspected as GIST. In an abdominal CT, a neoplastic lesion with a clear boundary was observed in the pylorus, as was an enlarged lymph node in the hepatoduodenal ligament. Therefore malignancy could not be ruled out, and a gastrectomy on the pylorus side, lymph node dissection (D2), and cholecystectomy were performed. The tumor was a submucosal tumor covered by a coherent mucosa. According to histopathological findings, it was diagnosed as ectopic pancreatic cancer developed in the ectopic pancreas (Heinrich type II), consisting of acinar tissue and capillary tubes. Thus ectopic pancreas should be considered in the differential diagnosis of gastric submucosal tumors. Regarding surgery for ectopic pancreas, it is considered necessary to establish a treatment policy by making an immediate pathological diagnosis with sufficient consideration of the possibility of malignancy."}
{"id": "21824594", "title": "Double contrast-enhanced ultrasonography for the preoperative evaluation of gastric cancer: a comparison to endoscopic ultrasonography with respect to histopathology.", "content": "Double contrast-enhanced ultrasonography for the preoperative evaluation of gastric cancer: a comparison to endoscopic ultrasonography with respect to histopathology. This study was designed to compare the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) with double contrast-enhanced ultrasound (DCUS) in the staging of gastric malignancies. DCUS is a transabdominal ultrasound technique using both intravenous and intraluminal contrast to enhance sonographic visualization. This retrospective study included 162 patients with biopsy-proven gastric cancer who underwent DCUS and EUS preoperatively with the ultrasound results compared with the pathologic findings of the resected specimens. The overall accuracy of DCUS and EUS for tumor (T) staging was 77.2% and 74.7%, respectively. Comparison of ultrasound techniques for T staging revealed that DCUS was superior to EUS only for a tumor depth of T3 (chi-square, P = .025). Lymph nodes were staged correctly with DCUS and EUS in 78.4% and 57.4% of cases, respectively (chi-square, P = .001). DCUS offers a noninvasive approach for the staging of gastric cancer. DCUS was comparable to EUS in tumor depth evaluation but offered an advantage in lymph node detection."}
{"id": "21818921", "title": "Gastric adenomyoma.", "content": "Gastric adenomyoma. Gastric adenomyoma is a rare, hamartomatous tumor localized most frequently in the gastric antrum. Review of the available literature shows only sporadic reports or smaller series. We presented a 72-year-old woman admitted due to epigastric pain with dyspeptic difficulties. Biochemical parameters and tumor markers were within the referential limits. Diagnostic procedures (upper endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasonography and computerized tomography) revealed an intramural tumor prominence with intact mucosa on the posterior wall of gastric antrum, not accessible for biopsy. Surgical treatment was performed with total extirpation of the tumor. Histopathological examination verified adenomyoma with focal low grade epithelial dysplasia. Cytologic immunophenotype was consistent with smooth muscle stromal and epithelial tumor (CK7 and CK20 ++ immunophenotype). Stromal component revealed low proliferative index (Ki-67 protein immunoexpression level 3%), and p53 less than 0.1% in both epithelial and stromal components. Following the operation, the patient remained in good condition. Uncertain malignant potential of the gastric adenomyoma in the presented case indicates that timely diagnostics with adequate surgical treatment is crucial for an adequate treatment."}
{"id": "21812356", "title": "[Gastric non-Hodgkin's lymphoma--clinical symptoms and diagnostic problems].", "content": "[Gastric non-Hodgkin's lymphoma--clinical symptoms and diagnostic problems]. Gastric lymphoma takes 70% of lymphomas in gastric tract. Lack of characteristic symptoms and histological changes makes these disease difficult to recognize. The aim of the study was to search for specific constellation of the symptoms due to validation of diagnostic standards. Retrospective analysis of clinical data for the group of 64 patients treated during 10 years in Hematology Department of Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin. Recognition of gastric lymphoma in 80% was based on gastrocopy and histopatology examination. Gastrectomy was useful in 14 cases. Classic Ultrasound Abdomen Examination confirmed changes in 40%. Epigastic pain was raported as the most common symptom (54 from 64 patients). Systemic symptom appears in 34/64 patients (usually the loss of the body mass). 1. Clinical symptoms of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in gastric localization are not specific. Epigastric pain, nausea and body mass lost are the symptoms the most often reported and physical symptoms do not reflect in systemic disease. 2. The standard of examination should consist of the transesophageal sonography (EUS) completed with multiple biopsy of gastric membrane and Hp tests."}
{"id": "21811283", "title": "Hemoclip-reinforced and EUS-assisted band ligation as an effective and safe technique to treat small GISTs in the gastric fundus.", "content": "Hemoclip-reinforced and EUS-assisted band ligation as an effective and safe technique to treat small GISTs in the gastric fundus."}
{"id": "21762901", "title": "Endoscopic histologic diagnosis of gastric GI submucosal tumors via the endoscopic submucosal dissection technique.", "content": "Endoscopic histologic diagnosis of gastric GI submucosal tumors via the endoscopic submucosal dissection technique."}
{"id": "21725509", "title": "Endosonographic tumor staging for treatment decision in resectable gastric cancer.", "content": "Endosonographic tumor staging for treatment decision in resectable gastric cancer. Neoadjuvant preoperative chemotherapy is the standard of care in locally advanced resectable gastric cancer. Therefore, accurate locoregional staging is essential for treatment decision. EUS is believed to be the most performant diagnostic method for locoregional staging. However, it is questionable, if results from centers of excellence can be maintained in clinical routine. We retrospectively analyzed the data of 62 resectable gastric cancers staged by EUS during routine clinical work-up. Preoperative variables (tumor size and site, histological differentiation) were compared with the postoperative pathology. 19 locally limited (T1-2, N0), and 43 locally advanced (T3-4, or N+ irrespective of T stage) were analyzed. The sensitivity of EUS for the detection of locally advanced disease was 93%, with a specificity of 78%. Even in daily routine practice, differentiation of locally limited and advanced disease with EUS can be performed with high sensitivity and good specificity. Therefore, EUS is an essential part of the diagnostic procedure in patients with gastric cancer."}
{"id": "21712035", "title": "Unusual cause of upper gastrointestinal bleeding.", "content": "Unusual cause of upper gastrointestinal bleeding."}
{"id": "21656454", "title": "[Diagnostics and treatment in functional pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours].", "content": "[Diagnostics and treatment in functional pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours]. Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (PNET) are rare entities with an annual incidence of\u2009<\u2009100,000. About 1\u200a-\u200a2\u200a% of pancreatic neoplasias are neuroendocrine tumours. About one third of these tumours secrete biologically active substances that lead to development of specific clinical syndromes. PNET may occur sporadically or in association with hereditary syndromes, such as multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1). Among the functional PNET, insulinomas and gastrinomas are the most common entities. In contrast, vasoactive intetinale peptide (VIP)-secreting tumours, glucagonomas, serotonin-secreting carcinoid tumors, and tumours with secretion of ectopic hormones, such as calcitonin, are extremely rare. Once diagnosis has been established on the basis of clinical and laboratory findings, localization of the source of pathologic hormone secretion is warranted. Imaging methods frequently used for localization of PNET comprise anatomical imaging modalities, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging, endoscopic ultrasound, selective arterial catheterization with hepatic venous sampling, DTPA-octreotid scintigraphy and DOTA-D-Phe(1)-Tyr(3)-octreotid positron emission tomography. Therapy is based on the specific tumour entity and the extent of the disease. In the majority of patients, even in the case of malignant disease, a surgical approach is warranted, eventually combined with a medical treatment."}
{"id": "21656305", "title": "[Neuroendocrine tumors of the duodenum and pancreas. Surgical strategy].", "content": "[Neuroendocrine tumors of the duodenum and pancreas. Surgical strategy]. The incidence of neuroendocrine tumors (NET) has increased worldwide by 3-5 times over the last decades. This is mainly based on the broad use of imaging modalities such as computed tomography (CT) and endoscopic approaches. As a consequence many duodenal and pancreatic tumors are detected in an early stage resulting in an improved prognosis of these patients. Besides the measurement of serum chromogranin A and 5-hydroxy indolic acid measured in 24\u00a0h urine collection, CT, endosonographic ultrasound (EUS) and endoscopy are important diagnostic tools. About 20% of all patients with pancreatic and duodenal NETs are diagnosed because of specific symptoms. More than 95% of diagnosed NETs are sporadic tumors. Whenever possible these patients should be treated by resection. Benign neuroendocrine duodenal tumors up to 1\u00a0cm in size can be removed endoscopically. The endoscopic resection of larger tumors should be performed surgically. The therapy of hereditary NETs of the duodenum and the pancreas should be decided after interdisciplinary discussion. However, even these patients seem to benefit from resection. In case of metastatic disease debulking surgery should be considered if more than 90% of the tumor mass can be resected. In patients with extensive liver metastases but resectable primary NET, liver transplantation is a reasonable option. There is no consensus about adjuvant or neoadjuvant treatment of duodenal or pancreatic NETs. The therapy with everolimus or sunitinib in advanced tumor stages has shown promising results. The administration of somatostatin analogues or antacids is appropriate for symptom reduction."}
{"id": "21654296", "title": "Surgical complications and the risk factors of totally laparoscopic distal gastrectomy.", "content": "Surgical complications and the risk factors of totally laparoscopic distal gastrectomy. It has not yet been elucidated whether there are specific complications associated with totally laparoscopic distal gastrectomy (TLDG). We evaluated the complications and the risk factors associated with TLDG. A retrospective analysis was performed on 138 consecutive patients who underwent TLDG. The clinical and operative data, which included the body mass index, respiratory function, hematological data, pathological data, and the experience of surgeon, were analyzed. Intraoperative and postoperative complications developed in 10 and 28 patients, respectively. A univariate analysis determined that the patient age, concurrent respiratory disease, and operation time were important risk factors. A multivariate analysis found no significant risk factors in this set, although the operation time was the most promising risk factor. The present data suggest that TLDG can be performed with acceptable perioperative complication rates, although a longer operation time may cause a higher frequency of postoperative complications."}
{"id": "21645682", "title": "In situ spectral imaging of marker proteins in gastric cancer with near-infrared and visible quantum dots probes.", "content": "In situ spectral imaging of marker proteins in gastric cancer with near-infrared and visible quantum dots probes. This study presents the investigation of bioconjugating ability of near-infrared (NIR) CdSeTe/ZnS quantum dots (QDs) (710 nm) and visible CdSe QDs (595 nm) in immunofluorescent staining for cancer biomarkers in gastric cancer tissues probed with the homemade Hadamard transform (HT) spectral imaging microscope and a commercial multispectral imaging system. The results show that imunostaining ability of NIR QDs probes is stronger than that of visible QDs when the two kinds of QDs are simultaneously used to probe the cancer biomarkers such as cytokeratin 20 (CK20) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) in gastric cancer tissues. Moreover, when the two QDs probes are used for immunostaining successively for the same target molecules, staining order has great influences on the final results due to their different conjugating ability to the marker proteins. The results imply that NIR QDs hold more promise for real-time imaging of tumor tissues due to its higher sensitivity and contrast. In addition, the results also demonstrate the potential of Hadamard transform spectral imaging as a useful tool in biomedical analysis and quantitative evaluation for tumor tissues."}
{"id": "21576898", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound for non-gastroenterologists: what you need to know.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound for non-gastroenterologists: what you need to know. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) combines the use of flexible fiberoptic endoscopes with high-resolution ultrasound technology. It is increasingly used for the evaluation, staging, and diagnosis of many luminal and extraluminal gastrointestinal (GI) cancers, as well as non-GI tract ailments, including the staging of lung cancer. In the past decade, EUS has become available on a wide scale, with an increasing number of indications. The technology has been shown to be comparable with and often more sensitive than computed tomography scan and magnetic resonance imaging in staging many malignancies. The use of fine-needle aspiration and ultrasound-guided injection also allows for accurate tissue diagnosis and therapy of GI ailments. Despite increasing availability and indications for EUS over the past decade, general internists may not be aware of EUS technology, when to order an EUS, and how to integrate the results of an EUS into their management decisions. This article will review the general indications for EUS referral, limitations, and role of EUS in the practice of general medicine."}
{"id": "21573731", "title": "Interobserver agreement on the endosonographic features of lymph nodes in aerodigestive malignancies.", "content": "Interobserver agreement on the endosonographic features of lymph nodes in aerodigestive malignancies. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is used to locally stage aerodigestive malignancies. Endosonographic features are used to predict malignant lymph nodes (MLN). Interobserver agreement on the endosonographic features of MLN has not been described. To evaluate the interobserver agreement among endosonographers on the EUS features of MLN in aerodigestive malignancies along with the specific feature used to make this distinction. A total of 760 procedures of suspected LN were reviewed. Cases were selected based on cytology-proven malignant or benign LN involvement by FNA with correspondent photodocumentation. Images of each LN were de-identified and distributed to three expert endosonographers. The experts recorded the LN's echogenicity (hypoechoic or other), shape (round or other), border (sharp or fuzzy) and subjective diagnosis (benign or malignant). The relationship between the endosonographers' subjective as well as the pathological diagnosis and LN's endosonographic features were analyzed using logistic regression analysis. Pair-wise comparison between endoscopist and interobserver agreement (kappa statistics) were performed. Images of 41 malignant and 35 benign LN were evaluated. There was fair agreement on shape, \u039a\u00a0=\u00a00.35 (95% CI 0.2-0.5), and moderate agreement on echogenicity and borders, \u039a\u00a0=\u00a00.46 (95% CI 0.31-0.61) and 0.43 (95% CI 0.27-0.58) respectively. The agreement on malignant LN was good, \u039a\u00a0=\u00a00.65 (95% CI 0.5-0.8). The overall diagnostic predictive accuracy ranged from 70 to 77% among the three endoscopists.Two of the three endoscopists assessed shape as the most predictive feature of malignancy (OR 39.4, 95% CI 3.29-470.96). The inter-observer agreement on the individual lymph node features as obtained by EUS is moderate with good overall agreement on the diagnosis. Round shape was the feature most strongly associated with a diagnosis of MLN."}
{"id": "21523447", "title": "The archaic distinction between functioning and nonfunctioning neuroendocrine neoplasms is no longer clinically relevant.", "content": "The archaic distinction between functioning and nonfunctioning neuroendocrine neoplasms is no longer clinically relevant. Neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs) are increasing in incidence and prevalence. This reflects greater clinical awareness, effective imaging, and increasing pathological diagnostic recognition. Although the identification and treatment of clinical neuroendocrine syndromes are established, there is confusion when a NEN has no discernible clinical symptoms. Nonfunctional tumors are usually diagnosed incidentally and at a later stage largely because either they do not secrete a bioactive product or do so, but in a form that is either inactive or in quantities that have no discernible effect. Nevertheless, the histopathology is indistinguishable from functional NENs, and tumors exhibit somatostatin receptor expression, and positive immunohistochemistry for neuroendocrine cell markers (CgA, NSE/synaptophysin). Similarly, their rates of growth and metastatic behavior are, like other NENs, predictably based on staging and grading (mitotic rate and Ki67 expression). Both types are diagnosed biochemically (CgA) and by imaging in an identical fashion with computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, somatostatin receptor scintigraphy, and endoscopic ultrasound. NENs, irrespective of function or bioactive secretory profile, respond with equal efficacy to the same regimen of surgery or antitumor drugs (e.g., somatostatin analogs with or without tyrosine kinase inhibitors/antiangiogenics or cytotoxics) depending on grade. Given the efficacy of somatostatin analogs in increasing progression free survival, nonfunctional NENs should be managed identically to symptomatic NENs. The consideration of NENs as functional or nonfunctional is an archaic clinical concept that should be discarded since the tumors are indistinguishable at a cellular, biological, and morphological level. All current evidences indicate that their diagnosis and treatment should follow the same common principles."}
{"id": "21519368", "title": "Usefulness and problems of endoscopic ultrasonography in prediction of the depth of tumor invasion in early gastric cancer.", "content": "Usefulness and problems of endoscopic ultrasonography in prediction of the depth of tumor invasion in early gastric cancer. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in local and regional staging of early gastric cancer, to analyze the factors influencing the accuracy of EUS, and to reveal the usefulness and problems of EUS in pre-treatment staging of gastric cancer. We examined 105 lesions in 104 patients with histologically confirmed gastric cancer and retrospectively evaluated them with EUS. The diagnostic accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of EUS were determined by comparing the pre-treatment EUS with the postoperative histopathological findings. The overall diagnostic accuracy of EUS for the depth of cancer invasion was 86%. The overall sensitivity and specificity were 60% and 96%, respectively. The accuracy significantly declined in lesions located in the upper-third of the stomach (70%). Type 0-I lesions tended to be over-staged (12&), and the upper-third lesions tended to be under-staged (23%). The accuracy significantly declined in differentiated adenocarcinoma with massive submucosal invasion (56.5%). EUS is useful for evaluating the depth of gastric cancer invasion which determines the feasibility of endoscopic treatment. However, it is noteworthy that the diagnostic accuracy of the invasion depth diminished for lesions in the upper third of the stomach."}
{"id": "21456015", "title": "Prognostic significance of baseline positron emission tomography and importance of clinical complete response in patients with esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer treated with definitive chemoradiotherapy.", "content": "Prognostic significance of baseline positron emission tomography and importance of clinical complete response in patients with esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer treated with definitive chemoradiotherapy. Metabolic imaging is of interest in esophageal cancer; however, the usefulness of initial standardized uptake value (SUV) in positron emission tomography (PET) is unknown in patients with esophageal or gastroesophageal carcinoma treated with definitive chemoradiotherapy. The authors hypothesized that initial SUV would correlate with patient outcome. The authors retrospectively analyzed esophageal or gastroesophageal carcinoma patients who had baseline PET and endoscopic ultrasonography in addition to other routine staging. All patients received definitive chemoradiotherapy. Multiple statistical methods were used. The authors analyzed 209 consecutive esophageal or gastroesophageal carcinoma patients treated with definitive chemoradiation for outcome; of these, 180 had baseline PET for additional analyses. The median overall survival (OS) for all patients was 20.7 months (95% confidence interval, 18.8-26.3). Patients with clinical complete response (CR) lived longer than those with less than clinical CR (P < .0001). The median initial SUV was 12.7 (range, 0-51). Higher initial SUV was associated with longer tumors (P = .0001), higher T-stage status (P < .0001), positive N-stage status (P = .0001), higher overall stage (P < .0001), lack of clinical CR (P = .0002), and squamous cell histology (P < .0001). In the univariate analysis, initial SUV was associated with OS (Cox model, P = .016; log-rank test, P = .002). In the multivariate analysis, initial SUV dichotomized by the median value (P = .024) and tumor grade (P = .016) proved to be independent OS prognosticators. Median initial SUV for clinical CR patients was 10.2, compared with 15.3 for less than clinical CR patients (P = .0058). The data indicate that a higher initial SUV is associated with poorer OS in patients with esophageal or gastroesophageal carcinoma receiving definitive chemoradiation. Upon validation, baseline PET may become a useful stratification factor in randomized trials and for individualizing therapy."}
{"id": "21444080", "title": "EUS for the staging of gastric cancer: a meta-analysis.", "content": "EUS for the staging of gastric cancer: a meta-analysis. The role of EUS in the locoregional staging of gastric carcinoma is undefined. We aimed to comprehensively review and quantitatively summarize the available evidence on the staging performance of EUS. We systematically searched the MEDLINE, Cochrane, CANCERLIT, and EMBASE databases for relevant studies published until July 2010. Formal meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy parameters was performed by using a bivariate random-effects model. Fifty-four studies enrolling 5601 patients with gastric cancer undergoing disease staging with EUS were eligible for the meta-analysis. EUS staging accuracy across eligible studies was measured by computing overall sensitivity, specificity, positive likelihood ratio (PLR), negative likelihood ratio (NLR), and diagnostic odds ratio (DOR). EUS can differentiate T1-2 from T3-4 gastric cancer with high accuracy, with overall sensitivity, specificity, PLR, NLR, and DOR of 0.86 (95% CI, 0.81-0.90), 0.91 (95% CI, 0.89-0.93), 9.8 (95% CI, 7.5-12.8), 0.15 (95% CI, 0.11-0.21), and 65 (95% CI, 41-105), respectively. In contrast, the diagnostic performance of EUS for lymph node status is less reliable, with overall sensitivity, specificity, PLR, NLR, and DOR of 0.69 (95% CI, 0.63-0.74), 0.84 (95% CI, 0.81-0.88), 4.4 (95% CI, 3.6-5.4), 0.37 (95% CI, 0.32-0.44), and 12 (95% CI, 9-16), respectively. Results regarding single T categories (including T1 substages) and Bayesian nomograms to calculate posttest probabilities for any target condition prevalence are also provided. Statistical heterogeneity was generally high; unfortunately, subgroup analysis did not identify a consistent source of the heterogeneity. Our results support the use of EUS for the locoregional staging of gastric cancer, which can affect the therapeutic management of these patients. However, clinicians must be aware of the performance limits of this staging tool."}
{"id": "21424074", "title": "Invasion assessment in gastric carcinoma - imagistic and histopathologic combined study.", "content": "Invasion assessment in gastric carcinoma - imagistic and histopathologic combined study. Imagistic examinations have an essential role in the assessment of gastric cancer both in earlier and advanced stages. Among these, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) especially contributes to the diagnosis by direct visualization of the tumor and to the staging and prognosis assessment through the evaluation of the gastric wall and regional lymph nodes. Computer tomography (CT) examination also has an important role, especially in advanced stages, in the assessment of the prognosis, contributing to TNM staging. The aim of this study is a comparative assessment of tumor invasion degree by these two imagistic methods and the correlation of the imagistic diagnosis with histopathologic assessment results on surgical specimens. The basis of the study was represented by a group of 38 patients with gastric carcinoma investigated both by endoscopic ultrasound and computer tomography from which 15 cases with surgical excision of the tumor followed by microscopic examination were selected. Studied material was represented by: patients' medical charts, registers for ultrasound endoscopy and CT investigation, endoscopic and CT images, surgical excision samples and pathology reports. Tumor fragments were processed by classical histological techniques (fixation and paraffin wax embedding) and staining (HE). Comparing the CT examination with ultrasound endoscopy results showed that CT examination overestimated the invasion grade of the gastric wall (T) but accurately defined the grade of lymph node invasion (N) and metastases (M). Comparing the results of ultrasound endoscopic examination with those from histopathological examination showed that the first method underestimated the grade of invasion of the gastric wall (T) while the latter correctly defined the grade of lymph node invasion (N) and metastases (M). Comparing CT examination results with histopathological ones showed that CT overestimated both the grade of invasion of the gastric wall (T), lymph node invasion (N) and metastases (M). In the preoperative assessment of the invasion stage of gastric carcinoma (TNM), ultrasound endoscopy is the elective imagistic investigation for predicting the grade of invasion of the gastric wall while CT examination is a more accurate assessment of lymph node extension and metastases, the precise definition of invasion stage being only the result of histopathological examination on surgical specimens."}
{"id": "21391168", "title": "[Malignant neoplasias of the gastrointestinal tract--endosonographic staging revisited].", "content": "[Malignant neoplasias of the gastrointestinal tract--endosonographic staging revisited]. On January 1st, 2010 the 7th edition of TNM classification was released. There are several consequences of this new classification for the staging of gastrointestinal malignancies by endoscopic ultrasound. This review discusses important changes in the TNM classification as well as new aspects in endosonographic staging investigations of cancers of the esophagus, stomach, and rectum."}
{"id": "21385469", "title": "Imaging in assessing hepatic and peritoneal metastases of gastric cancer: a systematic review.", "content": "Imaging in assessing hepatic and peritoneal metastases of gastric cancer: a systematic review. Hepatic and peritoneal metastases of gastric cancer are operation contraindications. Systematic review to provide an overview of imaging in predicting the status of liver and peritoneum pre-therapeutically is essential. A systematic review of relevant literatures was performed in Pubmed/Medline, Embase, The Cochrane Library and the China Biological Medicine Databases. QUADAS was used for assessing the methodological quality of included studies and the bivariate model was used for this meta-analysis. Totally 33 studies were included (8 US studies, 5 EUS studies, 22 CT studies, 2 MRI studies and 5 18F-FDG PET studies) and the methodological quality of included studies was moderate. The result of meta-analysis showed that CT is the most sensitive imaging method [0.74 (95% CI: 0.59-0.85)] with a high rate of specificity [0.99 (95% CI: 0.97-1.00)] in detecting hepatic metastasis, and EUS is the most sensitive imaging modality [0.34 (95% CI: 0.10-0.69) ] with a specificity of 0.96 (95% CI: 0.87-0.99) in detecting peritoneal metastasis. Only two eligible MRI studies were identified and the data were not combined. The two studies found that MRI had both high sensitivity and specificity in detecting liver metastasis. US, EUS, CT and 18F-FDG PET did not obtain consistently high sensitivity and specificity in assessing liver and peritoneal metastases of gastric cancer. The value of laparoscopy, PET/CT, DW-MRI, and new PET tracers such as 18F-FLT needs to be studied in future."}
{"id": "21349732", "title": "Efficacy of endoscopic ultrasound in patients with esophageal cancer predicted to have N0 disease.", "content": "Efficacy of endoscopic ultrasound in patients with esophageal cancer predicted to have N0 disease. Esophageal endoscopic ultrasound with fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) is a critical staging tool for patients with esophageal cancer. Previous reports suggest that it is frequently incorrect when it predicts a patient to be N0. The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of EUS-FNA in patients clinically staged N0. A retrospective cohort study of patients who had a computed tomography scan, EUS-FNA and a positron emission tomography scan prior to undergoing Ivor Lewis esophagogastrectomy with abdominal and thoracic lymphadenectomy. From January 2002 to June 2009, 207 patients underwent Ivor Lewis esophagogastrectomy by one general thoracic surgeon. Ninety-five patients did not undergo neo-adjuvant therapy. Eighty nine of these patients had an EUS-FNA preoperatively and 82 were staged as N0. Seventy-seven (94%) were confirmed as N0 on final pathology (sensitivity 94%, accuracy 95%). Their overall 3-year Kaplan-Meier survival was 68%. Neo-adjuvant chemo-radiotherapy was given to the remaining 112 patients and 107 had a restaging EUS-FNA. Ninety of these patients were staged by EUS as N0. Seventy patients (78%) were N0 on final pathology (sensitivity 82%, accuracy 68%). There was no EUS-FNA-related procedural morbidity or mortality except for sore throat and nausea. EUS-FNA is very accurate and sensitive when it clinically stages patients with esophageal cancer as N0. In addition, it is even accurate and sensitive when restaging patients as N0 after neo-adjuvant chemo-radiotherapy. These results, which differ from previous reports, are critical for guiding treatment decisions."}
{"id": "21302203", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) as primary diagnostic tool for unclear lesions in the upper gastrointestinal tract].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) as primary diagnostic tool for unclear lesions in the upper gastrointestinal tract]. Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS) and the EUS guided fine-needle Aspiration (EUS-FNA) increasingly plays an important role in the diagnostic evaluation of lesions or lymph nodes in the mediastinum and upper gastrointestinal tract of unknown origin. The objective of this study was to assess safety and accuracy of EUS-FNA in two secondary and tertiary health care providers. Prospectively, from Mai 2003 to June 2007, all patients underwent EUS with devices from Pentax (FG38UX, EC3830UT) with EUS-FNA (Cook or Mediglobe) at Johannes Gutenberg University and Catholic Hospital in Mainz. In all cases, cytology and extracted cells were histological examined by the same pathologists. In case of negative EUS results, patients were observed for at least 12 months after initial diagnosis later by reanalysis, CT-scan and follow-up clinical data to confirm the diagnosis. In total, 776 patients with EUS and 167 EUS-FNA (21.5 %) could be evaluated. Median age was 62 years, 68 % of patients were male. Patients underwent EUS-FNA in the mediastinum (n = 54), pancreas (73), stomach (13), liver, adrenal glands and rectum (n = 6). The complication rate of EUS-FNA was very low with only 0.6 %, mainly consistent of one minor haemorrhage at the aspiration site. A clear histological diagnosis could not be achieved in 12.5 % (21/167). Statistical analyses of all EUS-FNA revealed a sensitivity of 77.8 % (95 %CI 67,2 - 86,3) and a specificity of 98.5 % (95 % CI 92,2 - 100), with a positive and negative predictive value of 98.4 % and of 78.1 %, respectively. The overall accuracy was 87 % (95 %CI 80,4 - 92,0). EUS combined with FNA is a safe tool for first histological evaluation of unidentified lesions or lymph nodes in the mediastinum and upper gastrointestinal tract, indicative for gastrointestinal cancers."}
{"id": "21295636", "title": "Estimation of malignant potential of GI stromal tumors by contrast-enhanced harmonic EUS (with videos).", "content": "Estimation of malignant potential of GI stromal tumors by contrast-enhanced harmonic EUS (with videos). Contrast-enhanced harmonic EUS (CEH-EUS) is a new sonographic technique that uses US contrast agents and depicts intratumoral vessels in real time. To evaluate whether assessment of tumor vascularity by CEH-EUS can predict the preoperative malignancy risk of GI stromal tumors (GISTs). Prospective study to observe GIST vascularity. Kinki University School of Medicine. Between June 2007 and September 2009, 76 consecutive patients suspected of having subepithelial lesions underwent CEH-EUS. CEH-EUS was performed by using a prototype echoendoscope in an extended pure harmonic detection mode. Resected GIST specimens in 29 patients who underwent surgical resection were divided into high-grade (n=16) and low-grade (n=13) malignancy groups based on mitotic activity. The abilities of EUS-guided FNA and CEH-EUS to diagnose the malignant potential were compared. The sensitivities with which contrast-enhanced multidetector CT, power-Doppler EUS, and CEH-EUS detected intratumoral vessels in high-grade malignancy GISTs also were compared. CEH-EUS identified irregular vessels and thereby predicted GIST malignancies with a sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 100%, 63%, and 83%, respectively. Diagnosis of high-grade malignancy GISTs by EUS-guided FNA had a sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 63%, 92%, and 81%, respectively. Contrast-enhanced multidetector CT, power-Doppler EUS, and CEH-EUS detected intratumoral vessels in high-grade malignancy GISTs with sensitivities of 31%, 63%, and 100%, respectively (P<.05). A single center was involved in this study. CEH-EUS successfully visualized intratumoral vessels and may play an important role in predicting the malignancy risk of GISTs."}
{"id": "21278579", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound and gastric lesions.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound and gastric lesions. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is useful in assessing gastric lesions found on endoscopy. EUS can assess the 5 layers of the gastric wall and is the most useful modality for staging tumors of the stomach, including adenocarcinoma and lymphoma. For subepithelial gastric lesions, EUS can assess the echogenicity of a lesion, which layer of the gastric wall is involved, and assess for the presence of blood flow with Doppler ultrasound. These characteristics help to determine the likely etiology of the lesion. Fine needle aspiration may also provide additional information, especially when mucosal biopsies are nondiagnostic."}
{"id": "21278578", "title": "Natural history of asymptomatic small gastric subepithelial tumors.", "content": "Natural history of asymptomatic small gastric subepithelial tumors. To assess the natural history of gastric subepithelial tumors (SETs) of \u226430 mm in size and to determine their optimal management. Definitive guidelines have not been formulated for the management of small gastric SETs, owing to a lack of knowledge of their natural history and insufficient long-term follow-up. We retrospectively reviewed the upper endoscopy and/or endoscopic ultrasound results of 989 tumors diagnosed as gastric SETs of \u226430 mm in size between July 1997 and October 2008 with a minimal follow-up of 3 months. A gastric SET was defined as a mass covered with normal appearing mucosa on upper endoscopy and a tumor located in the second, third, or fourth layer on endoscopic ultrasound. Of the 989 SETs in 948 patients, 84 (8.5%) showed significant changes in size, and/or echogenicity, and/or morphology at a median 24 months (range, 3 to 123 mo). Estimated growth rates differed significantly by initial size (<10 mm, 0.14 mm/mo; 10 to 20 mm, 0.22 mm/mo; 20 to 30 mm, 0.31 mm/mo; P=0.003). Twenty-five patients with tumors showing changes in size and/or echogenicity underwent surgical/endoscopic resection; of these, 19 patients were diagnosed with gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs), of which 3 patients were considered at high risk, 4 at intermediate risk, 10 at low risk, and 2 at very low risk. In a univariate analysis, GISTs showed a significant change in tumor size during follow-up compared with other benign tumors (P=0.037). However, multivariate analysis did not show a statistical significance in size change between GISTs and other benign tumors (hazard ratio 1.754; 95% CI, 0.575 to 5.291; P=0.326). Only 8.5% of gastric SETs of \u226430 mm in size showed significant changes at a median 24 months. SETs of 10 to 30 mm in size grew significantly more rapidly than SETs <10 mm."}
{"id": "21262536", "title": "Patterns of cancer invasion revealed by QDs-based quantitative multiplexed imaging of tumor microenvironment.", "content": "Patterns of cancer invasion revealed by QDs-based quantitative multiplexed imaging of tumor microenvironment. Tumor growth and progression depends on their microenvironment, which undergoes constant co-evolution because of the dynamic tumor-stormal interactions. Such co-evolution has long been under appreciated due to the lack of appropriate technology platforms to simultaneously reveal these complex interactions. Here we report on a quantum dots based multiplexed imaging and spectrum analysis technology to simultaneously study major components of tumor stroma, including type IV collagen, tumor angiogenesis, macrophages infiltration and tissue destructive proteolytic enzyme matrix metalloproteinase 9. The new technology revealed a panoramic picture of the tempo-spatial co-evolution of tumor cells and their stroma at the architecture level. Four patterns of tumor invasion with distinctive co-evolution features were identified as Washing pattern, Ameba-like pattern, Polarity pattern and Linear pattern. This quantum dots based multiplexed technology could help gain new insight into the complex process of tumor invasion, and formulate new anti-cancer strategies."}
{"id": "21261477", "title": "A new endoscopic classification system of early-stage esophageal carcinoma and its usefulness in assessing the infiltration depth of esophageal carcinoma.", "content": "A new endoscopic classification system of early-stage esophageal carcinoma and its usefulness in assessing the infiltration depth of esophageal carcinoma. The growth pattern, height, and depth of early esophageal carcinoma were observed under gastroscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography. The infiltration depth of carcinomas was determined pathologically. Early esophageal carcinomas were classified into five types by endoscopy: surface propagating growth, intraluminal growth, intramural growth, bilateral growth, and mixed growth. Intramucosal and submucosal carcinomas were differentiated on the basis of the different types, height of intraluminal growth and bilateral growth, and depth of intramural growth type. The accuracy of differentiate diagnosis was 87.2%. Our results indicate that this new endoscopic classification system can accurately differentiate intramucosal and submucosal infiltration of early-stage esophageal carcinomas."}
{"id": "21175796", "title": "Usefulness of endoscopic ultrasound for the prediction of intraoperative bleeding of endoscopic submucosal dissection for gastric neoplasms.", "content": "Usefulness of endoscopic ultrasound for the prediction of intraoperative bleeding of endoscopic submucosal dissection for gastric neoplasms. Intraoperative bleeding is an important determining factor for the technical difficulty and safety of endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for gastric neoplasms, which was previously difficult to predict before ESD. In the present study, we investigated whether endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) could be used to preoperatively predict intraoperative bleeding. The study included 106 patients who underwent EUS before ESD. EUS was used to evaluate the submucosal vascular structure. Patients who had at least 10 vascular structures per field of view or a vessel at least 500 \u00b5m in diameter were classified into the rich group (Group R), and others were classified into the non-rich group (Group N). The two groups were compared retrospectively with respect to procedure time, degree of anemia, frequency of clip use, and others. There were 24 patients in Group R and 82 patients in Group N. Submucosal caner was found in 54.2% of patients in Group R and 18.3% in Group N. The reduction in hemoglobin was 5.8% in Group R and 3.45% in Group N. The procedure time was 151 min in Group R and 100 min in Group N. The frequency of clip use was 79.2% in Group R and 31.7% in Group N. A multivariate analysis revealed a significant difference in the depth of invasion and frequency of clip use between the two groups. The results suggest that identification of submucosal vascular structure by EUS might allow prediction of intraoperative bleeding during ESD."}
{"id": "21084436", "title": "Toxicity, response rates and survival outcomes of induction cisplatin and irinotecan followed by concurrent cisplatin, irinotecan and radiotherapy for locally advanced esophageal cancer.", "content": "Toxicity, response rates and survival outcomes of induction cisplatin and irinotecan followed by concurrent cisplatin, irinotecan and radiotherapy for locally advanced esophageal cancer. Cisplatin-based chemoradiotherapy is standard treatment for locally advanced esophageal and gastroesophageal cancers; however, the optimal chemotherapy regimen remains to be defined. Retrospective single institution analysis of toxicities, response rates and survival outcomes in patients with cT3-4 or N1/M1a esophageal squamous cell or adenocarcinoma treated with induction cisplatin and irinotecan followed by concurrent cisplatin, irinotecan and radiotherapy. Secondary analysis for association of disease control and outcomes with demographic, tumor and treatment factors (including histology). Fifty-three patients were eligible for the present analysis. All patients underwent endoscopic ultrasonography and were either cT3-4 and/or cN1 disease. Fifty patients completed radiotherapy as planned (median dose 50.4 Gy, range 0-61.2), and 35 patients completed four cycles of chemotherapy as planned (range 1-4). Severe acute toxicities included Grade \u2265 3 neutropenia and esophagitis in 13 and 12 patients, respectively. There were no Grade 5 (fatal) toxicities noted. At mean survivor follow-up of 24.5 months (range 2.7-63), 17 patients were alive (8 without disease) and 36 deceased. Forty patients experienced disease recurrence, with initial loco-regional, distant or both failures in 28, 9 and 3 patients, respectively. Estimated 2-year overall survival and freedom from failure were 42 and 9%, respectively, without significant difference by histology. Cisplatin/irinotecan chemoradiotherapy is tolerable, demonstrating similar efficacy for squamous cell and adenocarcinoma esophageal cancers."}
{"id": "21073614", "title": "Outcomes from chemoradiotherapy for patients with esophageal cancer.", "content": "Outcomes from chemoradiotherapy for patients with esophageal cancer. Chemoradiotherapy is a widely used alternative treatment to surgical resection in certain patient groups with early esophageal cancer. The aim of this study was to retrospectively assess toxicity and outcome of patients treated with definitive chemoradiotherapy for early esophageal cancer at one institution. A retrospective analysis of all patients treated with chemoradiotherapy between February 2000 and December 2008 at a single tertiary center was performed with documentation of treatment given, toxicities recorded, and follow-up and outcome data. Sixty-two patients received chemoradiotherapy for esophageal cancer. There were 20 males and 42 female patients with an average age of 68 years. Histology revealed adenocarcinoma in 28 patients and squamous cell carcinoma in 34 patients. All patients were staged with a computerized tomography scan, endoscopic ultrasound and positron emission tomography scan. Selection criteria for chemoradiotherapy were unfit for surgery, upper esophageal squamous carcinoma, unresectable primary tumor, or patient choice. The majority of the patients received a combination of cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy with 55 Gy in 25 fractions of radiotherapy. Grade 3 toxicities were recorded in 11% of the patients. Eleven patients suffered from local recurrence and a stent was required in nine patients. Radiation strictures occurred in 10 patients requiring dilation in four. Five patients required a radiologically inserted feeding gastrostomy. The median overall survival was 21 months. Patients with adenocarcinomas and those with squamous cell carcinoma had a similar median survival. Overall survival was 70% at 1 year, 48% at 2 years, and 26% at 3 years. This case series of patients treated with chemoradiation for localized esophageal cancer suggest a generally well-tolerated treatment with survival rates after chemoradiotherapy comparable with those seen with surgery."}
{"id": "21049402", "title": "[Leiomyosarcoma of the oesophagus and gastric adenocarcinoma with family history of HNPCC syndrome].", "content": "[Leiomyosarcoma of the oesophagus and gastric adenocarcinoma with family history of HNPCC syndrome]."}
{"id": "21030318", "title": "Urethral toxicity vs. cancer control--lessons to be learned from high-dose rate brachytherapy combined with intensity-modulated radiation therapy in intermediate- and high-risk prostate cancer.", "content": "Urethral toxicity vs. cancer control--lessons to be learned from high-dose rate brachytherapy combined with intensity-modulated radiation therapy in intermediate- and high-risk prostate cancer. To describe biochemical relapse-free survival (BRFS) and late toxicity after combined high-dose rate brachytherapy (HDR-B) and intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) in intermediate- and high-risk prostate cancer patients. From March 2003 to September 2005, 64 men were treated by 3\u00d77Gy HDR-B using one implant followed by 50Gy IMRT. Median age was 66.1 years; risk of recurrence was intermediate in 30 (47%) or high in 34 (53%) patients. Forty-four (69%) patients received hormonal therapy. Patients were treated with a median of 13 HDR-B applicators (range, 8-17). Biochemical relapse was defined according to Phoenix criteria. Toxicity was scored according to the Common Toxicity Criteria scale version 3.0. Median followup was 5.1 years. The 3-year BRFS was 100% and 91% for intermediate- and high-risk patients. Late Grade 2 gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity occurred in 3 (4.7%) patients, late Grade 3 GI toxicity was absent. Late Grade 3 and 4 genitourinary (GU) toxicity was observed in 7 (10.9%) and 2 (3.1%) patients. The 5-year Grade 3 or higher late GU toxicity-free survival was associated with a higher number of HDR-B applicators (p=0.049). The 3-year BRFS was excellent and late GI toxicity was negligible. However, the late Grade 3 and 4 GU toxicity was unacceptably high."}
{"id": "20848224", "title": "Effectiveness of image-guided radiotherapy for locally advanced rectal cancer.", "content": "Effectiveness of image-guided radiotherapy for locally advanced rectal cancer. Image-guided radiotherapy (IGRT) combines precise target visualization with optimal delivery of radiation dose to spare normal tissue from radiation and may potentially reduce side-effects and long-term treatment complications. We have assessed the effectiveness of IGRT for locally advanced rectal cancer. A retrospective review of 22 patients with locally advanced rectal cancer who underwent preoperative chemoradiation was conducted. Nineteen patients (median age, 69 years) underwent surgical resection after chemoradiation. All 19 patients achieved complete resection with negative margins. Seven patients (32%) had no residual tumor in the surgical specimen. One patient had grade 4 gastrointestinal toxicity and hematological toxicity probably related to inadvertent overdosing of capecitabine. The median survival for the whole group-patients who had pCR and those who did not have pCR-was 14, 17, and 15 months, respectively. Image-guided radiotherapy provided effective treatment for locally advanced rectal cancer with minimal toxicity and should be investigated in future prospective trials."}
{"id": "20734082", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography is valuable for identifying early gastric cancers meeting expanded-indication criteria for endoscopic submucosal dissection.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography is valuable for identifying early gastric cancers meeting expanded-indication criteria for endoscopic submucosal dissection. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has become a reliable method for predicting the invasion depth of early gastric cancer (EGC). This study evaluated the accuracy of EUS in identifying lesions meeting expanded-indication criteria for endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) and analyzed clinicopathologic factors influencing the diagnostic accuracy of EUS in assessing tumor invasion depth. This study investigated 542 EGCs of 515 patients who underwent EUS pretreatment. The pretreatment EUS-determined diagnosis was compared with the final histopathologic evaluation of resected specimens, and the impact of various clinicopathologic parameters on diagnostic accuracy was analyzed. The diagnostic accuracy of EUS in identifying lesions meeting expanded-indication criteria for ESD was 87.8% (259/295) for differentiated adenocarcinoma (D-type) 30\u00a0mm in diameter or smaller, 43.5% (10/23) for D-type tumor larger than 30\u00a0mm in diameter, and 75% (42/56) for undifferentiated adenocarcinoma (UD-type) 20\u00a0mm in diameter or smaller. Using multivariate analysis, the diagnostic accuracy of EUS in predicting tumor invasion depth was determined to be decreased significantly by ulcerous change and large tumor size (diameter, \u226530\u00a0mm). For patients with EGC, D-type lesions 30\u00a0mm in diameter or smaller and UD-type lesions 20\u00a0mm in diameter or smaller can be diagnosed with high accuracy by EUS, but larger D-type lesions (diameter, >30\u00a0mm) should be considered carefully in terms of EUS-based treatment decisions. Findings of ulceration and large tumors are associated with incorrect diagnosis of tumor invasion depth by EUS."}
{"id": "20676688", "title": "Combined pretherapeutic endoscopic and laparoscopic ultrasonography may predict survival of patients with upper gastrointestinal tract cancer.", "content": "Combined pretherapeutic endoscopic and laparoscopic ultrasonography may predict survival of patients with upper gastrointestinal tract cancer. The combination of endoscopic and laparoscopic ultrasonography (EUS-LUS) is accurate for resectability assessment of patients with upper gastrointestinal cancer (UGIC). But neither the ability of EUS/LUS to predict long-term prognosis nor the potential impact on patient survival using this selection strategy has been investigated. This prospective, single-center study evaluated whether pretherapeutic EUS-LUS stratification related to the prognosis in UGIC patients and whether patient selection by this strategy provided a prognostic outcome comparable with survival data from the literature. Each patient had a pretherapeutic tumor node metastasis (TNM) stage and a resectability assessment assigned based on EUS-LUS findings. Survival curves were constructed and compared for each of the EUS-LUS TNM stage and resectability groups at the end of the observation period. Finally, the R0 resection rate, median, and 5-year survival rates were compared with the literature. This study enrolled 936 consecutive patients with esophageal (n\u00a0=\u00a0256), gastric (n\u00a0=\u00a0273), or pancreatic (n\u00a0=\u00a0407) cancer. A statistically significant survival difference (p\u00a0<\u00a00.01) between the different TNM stages and resectability groups predicted by EUS-LUS was observed regardless of the cancer type. The poor prognosis for the patients with irresectable or disseminated UGIC was accurately predicted by EUS and LUS. The R0 resection rate as well as the median and 5-year survival rates were comparable with data from the literature. The pretherapeutic EUS-LUS patient stratification related significantly to the final prognosis for UGIC patients. An EUS-LUS-based patient selection strategy seemed to provide a prognostic outcome similar to data from computed tomography (CT)-based populations."}
{"id": "20589510", "title": "Endoscopic enucleation for gastric subepithelial tumors originating in the muscularis propria layer.", "content": "Endoscopic enucleation for gastric subepithelial tumors originating in the muscularis propria layer. Subepithelial tumors (SETs) of the stomach are considered benign. However, they have the potential for malignant transformation, especially if they originate in the muscularis propria layer. This study aimed to determine the feasibility of endoscopic enucleation (EEN) for SETs in the muscularis propria layer and to evaluate the diagnostic efficacy and safety of EEN for SETs. A total of 65 lesions in 64 patients were eligible for inclusion in the study during the period between June 2006 and September 2009. En bloc enucleation using an insulated-tip knife and snare was attempted for removal of gastric SETs from the muscularis propria. A total of 60 tumors were successfully resected by EEN (success rate, 92.3%). The mean tumor size, determined by endoscopic ultrasound, was 13.8 mm (range, 5-30 mm). A histologic diagnosis was obtained for 63 tumors (diagnostic yield, 96.9%), which was leiomyoma for 32 lesions, gastrointestinal stromal tumor for 26 tumors, and other for 5 tumors. The rate for complete resection in relation to the location of the lesion in the stomach was higher for the cardia, the mid/lower body (100%), and the high body (96%) than for the fundus (75%) or the antrum (50%, p=0.006). The rate of perforation was significantly higher for the fundus (50%) than for other locations (0% for the cardia and 4% for the high body) (p<0.001). Endoscopic enucleation of gastric SETs originating in the muscularis propria layer was a safe and effective method for the histologic diagnosis and removal of small gastric SETs, especially those located in the cardia and the high body of the stomach."}
{"id": "20235004", "title": "Percutaneous ultrasonography-guided core needle biopsy of gastrointestinal lesions: what's its actual role in clinical practice? A retrospective study for safety and effectiveness.", "content": "Percutaneous ultrasonography-guided core needle biopsy of gastrointestinal lesions: what's its actual role in clinical practice? A retrospective study for safety and effectiveness. Endoscopic biopsy is commonly performed to obtain a pathological diagnosis of gastrointestinal (GI) lesions. When the lesions are submucosal, subserosal, or exophytic, endoscopic biopsy is often unsuccessful, and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided biopsy is considered the procedure of choice in these cases. Nevertheless, in some patients both endoscopic and EUS-guided biopsy are not indicated, or yield inconclusive cyto-histological results. The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of percutaneous ultrasonography (US)-guided biopsy of GI wall lesions, and to define its actual role in clinical practice. A retrospective study was conducted on 45 consecutive US-guided biopsies of GI lesions. All biopsies were performed in patients unsuitable for endoscopic or EUS-guided biopsy, or with lesions inaccessible to endoscopic techniques, or with inconclusive results from endoscopic or EUS-guided biopsy. Biopsies were performed with an 18 or 20-gauge Tru-cut needle under US guidance. Biopsy results were compared with the final diagnosis that was based on surgical pathological findings or clinical instrumental follow-up of at least 20 months. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV), overall accuracy, and complication rate of the procedure were calculated. One biopsy specimen (2.2 %) was inadequate for cyto-histologic examination. In the remaining 44 cases, US-guided biopsy correctly identified 39 / 40 (97.5 %) malignant lesions, and 4 / 4 (100 %) benign lesions. One case resulted in a false negative (2.2 %). The sensitivity, specificity, PPV, NPV, and overall diagnostic accuracy were 97.5 %, 100 %, 100 %, 80 % and 97.7 %, respectively. Including also the inadequate specimen into the analysis, they were 95.1 %, 100 %, 100 %, 66.7 % and 95.6 %, respectively. No procedure-related complications were observed. In ten cases (22.2 %), US-guided biopsy results made it possible to avoid unnecessary surgical exploration. Percutaneous US-guided core biopsy of GI wall lesions is an accurate and safe technique that makes it possible in select cases to obtain a correct pathological diagnosis and prevent unnecessary surgical exploration. Although it has been replaced by EUS-guided biopsy as the procedure of choice to sample submucosal or subserosal GI lesions, US-guided biopsy can still play a useful role in the diagnostic workup of GI lesions when endoscopy or EUS is unsuccessful for various reasons or yields inconclusive cyto-histological results."}
{"id": "21434369", "title": "[Endosonographic criteria for indolent and aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the stomach].", "content": "[Endosonographic criteria for indolent and aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the stomach]. At the present stage use only standard visual endoscopy and a radiological method of research of a pathology of a stomach does not meet the requirements of oncologists. In spite of the fact that these techniques continue to remain base and prime in inspection of a digestive tract, the leading part in specification of character of pathology of GI tract is taken now endosonography method. A research objective: to establish endoscopic ultrasonic criteria of diagnostics indolentics and aggressive NHL of stomach. For studying of possibilities endosonography in diagnostics NHL of a stomach 46 patients have been analysed, during the period since 2005 for 2009 to all patients after videogastroscopy was carried out endoscopic scanning, and the tumour biopsy further was made. Are defined by us endosonography criteria NHL of a stomach: the tumor starts with deep layers mucous and submucosal layer, extends mainly on submucosal layer, it is marked multicentrial defeats, echoic tumors is always lowered or heteroechoic with hypo echoic inclusions. On the basis of this data by us are defined endosonography criteria various morphoimmunological variants of NHL of a stomach. Estimating possibilities endoscopic ultrasonic diagnostics it has been revealed that its diagnostic accuracy makes 87.7%. In 84.9% at use EUS it is possible to assume authentically presence lymph proliferative process of a stomach and in 94.7% endosonography will allow to exclude authentically pathological process in a stomach."}
{"id": "21434368", "title": "[Endosonography in the diagnostics of non-epithelial tumors of the esophagus, stomach and duodenum].", "content": "[Endosonography in the diagnostics of non-epithelial tumors of the esophagus, stomach and duodenum]. Non-epithelial tumors account for 5% of all neoplasms of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, most often have no clinical manifestations and they are finding during the endoscopy. Visual inspection and standard method for gable biopsy doesn't let to verify the kind of education. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) significantly expands the possible differential diagnosis of submucosal formations on the basis of their ultrasound characteristics. The article presents the literature and personal experience of differential diagnosis of non-epithelial tumors, and benign formations of the esophagus, stomach and duodenum wall."}
{"id": "21427921", "title": "[Endoscopic criteria for diagnosis of various macroscopic variants of non-Hodgkin's gastric lymphoma].", "content": "[Endoscopic criteria for diagnosis of various macroscopic variants of non-Hodgkin's gastric lymphoma]. BACKGROUND; Many investigators account that a stomach is the most often localization of gastrointestinal lymphomas. But endoscopic semiotics and diagnostic of those lesions is elaborated insufficiently. The purpose of our investigation was working out of non-Hodgkin's gastric lymphoma endoscopic criteria. We examinated 250 patients with gastric lymphoma, from those primary and secondary lesions were in 160 (64%) cases and 90 (36%) cases, respectively. All patients was performed standard videoendoscopy, which included magnified endoscopy with NBI (Narrow Band Imaging), followed by chromoendoscopy with indigocarmine (0.4% solution) and EUS. Diagnosis of lymphoma was confirmed by morphology and immunohistochemistry. According to our observations gastroenterological pathology duration to diagnosis of tumor was very variable: diagnosis was established during first 3 months in 30.6% cases (49 patients), during 6 month in 18.1% cases (29 patients), from 6 to 12 months in 15.6% cases (25 patients). Separately should was noted, that almost in one third cases primary gastric lymphoma was diagnosed after one year. Macroscopic form of gastric tumor was represented by follow variants: exophytic--22 cases (8.8%), infiltrative--54 cases (21.6%), ulcerous--37 cases (14.8%), infiltrative-ulcerous--71 cases (28.4%), similar to gastritis--36 cases (14.4%), mixed--30 cases (12%). The second endpoint of our work was detection of macroscopic features depending on morphological variant of lymphoma. Analysis of represented data demonstrated prevalence similar to gastritis form (33.4%) for MALT-lymphoma, infiltrative-ulcerous form as for diffuse large-cell B-cell lymphoma of MALT-type, as for diffuse large-cell B-cell lymphoma--45.0% and 41.1%, respectively. Infiltrative form was more often in group of patients with follicular lymphoma--31.8%, and ulcerous form predominated for Burkett's lymphoma--60.0%. CONCLUSION; Were established the most informative endoscopic criteria for diagnosis non-Hodgkin's gastric lymphoma."}
{"id": "21173556", "title": "[Incidental gastrointestinal subepithelial mass].", "content": "[Incidental gastrointestinal subepithelial mass]. Incidental gastrointestinal subepithelial mass is increasing with national cancer screening endoscopy. Most of gastrointestinal subepithelial mass are small-sized and asymptomatic tumor with benign nature, but gastrointestinal stromal tumor should be ruled-out because of its malignant behavior. Although conventional endoscopy alone can differentiate the nature of subepithelial mass, more accurate diagnosis can be achieved with endoscopic ultrasonography and its guided biopsy. In this review, differential diagnosis and treatment strategy of incidental gastrointestinal subepithelial mass would be presented."}
{"id": "21140708", "title": "Composite glandular-endocrine tumor of the stomach in atrophic gastritis.", "content": "Composite glandular-endocrine tumor of the stomach in atrophic gastritis."}
{"id": "21140689", "title": "Staging accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound based on pathologic analysis after minimally invasive esophagectomy.", "content": "Staging accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound based on pathologic analysis after minimally invasive esophagectomy. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is a common staging modality used in patients with esophageal cancer. The objective of this analysis was to evaluate the accuracy and sensitivity of EUS in determining the depth of penetration (T stage) and nodal status (N stage) in patients with esophageal cancer who underwent minimally invasive esophagectomy (MIE). A retrospective analysis of all patients at a university hospital who underwent preoperative EUS followed by MIE for cancer was performed. We compared the results of preoperative EUS to final pathologic analyses of the esophageal specimen, examining the accuracy of EUS staging. Ninety-five patients with esophageal cancer who underwent MIE had preoperative EUS. Twenty-four of the 95 patients were excluded for lack of a repeat EUS after neoadjuvant therapy before resection. Hence, 71 patients were evaluated for the accuracy of EUS staging. The accuracy of EUS for T0 disease was 80 per cent; T1 disease was 75 per cent; T2 disease was 39 per cent; and T3 disease was 88 per cent. The overall EUS accuracy for T stage was 72 per cent with overstaging occurring mostly for pathologic T1 tumors in 18 per cent and understaging occurring mostly for pathologic T3 tumors in 11 per cent. The sensitivity and specificity for detection of nodal involvement were 79 per cent and 74 per cent, respectively. However the accuracy for T and N staging by EUS after neoadjuvant therapy decreased to 63 per cent and 38 per cent, respectively. Endoscopic ultrasound in the absence of neoadjuvant therapy is a relatively accurate and sensitive modality for determining the depth of tumor penetration and the presence of nodal disease in patients with esophageal carcinoma. The accuracy for T and N staging is less reliable after neoadjuvant therapy."}
{"id": "21137089", "title": "Proteomic analysis of endoscopically (endoscopic pancreatic function test) collected gastroduodenal fluid using in-gel tryptic digestion followed by LC-MS/MS.", "content": "Proteomic analysis of endoscopically (endoscopic pancreatic function test) collected gastroduodenal fluid using in-gel tryptic digestion followed by LC-MS/MS. Proteomic analysis of gastroduodenal fluid offers an alternative strategy to study diseases, such as peptic ulcer disease and gastric cancer. We use in-gel tryptic digestion followed by LC-MS/MS (GeLC-MS/MS) to profile the proteome of gastroduodenal fluid collected during the endoscopic pancreatic function test (ePFT). Gastroduodenal fluid specimens collected during ePFT from six patients with upper abdominal pain were subjected to proteomic analysis. We extracted proteins using three chemical precipitation reagents (acetone, ethanol, and trichloroacetic acid) and analyzed each sample by SDS-PAGE and GeLC-MS/MS for protein identification. Cellular origin and molecular function of the identified proteins were determined via gene ontology analysis. All three precipitation techniques successfully extracted protein from gastroduodenal fluid, with acetone resulting in excellent resolution and minimal protein degradation compared with the other methods. A total of 134 unique proteins were found in our GeLC-MS/MS analysis of ePFT-collected gastroduodenal fluid samples. Sixty-seven proteins were identified in at least two of the three samples. Gene ontology analysis classified these proteins mainly as being peptidases and localized extracellularly. ePFT, followed by acetone precipitation, and coupled with LC-MS/MS, can be used to safely collect gastroduodenal fluid from the upper gastrointestinal tract for MS-based proteomic analysis."}
{"id": "21080306", "title": "Quantitative contrast-enhanced harmonic endoscopic ultrasonography for the discrimination of solid pancreatic masses.", "content": "Quantitative contrast-enhanced harmonic endoscopic ultrasonography for the discrimination of solid pancreatic masses. Contrast-enhanced harmonic endoscopic ultrasonography (CEH-EUS) for the assessment of microcirculation and the delineation of pancreatic tumors in order to characterize and stage them has only recently become available for commercial use, and few reports have been published. The purpose of the study was the qualitative and quantitative digital image analysis of pancreatic adenocarcinomas using conventional endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and CEH-EUS and the evaluation of whether contrast medium injection modified adenocarcinoma staging and patient management. In each of 30 prospectively examined patients with suspected pancreatic solid lesions, CEH-EUS was performed using the same quantity of the contrast agent SonoVue and a low mechanical index (0.3 - 0.4), followed by EUS-FNA. The histology, based on EUS-FNA or surgery and 9 months of follow-up, was: pancreatic adenocarcinoma (n = 15), pseudotumoral chronic pancreatitis (n = 12), neuroendocrine tumor (n = 1), common bile duct tumor (n = 1), lymph node metastases of gastric cancer (n = 1). The quantitative analysis was based on histograms obtained from each CEH-EUS video recording. CEH-EUS showed a hypoenhanced pattern in 14 cases of adenocarcinoma and in 10 cases of chronic pancreatitis. The index of the contrast uptake ratio was significantly lower in adenocarcinoma than in mass-forming chronic pancreatitis. A cut-off uptake ratio index value of 0.17 for diagnosing adenocarcinoma corresponded to an AUC (CI 95%) of 0.86 (0.67 - 1.00) with a sensitivity of 80%, a specificity of 91.7%, a positive predictive value of 92.8%, and a negative predictive value of 78%. The size of the pancreatic mass was assessed significantly more effectively by CEH-EUS but adenocarcinoma staging was not modified. The majority of cases of both pancreatic adenocarcinoma and chronic pancreatitis were hypoenhanced and visual discrimination was not possible. This is the first study about CEH-EUS for the quantitative assessment of uptake after contrast injection which has shown that it can aid differentiation between benign and malignant masses but cannot replace EUS-FNA. Neither tumor stage nor therapeutic management have changed after contrast medium injection during CEH-EUS."}
{"id": "21071896", "title": "[A case of postoperative recurrent gastric cancer resembling esophageal achalasia diagnosed by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration].", "content": "[A case of postoperative recurrent gastric cancer resembling esophageal achalasia diagnosed by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration]. A 74 year-old man underwent subtotal gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer in 2000. The histological type of the cancer was signet-ring cell carcinoma, and the clinical stage was stage II (T2, N1, M0). In June 2008 the patient was referred to our hospital complaining of dysphagia. Esophageal endoscopy revealed a circular stenosis with covered with normal mucosa between the lower esophagus and the esophago-gastric junction. Histologically, samples obtained by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) revealed signet-ring cell carcinoma. Our experience suggests that EUS-FNA was useful for the histological diagnosis of recurrence of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "21053508", "title": "[Patient with hematemesis. Unexpected source of bleeding in the stomach].", "content": "[Patient with hematemesis. Unexpected source of bleeding in the stomach]."}
{"id": "21051029", "title": "Role of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration in lung and mediastinal lesions.", "content": "Role of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration in lung and mediastinal lesions. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) was initially introduced for diagnosing gastrointestinal and pancreatic lesions, and later on for lung and mediastinal lesions. It can provide tissue diagnosis of lung cancer where bronchoscopy is non-diagnostic. It is a minimally invasive method for lymph node (N) and metastasis (M) staging of non-small cell lung cancer, and is helpful for tissue proof of mediastinal mass with unknown origin. Few data on this topic have been reported from Eastern countries. We report our experience of using EUS-FNA for tissue proof of lung and mediastinal lesions. This was a retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data of 20 cases, with 21 EUS-FNAs of lung and mediastinal lesions (1 EUS-FNA performed on left adrenal gland) for tissue diagnosis and staging. With patients' informed written consent and fasting for 8 hours, EUS-FNA was performed with a linear echoendoscope using a 22- or 5-gauge needle and a syringe with 10-20 mL negative pressure. The cytology smear was fixed with 98% alcohol, while cell-block and tissue were sent for histology. There was no onsite cytopathologist. EUS-guided Tru-Cut biopsy was performed in 1 case. Malignancy was proven by FNA biopsy results, mediastinoscopy when performed, or by clinical course and follow-up. Of the 20 cases, 19 were male and 1 was female; mean age was 63.9 \u00b1 12.6 years. Median tumor size was 2.6 cm (range, 1.8-5.0 cm), and median number of punctures was 3 (range, 2-7). Eighteen EUS-FNA punctures were performed at the mediastinum, and 2 directly on lung mass. The size of the left adrenal metastasis for extramediastinal EUS-FNA was 1.2 cm. Of the 16 EUS-FNA-positive cases, 12 were for tissue diagnosis, 3 were for both tissue diagnosis and staging (N2 and M1 staging), and 1 was for N2 staging. EUS-FNA provided a tissue diagnosis in 14 cases where bronchoscopy was negative. In 16 positive EUS-FNAs, all except 1 had adequate tissue for FNA biopsy. The sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy of EUS-FNA were 84.2%, 100%, and 85%, respectively. EUS-FNA can diagnose lung cancer by confirmation of mediastinal lymph node metastasis, by direct puncture of lung tumor close to the esophagus. It is useful for lymph node (N) stations 5, 7, 8 and metastasis (M) staging in non-small cell lung cancer, and for the diagnosis of mediastinal mass of unknown etiology."}
{"id": "21043008", "title": "[Gangliocytic paraganglioma--a rare cause of an upper gastrointestinal bleeding].", "content": "[Gangliocytic paraganglioma--a rare cause of an upper gastrointestinal bleeding]. Gangliocytic paraganglioma is a rare tumour, occurring nearly exclusively in the descending part of the duodenum. It is regarded as a mostly benign tumour but of unknown malignant potential, which rarely metastasises to local lymph nodes or distantly. Here we report on a 62-year-old female patient with a marked microcytic anaemia with a haemoglobin concentration of 3.4 mg/dL. Oesophagogastroduodenoscopy showed an ulcerous periampullary tumour in the duodenum with a diameter of approximately 5 cm. Endoscopic ultrasonography showed no evidence of tumour infiltration of the tunica muscularis and of locoregional lymph node metastasis. Therefore, complete endoscopic resection of the tumour was achieved after ligating the tumour base by an endoloop using a dual channel endoscope. In a second step, the tumour base was resected by endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) and revealed no residual tumour. The histological evaluation showed a gangliocytic paranganglioma consisting of three specific cell types: epithelioid cells arranged in typical carcinoid-like patterns, spindle cells wrapped around nests of epithelioid cells and ganglion cells. All cell types expressed neuron-specific enolase (NSE) as a neuroendocrine marker. Synaptophysine was expressed mainly by the epithelioid and ganglion cells while the protein S 100 was expressed mainly by the spindle cells, which surround the epithelioid cell nests as a sustentacular network. The proliferation rate determined by Ki67 staining was only < 5 %. Gangliocytic gangliocytomas of the duodenum can be safely removed by endoscopic submucosal dissection as long as there is no evidence of infiltration of the tunica muscularis or of local lymph node metastasis. Because of the unknown malignant potential, these patients have to be controlled by regular ultrasonographic and endosonographic procedures."}
{"id": "21040674", "title": "[Localization diagnostics of neuroendocrine gastrointestinal tumours].", "content": "[Localization diagnostics of neuroendocrine gastrointestinal tumours]. Localization diagnostics of neuroendocrine tumours is relevant in relation to staging and planning of therapy, including surgery. Imaging modalities are also relevant in relation to biopsy guidance. Currently, the most frequently used methods are somatostatin receptor scintigraphy, computed tomography with contrast and endoscopic ultrasound. The strengths of the different modalities are discussed and it is concluded that frequently a combination of imaging modalities is necessary in the work-up of patients with neuroendocrine tumours."}
{"id": "20981593", "title": "[Diagnosis and treatment of rectal cancer].", "content": "[Diagnosis and treatment of rectal cancer]."}
{"id": "20937424", "title": "Management of esophageal cancer.", "content": "Management of esophageal cancer."}
{"id": "20931455", "title": "Gastric inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor masquerading as a pancreatic cystic neoplasm.", "content": "Gastric inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor masquerading as a pancreatic cystic neoplasm."}
{"id": "20883873", "title": "EUS aspiration needle size: smaller is better?", "content": "EUS aspiration needle size: smaller is better?"}
{"id": "20828403", "title": "Pathological complete response after neoadjuvant chemotherapy with trastuzumab-containing regimen in gastric cancer: a case report.", "content": "Pathological complete response after neoadjuvant chemotherapy with trastuzumab-containing regimen in gastric cancer: a case report. We report a 49-year-old Chinese male with locally advanced gastric adenocarcinoma achieving pathological complete response after neoadjuvant chemotherapy with trastuzumab-containing regimen. He underwent esophagogastroduodenoscopy in September 2009, which revealed a 2-cm gastric ulcer on the lesser curvature proximal to angularis. Biopsy of gastric ulcer showed moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with overexpression of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) by immunohistochemistry and fluorescence in situ hybridization. Further workups with endoscopic ultrasound, computed tomography and positron emission tomography staged his cancer as T3N1M0. He received 3 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy consisting of trastuzumab, oxaliplatin, docetaxel and capecitabine without severe toxicities except grade 2 diarrhea near the completion of cycle 3 requiring discontinuation of capecitabine. Afterwards, he received total gastrectomy with extended D2 lymph node dissections showing pathological complete response. He went on to receive 3 more cycles of chemotherapy postoperatively. The role of trastuzumab as a part of perioperative therapy in gastric cancer overexpressing HER2 is worth further investigation."}
{"id": "20729057", "title": "In vivo detection of epithelial neoplasia in the stomach using image-guided Raman endoscopy.", "content": "In vivo detection of epithelial neoplasia in the stomach using image-guided Raman endoscopy. This study explores the utility of a novel image-guided Raman endoscopy technique for in vivo distinction of gastric cancer from normal tissue during clinical gastroscopy. The rapid-acquisition fiber-optic Raman endoscopy system developed was employed for in vivo gastric tissue Raman measurements at 785 nm laser excitation. A total of 1063 in vivo Raman spectra were acquired from 238 tissue sites of 67 gastric patients who underwent endoscopic ultrasound staging procedure, in which 934 Raman spectra were from 121 normal tissue sites whereas 129 Raman spectra were from 117 neoplastic gastric tissue sites. Gastric Raman spectra were fitted and reconstructed by using a linear combination of the eight basis reference spectra from the biochemicals (i.e., actin, albumin, collagen, DNA, histones, pepsinogen, phospholipids and triolein) in gastric tissue and also compared with the in vivo gastric Raman spectra measured. The resulting fit coefficients were further utilized through recursive partitioning techniques to develop diagnostic algorithms for gastric cancer diagnosis. High-quality in vivo Raman spectra in the range of 800-1800 cm(-1) can be acquired from gastric mucosa within 0.5s. The fit coefficients from albumin, nucleic acid, phospholipids and histones were found to be the most significant features for construction of the diagnostic model, giving rise to an overall accuracy of 93.7% (i.e., sensitivity of 94.0% (110/117) and specificity of 93.4% (113/121)) for in vivo discrimination of cancerous tissue from normal gastric tissue after the leave-one tissue site-out, cross-validation technique. This work demonstrates for the first time that image-guided Raman endoscopy technique has promising potential for the non-invasive, in vivo diagnosis and detection of gastric cancer at the molecular level."}
{"id": "20721843", "title": "[Diagnosis and treatment of gastric cancer].", "content": "[Diagnosis and treatment of gastric cancer]. From a global perspective, gastric cancer including cancer of the esophago-gastric junction is the fourth most common malignant tumor and the second-most common cause of cancer-related death. Due to the lack of screening programs in Western countries, most gastric cancers are diagnosed in advanced stages. A sophisticated staging should include high-resolution computed tomography of the thorax, abdomen and pelvis and video-documented endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasound. In mucosal gastric cancer, endoscopic resection can replace surgical resection if specific criteria are present. In the stages II and III perioperative chemotherapy has been established as a standard of care and should be applied. In the metastatic setting, treatment goals are palliative. Chemotherapy can prolong survival, improve symptoms and can help to maintain a better quality of life. Combination chemotherapy including a platinum compound and a fluoropyrimidine regarded as standard. About 20 % of gastric cancers exhibit overexpression of the growth factor receptor family member Her2. Trastuzumab is a monoclonal antibody directed against Her2 and has shown to prolong survival when combined with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil or capecitabine."}
{"id": "20706065", "title": "Treatment of recurrence after transanal endoscopic microsurgery (TEM) for T1 rectal cancer.", "content": "Treatment of recurrence after transanal endoscopic microsurgery (TEM) for T1 rectal cancer. The aim of this study was to evaluate the management and outcome of local recurrences after transanal endoscopic microsurgery for T1 rectal cancer. Consecutive patients who underwent transanal endoscopic microsurgery for pT1 rectal cancer at a Dutch referral center (IJsselland Hospital) were registered in a prospective database. Follow-up was according to Dutch guidelines on rectal cancer, with additional rigid rectoscopy and endorectal ultrasound examinations every 3 months for the first 2 years, and every 6 months thereafter. Annual MRI of the lesser pelvis was added during the last 2 years of the study. Patients with local recurrence during follow-up were selected for individual analysis of outcome. Of a total of 88 patients who underwent transanal endoscopic microsurgery for pT1 rectal cancer, 18 patients (20.5%) had a local recurrence. Median time to local recurrence was 10 (range, 4-50) months. Median age at diagnosis of recurrence was 74 (range, 56-84) years. Of the 18 patients, 2 did not undergo further surgery because of concomitant metastatic disease, and 16 underwent salvage surgery, without need for multivisceral resections. No postoperative mortality was observed. In 15 patients (94%), a microscopically negative excision margin was obtained; in 1 patient, the excision margin was microscopically positive. Median follow-up after salvage surgery was 20 (range, 2-112) months. One patient had a local renewal of recurrence, and 7 patients (39%) had distant metastases. At 3 years, overall survival was 31%; cancer-related survival was 58%. Recurrent disease after transanal endoscopic microsurgery for T1 rectal cancer is a major problem. Although salvage surgery for achieving local control is feasible in most patients, survival is limited, mainly because of distant metastases. Tailoring selection of T1 rectal cancers and exploring possible adjuvant treatment strategies following salvage procedures should be the next steps toward improving survival."}
{"id": "20676872", "title": "Clinical staging of adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction.", "content": "Clinical staging of adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction. Tumors of the esophagogastric junction are among the most frequent and cause lethal cancers. Patients often do not present until late in the disease when the tumor is sufficiently large to cause obstruction or invasion of the adjacent structures, and thus becomes symptomatic. Preoperative staging is critical to select those patients whose disease is still locally confined for curative surgery. Ideally, clinical staging should accurately predict tumor invasion, lymph node involvement, and distant metastases. Upper endoscopy establishes the tumor diagnosis by multiple biopsies and defines the tumor type (Siewert I-III), based on tumor localization in relation to the endoscopic cardia. Preoperative TNM staging has a strong impact on treatment strategy. Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS) determines the T category, and to a lesser extent, the presence of lymph node metastases. Multislice Computed Tomography (CT) and 18Fluorode-ocx-glucose Positron Emission Computed Tomography (18FDG-PET-CT) provide further information, especially about systemic metastases. Diagnostic laparascopy is suggested in advanced (CT3/4) Siewert type II-III tumors to exclude peritoneal carcinomatosis. This chapter summarizes current staging modalities and their accuracy in clinical practice."}
{"id": "20669078", "title": "Neuroendocrine tumors of the stomach (gastric carcinoids) are on the rise: small tumors, small problems?", "content": "Neuroendocrine tumors of the stomach (gastric carcinoids) are on the rise: small tumors, small problems? Well differentiated neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) of the stomach (gastric carcinoid tumors) are observed more often, with a tenfold increase in the US in the last 30 - 35 years, and the prognosis has improved greatly in that time. Nowadays most carcinoids of the stomach are diagnosed at an early stage. Four types of gastric NETs have been proposed and recognition of the type is important for defining the diagnostic approach and treatment. Often gastric NETs (especially type 1) are found incidentally during a gastroscopy performed for other reasons; most of these NETs are smaller than 20 mm in size. Conservative management and endoscopic surveillance is adequate for well differentiated, multifocal gastric carcinoids (type 1 or type 2 gastric NETs) that are less than 10 - 20 mm in diameter, unless they show angioinvasion, infiltrate the muscular wall, or have a proliferation rate above 2 %. Endoscopic ultrasound is the method of choice to determine tumor size and depth of infiltration. It is essential to distinguish between multifocal (types 1 and 2) and unifocal type 3 or type 4 gastric NETs, since surgery is indicated for type 3 gastric NETs larger than 10 mm in diameter and for poorly differentiated (localized) neuroendocrine gastric carcinomas (type 4 gastric NET). For optimal management, the type, biology, and stage of the tumor as well as the individual situation of the patient must be considered. Most patients with well differentiated gastric NETs can be treated conservatively and be followed up with endoscopic surveillance."}
{"id": "20652857", "title": "Comparison of endoscopic ultrasonography and conventional endoscopy for prediction of depth of tumor invasion in early gastric cancer.", "content": "Comparison of endoscopic ultrasonography and conventional endoscopy for prediction of depth of tumor invasion in early gastric cancer. This study aimed to compare the diagnostic accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) with that of conventional endoscopy for staging depth of invasion (T staging) in early gastric cancer. A total of 955 patients with suspected early gastric cancer were prospectively registered. EUS staging was carried out prospectively by a single endoscopist using either miniprobe or radial EUS depending on the endoscopic appearance of the tumor. Conventional endoscopy staging was performed retrospectively by consensus between two endoscopists who were blinded to the EUS staging. Conventional endoscopy staging was conducted on the basis of endoscopic features such as surface nodularity and fold convergence. Patients underwent either surgical (n = 586) or endoscopic resection (n = 369) with curative intent. The staging accuracy of each test was compared with the pathological staging of the resected specimen. The presence of a T1m tumor was histologically confirmed in 644 cases (67.4 %) and that of a T1sm tumor in 311 cases (32.6 %). The overall accuracy of EUS staging was 67.4 % (644 / 955) and that of conventional endoscopy staging was 73.7 % (704 / 955) ( P < 0.001). The accuracy of miniprobe EUS was significantly higher than that of radial EUS (79.5 % vs. 59.6 %, P < 0.001), but did not differ significantly from that of conventional endoscopy (79.0 %). EUS does not substantially impact on pretreatment T staging of patients with early gastric cancer compared with conventional endoscopy. Therefore, EUS may not be necessary routinely, and conventional endoscopy may be sufficient for determining the optimal therapeutic strategy, especially in relation to endoscopic resection for early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "20646389", "title": "[The role of endoscopy in gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors].", "content": "[The role of endoscopy in gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors]. Versione italiana Riassunto: Il ruolo dell'endoscopia nei tumori neuroendocrini gastroenteropancreatici. L. Magno, L. Sivero, V. Napolitano, S. Ruggiero, G. Fontanarosa, S. Massa I tumori neuroendocrini (NET) gastro-entero-pancreatici (GEP) sono neoplasie rare che originano dalle cellule neuroendocrine del tubo digerente e del pancreas. L'endoscopia digestiva e l'ecoendoscopia rivestono un ruolo importante nella diagnosi, stadiazione e sorveglianza dei pazienti con NET. Inoltre, in casi selezionati, le tecniche endoscopiche operative consentono il trattamento di queste neoplasie in fase precoce. English version Summary: The role of endoscopy in gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. L. Magno, L. Sivero, V. Napolitano, S. Ruggiero, G. Fontanarosa, S. Massa Gastroenteropancreatic (GEP) neuroendocrine tumors (NET) are rare neoplasia arisen from neuroendocrine cells present in the gut mucosa and pancreas. Digestive endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography play a relevant role in NET diagnosis, stadiation and surveillance. Moreover, in selected patients, surgical endoscopy allows the tratment of these cancers at an early stage."}
{"id": "20617861", "title": "Usefulness of endoscopic ultrasonography in preoperative gastric cancer staging: diagnostic yield and therapeutic impact.", "content": "Usefulness of endoscopic ultrasonography in preoperative gastric cancer staging: diagnostic yield and therapeutic impact. To evaluate the diagnostic yield of endoscopic ultrasonography in loco-regional staging of gastric cancer in our medium and to determine the impact of this technique on later therapeutic management. This is a retrospective study carried out on patients histologically diagnosed with gastric adenocarcinoma who had been referred for endoscopic ultrasonographic examination. The technique results were compared with those obtained from surgical samples and/or from exploratory laparoscopy- laparotomy. We compared the initial therapeutic decision based on conventional diagnostic techniques with the final therapeutic management based on the endoscopic ultrasonography results. Forty-six patients with gastric adenocarcinoma were included in the study (a reference exploration was available in 36 cases). Diagnostic precision was 70% in stage T, while in stages T1, T2, T3 y T4 was 100, 38, 82, and 100%, respectively. The sensitivity and specificity to differentiate T1-2 from T3-4 was 94 and 85%, respectively. We could not identify factors associated with obtaining a correct diagnosis in staging T. Diagnostic precision was 72% for stage N (N0: 58%; Nx 88%). The presence of free perigastric fluid was identified in 7 cases; the presence of peritoneal carcinomatosis was later confirmed in 5 of these. The result of endoscopic ultrasonography led to a modification in the subsequent therapeutic management in 13 patients (28%). Endoscopic ultrasonography is a useful technique for loco-regional staging of gastric adenocarcinoma, which may have important implications in the therapeutic management of these patients."}
{"id": "20598257", "title": "Adenocarcinoma arising from a gastric submucosal intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm.", "content": "Adenocarcinoma arising from a gastric submucosal intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm."}
{"id": "20593045", "title": "Vascular endothelial growth factor expression and microvessel density--two useful tools for the assessment of prognosis and survival in gastric cancer patients.", "content": "Vascular endothelial growth factor expression and microvessel density--two useful tools for the assessment of prognosis and survival in gastric cancer patients. The role of angiogenesis in progression and metastasis of gastric cancer has been studied over the last years. The aim of our study was to assess the microvessel density and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in correlation with prognosis, survival and the risk for upper gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding as well. We prospectively assessed angiogenesis in 40 patients with gastric carcinoma. Microvessel density was calculated using CD31 and CD34 markers, and VEGF expression was assessed in biopsy samples. The tumor stage was established using imaging methods: CT scan for M and N stage and endoscopic ultrasound for T and N stages. The correlation between pathological markers and tumor stage, survival rate and risk of upper gastrointestinal bleeding was assessed. The study included 40 patients with gastric cancer; among them 8 patients presented with upper GI bleeding. The average microvessel density was 10.21 for CD31 and 11.85 for CD34 in all patients VEGF was positive only in 45% of patients. The microvessel density was higher in patients with advanced TNM stage, and a correlation with the risk of UGIB and survival rate was also found. VEGF expression correlated with TNM stage and with the risk of upper GI bleeding. Microvessel density (estimated by CD34) was involved in locally advanced disease, while VEGF was correlated with loco-regional extension and distant metastasis in gastric cancer patients. There was a clear correlation between angiogenic parameters, survival rate and the risk of upper GI bleeding."}
{"id": "20547601", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound: a review of current diagnostic and therapeutic applications.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound: a review of current diagnostic and therapeutic applications. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has become important in a variety of clinical settings. Echoendoscopes may be categorised into radial and linear configurations. Radial devices are used for diagnostic imaging, whereas linear echoendoscopes also facilitate image guided tissue sampling and intervention. EUS is an established primary diagnostic tool for a number of conditions including choledocholithiasis and biliary microlithiasis. It is therefore well suited to the investigation of the aetiology of pancreatitis where simpler measures fail to identify the aetiology. It can also be used to identify chronic non-calcific pancreatitis. EUS is important in the secondary evaluation of abnormalities detected by other imaging modalities-for example, cystic pancreatic lesions. The high resolution of EUS allows more detailed image based analysis than other imaging modalities. The ability to sample cyst fluid significantly increases the accuracy of lesion characterisation. Most importantly, EUS has become indispensable in the staging of a variety of upper gastrointestinal tract tumours. If resection is being considered, the high resolution images obtained via EUS are invaluable for local tumour staging. EUS guided tissue sampling permits accurate nodal staging without relying on lymph node size as proxy for malignant infiltration. In patients with contraindications to magnetic resonance imaging, EUS is an alternative for the staging of rectal carcinoma. It is used in the staging of lung cancer, often in combination with endobronchial ultrasound. Finally, EUS is used therapeutically in image guided drainage (such as gastrocystostomy in pancreatic pseudocyst) and coeliac plexus neurolysis in patients with abdominal pain caused by pancreatic cancer or pancreatitis."}
{"id": "20525472", "title": "[Long-term survival after curative resection for oesophageal and cardia cancer].", "content": "[Long-term survival after curative resection for oesophageal and cardia cancer]. We present the long-term survival after curative resection for cancer at the gastro-oesophageal junction. From 1992 through 2003, 147 patients with cancer at the gastro-oesophageal junction underwent curative resection. Preoperative evaluation included a computed tomography (CT) scan of the thorax and abdomen, gastroscopy, endoscopic ultrasonography and ultrasonography of the neck. Explorative laparotomy was performed in 466 patients, and 147 underwent curative resection, while 319 had advanced disease. No patients received adjuvant chemo-radiotherapy. Adenocarcinoma was found in 93% of the patients and squamous cell carcinoma in 7%. Cardia resection was performed in 78%, while 22% underwent gastrectomy. R0 resection was performed in 95% of the operations. Anastomotic dehiscence was seen in 4%. The perioperative mortality after curative resection was 3% and the 180-day-mortality was 5%. The observed five-year survival rate after curative operation was 29% and the estimated five-year survival was 24%. The five-year survival rates according to tumour stage (T1-4) were 85%, 40%, 23% and 25%, respectively. After stratification according to lymph node metastases (-/+metastases) and age below/above 70 years, five-year survival rates were 41%/ 19% and 32%/17%, respectively. Cox regression analysis showed that no metastases (N0) and age below 70 years were independent predictors of survival. The overall and stage-dependent survival after five years, perioperative mortality and complications are acceptable and comparative to those reported by foreign centres."}
{"id": "20517819", "title": "Whole-body MR imaging versus sequential multimodal diagnostic algorithm for staging patients with rectal cancer: cost analysis.", "content": "Whole-body MR imaging versus sequential multimodal diagnostic algorithm for staging patients with rectal cancer: cost analysis. To compare the direct costs of two diagnostic algorithms for pretherapeutic TNM staging of rectal cancer. In a study including 33 patients (mean age: 62.5 years), the direct fixed and variable costs of a sequential multimodal algorithm (rectoscopy, endoscopic and abdominal ultrasound, chest X-ray, thoracic/abdominal CT in the case of positive findings in abdominal ultrasound or chest X-ray) were compared to those of a novel algorithm of rectoscopy followed by MRI using a whole-body scanner. MRI included T 2w sequences of the rectum, 3D T 1w sequences of the liver and chest after bolus injection of gadoxetic acid, and delayed phases of the liver. The personnel work times, material items, and work processes were tracked to the nearest minute by interviewing those responsible for the process (surgeon, gastroenterologist, two radiologists). The costs of labor and materials were determined from personnel reimbursement data and hospital accounting records. Fixed costs were determined from vendor pricing. The mean MRI time was 55 min. CT was performed in 19/33 patients (57%) causing an additional day of hospitalization (costs 374 euro). The costs for equipment and material were higher for MRI compared to sequential algorithm (equipment 116 vs. 30 euro; material 159 vs. 60 euro per patient). The personnel costs were markedly lower for MRI (436 vs. 732 euro per patient). Altogether, the absolute cost advantage of MRI was 31.3% (711 vs. 1035 euro for sequential algorithm). Substantial savings are achievable with the use of whole-body MRI for the preoperative TNM staging of patients with rectal cancer."}
{"id": "20490559", "title": "Is endoscopic ultrasonography indispensable in patients with early gastric cancer prior to endoscopic resection?", "content": "Is endoscopic ultrasonography indispensable in patients with early gastric cancer prior to endoscopic resection? Endoscopic resection as curative treatment of early gastric cancer (EGC) requires accurate staging for depth of invasion (T) before therapy. This study aimed to compare T staging of EGC using a miniprobe with that of conventional endoscopy (CE). A total of 388 patients with suspected of EGC by CE were prospectively enrolled in the study. After miniprobe staging by an experienced endosonographer, CE staging was performed by another endoscopist who was blinded to the miniprobe assessment. Patients underwent either endoscopic resection (n = 325) or surgery (=63) according to staging results. Results of each method were compared with the histology of the resected specimen. Clinicopathological factors affecting accuracy of each test were also evaluated. Overall accuracy of miniprobe and CE staging was 78.9% (306/388) and 81.4% (316/388), respectively (p = 0.052). Sensitivity for T1m was more than 95% (miniprobe 98.7%, CE 97.7%), whereas sensitivity for T1sm was lower at 6.6% for miniprobe and 23.7% for CE (p = 0.002). Among nine lesions identically considered submucosal invasion by both methods, three were T1sm cancer. Diagnostic accuracy of the miniprobe was lower than that of CE with respect to lesions located in the lower third of the stomach, differentiated histology, or massive submucosal invasion. Overall accuracy of the miniprobe and CE for T staging in EGC was approximately 80% with no significant difference. Accurate prediction of both techniques for submucosal invasion was poor, even by using a combination of the two methods. The use of the miniprobe may not increase the positive predictive value for T staging over the use of CE alone."}
{"id": "20444330", "title": "[Preliminary experience in treatment of locally advanced gastric adenocarcinoma with peri-operative chemotherapy].", "content": "[Preliminary experience in treatment of locally advanced gastric adenocarcinoma with peri-operative chemotherapy]. Gastric Cancer (GC) is a poor prognosis neoplasm and it is often diagnosed at advanced stage. Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy (NAC) may increase the possibility of complete surgical resection and improve Overall Survival (OS). Since November 2006, six patients with gastric adenocarcinoma, diagnosed by endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasonography and total body 18FDG-PET-CT, were enrolled in a program of peri-operative chemotherapy, according to the following inclusion criteria: cT2N+M0 or cT3-4NxM0, age < 75 years, Karnofsky Performance Status > 60%, absence of hepatic, renal and bone marrow failures. The patients undergo three cycles of pre-operative and post-operative chemotherapy based on Epirubicine, Cisplatin, and 5-Fluorouracil (ECF) as MAGIC Trial proposed. Fifteen days after the end of pre-operative chemotherapy the patient undergoes endoscopic ultrasonography and total body 18FDG-PET-CT to evaluate the tumor response to treatment, and then he is addressed to surgery. Thirty days after surgery he starts the post-operative chemotherapy. All patients completed the pre-operative chemotherapy. Five patients underwent D2 subtotal gastrectomy and only one patient D1 total gastrectomy. No peri- and post-operative mortality and morbidity were observed. One month after surgery all patients started chemotherapy. During post-operative chemotherapy two patients developed subclavian vein thrombosis, one patient developed renal failure. Although surgical resection remains the key component in the treatment of GC, it is clear that improved outcome will depend on a multidisciplinary treatment. NAC is associated with appreciable toxicity and it may improve the OS, allowing the downstaging of the primary tumor and increasing its resecability, as shown by MAGIC trial."}
{"id": "20428946", "title": "Endoscopic removal of small gastrointestinal stromal tumors: can we GIST-ify the risk?", "content": "Endoscopic removal of small gastrointestinal stromal tumors: can we GIST-ify the risk?"}
{"id": "20386524", "title": "Functional assessment in the multimodality imaging of pancreatic neuro-endocrine tumours.", "content": "Functional assessment in the multimodality imaging of pancreatic neuro-endocrine tumours. Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours comprise a heterogeneous group that are rare but could result in serious manifestations. Surgical excision provides the best approach to treatment but many patients may have small lesions that are difficult to detect, or present with wide spread disease by the time of diagnosis. In addition to clinical assessment and biochemical tests, imaging is a major factor in establishing the diagnosis. Cross-sectional imaging such as US, CT and MR, play a major role in the initial assessment. However, they may miss small lesions or metastatic spread. Functional Imaging became possible with the development of somatostatin receptor imaging using 111In-octreotide, which when combined with anatomical imaging could provide enhanced detection. A major improvement has been achieved by combining receptor and PET inaging through the use of 68Ga-DOTA complexes that have been shown to have a much better sensitivity than other imaging modalities and can provide the basis for radionuclide treatment with 90Y or 177Lu labelled with DOTA complexes."}
{"id": "20372144", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided transgastric biliary drainage aided by Soehendra stent retriever.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided transgastric biliary drainage aided by Soehendra stent retriever."}
{"id": "20370729", "title": "Preoperative staging of gastric cancer by endoscopic ultrasonography and multidetector-row computed tomography.", "content": "Preoperative staging of gastric cancer by endoscopic ultrasonography and multidetector-row computed tomography. The aim of this study was to determine the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and multidetector-row computed tomography (MDCT) for the locoregional staging of gastric cancer. EUS and computed tomography (CT) are valuable tools for the preoperative evaluation of gastric cancer. With the introduction of new therapeutic options and the recent improvements in CT technology, further evaluation of the diagnostic accuracy of EUS and MDCT is needed. In total, 277 patients who underwent EUS and MDCT, followed by gastrectomy or endoscopic resection at Bundang Hospital, Seoul National University, from July 2006 to April 2008, were analyzed. The results from the preoperative EUS and MDCT were compared to the postoperative pathological findings. Among the 277 patients, the overall accuracy of EUS and MDCT for T staging was 74.7% and 76.9%, respectively. Among the 141 patients with visualized primary lesions on MDCT, the overall accuracy of EUS and MDCT for T staging was 61.7% and 63.8%, respectively. The overall accuracy for N staging was 66% and 62.8%, respectively. The performance of EUS and MDCT for large lesions and lesions at the cardia and angle had significantly lower accuracy than that of other groups. For EUS, the early gastric cancer lesions with ulcerative changes had significantly lower accuracy than those without ulcerative changes. For the preoperative assessment of individual T and N staging in patients with gastric cancer, the accuracy of MDCT was close to that of EUS. Both EUS and MDCT are useful complementary modalities for the locoregional staging of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "20361084", "title": "State-of-the art endoscopic imaging in lung cancer: should specialties collide or concur?", "content": "State-of-the art endoscopic imaging in lung cancer: should specialties collide or concur? Endoscopic ultrasound has been recently established as a routine diagnostic and staging procedure in lung cancer patients, mainly because of the possibility of tissue sampling. Transesophageal endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) represents a method which not only allows the visualization of the upper gastrointestinal tract, but also offers good visualisation of the posterior and inferior mediastinum. Endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) permits the assessment of the tumors in the anterior mediastinum. Based on previously published literature, it is obvious that this minimally invasive procedure now offers the possibility of tissue diagnosis in mediastinal masses including primary tumours or secondary lesions from both benign and malignant diseases."}
{"id": "20354939", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration and trucut biopsy in the diagnosis of gastric stromal tumors: a randomized crossover study.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration and trucut biopsy in the diagnosis of gastric stromal tumors: a randomized crossover study. The diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) has important prognostic and therapeutic implications. The specific diagnosis of GIST has to be based on immunocytochemistry. This study aimed to prospectively compare in a crossover manner the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) and EUS-guided trucut biopsy (EUS-TCB) in the specific diagnosis of gastric GISTs. We hypothesized that EUS-TCB is superior to EUS-FNA in this respect. Forty patients with gastric subepithelial tumors suspected on the basis of EUS of being a GIST underwent both EUS-FNA and EUS-TCB. The sequence in which the techniques were employed was randomly assigned to avoid bias. Forty tumors were sampled (mean number of passes: 2.1 +/- 0.9 with EUS-TNB and 1.9 +/- 0.8 with EUS-FNA; P = not significant, NS). Final diagnoses were: GIST (n = 27), carcinoma (n = 2), leiomyoma (n = 1), schwannoma (n = 1), and no diagnosis possible (n = 9). Device failure occurred in 6 patients with EUS-TCB. A cytohistological diagnosis of mesenchymal tumor (n = 29) and carcinoma (n = 2) was made in 70 % of cases by EUS-FNA and in 60 % of cases by EUS-TCB ( P = NS). Among the samples that were adequate, immunohistochemistry could be performed in 74 % of EUS-FNA samples and in 91 % of EUS-TCB samples ( P = 0.025). When inadequate samples were included, the overall diagnostic accuracy of EUS-FNA was 52 % and that of EUS-TCB was 55 % ( P = NS). There were no complications. EUS-TCB is not superior to EUS-FNA in GISTs because of the high rate of technical failure of trucut. However, when an adequate sample is obtained with EUS-TCB, immunohistochemical phenotyping is almost always possible. EUS-TCB can be safely performed in this set of patients."}
{"id": "20349310", "title": "Partial esophagectomy for a superficial carcinoma arising from the mid-esophageal diverticulum.", "content": "Partial esophagectomy for a superficial carcinoma arising from the mid-esophageal diverticulum. A 69-year-old man presented with epigastralgia at a local hospital. Endoscopy detected a superficial esophageal carcinoma arising from a mid-esophageal diverticulum with intraepithelial spread. The patient was referred to our hospital for further examination and treatment. Esophagography showed irregularity in the mid-esophageal diverticulum. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) revealed invasion of the tumor into the proper mucosal muscle layer. No lymph node metastasis was detected on computed tomography or EUS. Partial esophagectomy and lymph node dissection in the mediastinum was performed through a right thoracotomy. An esophageal end-to-end anastomosis was constructed by circular stapler inserted from the stomach through a small laparotomy. Pathologic findings were a well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma slightly invading the submucosal layer without lymph node metastasis. Although the patient did not have postoperative complications and was discharged 3 weeks after the operation, he suffered an anastomotic stricture requiring endoscopic balloon dilatation. He has survived more than 4 years after the operation without recurrence."}
{"id": "20226456", "title": "Diagnostic utility of EUS-guided FNA in patients with gastric submucosal tumors.", "content": "Diagnostic utility of EUS-guided FNA in patients with gastric submucosal tumors. Submucosal tumors (SMTs) comprise both benign and malignant lesions, and most of the gastric lesions tend to be malignant. The addition of EUS-guided FNA (EUS-FNA) has the potential to improve this distinction, but published series are limited. To evaluate the yield of EUS-FNA in gastric SMTs with referral to a criterion standard final diagnosis. Retrospective study. Tertiary-care referral center. This study involved 141 consecutive patients with gastric SMTs, who underwent EUS-FNA from January 2000 to December 2008. Immunohistochemical staining with c-kit, CD34, actin, and S-100 antibodies was done if a spindle cell tumor was found. Based on FNA sample adequacy, and whether a specific diagnosis could be established, EUS-FNA results were categorized as diagnostic, suggestive, or nondiagnostic. The criterion standards for final diagnosis were the surgical histopathological results or the follow-up course for malignant, inoperable cases. EUS-FNA. Diagnostic yield of EUS-FNA and factors related to sampling adequacy for cytological and immunohistochemical evaluation. A total of 141 patients (52% female, mean age 56.7 years) underwent EUS-FNA (range 1-5 passes). The overall results of EUS-FNA were diagnostic, suggestive, and nondiagnostic in 43.3%, 39%, and 17.7% of cases, respectively. Adequate specimens were obtained in 83% of cases, and 69 cases (48.9%) had a definitive final diagnosis. The most common gastric SMT was GI stromal tumor (59.5%). EUS-FNA results were 95.6% accurate (95% confidence interval [CI], 87.5%-99%) for the final diagnosis and 94.2% (95% CI, 85.6%-98.1%) accurate for differentiating potentially malignant lesions. A heterogeneous echo pattern was the only independent predictor for sampling adequacy (adjusted odds ratio 6.15; P = .002). There were no procedure-related complications. Possibility of selection bias. EUS-FNA is an accurate method for diagnosis of gastric SMTs and for differentiating malignant lesions."}
{"id": "20208328", "title": "EUS-guided pancreatic cyst brushing: a comparative study in a tertiary referral centre.", "content": "EUS-guided pancreatic cyst brushing: a comparative study in a tertiary referral centre. Fluid analysis obtained by EUS guided FNA is used to aid in diagnosis and management of cystic lesions in the pancreas. Complementing fluid aspiration with brushing of cyst wall may increase the cellular yield. To compare cellular yield of pancreatic cyst FNA with and without wall brushing. Comparative study. Tertiary referral centre. Fifty-one patients with cystic pancreatic lesions referred for EUS-guided aspiration/sampling were included (median age 69 years; interquartile range: 49-77 years). Comparing adequacy of cellular yield between EUS-guided aspiration alone vs. EUS-guided aspiration and cyst wall brushing. EUS-guided FNA and/or wall brushing (aspiration only: No. 27; brushing: No. 24). There was no significant difference in age (P=0.496) cyst size (P=0.084) or cyst location (P=0.227) between groups. Overall 29.5%; (15/51) of samples were acellular/insufficient with no significant difference between the two groups (22.2% in the aspiration only group vs. 37.5% in the brushing group; P=0.356). The remaining samples were adequate for cytological evaluation (77.8% vs. 62.5%; aspiration only vs. brushing groups). Seventeen cases were neoplastic (8 benign, 9 malignant). The diagnostic accuracy was 61.9% and 55.0% in aspiration only and brushing groups, respectively. Two out of 4 (50.0%) patents were diagnosed as having cancer in the brushings group compared to 1/5 (20.0%) in the FNA only group (P=0.524). Non-randomised series. The cellular yield was similar in FNA and brushing group. Greater proportion of patients with malignant cystic pancreatic lesions diagnosed by EUS sampling was in the brushing group, but this did not reach statistical significance."}
{"id": "20206104", "title": "Staging role of EUS.", "content": "Staging role of EUS. Type of lymphoma and stage of disease are the two decisive prognostic factors and therapeutic determinants. For the locoregional staging, i.e. assessment of the gastric wall infiltration and perigastric lymphonodular involvement, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is highly useful. EUS has, therefore, to be integrated into the standard staging procedure of gastric lymphoma, although its impact on initial treatment decisions might be limited in the individual case. A benefit from the use of miniechoendoscopes, EUS elastography and EUS-guided biopsies has not yet been proven in gastric lymphoma. EUS also confers an important prognostic value regarding treatment responses to Helicobacter pylori eradication. On the contrary, EUS cannot be recommended as a regular part of follow-up investigations considering its limited value in predicting the response of the lymphoma to radiation or chemotherapy."}
{"id": "20206103", "title": "Diagnosis and staging in gastrointestinal lymphoma.", "content": "Diagnosis and staging in gastrointestinal lymphoma. The diagnosis gastrointestinal lymphoma can be made on endoscopic biopsies in the vast majority of cases. Definitive subtyping of the lymphoma according to the WHO classification with the use of additional immunological and molecular markers is the cornerstone for further decision making. Several lymphomas may occur multifocally or show both small cell and large cell components. Therefore, a second endoscopy with an extensive biopsy protocol (mapping) may be mandatory. Staging procedures are required for therapeutic decision making and should include CT-scan, laboratory studies and bone marrow examination as required in other lymphomas. Additional studies must be performed depending subtype and localisation of the lymphoma. In gastric lymphoma endosonography reveals prognostic information. In marginal zone lymphoma of MALT-type attention to other MALT-sites and autoimmune diseases is necessary. In enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma screening for coeliac disease and enteroscopy are required. In several lymphomas (diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and mantle cell lymphoma) a PET-scan is considered as standard of care. The value of staging procedures after treatment is less well defined. At least in gastric lymphomas, histology is the gold standard after treatment and during follow-up."}
{"id": "20195993", "title": "Advances in locating lymph nodes by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle marking.", "content": "Advances in locating lymph nodes by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle marking."}
{"id": "20189507", "title": "Impact of EUS-guided FNA on management of gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Impact of EUS-guided FNA on management of gastric carcinoma. EUS is an integral part of the pretherapeutic evaluation program for patients with upper GI cancer. To evaluate the impact of EUS-guided FNA on the clinical management of patients with gastric cancer. The study included patients with confirmed gastric carcinoma who were referred to the Department of Surgical Gastroenterology, Gentofte Hospital, Copenhagen University, Copenhagen, Denmark, during a 6-year period (2001-2007). The patients underwent standard pretherapeutic evaluation. If no signs of incurability were detected, the patients were offered EUS and EUS-guided FNA. EUS-guided FNA was performed when lymph nodes or lesions were considered to be distant metastases. A board of surgeons was asked to evaluate the management of the patients after the results obtained by EUS-guided FNA were revealed. This study involved 234 patients with gastric carcinoma. EUS-guided FNA. Number of patients with distant metastasis diagnosed by EUS-guided FNA, with the avoidance of unnecessary surgery. A total of 81 consecutive patients underwent EUS-guided FNA. Ninety-nine lesions were targeted, and 61 (62%) of these lesions were found to be malignant. In 38 of 81 patients (42%) distant metastases were confirmed by EUS-guided FNA. As judged by the board of surgeons, EUS-guided FNA changed the management plan in 34 of 234 patients (15%). The positive EUS-guided FNA diagnoses were not surgically verified. EUS-guided FNA is a very important modality and should be integrated as a routine procedure in the preoperative staging algorithm of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "20171632", "title": "Accuracy of EUS in the evaluation of small gastric subepithelial lesions.", "content": "Accuracy of EUS in the evaluation of small gastric subepithelial lesions. EUS combined with endoluminal resection techniques is increasingly used to provide a definitive diagnosis of small gastric subepithelial lesions seen on standard upper endoscopy. To evaluate the accuracy of EUS in diagnosing small gastric subepithelial lesions by using histology as the criterion standard. A retrospective study. Academic tertiary care center. A total of 22 patients (15 women, mean age 62.2 years) with an endoscopically resected gastric subepithelial lesion were included in this 3-year retrospective study. The size, echogenicity, the layer of origin, and presumptive diagnosis were determined by EUS. The diagnostic accuracy of EUS was determined by using histology as the criterion standard. The mean size of the 22 lesions was 13.6 mm (range 8-20 mm). An endoscopic cap band mucosectomy device was used to resect 16 (72.7%) lesions, whereas 6 (27.3%) were resected with a saline solution-assisted and snare technique. Using histology as a criterion standard, we found that the accuracy of the EUS diagnosis was 10 of 22 (45.5%). EUS alone had an accuracy rate of 30.8% and 66.7%, respectively, in the diagnosis of neoplastic and non-neoplastic lesions. A single-center, retrospective analysis. EUS imaging had a low accuracy rate in the diagnosis of gastric subepithelial lesions, and endoscopic submucosal resection should be performed to provide a histologic diagnosis. Resection of small subepithelial lesions of 20 mm or less can be accomplished en bloc with an endoscopic cap band mucosectomy device."}
{"id": "20168059", "title": "[A case of extranodal histiocytic sarcoma of stomach mimicking gastric adenocarcinoma].", "content": "[A case of extranodal histiocytic sarcoma of stomach mimicking gastric adenocarcinoma]. Histiocytic sarcoma is a rare malignant neoplasm that originates from a histiocytic hematopoietic lineage characterized by histiocytic differentiation and its corresponding immunophenotypic features. Patients with histiocytic sarcoma usually have a poor prognosis due to its aggressive clinical behavior. Here we report a rare case of extranodal histiocytic sarcoma of the stomach which was confirmed through immunohistochemical staining. A 71-year- old man was presented with epigastric pain. Gastroscopy, abdominal CT, and EUS revealed a mass located on the posterior wall of upper body and fundus of the stomach. Grossly, grayish white solid masses were seen extending down to the submucosal layer. Microscopically, the tumor cells had eosinophilic cytoplasm, abundant vacuole, and mitosis. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that the tumor cells were positive for LCA, CD68, and lysozyme. Early detection and accurate diagnosis of this rare neoplasm is important because it can make a great difference in prognostic outcomes. To make an accurate and definitive diagnosis, immunohistochemical staining is essential in the confirmation of histiocytic origin."}
{"id": "20143466", "title": "Surgical outcome after docetaxel-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy in locally-advanced gastric cancer.", "content": "Surgical outcome after docetaxel-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy in locally-advanced gastric cancer. To investigate feasibility, morbidity and surgical mortality of a docetaxel-based chemotherapy regimen randomly administered before or after gastrectomy in patients suffering from locally-advanced resectable gastric cancer. Patients suffering from locally-advanced (T3-4 any N M0 or any T N1-3 M0) gastric carcinoma, staged with endoscopic ultrasound, bone scan, computed tomography, and laparoscopy, were assigned to receive four 21 d/cycles of TCF (docetaxel 75 mg/m(2) day 1, cisplatin 75 mg/m(2) day 1, and fluorouracil 300 mg/m(2) per day for days 1-14), either before (Arm A) or after (Arm B) gastrectomy. Operative morbidity, overall mortality, and severe adverse events were compared by intention-to-treat analysis. From November 1999 to November 2005, 70 patients were treated. After preoperative TCF (Arm A), thirty-two (94%) resections were performed, 85% of which were R0. Pathological response was complete in 4 patients (11.7%), and partial in 18 (55%). No surgical mortality and 28.5% morbidity rate were observed, similar to those of immediate surgery arm (P = 0.86). Serious chemotherapy adverse events tended to be more frequent in arm B (23% vs 11%, P = 0.07), with a single death per arm. Surgery following docetaxel-based chemotherapy was safe and with similar morbidity to immediate surgery in patients with locally-advanced resectable gastric carcinoma."}
{"id": "20074167", "title": "Accuracy of high-frequency catheter-based endoscopic ultrasonography according to the indications for endoscopic treatment of early gastric cancer.", "content": "Accuracy of high-frequency catheter-based endoscopic ultrasonography according to the indications for endoscopic treatment of early gastric cancer. The development of endoscopic treatment, such as endoscopic submucosal dissection, extends the indications for endoscopic resection in patients with early gastric cancer (EGC). Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is the first-choice imaging modality for determining the depth of invasion of gastric cancer. The aim of the present study was to prospectively assess the accuracy of EUS for determining the depth of EGC, according to the accepted/extended indications. We prospectively included a total of 181 lesions in 178 patients, with an endoscopic diagnosis of EGC, who underwent EUS for staging the depth of tumor invasion using a 20-MHz catheter probe. We investigated the accuracy of EUS for determining the depth of endoscopically-suspected EGC and then analyzed the difference in the accuracy of EUS according to the accepted/extended indications. Of the 178 patients, five patients were dropped because of the absence of final histological results. For the 176 lesions in 173 patients, the accuracy of EUS assessment for the depth of tumor invasion was 80.7% (142 of 176 lesions). The accuracy of EUS for the lesions with accepted indications and with extended indications was 97.6% (40 of 41 lesions) and 83.6% (46 of 57 lesions), respectively (P = 0.040). Of the lesions with extended indications, the accuracy of EUS decreased especially for the lesions with ulceration and those with minute submucosal invasion (79.2% and 42.9%, respectively). The accuracy of EUS for the lesions with the extended indications was lower than that for the lesions with the accepted indications. In particular, lesions with ulceration and minute submucosal invasion should be carefully considered prior to endoscopic treatment by pretreatment EUS staging."}
{"id": "20065544", "title": "Interventional EUS for the diagnosis and treatment of locally advanced pancreatic cancer.", "content": "Interventional EUS for the diagnosis and treatment of locally advanced pancreatic cancer. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) evolved as the diagnostic test of choice evaluating suspected pancreatic tumors. Coupled with fine needle aspiration (FNA), EUS provides high accuracy for the diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer. Novel EUS based techniques have emerged as a safe minimally invasive alternative to the surgical or radiological approaches. By allowing better pain control, delivering antitumor therapies or draining obstructed bile ducts, such techniques hold a big promise to improve the quality of life of patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer. In this review, we will discuss the role EUS-FNA plays in the diagnosis, staging and treatment of patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer."}
{"id": "20012229", "title": "Pedunculated early ampullary carcinoma treated by ampullectomy: report of a case.", "content": "Pedunculated early ampullary carcinoma treated by ampullectomy: report of a case. A 30-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital for treatment of an ampullary tumor. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed a pedunculated tumor in the ampulla of Vater with a diameter of 50 mm, which was biopsied and diagnosed as tubulovillous adenoma with moderate atypia. Endoscopic ultrasonography demonstrated a hypoechoic tumor limited to the mucosa and without evidence of lymph node metastasis. Since endoscopic resection was not indicated because of the large size and pedunculated morphology with a long stalk, the patient underwent ampullectomy and papilloplasty. Histological examination revealed well-differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma in tubular adenoma with severe atypia limited to the mucosa. The patient remains well with no evidence of recurrence 10 months after resection. Ampullectomy is an established method for ampullary tumor, but such a tumor with a long stalk is rare."}
{"id": "19915911", "title": "High-resolution endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasound for evaluation of early neoplasia in Barrett's esophagus.", "content": "High-resolution endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasound for evaluation of early neoplasia in Barrett's esophagus. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is useful for detecting depth of invasion and nodal involvement in patients with early Barrett's neoplasia (EBN), precluding endoscopic management. This study aimed to determine whether the lesion morphology of the EBN shown on high-resolution endoscopy predicts EUS and histologic tumor stage. Retrospective series from two tertiary referral centers were studied. Patients with EBN referred for EUS evaluation before treatment were identified, and data were collected from endoscopies, a database, and case notes. All patients had high-resolution endoscopy followed by radial EUS. This study included 50 patients (22 men) with a median age of 69 years (interquartile range, 60-79 years). Visible lesions in the Barrett's segment were described as Paris types 0-1 (n = 9), 0-IIb (n = 12), 0-IIa (n = 12), 0-IIa + IIc (n = 6), and 0-IIc (n = 5). Of the 50 patients, 46 (92%) had either EMR (n = 17), esophagectomy (n = 23), or both (n = 6). All 12 patients (100%) with Paris 0-IIb lesions had T0/T1 m staging on EUS confirmed with resection histology. The sensitivity for EUS T-staging for Paris classification was 71.4% for type 0-I, 100% for type 0-IIb, 83% for type 0-IIa, 66.7% for type 0-IIa + IIc, and 66.7% for type IIc. Overall, 8 (17%) of the 46 patients were understaged and 2 (4%) were overstaged. For detecting submucosal invasion, EUS had a sensitivity of 66%, a specificity of 93%, a negative predictive value of 85%, and a diagnostic accuracy of 84.4%. Submucosal invasion is detected by EUS for 26% of patients with EBN. The value of EUS staging before resection for type 0-IIb early Barrett's cancer (flat lesions) is limited because 100% of these lesions are limited to the mucosa. For the management algorithm in this selected cohort, the use of EUS should be reconsidered."}
{"id": "19780880", "title": "Intraductal ultrasonography combined with percutaneous transhepatic cholangioscopy for the preoperative evaluation of longitudinal tumor extent in hilar cholangiocarcinoma.", "content": "Intraductal ultrasonography combined with percutaneous transhepatic cholangioscopy for the preoperative evaluation of longitudinal tumor extent in hilar cholangiocarcinoma. In hilar cholangiocarcinoma, an accurate assessment of preoperative resectability is important to optimize surgical resection. We investigated the accuracy of the combination of intraductal ultrasonography (IDUS) and percutaneous transhepatic cholangioscopy (PTCS) for evaluating longitudinal extent in hilar cholangiocarcinoma. Patients diagnosed with hilar cholangiocarcinoma underwent multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) and magnetic resonance cholangiography (MRC) for tumor staging and Bismuth type. Percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage was performed at the left or right bile duct of the liver section that was anticipated to be preserved in the surgical treatment. After tract dilation, PTCS with cholangioscope-directed biopsy and IDUS were sequentially performed to evaluate Bismuth type. Surgical treatment was executed according to tumor staging and longitudinal tumor extent. Postoperative histological Bismuth types were compared to preoperative Bismuth types based on MDCT, MRC, PTCS with biopsy, and IDUS. From June 2006 to November 2008, 25 patients with hilar cholangiocarcinoma were enrolled, with 20 of these patients evaluable. The accuracy of MDCT, MRC, PTCS with biopsy, and IDUS for the evaluation of Bismuth type was 80%, 84.2%, 90%, and 85.0%, respectively, in 20 patients, and 82.4%, 82.4%, 94.1%, and 88.2%, respectively, in 18 patients with Bismuth type IIIa, IIIb, or IV cancer. The accuracy of the combination of IDUS and PTCS with biopsy was 95% in 20 patients, and 100% in 18 with Bismuth type IIIa, IIIb, or IV cancer. The combination of IDUS and PTCS with biopsy was highly accurate for assessing Bismuth type and may help in the identification of an optimal surgical plan for the treatment of hilar cholangiocarcinoma, especially in Bismuth type IIIa, IIIb, or IV."}
{"id": "19692298", "title": "Lung cancer staging by combined endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS): The gastroenterologist's perspective.", "content": "Lung cancer staging by combined endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS): The gastroenterologist's perspective. This review deals with the combined approach of endoscopic ultrasound and endobronchial ultrasound for lung cancer staging. The review provides an overview for the gastroenterologist who performs endosonography with regard to the current evidence supporting the use of endoscopic ultrasound and endobronchial ultrasound in clinical practice."}
{"id": "19585066", "title": "Clinical outcomes of endoscopic submucosal dissection for undifferentiated early gastric cancer.", "content": "Clinical outcomes of endoscopic submucosal dissection for undifferentiated early gastric cancer. Early gastric cancer (EGC) with undifferentiated histology has not been generally accepted as an indication for endoscopic treatment. This study was designed to evaluate the outcomes and clinicopathological factors associated with the complete resection of undifferentiated EGC using endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD). A retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data was performed on consecutive patients who underwent ESD. Among the 456 EGCs treated using ESD at the Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea, between April 2005 and June 2008, 60 lesions (13.2%) were diagnosed as undifferentiated gastric cancer (poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma or signet ring cell carcinoma). En bloc resection was performed in all lesions without significant complications. The size discrepancy between the pretreatment endoscopy and the resected specimen was significantly higher in undifferentiated EGCs than differentiated EGCs (p = 0.002). The complete resection rate was significantly lower for undifferentiated EGC (55%) cases than differentiated EGC cases (84.1%; p < 0.001). Independent risk factors for incomplete resection of undifferentiated EGC included tumor size >20 mm, submucosal invasion, and presence of ulceration. During a mean observation time of 16 months, no recurrence developed in any of the patients with undifferentiated EGCs thought to be completely resected by ESD. ESD might be considered an alternative treatment modality in carefully selected cases of undifferentiated EGC."}
{"id": "19473206", "title": "Clinical manifestation of esophageal carcinosarcoma: a Taiwan experience.", "content": "Clinical manifestation of esophageal carcinosarcoma: a Taiwan experience. Carcinosarcoma of the esophagus is a rare neoplasm with both carcinomatous and sarcomatous components. This study aimed to investigate its clinicopathologic features and endoscopic characteristics. The data of patients diagnosed to have esophageal carcinosarcoma pathologically in the past 30 years (January 1976-December 2007) were reviewed. Of 3318 cases of esophageal malignancy, 12 were diagnosed as esophageal carcinosarcoma, with an incidence of 0.36%. All of the cases were male with a mean age of 62.3 years. Of the 12 tumors, 8 were polypoid type, and 4 were ulcerative type. In the endoscopic ultrasonography examination, the tumors show heterogeneous hypoechoic lesions with irregular outer margins and internal multicystic components. Four patients (33.3%) had previous head and neck squamous cell carcinoma that occurred metachronously. This is the first report about the characteristics of esophageal carcinosarcoma under endoscopic ultrasonography examination. The relationship between esophageal carcinosarcomas and head and neck cancer needs further investigation."}
{"id": "20423774", "title": "[Endoscopic mucosal resection due to adenocarcinoma of the esophagus caused by Barrett's esophagus.].", "content": "[Endoscopic mucosal resection due to adenocarcinoma of the esophagus caused by Barrett's esophagus.]. The endoscopic therapy has been used in the treatment of early stage neoplastic esophageal lesions with great success. The endoscopic ultrasound is a useful tool for the correct staging of these lesions. The staging accuracy of esophageal cancer with endoscopic ultrasound reaches 80% for T stage and 77% for N stage. The endoscopic approach provides complete resection of lesions confined to the mucosal layer, is a safety procedure with complications reported to occur from 3% to 13%. The morbidity and mortality rates after an endoscopic mucosal resection have been reported to be less than those posterior to esophagectomy. We present a case of a patient with high surgical risk, who underwent an upper endoscopy because of long history of gastroesophageal reflux disease and uncontrollable hiccup with successful endoscopic mucosal resection with plastic cap and polipectomy loop of an early stage esophageal adenocarcinoma derived of Barrett s esophagus."}
{"id": "20214236", "title": "Facing the challenge of managing linitis plastica--review of the literature.", "content": "Facing the challenge of managing linitis plastica--review of the literature. Linitis Plastica (LP) denotes a diffuse, intra-murally infiltrating, anaplastic carcinoma in a hollow structure resulting in a shrunken organ with thickened walls. The neoplasm is encountered in every segment of gastrointestinal tract with the gastric localization being the most frequent and simultaneous or successive affection of different digestive sites rarely reported. Symptoms often associated with LP of the stomach include pain and lump in the epigastrium, weight loss, anorexia, dysphagia, nausea and vomiting. Diagnosis of LP-type adenocarcinomas of the stomach has traditionally been achieved by brush cytology and mucosal biopsy. Nevertheless, these techniques may yield false negative results due to potential submucosal location of the lesion. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) contributes to the detection of abundant, independent malignant cells indicative of an anaplastic neoplasm. The characteristic histopathological feature of this entity is cellular spread to the submucosa and stroma with minimal mucosal alterations accompanied by an excessive desmoplastic reaction. Despite recent research on alternative therapies, surgical resection appears the only potentially curative approach. The aim of this review was to evaluate the results of current diagnostic modalities and surgical interventions for LP with special reference to the extent of its histological dissemination and to present the recent literature in order to provide an update on the contemporary concepts of therapeutic management of the disease."}
{"id": "20214235", "title": "Mini-laparotomy with abdominal wall lifting for partial gastrectomy in patients with early gastric mucosal cancer at lesser curvature of the middle stomach.", "content": "Mini-laparotomy with abdominal wall lifting for partial gastrectomy in patients with early gastric mucosal cancer at lesser curvature of the middle stomach. Partial gastrectomy (PG) is the most frequently adopted minimally invasive procedure for early gastric cancer (EGC), especially mucosal cancer (MC). The aim of this study was to introduce a minimally invasive procedure, i.e., minilaparotomy with abdominal wall lifting for PG in patients with early mucosal gastric cancer at the lesser curvature of the middle stomach. Well differentiated adenocarcionoma in MC at the lesser curvature of the middle stomach was selected, where no lymph node metastasis (NO) was confirmed using ultrasonic endoscopy, CT, and MRI during the preoperative examinations. PG was also chosen for patients with a tumor size of 2cm or less and non-depressive type in whom endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) or endoscopic submucosal resection (ESD) was not possible. Five MC patients (3 men and 2 women, aged 44-62 years, mean age 53.3 years) underwent mini-laparotomy with abdominal wall lifting for PG. Our procedure involved a 6 cm upper abdominal median incision made at the beginning of the operation. The upper abdominal wall was lifted by a subcutaneous Kirshner wire. The small wound was also pulled upward and/or laterally by Kent retractors and conventional surgical instruments were used through the wound. The middle stomach could be detected through the small wound and partially resected, approximately 1 cm from the tumor edge under the guide of the endoscope. The resected stomach margin was stitched layer-to-layer. In this way, PG was easily completed. The total surgical time was 71.8 +/- 12.9 min and the mean estimated blood loss was 30.8 +/- 20.5 ml. Day of starting diet was 3 +/- 0.7 days after operation. Post-operative hospitalization was 8.2 +/- 1.3 days. There was no surgical mortality. All subjects were satisfied with this procedure. Mini-laparotomy with abdominal wall lifting is a safe and efficient technique in the treatment of PG for MC with NO at the lesser curvature of the middle stomach when EMR or ESD is impossible."}
{"id": "20092724", "title": "[A prospective study of FOLFOX7 scheme as neoadjuvant chemotherapy for stage III gastric adenocarcinoma].", "content": "[A prospective study of FOLFOX7 scheme as neoadjuvant chemotherapy for stage III gastric adenocarcinoma]. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of FOLFOX7 scheme as neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with stage III gastric adenocarcinoma. From May 2005 to May 2007, 27 patients with stage III gastric adenocarcinoma were given neoadjuvant chemotherapy with FOLFOX7 scheme. Gastroscopy, endoscopic ultrasonography, abdominal B ultrasonography and abdominal CT was taken before chemotherapy and after 2 - 4 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy to evaluate the objective response rate of the tumor. Then operations were carried out and the pathological responses was evaluated in those cases. The safety, objective response rate and pathological rate of neoadjuvant chemotherapy was assessed according to NCI-CTC v3.0, RECIST 2000, and the criteria established by Japanese Research Society for Gastric Cancer, respectively. R0 resection rate and surgery-related complications was also assessed in this group. The treatment was well tolerated, no grade 3 - 5 toxicity was observed. Complete response was obtained in 1 case, and partial response in 18 patients, overall response rate was 70.4% (19/27). Twenty-six patients received operation and R0 resection rate was 88.4% (23/26); no patient died in the perioperative period. The pathological response rate of patients had R0 excision was 60.9% (14/23). FOLFOX7 scheme as neoadjuvant chemotherapy for selected patients with stage III gastric adenocarcinoma can be well tolerated, it could induce tumor down-staging and improve R0 resection rate, although the long term efficacy remains to be evaluated."}
{"id": "20076819", "title": "Staging laparoscopy in digestive cancers.", "content": "Staging laparoscopy in digestive cancers. BACKGROUND. Laparoscopy and laparoscopic ultrasonography may assist in the more accurate staging of digestive cancers. We assessed the diagnostic value of staging laparoscopy in patients with cancers of lower esophagus, stomach, liver, biliary tract, pancreas and colon. MATERIAL AND METHOD. Extended staging laparoscopy, laparoscopic ultrasonography and peritoneal cytology were performed in 165 patients with primary digestive cancers, admitted between January 2006 and December 2008 at three tertiary referral hospitals participating in the study. Staging laparoscopy was immediately followed by open surgery in 63 patients without distant metastases or with uncertain primary tumor resectability, and in 20 colorectal cancer patients with resectable hepatic metastases. The sensibility, sensitivity and diagnostic accuracy of staging laparoscopy for distant metastases and tumor resectability were assessed against the findings on open surgery and the final pathological report. RESULTS. An unnecessary laparotomy was avoided in 36 of the 99 patients (36.4%) without distant metastases on imaging pre-therapeutic staging. The staging laparoscopy sensitivity for distant metastases varied between 66% and 100% and the diagnostic accuracy between 87% for the lower esophageal cancer and 100% for the biliary tract tumors. The overall morbidity of staging laparoscopy was 2.5% and the mortality 0. CONCLUSION. Staging laparoscopy avoids unnecessary laparotomies and changes the therapeutic plan in a significant number of patients. It can be performed just before the planned surgery or as a separate diagnostic procedure. The laparoscopy indications in digestive cancers are changing fast, with ongoing new developments in cancer treatment and laparoscopic technology."}
{"id": "20067055", "title": "[The role of endoscopic ultrasound-guided transesophageal fine needle aspiration and immunocytochemistry assesment of the patients with suspected lung cancer and negative bronchoscopic biopsies].", "content": "[The role of endoscopic ultrasound-guided transesophageal fine needle aspiration and immunocytochemistry assesment of the patients with suspected lung cancer and negative bronchoscopic biopsies]. Endoscopic ultrasound-(EUS) guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) allows the assessment of the posterior mediastinum, as well as the diagnosis and staging of lung cancer patients. The purpose of this feasibility study was to assess the importance of EUS-FNA combined with cytology and immunocytochemistry for patients with suspected lung cancer and negative bronchoscopic biopsies. Our study included 20 consecutive patients assessed at the Research Center of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Craiova, University of Medicine and Pharmacy Craiova. The patients were initially examined by chest X-ray, computer tomography scans and bronchoscopy, without a tissue confirmation of malignancy. Of the 20 patients included in our study without a tissue confirmation of malignancy, 16 patients had a positive EUS-FNA for malignancy. For 11 patients the samples were obtained from the mediastinal lymphnodes, and for 4 cases directly from the primary mediastinal tumor, some of the obtained samples being included in paraffin to obtain cell blocks. The cell blocks allowed us to accomplish imunocytochemistry for two purposes: to establish the epithelial and mesenchimal fenotype of the malignant cells, as well as the origin of the identified atypical cells. EUS-FNA combined with cytology, is an excellent minimal invasive technique, highly accurate for the assessment of lung cancer, showing not only the tumoral and lymph node invasion, but also offering the ideal alternative for surgical staging. Association of immunocytochemistry determined an increase in the accuracy of the method, as well as the confirmation of a tissue diagnosis of malignancy."}
{"id": "20047128", "title": "Gastric schwannoma exhibiting increased fluorodeoxyglucose uptake.", "content": "Gastric schwannoma exhibiting increased fluorodeoxyglucose uptake. This is the first case of gastric schwannoma that exhibited increased accumulation of [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) on positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. The patient was a 60-year-old woman in whom esophagogastroduodenoscopy showed a submucosal tumor, about 25 mm in size, in the upper body of the stomach, with ulceration at the top of the tumor. Endoscopic ultrasonography revealed a well-defined hypoechoic mass located in the proper muscle layer of the stomach. The specimen taken from the tumor showed only inflammatory degenerative tissue. Abdominal computed tomography revealed a tumor in the upper body of the stomach. FDG-PET showed FDG uptake (standardized uptake value [SUV] max 5.8) coincident with the tumor. Hence, the tumor was diagnosed initially as a gastrointestinal stromal tumor of the stomach. Laparoscopic partial gastrectomy was performed. Pathological examination showed that the tumor consisted of spindle cells with large nuclei, and mitosis was absent. The Ki-67 labeling index of the tumor cells was 4%. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells showed a positive reaction for S-100 protein, whereas they were negative for KIT, CD 34, and alpha-smooth muscle actin protein. The tumor was diagnosed as a benign gastric schwannoma. Gastric schwannoma should be included in the differential diagnosis of submucosal tumors of the stomach with FDG uptake."}
{"id": "20021869", "title": "[Diagnostic value of double contrast-enhanced ultrasonography in preoperative staging of gastric cancer].", "content": "[Diagnostic value of double contrast-enhanced ultrasonography in preoperative staging of gastric cancer]. To evaluate the clinical value of double contrast-enhanced ultrasonography using oral and intravenous contrast agents in preoperative staging of gastric cancer. Sixty-two patients with biopsy-proven gastric cancer were enrolled into this study, and were examined by double contrast-enhanced gastric ultrasonography preoperatively. The results were compared with postoperative pathologic findings. The accuracy of oral contrast-enhanced gastric ultrasonography and double contrast-enhanced ultrasonography in determining the T stage of gastric cancer was 72.9% (T1: 66.7%, T2: 60.0%, T3: 76.9%, T4: 71.4%) and 88.1% (T1: 66.7%, T2: 80.0%, T3: 89.7%, T4: 100%), respectively, with a statistically significant difference between the two methods (P = 0.036). The sensitivity, specificity, accuracy and Youden index of oral contrast-enhanced gastric ultrasonography and double contrast-enhanced ultrasonography in assessment of lymph node metastasis were 74.5%, 66.7%, 72.9%, and 0.41 versus 89.4%, 75.0%, 86.4%, 0.76, respectively. No significant difference in the accuracy of assessment for lymph node metastasis was observed (P > 0.05). Double contrast-enhanced ultrasonography is useful for preoperative staging of gastric cancer, especially for T staging."}
{"id": "19997804", "title": "Gastric metastasis of malignant fibrous histiocytoma diagnosed preoperatively by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy: report of a case.", "content": "Gastric metastasis of malignant fibrous histiocytoma diagnosed preoperatively by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy: report of a case. Metastatic gastric tumors originating from malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) are rare. We herein report the case of a 75-year-old woman who underwent a distal gastrectomy for gastric metastasis of MFH, who was preoperatively diagnosed by an endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy."}
{"id": "19966629", "title": "The value of high-resolution three-dimensional endorectal ultrasonography in the management of submucosal invasive rectal tumors.", "content": "The value of high-resolution three-dimensional endorectal ultrasonography in the management of submucosal invasive rectal tumors. The aims of this prospective study were 1) to evaluate the accuracy of high-resolution three-dimensional endorectal ultrasonography in distinguishing slight from massive submucosal invasion of early rectal tumors, and 2) to determine the technology's role in treatment selection. A total of 142 consecutive patients with clinically possible pT1 rectal cancers underwent three-dimensional endorectal ultrasonography. Slight or massive irregularity of the hyperechoic submucosal layer was considered to characterize uT1-slight or uT1-massive tumors. Treatment was selected on the basis of ultrasonographic findings: endoscopic resection or full-thickness transanal local excision was selected for uT1-slight lesions, and radical resection was selected for uT1-massive tumors. Ultrasonographic staging was compared with histopathologic staging. One hundred twenty-six patients were included in the final analyses. Three-dimensional endorectal ultrasonography staged 77 lesions as uT0, 25 as uT1-slight, 20 as uT1-massive, and 4 as uT2. Histologically, adenomas were found in 75 patients and tumor invasion was found in 44 lesions (24 pT1-slight, 16 pT1-massive, 4 pT2). The overall kappa for the concordance between ultrasonographic and histopathologic stagings was 0.81 (95% confidence interval, 0.72-0.89). No invasive carcinomas remained undetected. The depth of invasion was correctly determined in 87.2% of both pT1-slight and pT1-massive lesions. Considering the complete series of 126 patients, the accuracy of this modality in selecting appropriate management was 95.2% (kappa, 0.84; 95% confidence interval, 0.71-0.96). Adequate surgery was performed in 87.5% of pT1 tumors. Three-dimensional endorectal ultrasonography is useful for assessing the depth of submucosal invasion in early rectal cancer and for selecting therapeutic options."}
{"id": "19961528", "title": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for gastric submucosal tumor, endoscopic sub-tumoral dissection.", "content": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for gastric submucosal tumor, endoscopic sub-tumoral dissection. Gastric submucosal tumor (SMT) is frequently found during screening endoscopy, but definitive diagnosis based on histological confirmation is relatively difficult. Even without accurate diagnosis before treatment, open or laparoscopic surgery is currently carried out to remove SMT. The purpose of this study was to demonstrate the feasibility of endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) in diagnostic treatment for submucosal tumor (SMT) of the stomach. Subjects in this case study comprised nine patients who had undergone ESD for gastric SMT. Before treatment, endoscopic ultrasonography was carried out in all cases to evaluate depth and origin of the SMT. Then ESD was only indicated for tumors of submucosal layer or muscularis mucosa origin. Using an endoscopic sub-tumoral dissection technique with a hook knife and a flex knife, local complete resections were achieved in all patients without severe complications. These results suggest the clinical benefits of ESD avoiding oversurgery for the diagnostic treatment of gastric SMT of the submucosal layer and muscularis mucosa origin."}
{"id": "19950778", "title": "Endoscopic resection for the treatment of gastric subepithelial tumors originated from the muscularis propria layer.", "content": "Endoscopic resection for the treatment of gastric subepithelial tumors originated from the muscularis propria layer. Endoscopic resection for pathologic diagnosis and complete eradication of subepithelial tumors (SETs) has offered less invasive alternatives to surgical resection. The aim of this study is to evaluate feasibility of endoscopic resection for the treatment of gastric SETs originated from the muscularis propria layer and to determine related factors in the success rate of endoscopic resection. In 25 patients with a well marginated tumor which was 2 to 5cm and showed an endoluminal growth pattern according to endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) findings, endoscopic resection with incisional enucleation method was attempted in those who's SETs originated in the muscularis propria. The success rate, causes of failure, complications, EUS findings and histopathologic findings were analyzed in this retrospective single-center study. Complete endoscopic resection of SETs was successful in 64% (16/25 tumors). Mean tumor size was 28.7mm (range 20-50mm). The histological diagnosis was leiomyoma for thirteen lesions and gastrointestinal stromal tumor for three lesions. The successful resection rate of tumors which had underlying muscle layer was 93.8% (15/16), but that of tumors which did not show any under EUS was 11.1% (1/9) (p < 0.001). All three perforations occurred in the cases of tumors which did not show underlying muscle layer under EUS during dissection of the tumor base from surrounding tissue (p = 0.037), Endoscopic resection for the treatment of SETs arose from the muscularis propria seems to be feasible and effective only in the well marginated tumors which showed underlying muscle layer under EUS."}
{"id": "19942829", "title": "Endoscopic evaluation and treatment of esophageal cance.", "content": "Endoscopic evaluation and treatment of esophageal cance. Esophageal cancer is the sixth leading cause of cancer mortality. During the past twenty years the prevalence of adenocarcinoma, which is linked to gastroesophageal reflux and Barrett's metaplasia, has increased precipitously for unclear reasons. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has revolutionized primary tumor (T) and nodal (N) staging. Additionally, the recent introduction of combined computed and positron emission tomography (CT-PET) promises to improve the detection of distant metastasis. While classic surgical approaches have significant morbidity and mortality, the recent widespread introduction of minimally invasive techniques including endoscopic mucosal resection and radiofrequency ablation offer new options to those with limited disease. Finally, endoscopically placed self expandable metal stents have become the primary mode of palliating dysphagia and there is a growing interest in the use of removable stents to optimize nutrition in neoadjuvant chemotherapy patients awaiting esophagectomy. In this article we will review the presentation, staging, and treatment of esophageal cancer with an emphasis on the evolving role of endoscopy to help accomplish these objectives."}
{"id": "19902288", "title": "[Therapy in gastric cancer. From an oncological perspective].", "content": "[Therapy in gastric cancer. From an oncological perspective]. In two randomized trials it was demonstrated that preoperative and postoperative chemotherapy shows a statistically significant and clinically relevant improvement in progression-free and overall survival for adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction and stomach when compared with the surgical control arm. The absolute benefit in overall survival was 13% and 14% after 5 years. This benefit is clearly shown for patients with locally advanced tumors but remains debatable in early disease stages. Postoperative mortality and the complication rate were not increased. Based on published study results perioperative chemotherapy has to be regarded as the new standard of care at least for patients staged as uT3/uT4 tumors as defined by endoscopic ultrasound. To date there are no indications for adjuvant chemotherapy or chemoradiation after R0 resection and adequate surgery."}
{"id": "19888251", "title": "A rare cause of upper GI bleeding: gastrinoma of major duodenal papilla.", "content": "A rare cause of upper GI bleeding: gastrinoma of major duodenal papilla."}
{"id": "19799087", "title": "[Value of spiral CT plus endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and spiral CT plus PET-CT in the preoperative assessment of gastric cancer invasion to the pancreas].", "content": "[Value of spiral CT plus endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and spiral CT plus PET-CT in the preoperative assessment of gastric cancer invasion to the pancreas]. To evaluate the value of EUS and PET-CT in combination with spiral CT in preoperative assessment of gastric cancer invasion to the pancreas. Sixty advanced gastric cancer patients with suspected pancreatic invasion detected by spiral CT were selected in this study. All the 60 cases were then examined by EUS and 14 of them by PET-CT. The results were compared and evaluated with the findings during surgical operation and pathological results. The rate of correct preoperative diagnosis of pancreatic invasion by spiral CT in advanced gastric cancer patients was 63.3%, with an overdiagnosis rate of 36.7%. The diagnostic accuracy was increased to 87.8% and overdiagnosis reduced to 7.3%, when combined with EUS. There was a significant difference in diagnostic accuracy between spiral CT alone and spiral CT combined with EUS (P<0.01), but no significant difference between spiral CT alone and spiral CT combined with PET-CT (P>0.05). Spiral CT-EUS was more valuable in assessment of tumor location and invasion than PET-CT (P<0.01). The accuracy of spiral CT alone in the preoperative assessment of advanced gastric cancer with invasion to the pancreas is not high enough yet at present. Spiral CT combined with EUS can provide more accurate information on the tumor location, invasion site and extent of gastric cancer invasion to the pancreas, and reduce the overstaging rate caused by spiral CT alone. However, spiral CT combined with PET-CT does not show such improvement significantly."}
{"id": "19788616", "title": "Diagnostic findings of ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology for gastrointestinal stromal tumors: proposal of a combined cytology with newly defined features and histology diagnosis.", "content": "Diagnostic findings of ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology for gastrointestinal stromal tumors: proposal of a combined cytology with newly defined features and histology diagnosis. Recently, endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) has been applied for diagnosis of gastrointestinal submucosal tumors. There have been no definite criteria, however, for the adequate cytological diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) in practice. To facilitate this a novel method is proposed that combines cytology and histology. For 49 cases of submucosal tumor of gastrointestinal tract, EUS-FNA was performed. The aspirated materials were processed for cytology and histology. Both cytological and histological findings were examined on immunocytochemical and immunohistochemical staining of c-kit. Of 49 cases, 40 (81.6%) proved adequate for cytological and/or histological examination. On cytology, cluster types were classified into type A (piled clusters with high cellularity showing a fascicular pattern), type B (thin layered clusters with high cellularity showing a fascicular pattern), and type C (mono-layered clusters or scattered cells). Types A and B were strongly associated with histological diagnosis of GIST. Type C clusters needed confirmation on c-kit positivity and histology. Thus, the combined cytology with newly defined features, and classification and histological diagnostic method for EUS-FNA materials can contribute to improved routine diagnosis for GIST."}
{"id": "19744639", "title": "Contrast-enhanced endoscopic ultrasound and elastosonoendoscopy.", "content": "Contrast-enhanced endoscopic ultrasound and elastosonoendoscopy. Until recently, there was no contrast harmonic imaging technique available for EUS examination. Second-generation US contrast agents produce harmonic signals at lower acoustic powers and, therefore, are suitable for EUS imaging at low acoustic powers. CE-EUS could provide a contribution to the differential diagnosis between a primary pancreatic carcinoma, chronic pancreatitis and a pancreatic metastasis, and therefore can have a decisive influence on the selection of appropriate therapeutic strategies (follow-up, chemotherapy or surgery, for example). However, histology remains the standard in the differential diagnosis of pancreatic tumours. Regarding lymph nodes, CE-EUS cannot replace EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration. Elastography examines the elastic properties of tissues by applying a slight compression to the tissue and comparing an image obtained before and after this compression. EUS elastography is a new application in the field of endosonography and seems to be able to differentiate fibrous and benign tissue from malignant lesions. While our results are very encouraging, further research will be needed to further define the place of this new technique and should be aimed at further defining criteria for accurate elastography as well as subsequently assessing the technique using multiple operators in a blinded setting. EUS-guided sonoelastography has the potential for further guiding the diagnosis and therapy of gastrointestinal-related tumours."}
{"id": "19744633", "title": "The role of endosonography in submucosal tumours.", "content": "The role of endosonography in submucosal tumours. Submucosal tumours (SMTs) are relatively common findings in patients undergoing endoscopy, especially in upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract. This term includes various non-neoplastic and neoplastic conditions. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is the best imaging procedure to characterise SMT and to determine the need for further explorations. In this review, the following issues will be addressed: the endosonographic features of SMT; the diagnostic accuracy of EUS; the ability of EUS to distinguish benign and malignant SMTs; the value of EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA); and the influence of EUS on clinical management."}
{"id": "19744632", "title": "The impact of EUS in primary gastric lymphoma.", "content": "The impact of EUS in primary gastric lymphoma. Gastric lymphoma is the most frequent site of gastrointestinal lymphoma and is accessible for endosonographic evaluation. Most primary gastric lymphomas are classified as mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT)-type lymphomas that develop in the course of chronic Helicobacter pylori infection. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is regarded to be the most accurate method for the local staging of gastric lymphoma, although scientific evidence is limited. In stage uEI1 low-grade lymphoma, EUS is able to predict a high chance for cure by H. pylori eradication. The significance of EUS elastography or EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy to diagnose nodal involvement has not been investigated in prospective series yet. Since high-grade lymphoma is always treated as a systemic disease, the impact of endosonographic staging is lower than in low-grade lymphoma. After treatment of primary gastric lymphoma, EUS produces conflicting results that are not as accurate as endoscopy with biopsy. Therefore, EUS is not mandatory during follow-up."}
{"id": "19744631", "title": "Endosonographic staging of lower intestinal malignancy.", "content": "Endosonographic staging of lower intestinal malignancy. The use of EUS in the assessment of rectal pathology is well established. The accurate staging of lower intestinal tumours predicts prognosis and guides the planning of individual patient treatment. Increased experience and the development of high resolution three-dimensional EUS has lead to the greater accuracy of rectal staging with EUS of rectal tumours now considered the gold standard showing T stage accuracy that ranges from 75% to 95%, with N stage accuracy ranging from 65% to 80%. The use of EUS in the staging of colonic pathology, however, is not so well established though advances in miniprobe EUS has improved the assessment of colonic tumours. EUS is also of benefit in the assessment of anal pathology though here, accurate correlation with histology has not been firmly established."}
{"id": "19744630", "title": "Endosonographic staging of upper intestinal malignancy.", "content": "Endosonographic staging of upper intestinal malignancy. Numerous studies conducted over the last 25 years provide evidence on the high diagnostic accuracy and important role of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in staging oesophageal and gastric carcinoma. This extensive research was recently subjected to metaanalyses, condensing our knowledge on EUS performance and facilitating its comparison with competing methods. It is, however, important to realise that the management of oesophageal and gastric carcinoma is evolving and so are staging algorithms, setting new challenges for EUS and re-defining its position. Restaging after neoadjuvant treatment and precise assessment of early carcinoma before endoscopic treatment are areas of growing interest, but the role of EUS in these settings is rather limited. Rapidly developing cross-sectional imaging has the potential to challenge the position of EUS as the most accurate method in loco-regional staging. On the other hand, EUS guided fine-needle aspiration offers the unique opportunity to obtain cytological confirmation of lymph node metastases, with future potential for molecular staging."}
{"id": "19744629", "title": "Endosonography of high-grade intra-epithelial neoplasia/early cancer.", "content": "Endosonography of high-grade intra-epithelial neoplasia/early cancer. Endosonography (EUS) is frequently used for staging of early malignant gastrointestinal lesions. High-grade intra-epithelial neoplasia (HGIN) and mucosal cancer have a very low risk for lymphatic metastasis and therefore are suitable for endoscopic therapy. In HGIN and early oesophageal and gastric cancer, high-frequency miniprobes can provide detailed imaging of the different layers. However, diagnostic accuracy differentiating between mucosal and submucosal disease is not sufficient, and therefore (diagnostic) endoscopic resection should be performed in all localisable lesions to detect submucosal cancer at risk for lymph node metastasis. EUS for lymph node staging is considered to be the method with the highest accuracy, especially compared with computed tomography."}
{"id": "19728181", "title": "Primary gastric leiomyosarcoma in young revealed by a massive hematemesis.", "content": "Primary gastric leiomyosarcoma in young revealed by a massive hematemesis. Leiomyosarcomas are one of the most common soft tissue sarcomas, usually seen in deep, soft tissues of the extremities and retroperitoneum. Leiomyosarcoma primarily involving the gastrointestinal tract is uncommon. We present here a rare case of gastric leiomyosarcoma revealed by a massive hematemesis in a young woman. We present a case of primary gastric leiomyosarcoma in a 16-year-old woman who presented with massive hematemesis. Computed tomography scan examination revealed a tumor mass located in the anterior wall of the upper body and protruding into the lumen. The patient was treated by subtotal gastrectomy. The histological examination confirmed the diagnosis of leiomyosarcoma of the stomach. Primary stomach leiomyosarcoma is rare, accounting for only 1% of gastric tumors. Endoscopic ultrasound and biopsy are helpful in establishing the diagnosis. Surgical resection is the treatment of choice for gastric leiomyosarcomas."}
{"id": "19717032", "title": "Survival benefit of pylorus-preserving gastrectomy in early gastric cancer.", "content": "Survival benefit of pylorus-preserving gastrectomy in early gastric cancer. Pylorus-preserving gastrectomy (PPG) is performed in some patients for the treatment of early gastric cancer. The aim of this study was to investigate longterm survival for patients having PPG with extensive lymph node dissection, except for the suprapyloric nodes, for early gastric cancer. From January 1995 to December 2006, 305 patients underwent PPG if they met the following criteria: cT1 (mucosa or submucosa), cN0 gastric cancer in the middle body of the stomach. Overall 5-year survival, cancer-related mortality, and freedom from recurrence were assessed retrospectively. The median followup period was 61 months (range 27 to 144 months). Seven patients died, and the overall 5-year survival probability was 98%. Gastric cancer-related mortality was 0% and none of the patients had evidence of tumor recurrence. The accuracy of the preoperative diagnosis of T1 gastric cancer using endoscopy or endoscopic ultrasonography was 95.7%. PPG may provide a longterm survival benefit for patients with clinically diagnosed T1 (mucosa or submucosa), cN0 gastric cancer in the middle body of the stomach, only when the accuracy of preoperative diagnosis can be assured."}
{"id": "19696980", "title": "[Gastrointestinal stromal tumors: recommendations for diagnosis, treatment and aftercare in Austria].", "content": "[Gastrointestinal stromal tumors: recommendations for diagnosis, treatment and aftercare in Austria]. Diagnosis and treatment of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) requires an interdisciplinary treatment approach. This strategy should be reflected by the content of this article. Austrian representatives of 'GIST relevant' specialties authored this publication on a consensual base. This manuscript should be regarded as a guideline for 'GIST involved' colleagues in Austria."}
{"id": "19688686", "title": "[Diagnosis of and therapy for gastric cancer--work-flow].", "content": "[Diagnosis of and therapy for gastric cancer--work-flow]. This review comments on the diagnosis and treatment of gastric cancer in the classical meaning--excluding adenocarcinoma of the -oesophagogastric junction. Algorithms of diagnosis and care with respect to tumour stage are presented. PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Besides oesophagogastroduodenoscopy, endoscopic ultrasonography is necessary for the accurate diagnosis of T categories and as a selection criterion for neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Computed tomography is recommended for preoperative evaluation of tumours > T1, laparoscopy has become an effective stag-ing tool in T3 and T4 tumours avoiding unnecessary laparotomies and improving the detection of small -liver and peritoneal metastases. Endoscopic mucosal resection and submucosal dissection are indicated in superficial cancer confined to the mucosa with special characteristics (T1 a / no ulcer / G1, 2 / Laur\u00e9n intestinal / L0 / V0 / tumour size < 2 cm). In all other cases total gastrectomy or distal subtotal gastric resection are indicated, the latter in cases of tumours located in the distal two-thirds of the stomach. Standard lymphadenectomy (LAD) is the D2 LAD without distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy. The Roux-en-Y oesophagojejunostomy is still the preferred type of reconstruction. An additional pouch reconstruction should be considered in -patients with favourable prognosis, this also -applies for the preservation of the duodenal passage by jejunum interposition. Extended organ resections are only indicated in cases where a R0-resection is possible. Hepatic resection for metachronous or synchronous liver metastases is rarely advised since 50 % of patients with liver metastases show concomitant peritoneal dissemination of the disease. Undergoing gastrectomy at a high-volume centre is associated with lower in-hospital mortality and a better prognosis, however, clear thresholds for case load cannot be given. Perioperative chemotherapy and postoperative chemoradiotherapy are based on the MAGIC and MacDonald trials. Perioperative chemotherapy should be performed in patients with T3 and T4 tumours with the aim to increase the likelihood of curative R0-resection by downsizing the tumour. Adjuvant postoperative chemotherapy cannot be recommended since its benefit has so far not been proven in randomised trials. In selected patients with incomplete lymph-node dissection and questionable R0-resection postoperative chemoradiotherapy may be debated."}
{"id": "19685034", "title": "[Diagnostic endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography of gastrointestinal stroma tumors].", "content": "[Diagnostic endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography of gastrointestinal stroma tumors]. Endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) are important diagnostic tools for the diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST), especially for small incidental GISTs of the stomach and are necessary to make a decision for further procedures. In this overview the technical aspects and the use of endoscopy and EUS in the diagnosis of GIST, including endoscopic probe sampling and resection as well as the current limitations are described. The incidence of GIST and the differential diagnosis by endosonography are also described. This article concentrates on the data based description of the current diagnostic and therapeutic recommendations in suspected small GISTs with respect to the European Society of Medical Oncology (ESMO) guidelines. Finally, the limited options of endoscopic treatment of GIST complications (bleeding, stenosis) and the significance of endoscopy and EUS in further diagnosis of GIST which had been suspected from radiological imaging are briefly discussed."}
{"id": "19649759", "title": "Gastric emptying function in patients 5 years after pylorus-preserving distal gastrectomy with or without preserving pyloric and hepatic branches of the vagal nerve for early gastric cancer.", "content": "Gastric emptying function in patients 5 years after pylorus-preserving distal gastrectomy with or without preserving pyloric and hepatic branches of the vagal nerve for early gastric cancer. To clarify the significance of preserving pyloric and hepatic branches of the vagal nerve (PHV) after pylorus preserving distal gastrectomy (PPG) for early gastric cancer, the author investigated the postgastrectomy syndrome and gastric emptying function at 5 years in PPG patients with or without preserving the PHV. A total of 18 subjects (mucosal cancers) who underwent PPG with D1 lymph node dissection and preserving the PHV; they comprised group A-12 men and 6 women aged 38-68 years (mean 58.9 years). They were interviewed to inquire about gastrointestinal symptom (appetite, weight loss, gastric fullness, reflux esophagitis, early dumping syndrome) and then were compared with 24 PPG patients (submucosal cancers) with D2 lymph node dissection without preserving the PHV (group B-16 men and 8 women aged 33 to 69 years, mean 60.1 years). Esophagogastric endoscopy, abdominal ultrasonography, and gastric emptying function tests (GET) were undertaken, the latter by both radioisotope (solid diet) and acetaminophen (liquid diet) methods. There were no differences in the postoperative gastrointestinal symptoms, endoscopic reflux esophagitis, or endoscopic mucosal edema and redness (gastropathy) between groups A and B. However, more cholecystolithiasis (gallbladder stones) was found in group A than in group B, with the difference being significant (P < 0.0391). The GET for solid diet and liquid diet were the almost same among groups A and B. There were no significant differences in the postoperative QOL and GET between PPG patients with preserving PHV and those without preserving PHV. Cholecystolithiasis was only found in patients without preserving PHV."}
{"id": "19623328", "title": "Celiac and perigastric lymph node metastasis of prostate cancer diagnosed with endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration.", "content": "Celiac and perigastric lymph node metastasis of prostate cancer diagnosed with endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration. Endoscopic ultrasound has been used to diagnose and stage gastrointestinal and nongastrointestinal tumours. To our knowledge, the present report describes the first case of celiac and perigastric lymph node metastasis of prostate cancer diagnosed with endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration."}
{"id": "19610138", "title": "Is it possible to differentiate gastric GISTs from gastric leiomyomas by EUS?", "content": "Is it possible to differentiate gastric GISTs from gastric leiomyomas by EUS? To evaluate the ultrasonography (EUS) features of gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) as compared with gastric leiomyomas and then to determine the EUS features that could predict malignant GISTs. We evaluated the endoscopic EUS features in 53 patients with gastric mesenchymal tumors confirmed by histopathologic diagnosis. The GISTs were classified into benign and malignant groups according to the histological risk classification. Immunohistochemical analyses demonstrated 7 leiomyomas and 46 GISTs. Inhomogenicity, hyperechogenic spots, a marginal halo and higher echogenicity as compared with the surrounding muscle layer appeared more frequently in the GISTs than in the leiomyomas (P < 0.05). The presence of at least two of these four features had a sensitivity of 89.1% and a specificity of 85.7% for predicting GISTs. Except for tumor size and irregularity of the border, most of the EUS features were not helpful for predicting the malignant potential of GISTs. On multivariate analysis, only the maximal diameter of the GISTs was an independent predictor. The optimal size for predicting malignant GISTs was 35 mm. The sensitivity and specificity using this value were 92.3% and 78.8%, respectively. EUS may help to differentiate gastric GISTs from gastric leiomyomas. Once GISTs are suspected, surgery should be considered if the size is greater than 3.5 cm."}
{"id": "19567240", "title": "A small submucosal tumor in antrum.", "content": "A small submucosal tumor in antrum."}
{"id": "19565050", "title": "Staging laparoscopy in gastric cancer. Accuracy and impact on therapy.", "content": "Staging laparoscopy in gastric cancer. Accuracy and impact on therapy. Surgical therapy remains the most effective treatment modality in gastric cancer. The importance of multimodal treatment for advanced gastric cancer has contributed to the development of more accurate preoperative staging strategies. We examined the diagnostic accuracy of staging laparoscopy (SL) for abdominal metastases and the predictive value of SL for tumor resectability. This is a prospective, cohort, observational study of 98 patients with primary gastric adenocarcinoma admitted at a tertiary referral hospital over a three year period. Extended SL, laparoscopic ultrasonography and peritoneal cytology were performed in 45 patients with gastric cancer without distant metastases on pre-therapeutic imaging staging. Of the 45 patients, 17 (37.8%) had distant metastases on SL and were offered palliative therapy and/or supportive care. Open laparotomy and gastrectomy was performed in the patients without distant metastases or with uncertain resectability on SL. An unnecessary laparotomy was avoided in 17 (37.8%) patients. The overall SL sensitivity for distant metastases was 89%, specificity 100% and diagnostic accuracy 95.5%. The sensitivity for lymph node metastases was 54.5%, the specificity 100% and the diagnostic accuracy 64.3%. The SL positive predictive value for resectability was 96% and the negative predictive value was 50%. The morbidity of SL was 2.2% and the mortality 0. Staging laparoscopy is a safe and effective staging modality in patients with gastric carcinoma. It avoids unnecessary laparotomies in a significant number of patients and should be mandatory if neoadjuvant treatment is planned."}
{"id": "19565047", "title": "Endosonographic surveillance of small gastrointestinal tumors originating from muscularis propria.", "content": "Endosonographic surveillance of small gastrointestinal tumors originating from muscularis propria. Submucosal tumors (SMT) are not uncommonly found during upper endoscopy. Management for small SMT originating from muscularis propria (MP) is controversial. Data regarding regular endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) surveillance is scarce. We report our experience in using EUS to monitor these tumors. Patients with SMT originated from MP as confirmed by EUS were recruited. The maximal diameter, echo pattern, presence of cystic spaces and regularity of extra-luminal margin were documented. Patients with large tumors (maximal diameter > 3 cm), heterogeneous echo pattern, presence of cystic spaces or irregular extra-luminal margin were offered surgery in view of malignant risk. Patients with small tumor and benign EUS features were offered regular EUS surveillance or surgery if they wished. The progress of those patients who underwent EUS surveillance were studied. From January 2002 to December 2007, there were 93 patients with SMT originating from MP. Forty-nine patients had a small tumor and benign EUS features. Only two of these patients chose surgery. The histopathological results were low risk gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) in both patients. Twenty-three patients elected to undergo regular EUS surveillance for a mean period of 17.3 months (range 6-42 months). Three patients (13.0%) showed interval increase in tumor size. There was no change in other EUS features. Surgery was performed in these 3 patients. Histological examination revealed schwannoma in 2 patients and low risk GIST in 1 patient. It remains unclear whether EUS surveillance for small tumors originating from MP in the upper gastrointestinal tract is useful."}
{"id": "19535049", "title": "An unusual cause of dysphagia and dyspnea.", "content": "An unusual cause of dysphagia and dyspnea."}
{"id": "19500741", "title": "Surgical therapy for Barrett's esophagus with high-grade dysplasia and early esophageal carcinoma.", "content": "Surgical therapy for Barrett's esophagus with high-grade dysplasia and early esophageal carcinoma. Patients diagnosed with Barrett's esophagus and high-grade dysplasia may harbor an intramucosal or early stage invasive esophageal carcinoma. The presence of and associated invasive malignancy exposes the patient to the risk of lymph node metastasis and its devastating effect on survival, regardless of treatment. The authors recommend that patients diagnosed with Barrett's esophagus and highgrade dysplasia be evaluated by an esophageal surgeon, who will be able to confirm the diagnosis and review the surgical options along with their potential benefits and risks. By continuously refining minimally invasive surgical techniques and perioperative care, esophageal resection should remain an acceptable option to patients with this disease."}
{"id": "19454825", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration using helical computerized tomography for TN staging and vascular injury in operable pancreatic carcinoma.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration using helical computerized tomography for TN staging and vascular injury in operable pancreatic carcinoma. EUS-FNA is increasingly being used in operable pancreatic carcinoma cases identified by CT. Determine the safety, accuracy and clinical utility of EUS-FNA for T, N and TN staging and vascular injury assessment in proven ductal pancreatic carcinoma. Fifty-two consecutive patients (29 women and 23 men) with histologically ductal pancreatic carcinoma, with an excellent possibility of mass resection assessed by helical computerized tomography, were studied. Mean age was 62.4 years (range: 27-82 years). Tumor locations were in the head (43 cases), body (5 cases) and tail (4 cases) of the pancreas. Mean tumor size from EUS was 3.7 cm (range: 0.8-6.2 cm). We reviewed medical records and abdominal ultrasound, CT, EUS-FNA and the results were compared to surgical and histological findings. Ultrasound identified pancreatic abnormalities in 38 out of 52 patients (73.1%): pancreatic mass (25 cases), pancreatic head enlargement (8 cases), dilation of main pancreatic duct (3 cases), pancreatic cyst (1 case) and pancreatic calcification (1 case). CT showed a pancreatic mass (30 cases), pancreatic enlargement (17 cases), pancreatic cystic lesion (2 cases) and pancreatic calcification (1 case) in 50 out of 52 patients (96.2%). EUS-FNA found a clear pancreatic tumor image in all patients (100%). The accuracy of EUS for evaluating portal blood vessels, superior mesenteric artery, T alone, N alone and combined TN staging was 86.5%, 94.2%, 84.7%, 67.3% and 55.8%, respectively. In addition to cytological material from 50 patients, microfragments from 43 patients were sent for histological analysis. Two patients (3.8%) showed minor complications: self-limited bleeding and acute pancreatitis. EUS-FNA is safe, and can help gastroenterologists and surgeons make surgical decisions regarding pancreatic carcinoma patients."}
{"id": "19436301", "title": "A phase II trial of preoperative chemotherapy with epirubicin, cisplatin and capecitabine for patients with localised gastro-oesophageal junctional adenocarcinoma.", "content": "A phase II trial of preoperative chemotherapy with epirubicin, cisplatin and capecitabine for patients with localised gastro-oesophageal junctional adenocarcinoma. Preoperative cisplatin/fluorouracil is used for the treatment of localised oesophageal carcinoma. This phase II study aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of administering preoperative epirubicin/cisplatin/capecitabine (ECX). Patients with stage II or III oesophageal/gastro-oesophageal junctional adenocarcinoma from one institution received 4 cycles of ECX (epirubicin 50 mg m(-2) day 1, cisplatin 60 mg m(-2) day 1, capecitabine 625 mg m(-2) b.i.d. daily) followed by surgery. The primary end point was the pathological complete response (pCR) rate based on a Simon two-stage design. Secondary end points included overall and progression-free survival (OS/PFS). Thirty-four patients were recruited: median age 60 years (range 41-81), 91% male, 97% PS 0/1, 80% T3, 68% N1. Thirty-one patients completed four ECX cycles. Grade 3/4 toxicities >or=5% included neutropenia (62%), hand-foot syndrome (15%) and nausea/vomiting (9%). Thirteen out of 28 (46%) evaluable patients responded to chemotherapy by EUS (>or=30% reduction in maximal tumour thickness). Twenty-six out of 34 (76%) patients underwent resection (R0=73%, R1=27%). Post-operatively, two patients died within 60 days of surgery. The pCR rate was 5.9% (95% CI 0-14%) in the intent-to-treat population. According to the statistical design, this prompted early study termination. However, with a median follow-up of 34 months the median OS and 1- and 2-year survival rates were 17 months, 67 and 39% respectively. Median PFS was 13 months. Of the 14 relapsed patients, 10 presented with distant metastases. Preoperative ECX is feasible and well tolerated. Although associated with a low pCR rate, survival with ECX was comparable with published studies suggesting that pCR may not correlate with satisfactory outcome from preoperative chemotherapy for localised oesophageal adenocarcinoma."}
{"id": "19391408", "title": "[Actual achievements in the therapy of esophagogastric carcinomas].", "content": "[Actual achievements in the therapy of esophagogastric carcinomas]."}
{"id": "19390927", "title": "Imaging in assessing lymph node status in gastric cancer.", "content": "Imaging in assessing lymph node status in gastric cancer. Accurate assessment of lymph node status is of crucial importance for appropriate treatment planning and determining prognosis in patients with gastric cancer. The aim of this study was to systematically review the current role of imaging in assessing lymph node (LN) status in gastric cancer. A systematic literature search was performed in the PubMed/MEDLINE and Embase databases. The methodological quality and diagnostic performance of the included studies was assessed. Six abdominal ultrasonography (AUS) studies, 30 endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) studies, 10 multidetectorrow computed tomography (MDCT) studies, 3 conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies, 4 (18)F-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) studies, and 1 FDG-PET/CT fusion study were included. In general, the included studies had moderate methodological quality. The sensitivity and specificity of AUS varied between 12.2% and 80.0% (median, 39.9%) and 56.3% and 100% (median, 81.8%). The sensitivity and specificity of EUS varied between 16.7% and 95.3% (median, 70.8%) and 48.4% and 100% (median, 84.6%). The sensitivity and specificity of MDCT varied between 62.5% and 91.9% (median, 80.0%) and 50.0% and 87.9% (median, 77.8%). The sensitivity and specificity of MRI varied between 54.6% and 85.3% (median, 68.8%) and 50.0% and 100% (median, 75.0%). The sensitivity and specificity of FDG-PET varied between 33.3% and 64.6% (median, 34.3%) and 85.7% and 97.0% (median, 93.2%). The sensitivity and specificity of the FDG-PET/CT fusion study were 54.7% and 92.2%. For all the imaging modalities, there were no significant differences between the mean sensitivities and specificities of high- and low-quality studies. AUS, EUS, MDCT, conventional MRI, and FDG-PET cannot reliably be used to confirm or exclude the presence of LN metastasis. The performance of highresolution PET/CT fusion and functional MRI techniques still has to be determined."}
{"id": "19388564", "title": "Confocal laser endomicroscopy and ultrasound endoscopy during the same endoscopic session for diagnosis and staging of gastric neoplastic lesions.", "content": "Confocal laser endomicroscopy and ultrasound endoscopy during the same endoscopic session for diagnosis and staging of gastric neoplastic lesions. Confocal LASER endomicroscopy (CLE) is a newly developed endoscopic technique which allows subsurface in vivo histological assessment during ongoing endoscopy and targeted biopsies. Ultrasound endoscopy (EUS) is a useful tool in staging upper GI malignant lesions. We describe for the first time the use of both techniques during the same endoscopic session, in a pilot study, in order to increase the diagnostic yield of histological assessment and provide the staging of the gastric neoplastic lesions thus decreasing the time to therapeutic decision. CLE has been performed with the Pentax EG-3870CIK confocal endomicroscope after a 5 ml intravenous 10% fluorescein injection; EUS has been performed subsequently, during the same endoscopic Propofol sedation session, using a standard radial EUS-scope. Eleven patients have been investigated, 4 females, 7 males, mean age 59.7 +/- 12.3 years. The indication of CLE/EUS exploration was the presence of a gastric polypoid lesion in 37% of cases, atypical gastric ulcer in 27% of patients, gastric lymphoma 18%, suspicion of gastric cancer recurrence after resection 9% and infiltrating type gastric cancer 9%. Histological assessment after targeted biopsy has established the diagnosis of gastric adenocarcinoma in 55% of cases, gastric lymphoma in 18% of cases, gastric adenoma, gastric GIST and gastric foveolar hyperplasia in 9% of cases respectively. CLE has allowed targeted biopsies in 81.8% of cases. In 2 patients - one case with suspected recurrent gastric cancer after surgery and one case of gastric lymphoma, CLE has indicated normal gastric mucosa. The EUS evaluation has shown TO lesion in two cases, T1 in 3 cases, T2 in 3 cases, T3 in one case. The EUS evaluation showed in one gastric lymphoma patient a lesion interesting the mucosa and submucosa with regional adenopathy and a submucosal lesion with regional adenopathy in the other gastric lymphoma case. The therapeutic decision was surgery in 73% of cases, chemotherapy and follow-up in 18% of cases and follow-up in 9% of cases. No complications were registered during the CLE/EUS explorations. CLE and EUS can be successfully associated during the same endoscopic session, for upper GI neoplastic lesions allowing targeted biopsies for histological assessment and disease staging for optimal therapeutic decision."}
{"id": "19383079", "title": "Benefits of endoscopic submucosal dissection according to size and location of gastric neoplasm, compared with conventional mucosal resection.", "content": "Benefits of endoscopic submucosal dissection according to size and location of gastric neoplasm, compared with conventional mucosal resection. To clarify optimal therapeutic strategies for early gastric cancers without vestigial remnant or recurrence, we evaluated the benefits of endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) and endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) according to tumor size and location. From January 2000 to December 2007, a total of 328 gastric lesions were treated using conventional EMR, while 572 lesions were treated by ESD. Patients who underwent surgery on the upper gastrointestinal tract before EMR or ESD were excluded from the study. We compared tumor size, location and rates of complete resection, curative resection, postoperative bleeding, perforation and local recurrence between EMR and ESD according to tumor situation. Overall local complete resection rate (EMR, 64.2%; ESD, 95.1%) and overall curative resection rate (EMR, 59.5%; ESD, 82.7%) were significantly higher in ESD than in EMR. No significant differences were seen in complication rates between EMR and ESD. Local recurrence was detected in 13 lesions (4.0%) of the EMR group during follow up. In contrast, no local recurrence was detected in the ESD group. For lesions 5 mm or less in diameter, complete resection rate in the EMR group was not significantly inferior to that in the ESD group at any location. However, rates were overwhelmingly better in the ESD group than in the EMR group for lesions more than 5 mm in diameter, regardless of location. We concluded that lesions exceeding 5 mm in diameter should be treated by ESD, although a high resection rate is obtained also with EMR for lesions of 5 mm or less in diameter."}
{"id": "19365980", "title": "Rare potential pitfall in endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy in gastric duplication cyst: a case report.", "content": "Rare potential pitfall in endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy in gastric duplication cyst: a case report. Foregut duplication cyst (FDC) is rare in the adult population. It is usually an incidental finding in clinical settings. As endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy (EUS-FNAB) becomes a preferred and popular procedure, it is imperative for cytopathologists recognize this rare lesion and avoid the diagnostic pitfall. A 48-year-old man presented with a 3-cm mass on the lesser curvature of the stomach with regional lymphoadenopathy. EUS-FNAB revealed abundant tenacious, viscous, mucinous material with scattered histiocytes and gastric and esophageal mucosal cells. A mucinous neoplasm was suspected, and partial sleeve gastrectomy was subsequently performed for removal of the gastric mass. The histopathologic finding was characteristic of gastric duplication cyst. The cytologic features of FDCs may closely resemble those of mucinous neoplasms, especially with clinically elevated carcinogenic embryonic antigen and CA19-9. The abundant mutinous material with scattered mucophages can create a diagnostic challenge and pitfall. Clinical information with endoscopic findings and knowledge of FDC are important for appropriate diagnosis of mucinous lesions."}
{"id": "19360926", "title": "Primary gastric teratoma on the cardiac orifice in an adult.", "content": "Primary gastric teratoma on the cardiac orifice in an adult. Gastric teratoma (GT) is a seldom seen congenital abnormality. GT always occurs in children. The greater curvature and posterior wall of the stomach are the most common sites involving GT. We diagnosed a case of GT located on the inferior wall of the cardiac orifice in a 20-year-old man. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of GT located on the wall of the cardiac orifice in an adult in the English literature. We report this unusual case as an addition to this rare disease usually found in children. Computed tomography combined with endoscopic ultrasonography can be selected to diagnose GT."}
{"id": "19356336", "title": "Indications for endoscopic ultrasound and diagnosis on fine-needle aspiration and cytology.", "content": "Indications for endoscopic ultrasound and diagnosis on fine-needle aspiration and cytology. To determine common indications for requesting Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS) and to describe the diagnosis made after endoscopic ultrasound/Fine-Needle Aspiration and Cytology (FNAC) during two years at a tertiary gastrointestinal unit. Cross-sectional descriptive study. The study was carried out in Gastrointestinal Department of Military Hospital, Rawalpindi, from March 2006 to February 2008. One hundred and eighty nine patients who underwent EUS during study period at Military Hospital were included in the study. Patients too ill (hypoxemic/hypotensive) to undergo procedure safely and those with complete esophageal blockage at upper end by tumour not allowing scope/EUS probe to advance beyond were excluded. EUS was done with Olympus Exera EUS 160, linear or radial scope, as required. EUS findings were recorded against indications as enlarged lymph nodes, tumour, staging, normal or incomplete. Fine-Needle Aspiration (FNA) was done as per findings on EUS using 21-22 G needle. An on-site cytopathologist made the provisional cytopathological diagnosis. Final cytology/histopathology report was given after review of slides by consultant histopathologists at Armed Forces Institute of Pathology (AFIP), Rawalpindi, and were documented as tuberculosis, malignancy, chronic pancreatitis or reactive hyperplasia. Data was analyzed for documentation of patients' age, gender, common indications, findings on EUS/FNAC, using SPSS version 10. Percentages and frequencies were calculated for the presence of these above-mentioned variables. Of the 189 patients, 145 (77%) were male and 44 (23%) female. Age was 18-80 years (mean 49 years). Major indications for referral were lymphadenopathy in 92 (49%), suspected growth pancreas in 57 (28%), growth of stomach in 20 (11%) and a heterogeneous group included esophageal, liver, retroperitoneal masses, rectal and other pathologies. Findings on EUS included lymphadenopathy in 76, mostly in sub-carina and AP window. Mass in pancreas was seen in 36, followed by stomach tumour in 17 and esophagus in 9. FNAC was done in 142 out of 189 patients. Final diagnosis out of 67 FNAC/histopathology of lymph nodes were tuberculosis in 26 and malignant lesions in 23. These included metastatic adenocarcinoma in 8, lymphoproliferative disorder in 7, metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in 5, small cell carcinoma in 2 and anaplastic in 1. Pancreatic tumours were adenocarcinoma in 16, poorly differentiated in 3 and neuroendocrine in 2. Stomach tumours were found in 11, and included lymphomas 5, GIST 3, carcinoids 2, metastatic choriocarcinoma 1 and adenocarcinoma in 1. Therapeutically, 3 celiac blocks and one pancreatic pseudocyst drainage was done. The main indication of EUS and pathology of mediastinal and celiac nodes were metastatic malignancy and tuberculosis. Pancreatic adenocarcinoma was another common cause for asking EUS."}
{"id": "19349904", "title": "The natural history of gastrointestinal subepithelial tumors arising from muscularis propria: an endoscopic ultrasound survey.", "content": "The natural history of gastrointestinal subepithelial tumors arising from muscularis propria: an endoscopic ultrasound survey. The majority of lesions originating from muscularis propria of stomach, duodenum, and colon are gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). Surgery is indicated when endosonographic criteria of malignancy are met, but little is known about the natural history of lesions with benign endosonographic features. Aim of this study was to evaluate the natural course of benign-appearing lesions originating from muscularis propria in organs where GISTs significantly overcome leiomyomas. A total of 49 asymptomatic patients with hypoechoic lesions originating from the fourth layer of the gastrointestinal tract entered a follow-up program by means of endoscopic ultrasonography. All lesions were nonulcerated, <3 cm in maximal diameter, with regular margins, and cystic spaces of <3 mm. After a mean follow-up of 31+/-20.8 months and a median of 2 (range, 1 to 5) endosonographies/patient, no change in echostructure or dimensions was seen in 44 subjects whereas in 5, an increase of at least 25% in 1 diameter occurred. Surgical removal was proposed to all: 1 patient refused (she is still alive and symptom-free after 4 y), 3 of the 4 lesions removed proved to be GISTs with very low or low risk of malignancy and 1 lesion was classified as a glomus tumor with no malignant appearance. Even small and benign-appearing lesions from muscularis propria may increase in size over time but this increase cannot be considered as an index of malignancy. As most of these lesions are GISTs, a policy of surveillance is advisable."}
{"id": "19340738", "title": "Endoscopic-ultrasound-guided mural trucut biopsy in the investigation of unexplained thickening of esophagogastric wall.", "content": "Endoscopic-ultrasound-guided mural trucut biopsy in the investigation of unexplained thickening of esophagogastric wall. Esophageal and/or gastric wall thickening raises the possibility of malignancy. Endoscopic-ultrasound-(EUS-)guided targeted biopsy of the thickened wall is possible. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of EUS-guided mural trucut biopsies (TCB) in detecting underlying malignancy in patients with thickened esophagogastric wall and negative mucosal biopsies. Patients with alarm symptoms referred for EUS-guided sampling after negative endoscopy and mucosal biopsy were included in the study. All patients had radial EUS reporting abnormal thickening of the esophageal/gastric wall. A linear-array echoendoscope and a 19-gauge trucut needle were used for sampling. Clinical and investigatory data were collected prospectively between 2004 and 2008. Thirty-one patients (20 men) aged 60 - 74 years (median 67 years) were included. All patients had thickened esophageal wall (n = 10), gastric wall (n = 21), or both on radial EUS. Prior to EUS, patients had undergone 1 - 5 endoscopies (median 1.2) and 2 - 8 mucosal biopsies (median 4). The median esophageal and gastric wall thicknesses were 12 and 18 mm respectively. During sampling 1 - 5 needle punctures (median 3) were made. On EUS-TCB, an adequate specimen for histology was obtained in 28/31 patients (90 %). The size of the tissue cores was 4 - 10 mm (median 6mm). Malignancy was confirmed in 16/31 patients (54 %) on histology, and in 11/31 patients (35.4 %) an underlying malignancy was excluded. There was no significant correlation between wall thickness and biopsy size (rho = 0.11, 95 %CI- 0.25 to - 0.45, two-sided P = 0.53). EUS-TCB had sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of 85 %, 100 %, 100 %, and 74 % respectively. There were no immediate or late complications. EUS-guided mural TCB is a safe and effective technique in the investigation of esophagogastric wall thickening in patients with alarm symptoms and has high sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of a cancer."}
{"id": "19340737", "title": "Diagnostic yield and safety of endoscopic ultrasound-guided trucut [corrected] biopsy in patients with gastric submucosal tumors: a prospective study.", "content": "Diagnostic yield and safety of endoscopic ultrasound-guided trucut [corrected] biopsy in patients with gastric submucosal tumors: a prospective study. Endoscopic-ultrasound-guided trucut needle biopsy (EUS-TCB) has not been adequately evaluated in patients with submucosal tumors (SMTs). This prospective, uncontrolled study involving 49 consecutive patients with hypoechoic gastric SMTs (> or = 20 mm) evaluated diagnostic yield and 30-day morbidity of EUS-TCB, factors related to the success of EUS-TCB, and agreement between EUS-TCB and the surgical pathology diagnosis. Seventy-three percent of tumors were gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST). Tumor tissue adequate for diagnosis was obtained by EUS-TCB in 31 patients (63 %; 95 %CI 49 % to 75 %). In the remaining cases, EUS-TCB provided no tissue (n = 11) or an insufficient amount (n = 7). Logistic regression analysis showed that tumor location on the lesser curvature of the stomach was the only independent predictor of obtaining diagnostic material [odds ratio (OR) 7.4; 95 %CI 1.9 to 28; P = 0.004]. The experience of the endosonographer, the size of the tumor, and the location of the tumor relative to the long axis of the stomach were not related to the success of the biopsy. Agreement between EUS-TCB and surgical pathology specimens in respect of the diagnosis and CD117 status was high (0.9, standard error 0.31; and 0.95, standard error 0.16, respectively); however, there was no correlation between the mitotic index as determined on EUS-TCB and that determined on the surgical pathology specimen (correlation coefficient, 0.08). There were two severe septic complications in 52 procedures (3.9 %; 95 %CI 0.3 % to 14 %). The diagnostic yield of EUS-TCB in patients with gastric SMTs was moderate. Tissue samples were too small to reliably determine the mitotic index. Antibiotic prophylaxis should be considered because of possible septic complications."}
{"id": "19264188", "title": "Cross-sectional imaging of gastric neoplasia.", "content": "Cross-sectional imaging of gastric neoplasia. The detection of gastric neoplasia has traditionally been limited to barium examination and direct visualization at endoscopy. The rapid development of techniques such as multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has resulted in more accurate diagnosis and staging of gastric neoplasia. In this review we describe the normal anatomy of the stomach with multi-modality illustrations and review the imaging manifestations of gastric neoplasia, including adenocarcinoma, lymphoma, neuroendocrine and gastro-intestinal stromal tumours. We also describe the optimal techniques for up-to-date and accurate gastric imaging, outlining the role of MDCT and EUS."}
{"id": "19263158", "title": "Initial experience with a new laparoscopic ultrasound probe for guided biopsy in the staging of upper gastrointestinal cancer.", "content": "Initial experience with a new laparoscopic ultrasound probe for guided biopsy in the staging of upper gastrointestinal cancer. Until recently, laparoscopic ultrasound (LUS)-guided biopsy has been difficult with the available probes on the market. This study aimed to present a new laparoscopic ultrasound probe (Hitachi, EUP-OL531) for guided biopsy and describe its impact on the clinical outcome for patients with upper gastrointestinal (UGI) cancer. Patients referred with confirmed UGI cancer from June 2003 to December 2006 were included in the study. After a standard workup including computed tomography, endoscopic ultrasound, and ultrasound of the neck, operable patients underwent LUS with or without fine-needle aspiration (FNA). From a total of 175 patients, 19 (11%) underwent LUS-guided FNA after a significant lesion was found. The LUS-guided FNA confirmed distant metastasis in 14 of the 19 patients and changed the clinical management for these 14 patients (8%). There were no adverse events due to LUS or LUS-guided FNA. The current results with the new LUS probe for guided FNA are encouraging in terms of its diagnostic ability, safety, and ease of use."}
{"id": "19228527", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound can improve the selection for laparoscopy in patients with localized gastric cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound can improve the selection for laparoscopy in patients with localized gastric cancer. The majority of newly diagnosed patients with gastric cancer have disease that is not resectable because of local extension or metastatic (M1) disease. Laparoscopy is a recommended staging evaluation to identify occult peritoneal metastatic disease. We determined if endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) could improve the selection of patients for laparoscopy. Gastric cancer patients being screened for a preoperative chemotherapy clinical trial were prospectively examined. Patients underwent standard preoperative assessment. Those without obvious metastatic disease were referred for EUS and laparoscopy. EUS divided patients into risk categories for metastatic disease: low risk (T1-2, N0) and high risk (T3-4, N+, or both). Laparoscopy categories were M1 and M0. The ability of EUS to predict subradiographic peritoneal metastatic disease was evaluated. Ninety-four patients were studied. The majority were EUS high risk (72%). Occult metastatic disease was identified in 19 patients, 18 of whom had high-risk EUS stage. The yields of identifying M1 disease by laparoscopy in EUS high- and low-risk patients were 25% (95% CI, 15% to 37%) and 4% (95% CI, 0.1% to 20%), respectively. The negative predictive value of low-risk EUS for laparoscopy and pathologic M0 was 96% (exact 95% CI, 80% to 100%). This study suggested that laparoscopy can be avoided in patients with EUS early-stage gastric cancer. Patients with more advanced disease are at higher risk of occult peritoneal disease and require laparoscopy. Validation with greater numbers is warranted, but, based on these data, we propose a new staging algorithm allowing EUS low-risk patients to proceed directly to resection."}
{"id": "19224191", "title": "[Classification of gastro-entero-pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors].", "content": "[Classification of gastro-entero-pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors]. Tumors of the disseminated/diffuse neuroendocrine system (NET) are characterized by a common phenotype. However, the biology varies according to histomorphology, endocrine symptoms and organ of origin. The WHO classification takes these differences into account and uses a common framework, where the parameters size and extent of invasion vary according to the organ of origin. In order to achieve a further standardization of reporting the European Neuroendocrine Tumor Society (ENETS) recently proposed a tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) staging and grading system for gastro-entero-pancreatic NET."}
{"id": "19191855", "title": "International survey on esophageal cancer: part II staging and neoadjuvant therapy.", "content": "International survey on esophageal cancer: part II staging and neoadjuvant therapy. The outcome of esophagectomy could be improved by optimal diagnostic strategies leading to adequate preoperative patient selection. Neoadjuvant therapy could improve outcome by increasing the number of radical resections and by controlling metastatic disease. The purposes of this study were to gain insight into the current worldwide practice of staging modalities and neoadjuvant therapy in esophageal cancer, and to detect intercontinental differences. Surgeons with particular interest in esophageal surgery, including members of the International Society for Diseases of the Esophagus, the European Society of Esophagology - Group d'Etude Europ\u00e9en des Maladies de l'Oesophage, and the OESO, were invited to participate in an online questionnaire. Questions were asked regarding staging modalities, neoadjuvant therapy, and response evaluation applied in esophageal cancer patients. Of 567 invited surgeons, 269 participated resulting in a response rate of 47%. The responders currently performing esophagectomies (n= 250; 44%) represented 41 countries across the six continents. Esophagogastroscopy with biopsy and computed tomography (CT) scanning were routinely performed by 98% of responders for diagnosing and staging esophageal cancer, while endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and barium esophagography were routinely applied by 58% and 51%, respectively. Neoadjuvant therapy is routinely administered by 33% and occasionally by 63% of responders. Of the responders that administer identical neoadjuvant regimens to esophageal adenocarcinoma (AC) and squamous cell carcinoma, 54% favor chemoradiotherapy. For AC, chemotherapy is preferred by 31% of the responders that administer neoadjuvant therapy, whereas for squamous cell carcinoma, the majority of responders (38%) prefer chemoradiotherapy. Response to neoadjuvant therapy is predominantly assessed by CT scanning of the chest and abdomen (86%). Barium esophagography, EUS, and combined CT/PET scan are requested for response monitoring in equal frequency (25%). Substantial differences in applied staging modalities and neoadjuvant regimens were detected between surgeons from different continents. In conclusion, currently the most commonly applied diagnostic modalities for staging and restaging esophageal cancer are CT scanning of the chest and abdomen, gastroscopy, barium esophagography and EUS. Neoadjuvant therapy is routinely applied by one third of the responders. Intercontinental differences have been detected in the diagnostic modalities applied in esophageal cancer staging and in the administration of neoadjuvant therapy. The results of this survey provide baseline data for future research and for the development of international guidelines."}
{"id": "19184999", "title": "Diagnosis of recurrent lung cancer in the mediastinum using endosonographically guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy.", "content": "Diagnosis of recurrent lung cancer in the mediastinum using endosonographically guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy. Endoscopic sonography is a well-established tool for the diagnosis and staging of gastrointestinal malignancies. It has been found to be of increasing utility in the diagnosis and management of lung cancers. We report a case of recurrent lung cancer presenting 4 years after initial diagnosis and treatment, in which endoscopic sonography was used to guide the fine-needle aspiration biopsy."}
{"id": "19145498", "title": "[Clinical analysis of 63 cases with gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors].", "content": "[Clinical analysis of 63 cases with gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors]. To analyze the clinicopathological characteristics of gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors (gastric GISTs) and to explore the diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of gastric GISTs. Clinical data of 63 cases with gastric GISTs from January 1997 to May 2007 were analyzed retrospectively. All patients were treated by surgery. All the 63 cases were grouped according to the Fletcher 4-tier system for predicting the aggressiveness of GISTs. Survival was calculated by Kaplan-Meier method. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed using log-rank analysis and Cox regression model respectively to evaluate the prognostic factors. The accuracy of preoperative ultrasonography, CT and EUS was 72.2%, 81.0% and 94.3% respectively. The diagnostic accuracy of EUS was significantly higher than those of ultrasonography and CT(chi(2)=6.065, P<0.05). Of the 63 gastric GISTs, 31 cases(49.20%) were at fundus. Immunohistochemistry staining revealed that the positive rates of CD117 and CD34 were 88.9% and 95.1% respectively. The 1-, 3- and 5-year total survival rates of 63 patients were 96.4%, 84.7% and 71.7% respectively. Univariate analysis revealed that the differences of Fletcher classification and tumor size were significant. No significant differences in gender, age, mitotic index, immunohistochemistry expression and multi-organ resection existed among the groups. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that Fletcher classification was the independent poor prognostic factor for survival. The preoperative diagnostic accuracy of EUS is significantly higher than those of ultrasonography and CT. Fletcher classification is reasonable and feasible to evaluate the prognosis of gastric GISTs."}
{"id": "19118422", "title": "Prognostic significance of endoscopic ultrasound-defined pleural, pericardial or peritoneal fluid in oesophageal cancer.", "content": "Prognostic significance of endoscopic ultrasound-defined pleural, pericardial or peritoneal fluid in oesophageal cancer. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is known to detect smaller effusion volumes than computerised tomography (CT), yet the outcomes for patients diagnosed with oesophageal carcinoma and EUS-defined pleural, pericardial or ascitic fluid effusions (EDFE) are unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the outcome of multidisciplinary stage directed treatment for such patients. Forty-nine (9.2%) out of a consecutive 527 patients diagnosed with oesophageal cancer from a single regional upper gastrointestinal (GI) cancer network were found to have evidence of EDFE undetected by CT. Thirty-nine (79.6%) patients had pleural effusions, eight (16.3%) pericardial effusions, and two (4.1%) ascites. Twelve (24.4%) underwent surgery, 3 (6.1%) received neoadjuvant chemotherapy without subsequent surgery, 12 (24.5%) received definitive chemoradiotherapy (dCRT), and 22 (44.9%) received palliative treatment. Survival in patients with EDFE was significantly shorter (median and 2-year survival 15.6 months and 24%, respectively) when compared with patients without EDFE (26.7 months and 40%, respectively, p = 0.001), and was unrelated to EDFE type (p = 0.192). Two-year survival after oesophagectomy with or without neoadjuvant therapy was 45% in patients with EDFE compared with 42% in patients without EDFE (p = 0.668). EDFE was an important adverse prognostic indicator, but patients deemed to have operable tumours should still be treated with radical intent."}
{"id": "19111699", "title": "Osteoclastic and pleomorphic giant cell tumors of the pancreas diagnosed via EUS-guided FNA: unique clinical, endoscopic, and pathologic findings in a series of 5 patients.", "content": "Osteoclastic and pleomorphic giant cell tumors of the pancreas diagnosed via EUS-guided FNA: unique clinical, endoscopic, and pathologic findings in a series of 5 patients. Osteoclastic and pleomorphic giant cell tumors of the pancreas are rare entities that have been typically described only in single case reports. We report on our experience with a series of 5 patients with pancreatic giant cell tumors seen at our institution. This was a retrospective study involving a search of the study institution's medical records from 2001 to 2007 for patients diagnosed with giant cell-containing neoplasms of the pancreas. Five patients (2 women, 3 men) were identified. Age range was 59 to 81 years, with a mean of 70.2 years. None were current or former smokers. None had a history of alcohol abuse or preexisting pancreatitis of any kind. On EUS, tumors tended to be large, with a mean diameter of 47 mm (range 20-70 mm). All tumors had a heterogeneous echotexture and a distinct appearance when compared with the typical appearance of adenocarcinoma when viewed via EUS. The diagnosis of giant cell tumor of the pancreas, as well as the subtype, was made via EUS-guided FNA of the pancreatic lesion. Patients with pleomorphic giant cell tumors of the pancreas had a poor clinical course with a rapid decline, whereas those with mixed or osteoclastic giant cell tumors tended to have a better outcome, with a greater long-term survival. One patient is still alive more than 18 months after diagnosis. Retrospective study. Giant cell tumors of the pancreas have unique clinical, endoscopic, and cytologic features. The risk factors for these lesions may be different from those associated with pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Some giant cell tumor subtypes may carry a more favorable prognosis than pancreatic adenocarcinoma, and awareness and recognition of these differences can affect patient care."}
{"id": "19077733", "title": "Usefulness of endoscopic ultrasonography in determining the depth of invasion and indication for endoscopic treatment of early gastric cancer.", "content": "Usefulness of endoscopic ultrasonography in determining the depth of invasion and indication for endoscopic treatment of early gastric cancer. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is a useful method for visualizing features of gastric cancer. However, a previously reported classification system tended to result in overstaging. We investigated the usefulness of EUS for evaluation of the depth of gastric cancer invasion and indications for endoscopic treatment. Accuracy of EUS for determining the depth of invasion and incidences of a positive basal margin were assessed in 235 patients who underwent endoscopic treatment or surgery for gastric cancer. The EUS-determined depth of invasion was classified as follows: EUS-M (lesion confined to sonographic layers 1 and 2); EUS-M/SM border (lesion with changes in sonographic layer 3 but no deeper than 1 mm); EUS-SM (lesion with changes in sonographic layer 3 deeper than 1 mm); or EUS-AD (lesion with changes in sonographic layer 4 or 5). Accuracy of EUS for determining the depth of invasion was as follows: EUS-M, 99% were M and SM1 lesions; EUS-M/SM border, 87% were M and SM1 lesions; EUS-SM, 91% were SM2 lesions; EUS-AD, 100% were muscularis propria or deeper lesions. There was no EUS-M or EUS-M/SM border lesion for which endoscopic treatment resulted in a positive basal margin. EUS is useful for accurately determining the depth of invasion of gastric cancer. When there are no endoscopically determined ulcerous changes, endoscopic treatment should be considered for EUS-M and EUS-M/SM border lesions, and EUS-SM lesions should be treated surgically."}
{"id": "19023576", "title": "Role of EUS and MDCT in the diagnosis of gastric submucosal tumors according to the revised pathologic concept of gastrointestinal stromal tumors.", "content": "Role of EUS and MDCT in the diagnosis of gastric submucosal tumors according to the revised pathologic concept of gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Gastric submucosal tumors (SMTs) consist of various lesions arising from the deep layers of the stomach. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are undoubtedly the commonest malignant SMTs of the stomach, and therefore the attitude towards the general diagnostic approach for GISTs defines the extended diagnostic plan for SMTs. Two recent consensus meetings were assembled concerning the classification and therapeutic plans for GISTs. These meetings shed light upon the need for the modification of the current role of imaging modalities, including endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and computed tomography (CT). According to the revised concepts of GISTs, the most important and plausible current role of imaging for the diagnostic approach of gastric SMTs is to differentiate GISTs from other gastric SMTs. This review discusses the newly established diagnostic role of radiology according to the revised classification of GISTs and provides the differential diagnoses based on EUS and CT findings."}
{"id": "19021684", "title": "Adenocarcinoma of the lower esophagus with Barrett's esophagus or without Barrett's esophagus: differences in patients' survival after preoperative chemoradiation.", "content": "Adenocarcinoma of the lower esophagus with Barrett's esophagus or without Barrett's esophagus: differences in patients' survival after preoperative chemoradiation. It remains unclear whether the overall survival (OS) of patients with localized esophageal adenocarcinoma (LEA) with Barrett's esophagus (BE) (Barrett's-positive) and those with LEA without BE (Barrett's-negative) following preoperative chemoradiation is different. Based on the published differences in the molecular biology of the two entities, we hypothesized that the two groups will have a different clinical biology (and OS). In this retrospective analysis, all patients with LEA had surgery following preoperative chemoradiation. Apart from age, gender, baseline clinical stage, location, class of cytotoxics, post-therapy stage, and OS, LEAs were divided up into Barrett's-positive and Barrett's-negative groups based on histologic documentation of BE. The Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analytic methods were used. We analyzed 362 patients with LEA (137 Barrett's-positive and 225 Barrett's-negative). A higher proportion of Barrett's-positive patients had (EUS)T2 cancers (27%) than those with Barrett's-negative cancer (17%). More Barrett's-negative LEAs involved gastroesophageal junction than Barrett's-positive ones (P = 0.001). The OS was significantly shorter for Barrett's-positive patients than that for Barrett's-negative patients (32 months vs. 51 months; P = 0.04). In a multivariate analysis for OS, Barrett's-positive LEA (P = 0.006), old age (P = 0.016), baseline positive nodes (P = 0.005), more than 2 positive (yp)N (P = 0.0001), higher (yp)T (P = 0.003), and the use of a taxane (0.04) were the independent prognosticators. Our data demonstrate that the clinical biology (reflected in OS) is less favorable for patients with Barrett's-positive LEA than for patients with Barrett's-negative LEA. Our intriguing findings need confirmation followed by in-depth molecular study to explain these differences."}
{"id": "19018597", "title": "How good is endoscopic ultrasound in differentiating various T stages of rectal cancer? Meta-analysis and systematic review.", "content": "How good is endoscopic ultrasound in differentiating various T stages of rectal cancer? Meta-analysis and systematic review. Published data on accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in differentiating T stages of rectal cancers is varied. Study selection criteria were to select only EUS studies confirmed with results of surgical pathology. Articles were searched in Medline and Pubmed. Pooling was conducted by both fixed and random effects models. Initial search identified 3,630 reference articles, of which 42 studies (N = 5,039) met the inclusion criteria and were included in this analysis. The pooled sensitivity and specificity of EUS to determine T1 stage was 87.8% [95% confidence interval (CI) 85.3-90.0%] and 98.3% (95% CI 97.8-98.7%), respectively. For T2 stage, EUS had a pooled sensitivity and specificity of 80.5% (95% CI 77.9-82.9%) and 95.6% (95% CI 94.9-96.3%), respectively. To stage T3 stage, EUS had a pooled sensitivity and specificity of 96.4% (95% CI 95.4-97.2%) and 90.6% (95% CI 89.5-91.7%), respectively. In determining the T4 stage, EUS had a pooled sensitivity of 95.4% (95% CI 92.4-97.5%) and specificity of 98.3% (95% CI 97.8-98.7%). The p value for chi-squared heterogeneity for all the pooled accuracy estimates was > 0.10. We conclude that, as a result of the demonstrated sensitivity and specificity, EUS should be the investigation of choice to T stage rectal cancers. The sensitivity of EUS is higher for advanced disease than for early disease. EUS should be strongly considered for T staging of rectal cancers."}
{"id": "18951813", "title": "Role of imaging in the management of pancreatic mass.", "content": "Role of imaging in the management of pancreatic mass. Pancreatic cancer is the second commonest malignant gastrointestinal neoplasm. Modern imaging techniques have greatly increased sensitivity in diagnosing and staging pancreatic cancers. Multidetector CT in particular, plays a critical role in local staging and determining the resectability of pancreatic tumours. MR and endoscopic ultrasound are valuable in those groups of patients in whom CT findings alone are inconclusive in tumour characterisation and local staging, particularly vascular involvement. In this article we review the current established concepts and the role of imaging in the multidisciplinary management of pancreatic tumours together with a comprehensive review of the literature."}
{"id": "18937292", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of T and N stages with endoscopy, stomach protocol CT, and endoscopic ultrasonography in early gastric cancer.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of T and N stages with endoscopy, stomach protocol CT, and endoscopic ultrasonography in early gastric cancer. Preoperative accurate diagnosis of the T and N stages in early gastric cancer (EGC) is important in determining the application of various limited treatments. The aim of this study is to analyze the accuracy of T and N staging of EGC with esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), Stomach protocol CT (S-CT), and endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), and the factors influencing the accuracy. Four hundred and thirty-four patients preoperatively diagnosed as EGC using EGD or S-CT and undergoing curative gastrectomy at Seoul National University Hospital in 2005 were included. The T and N stage reviewed by experienced personnel were compared with the surgical pathology. The predictive values for EGC of EGD, S-CT, and EUS were 87.4%, 92.2%, and 94.1%, respectively. The predictive values for node negativity of S-CT, and EUS were 90.1% and 92.6%, respectively. The factors leading to underestimation of T stage with EGD were the upper third location, the size greater than 2 cm, and diffuse type of tumor. Those with S-CT were female sex, the upper third location and lesion size greater than 2 cm. Before applying limited treatment for EGC, a surgeon should consider the risk factors of underestimation of T stage with EGD or S-CT."}
{"id": "18758957", "title": "Predicting malignant potential of gastrointestinal stromal tumors using endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Predicting malignant potential of gastrointestinal stromal tumors using endoscopic ultrasound. The aim of this study was to determine which EUS characteristics correlate with malignant potential of GISTs. All patients with a diagnosis of GIST based on surgical resection and preoperative EUS at our institution from January 2000 to July 2006 were identified. Pathology reports were used to determine NIH classification of each GIST and EUS exams were reviewed. EUS features were compared to NIH classification of very low/low risk malignant potential or intermediate/high risk malignant potential. Fourteen patients had lesions of very low or low risk malignant potential, and 12 patients had lesions of intermediate or high-risk malignant potential. EUS features of tumor size (P = 0.002), irregular extraluminal border (P = 0.005), local invasion (P = 0.02), and heterogeneity (P = 0.02) were statistically significant correlates of intermediate or high risk malignant potential. EUS characteristics of tumor size, extraluminal border, depth, and heterogeneity can be used to predict malignant potential of GISTs."}
{"id": "18599051", "title": "EUS-guided fine-needle tattooing for preoperative localization of early pancreatic adenocarcinoma.", "content": "EUS-guided fine-needle tattooing for preoperative localization of early pancreatic adenocarcinoma."}
{"id": "18473175", "title": "Presence of lymph node vasculature: a new EUS criterion for benign nodes?", "content": "Presence of lymph node vasculature: a new EUS criterion for benign nodes? Lymph nodes normally have prominent centrally located blood vessels, which may become obliterated with tumor infiltration. The presence of intranodal vasculature has been noted to coincide with benign cytology. We sought to determine the test characteristics of the presence of intranodal mediastinal vasculature during endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). 67 mediastinal lymph nodes evaluated by EUS in 66 patients over a 1-year period were evaluated for the presence of intranodal vasculature, which was considered benign when it traversed through the node without disruption. Of the 67 lymph nodes evaluated, 29 (43%) were found to be malignant on cytopathologic review. Benign vascular markings were present in 15/67 (22.4%) lymph nodes evaluated. All 15 (100%) of these nodes were found to have benign fine-needle aspiration (FNA) results. The presence of benign vasculature had a negative predictive value of 100%. The presence of intranodal vasculature was universally associated with a benign diagnosis. The addition of this EUS finding improves the ability to characterize lymph nodes and predict the likelihood of malignant involvement."}
{"id": "18337043", "title": "CT and endoscopic ultrasound in comparison to endoluminal MRI: preliminary results in staging gastric carcinoma.", "content": "CT and endoscopic ultrasound in comparison to endoluminal MRI: preliminary results in staging gastric carcinoma. To prospectively compare diagnostic parameters of a newly developed endoluminal MRI (endo-MRI) concept with endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and hydro-computer tomography (Hydro-CT) in T-staging of gastric carcinoma on one patient collective. 28 consecutive patients (11 females, 17 males, age range 46-87 years, median 67 years) referred for surgery due to a gastric malignancy were included. Preoperative staging by EUS was performed in 14 cases and by Hydro-CT in 14 cases within a time frame of 2 weeks. Ex vivo endo-MRI examination of gastric specimens was performed directly after gastrectomy within a time interval of 2-3h. EUS data were acquired from the clinical setting whereas Hydro-CT and endo-MRI data were evaluated in blinded fashion by two experienced radiologists and one surgeon well experienced in EUS on gastric carcinomas. Histopathology resulted in 4 pT1, 17 pT2, 3 pT3 and 2 pT4 carcinomas with 2 gastric lymphomas which were excluded. Overall accuracy for endo-MRI was 75% for T-Staging of the 26 carcinomas. EUS achieved 42.9% accuracy; endo-MRI in this subgroup was accurate in 71.4%. Hydro-CT was correct in 28.6%, accuracy for endo-MRI in this subgroup was 71.4%. The direct comparison of all three modalities on one patient collective shows that endo-MRI is able to achieve adequate staging results in comparison with clinically accepted methods like EUS and Hydro-CT in classifying the extent of tumor invasion into the gastric wall. However the comparison is limited as we compared in vivo routine clinical data with experimental ex vivo data. Future investigations need to show if the potential of endo-MRI can be transferred into a clinical in vivo setting."}
{"id": "19847285", "title": "Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) of the stomach: retrospective experience with surgical resection at the National Cancer Institute.", "content": "Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) of the stomach: retrospective experience with surgical resection at the National Cancer Institute. Gastric GISTs account for more than half of all gastrointestinal stromal tumors and represent less than 5% of all gastric tumors. The peak age for harboring GIST of the stomach is around 60 years and a slight male preponderance is reported. These tumors are identified by expression of CD117 or CD34 antigen. Symptoms at presentation usually include bleeding, abdominal pain or abdominal mass. Endoscopically, they typically appear as a submucosal mass with or without ulceration and on CT scans an extragastric mass is usually seen. Complete surgical resection provides the only chance for cure, with only 1-2 cm free margins needed. However, local recurrence and/or metastases supervene in almost half the patients treated with surgery alone, even when no gross residual is left. Thereby imatinib mesylate was advocated as an adjuvant to surgery, which appears to have improved disease-free and overall survival. The aim of this work was to assess clinico-pathological features of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) of the stomach and to appraise the results of treatment by surgery in patients treated at the National Cancer Institute (NCI) of Cairo between January 2002 and December 2007. Nineteen patients with histologically and immuno-histochemically proven GIST of the stomach were treated by surgery at the NCI during the 6-year study period. Preoperative assessment included detailed history, clinical examination, full laboratory tests, endoscopy, abdominal ultrasound and CT. General medical assessment included chest X-ray, ECG and echocardiography. The patients' age ranged from 26 to 77 years with a median of 51 years. Obvious male/female preponderance was noticed (68.4% to 31.6%). Tumors were located at the upper 1/3 in 42.1%, at the middle 1/3 in 31.6% and at the lower 1/3 in 26.3%. The most common clinical presentation was related to bleeding (hematemesis, melena or anaemia) and was seen in 63.2%. No tumors were labeled as very low or low risk while there were 52.6% intermediate risk and 47.4% high risk. Wedge resection was carried out in 15.8%, partial gastrectomy in 37.8%, total gastrectomy in 5.2%, extended gastric resection in 21.1% and only biopsy in 5.2%. Lymphadenectomy was carried out in 5/19 patients to reveal negative lymph nodes in all five. Complications occurred in 73.7% of patients and only 1 case of early postoperative mortality was recorded. Two patients were lost to follow-up. The remaining 16 patients were followed-up for a period ranging from 6-34 months with a mean of 19.5+/-5.6 months and they were all alive by the end of the study, 10 were free of disease and 6 showed disease recurrence. Gastric GIST can present with vague and non specific clinical picture. Therefore, thorough clinical and radiological evaluation and preoperative endoscopy and biopsy are essential to reach the diagnosis and to assess the risk for metastasis. The clinical outcome of these tumors is influenced by completeness of tumor extirpation while avoiding tumor rupture, and by the tumor malignant potential. Accordingly for tumors with adverse factors, multimodal therapy with adjuvant imatinib or one of its successors should be considered in order to improve overall and disease-free survival."}
{"id": "19340612", "title": "Multifocal granular cell tumor presenting as an esophageal stricture.", "content": "Multifocal granular cell tumor presenting as an esophageal stricture. Granular cell tumors are uncommonly found in the gastrointestinal tract with slow progression and are usually benign though they may have propensity for malignant transformation. Initially attributed to neuronal origin through immunohistochemistry, there has been controversy with increasing reports of granular cell tumors of non-neural origin. We report a case of multifocal granular cell tumor involving the esophagus and stomach in a young female with history of dysphagia for 9 years with worsening symptoms. She had been managed at another facility with repeated dilations for presumed benign peptic stricture. Radial endosonography (EUS) of the proximal end of stricture showed a posterior submucosal esophageal mass that was heterogeneous and invaded into the muscularis propria. Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) showed large cells with granular cytoplasm along with spindle nuclei. Cells were initially checked for CD117 stain alone and found to be negative. A follow-up CT-guided core needle biopsy revealed similar granular cells that were positive for S-100. She underwent a two-stage transhiatal esophagogastrectomy as the tumor circumferentially involved the cervical esophagus and was adherent to the trachea and recurrent laryngeal nerve bilaterally. At surgery, there were two additional foci palpable in the proximal stomach. As these tumors may have potential for malignant transformation and locoregional invasion, they should be considered while evaluating submucosal lesions of the esophagus even in young patients. A large number of granular cell tumors may be missed in the absence of S-100 staining, which should be requested when granular cells are seen on cytology obtained by EUS FNA as this can be a minimally invasive diagnostic modality for these tumors. Other foci should be sought at surgery as they have a propensity for locoregional spread."}
{"id": "19145866", "title": "[NBI--new features of endoscopic diagnostics of the gastric and esophageal pathologic processes].", "content": "[NBI--new features of endoscopic diagnostics of the gastric and esophageal pathologic processes]."}
{"id": "19145852", "title": "[Ultrasonographic diagnostics and efficacy of the treatment evaluation in the therapy of gastric malignant neoplasms].", "content": "[Ultrasonographic diagnostics and efficacy of the treatment evaluation in the therapy of gastric malignant neoplasms]."}
{"id": "19125791", "title": "The utility of FDG-PET in the preoperative staging of esophageal cancer.", "content": "The utility of FDG-PET in the preoperative staging of esophageal cancer. Accurate staging of esophageal cancer is important when determining which patients will potentially benefit from curative surgery. The aim of this study was to evaluate the incremental effect of 2-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) when used in addition to standard staging modalities. Patients referred to two surgeons in an Australian metropolitan teaching hospital with esophageal or esophago-gastric junction malignancy between May 2002 and December 2006 were included. Patients who had undergone prereferral treatment with chemotherapy or radiotherapy were excluded. Patients undergoing resection for gastrointestinal stromal tumors or high-grade dysplasia within Barrett's esophagus were also excluded. Clinical and non-clinical data were recorded prospectively. Pretreatment staging included routine CT scan and selective endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). FDG-PET was performed in patients judged to have curable disease on CT scanning and EUS. From a total of 130 eligible patients, 76 were judged to have curable disease on the basis of CT and EUS findings. Of these 76 patients, 19 (25%) were excluded from surgery due to additional information obtained from FDG-PET. The addition of FDG-PET to routine preoperative staging resulted in the exclusion from surgery of 19 (25%) patients who prior to the introduction of FDG-PET would have undergone attempted resection. FDG-PET should be performed in all patients under consideration for esophagogastric resection in order to avoid resection in patients with disseminated disease."}
{"id": "19122505", "title": "Endoscopic diagnosis and staging of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma.", "content": "Endoscopic diagnosis and staging of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma. The role of endoscopy, including endoscopic ultrasound, in the diagnosis and management of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphomas of the stomach has evolved steadily in the last two decades. The present review summarizes recent findings and puts them in context with studies on the diagnosis and management of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma published earlier. Several recent studies have emphasized the crucial role of endoscopic ultrasound in treatment planning in patients with gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma. This is important as early-stage gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphomas can be managed just by the eradication of Helicobacter pylori by appropriate antibiotic regimens. However, the more advanced lesions are treated with much more invasive treatment regimens involving radical gastrectomy, chemotherapy or radiation, or all. Endoscopic ultrasound staging is highly accurate in predicting response to Helicobacter pylori eradication in patients with gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma. Normalization of gastric wall thickness and architecture can be used to monitor tumor regression following treatment. Endoscopic ultrasound findings can also be used to identify treatment failures and relapses and can help identify patients who need more aggressive therapy."}
{"id": "19097381", "title": "[Gastrointerstinal stromal tumors of the stomach--case reports].", "content": "[Gastrointerstinal stromal tumors of the stomach--case reports]. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors are the most common mesenchimal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract. Despite the enormous progress made in the field of diagnostics, most often diagnosis is made during the explorative laparotomy and postoperative immunohystochemical analysis of specimen. The surgical treatment is often indicated, although scarce preoperative diagnosis causes intraoperative dilemma concerning the level of radicality. In this paper we have analyzed two patients with gastric GIST. The first patient was 59 years old male, with preoperatively diagnosed colonic cancer. Intraoperatively besides the transverse colon cancer, we found intramural gastric tumor. This patient underwent subtotal gastrectomy and subtotal colectomy. The immunohystochemical analysis of gastric tumor proves benign GIST. The second patient was 50 year old male presented with repeated upper GI bleeding. The endoscopic ultrasound showed intramural tumor of the anterior gastric wall, with a visible blood vessel bleeding during endoscopy. After the resuscitation, we performed subtotal gastrectomy. The immunohystochemical analysis proved malignant GIST. In the cases with inadequate preoperative diagnoses, the level of resection procedure is based on the size of tumor and the presence of necrosis and bleeding inside the tumor. Tumors larger than 5 cm in diameter with signs of necrosis and bleeding are parameters of malignant nature of GIST, therefore demanding a radical surgical treatment. The surgical resection is a treatment of choice for gastrointestinal stromal tumors. It has been shown that adequate surgical resection correlates with high 5-years survival rates for patients with gastric GIST."}
{"id": "19085848", "title": "[Early gastric cancer--or not].", "content": "[Early gastric cancer--or not]. A 46-year old female patient presented with non-specific epigastric discomfort that had been present for 6 months. Endoscopic work-up showed a small gastric polyp and biopsy samples revealed adenocarcinoma. There was no evidence of metastatic disease or penetration of the muscle layer on endosonography, rating the tumor as early gastric cancer. Endoscopic submucosal dissection was unsuccessful due to bleeding complications and the patient was treated with subtotal gastrectomy. Surprisingly, the final histological diagnosis revealed a highly differentiated neuroendocrine tumor and the initial diagnosis had to be revised."}
{"id": "19077506", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography in locoregional staging of gastric cancer].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography in locoregional staging of gastric cancer]."}
{"id": "19077499", "title": "[Assessment of factors affecting the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography in T2 stage gastric cancer].", "content": "[Assessment of factors affecting the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography in T2 stage gastric cancer]. To minimize injury, less invasive surgery including laparascopic surgery and endoscopic mucosal resection are increasingly used for the treatment of gastric cancer nowadays. Therefore, accurate preoperative staging is important to decide adequate treatment modality. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is reported to be an accurate diagnostic modality to evaluate the depth of tumor invasion. Especially, evaluation of T-2 stage is important to determine operation. We tried to reveal the factors affecting the accuracy of EUS for the evaluation of T-2 stage gastric cancer. Among 367 patients who underwent EUS to evaluate preoperative stage, we compared EUS findings and histopathological findings retrospectively. A total of 270 patients were diagnosed as early gastric cancer, and 97 patients as advanced gastric cancer. The overall concordance rate was 78.2% (287/367), over-estimation rate 14.2% (52/367), and under-estimation rate 7.6% (28/367). Among T-2 stage cancer, over-estimation rate was 27.0% (20/74), and under-estimation rate 21.6% (16/74). These were relatively high compared with those with over-estimation. Among T1 lesions, 20.6% (22/107) were over-estimated as the invasion into proper muscle layer. Compared with sm1 lesion (17.9%), sm3 lesions showed higher over-estimateion rate (25.7%). In the presence of submucosal fibrosis, sm1 lesions were over-estimated as T-2 lesion. Sm2 and sm3 lesions were not related to submucosal fibrosis. Factors affecting over-estimation as T-2 lesions were the size of tumor, the presence of submucosal fibrosis and connective tissue hyperplasia, and ulcer (p<0.05). Microscopic invasion did not affect the accuracy of EUS findings. In T-2 gastric cancer, the presence of submucosal fibrosis, tumor size, and ulcer were the affecting factors for the over-estimation of the depth of invasion using EUS in gastric cancer. To improve preoperative diagnostic accuracy in T-2 stage cancer, a new diagnostic improvement in EUS is needed."}
{"id": "19077478", "title": "[A case of gastric glomus tumor].", "content": "[A case of gastric glomus tumor]. Glomus tumor is a tumor arising from glomus body, a nodular form of arteriolovenular anastomosis that functions to regulate blood flow according to temperature. Gastrointestinal glomus tumors are rare and most frequently occur in the stomach as a subepithelial tumor. A 46-year-old woman presented with an incidental finding of a subepithelial tumor in the stomach. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) showed a 1.4chi1 cm sized well circumscribed heterogeneous hypoechoic tumor with a few tubular structures in the fourth sonographic layer of the gastric wall. Characteristically, more hypoechoic halo equal to the echogenecity of proper muscle layer enclosed the tumor. Contrast enhanced abdominal computerized tomography (CT) revealed high enhancement of tumor up to the same level of portal vein in arterial phase and this enhancement persisted to portal phase. For histolgogic confirmation and treatment, endoscopic enucleation was attempted but failed due to fibrotic adhesion with the surrounding tissue. Histologic findings of biopsy specimen were compatible with glomus tumor. Although it is difficult to diagnose glomus tumor preoperatively, these characteristic findings in EUS and CT seem to be useful in distinguishing glomus tumor from other tumors arising from the fourth sonographic layer of gastric wall."}
{"id": "19068680", "title": "Diagnosis of linitis plastica-type gastric adenocarcinoma by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration: a case report.", "content": "Diagnosis of linitis plastica-type gastric adenocarcinoma by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration: a case report. The diagnosis of linitis plastica-type adenocarcinomas of the stomach has traditionally been made by brush cytology and mucosal biopsy. These techniques may yield false negative results due to the often submucosal location of these lesions. A 46-year-old woman presented witb epigaseric abdominal pain and loss of abbetite. Computed tomography of her abdomen revealed diffuse thickening of a portion of the gastric wall. Subsequent endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) of the stomach yielded abundant single, discohesive malignant cells suspicious for lymphoma vs. poorly differentiated carcinoma. Special stains and immunohistochemical stains confirmed the diagnosis of poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma ofsignet ring cell type. As many linitisplastica-type adenocarcinomas are submucosal lesions, mucosal sampling by biopsy may yield nondiagnostic material in up to one third of cases. With its ability to sample deep submucosal lesions, EUS-FNA is an appropriate technique for establishing this diagnosis and guiding patient treatment."}
{"id": "19031933", "title": "A new diagnostic method for early gastric cancer: volume measurement by 3-dimensional endoscopic ultrasonography in early gastric cancer and its clinical significance.", "content": "A new diagnostic method for early gastric cancer: volume measurement by 3-dimensional endoscopic ultrasonography in early gastric cancer and its clinical significance. The objective of the present study was to measure the volume of early gastric cancer using 3-dimensional endoscopic ultrasonography (3D-EUS) and to ascertain the clinical significance of this new diagnostic method. The study comprised 100 patients with early gastric cancer who underwent preoperative 3D-EUS followed by surgical resection. The relationships of lymph node metastasis to 10 clinicopathological factors (gender, age, tumor location, ulcer, depth, macroscopic type, tumor histology, lymphatic invasion and venous invasion) and preoperative tumor volume (log tumor volume) as measured by 3D-EUS were determined. Median tumor volume was 414.75 mm3 (range, 7.8-2,683.8 mm3) and median log tumor volume was 2.617 (range, 1.444-3.429). Univariate analyses showed that three factors (lymphatic invasion, p=0.0001; venous invasion, p=0.0216; log tumor volume, p=0.0121) correlated significantly with lymph node metastasis. Multivariate analysis showed only two factors (lymphatic invasion, p=0.011, regression coefficient=0.104; log tumor volume, p=0.020, regression coefficient=30.414) representing independent predictors for lymph node metastasis. Tumor volume as measured by 3D-EUS represents an independent risk factor for lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer. This new method can be used as a reliable diagnostic tool for early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "19030221", "title": "Giant sporadic fundic gland polyp: endoscopic and endosonographic features and management.", "content": "Giant sporadic fundic gland polyp: endoscopic and endosonographic features and management. Fundic gland polyps are the most common gastric polyps. They are usually small in size, sporadic and asymptomatic. We present a case of giant fundic gland polyp. Our case is particular because of the clinical presentation, the endoscopic and endosonographic documented findings, and the treatment otpions followed."}
{"id": "19025312", "title": "[Adult gastric duplication cyst: diagnosis by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA)].", "content": "[Adult gastric duplication cyst: diagnosis by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA)]. Duplication cysts are rare gastrointestinal congenital abnormalities. They can occur anywhere throughout the gastrointestinal tract, and gastric duplication cysts are most uncommon, representing only 4-8% of all gastrointestinal duplication cysts. Nowadays several theories try to explain the pathogenic mechanisms involved. These cysts are usually diagnosed during early childhood, and very rarely are detected in adults, mostly incidentally due to a lack of symptoms. Close to 50% of gastric cysts are associated with other abnormalities. It is extremely important that a meticulous differential diagnosis is performed regarding other diseases, mainly malignancies with a cystic component. Although extremely uncommon, a malignant transformation of these lesions has been reported, which highlights the importance of a correct diagnosis. Herein we report the case of a duplication cyst in an adult, which was detected by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration, recently proposed as the most accurate technique for the identification of these lesions."}
{"id": "18926098", "title": "Modern surgical considerations for gastric cancer.", "content": "Modern surgical considerations for gastric cancer. Surgical resection remains the mainstay of treatment for localized gastric adenocarcinoma. The type and extent of resection depends on tumor location. Although the incidence of gastric cancer has been declining, a shift has occurred to more tumors involving the proximal compared with the distal stomach. Appropriate treatment depends on a thorough staging process to exclude the presence of distant metastatic disease. Current staging modalities include high-quality CT scan, endoscopic ultrasound, PET, and laparoscopy. The value of peritoneal lavage to detect occult peritoneal disease is under investigation. The principles of surgical resection have always included negative resection margins and adequate lymph node examination. Controversial topics requiring further study include laparoscopic resections and hepatic metastasectomy. This review highlights the salient points of current surgical management of gastric adenocarcinoma."}
{"id": "18853994", "title": "The acetic acid + indigocarmine method in the delineation of gastric cancer.", "content": "The acetic acid + indigocarmine method in the delineation of gastric cancer. For the purpose of precise preoperative diagnosis that ensures complete endoscopic resection, it is important to accurately determine the lateral spread of gastric cancer lesions. The acetic acid + indigocarmine (AI) method used by us has been found to meet this need. This paper reports its usefulness in the determination of lateral spread of gastric cancer before endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD). The present study was conducted in 114 patients who were operated on for an early-stage gastric cancer, after determining the lateral spread of cancerous lesions by the AI method, between September 2005 and December 2006. The negative lateral stump reaction rate obtained in ESD was conducted in areas delineated by the AI method. The borderline clarification rate obtained by the AI method and the indigocarmine (I) method were compared between the lesions with and without clear borders under observation with the naked eye. The lateral stump after ESD conducted using the AI method was histologically negative in 111 of the 114 patients (97%). The lesion spread was clarified by the AI method in 103 patients (90%): 55 (95%) and 48 (86%) patients with and without clear macroscopic lesion borders, respectively. Compared to the I method, the AI method clarified the lesion spread in a significantly higher percentage of patients with macroscopically unclear lesion borders (P = 0.015). The present study stresses that the AI method should be used to conduct ESD more safely and accurately in patients with well or moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma."}
{"id": "18840132", "title": "The impact of endoscopic ultrasonography with fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) on esophageal cancer staging: a survey of thoracic surgeons and gastroenterologists.", "content": "The impact of endoscopic ultrasonography with fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) on esophageal cancer staging: a survey of thoracic surgeons and gastroenterologists. Accurate staging of esophageal cancer is critical to achieving optimal treatment outcomes. End-oscopic ultrasound with fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) has emerged as a valuable tool for locoregional staging. However, it is unclear how different physician specialties perceive the benefit of EUS-FNA for esophageal cancer staging, and thus utilize this modality in clinical practice. A survey regarding utilization of EUS-FNA in esophageal cancer was distributed to 211 thoracic surgeons and 251 EUS-capable gastroenterologists. Seventy-six thoracic surgeons (36%) and 78 gastroenterologists (31%) responded to the survey. Most surgeons (75%) use EUS to stage potentially resectable esophageal cancer 75% of the time. Surgeons using EUS less often are less likely to have access to high-quality EUS services than their peers. Fewer surgeons believe EUS is the most accurate test for T and N-staging (84% and 71%, respectively) as compared with gastroenterologists (97% and 96%, P < 0.01 for both). Most endosonographers (68%) decide whether to dilate a malignant esophageal stricture to complete the staging exam on a case-by-case basis. Surgeons disagree as to whether involvement of celiac lymph nodes should preclude esophagectomy in distal esophageal cancer. While most thoracic surgeons have embraced EUS-FNA as the most accurate locoregional staging modality in esophageal cancer, this attitude is not fully reflected in utilization patterns due to a lack of quality EUS services in some centers. Controversial areas that warrant further study include dilation of malignant strictures to facilitate EUS staging, and the implication of involved celiac lymph nodes on management."}
{"id": "18833142", "title": "[Results of surgical treatment of residual and recurrent anal tumors].", "content": "[Results of surgical treatment of residual and recurrent anal tumors]. Radio- or chemotherapy is a modern standard of anal cancer treatment. Recurrence or partial remission rate after radiochemotherapy achieves 20-40%. The study is aimed to evaluate the role of abdominoperineal resection in the treatment of residual and recurrent anal cancer. 120 patients (aged from 30 to 81 (59+/-11) years, men:women ratio--1:9) were prospectively studied in the period of 1995 to 2007. The TNM distribution was as follows: T1-2N0M0--66(55.0%), T3-4N0M0--18(15.0%), T1-2N1-3M0--15(12.5%) and T3-4N1-3M0--21(17.5%) patients. The radiotherapy delivered in a dose range of 55-65 Gy was used alone or in combination with chemotherapy with 5-fluoruracil, mitomycin C or Xeloda. The complete tumor regression after radiotherapy/radiochemotherapy was achieved in 74(61.1%) of 120 patients with cancer-specific survival rate of 81.7%. Partial tumor regression was registered in 46 of 120 patients. The abdominoperineal resection was performed in 39(84.8%) of patients with the residual tumor. Thus, surgical treatment allowed secondary local tumor control in 76.9% of patients with the 5-year survival rates of 69.0%. The median survival time for the non-operated patients, including those, received an extra course of radiotherapy, was 19 months. The locoregional tumor relapse was diagnosed in 10(13.74%) of 74 patients with the complete tumor regression. The use of abdominoperineal resection allowed the secondary local tumor control and 5 year survival. Thus, abdominoperineal resection remains the method of choice in the treatment of residual and recurrent anal tumors."}
{"id": "18822678", "title": "Stromal tumors of the stomach: a clinicopathological study of 15 cases and review of the literature.", "content": "Stromal tumors of the stomach: a clinicopathological study of 15 cases and review of the literature. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors are the most common mesenchymal tumors of the digestive tract, although their incidence is low. These tumors make up a unique entity based on their molecular pathogenesis, immunohistochemical staining and responsiveness to targeted therapy. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors vary in malignant potential ranging from small incidentally detected tumors with an excellent outcome to aggressive sarcomas. Their optimal diagnostic approach and treatment remain a matter of debate. We present our experience in this rapidly moving field. We present our experience on 15 patients presented during a 5-year period (June 2000-September 2005) with gastrointestinal stromal tumors located in the stomach. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and CT scan revealed the tumors in all cases. All patients underwent curative surgery. A definitive diagnosis was established after surgery. Although an inverse correlation between level of risk and survival of patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors has been observed, 6 of our patients with an intermediate risk of recurrence had a favorable outcome."}
{"id": "18821273", "title": "Update on endoscopic ultrasound: how much for imaging, needling, or therapy?", "content": "Update on endoscopic ultrasound: how much for imaging, needling, or therapy?"}
{"id": "18810677", "title": "[Miniprobe EUS].", "content": "[Miniprobe EUS]. With the advent of flexible, high-frequency catheter probes that can be introduced through the working channel of any endoscope, EUS became available as an additional and very powerful diagnostic tool during routine endoscopic procedures. Miniprobes as a supplement to echoendoscopes with radial or longitudinal scanners provide detailed images with a penetration depth of about 20 mm using frequencies of around 20 MHz. Not only structures of the intestinal wall but also a considerable volume of the surrounding organs can be visualised. In the intestine sonographic coupling is best accomplished using bare miniprobes with water filling of the lumen. Out of 1007 miniprobe examinations carried out in the author's clinic, the most frequent indications involved the distal bile and pancreatic ducts (36 %), carcinoma of the oesophagus or the cardia (18 %), submucosal tumours and GIST (14 %), and others (32 %). For evaluating the distal common bile duct, extraductal EUS (EDUS) allows the visualisation of small pathological lesions, especially intraductal stones without ductal dilatation with a sensitivity of 97 % and a specificity of 98 %. For the staging of early cancers, miniprobe EUS has its significance mainly in showing a preserved submucosal layer, thereby excluding an endoscopically non-resectable T 2 lesion, as was successfully done in all of our cases. Suspicious prominent structures were easily assigned to the correct layer of the wall or identified as external impressions."}
{"id": "18785950", "title": "Early Barrett's carcinoma with \"low-risk\" submucosal invasion: long-term results of endoscopic resection with a curative intent.", "content": "Early Barrett's carcinoma with \"low-risk\" submucosal invasion: long-term results of endoscopic resection with a curative intent. Endoscopic therapy (ET) has become a less risky alternative to open surgery in mucosal Barrett's cancer (BC) because of the very low risk of lymph node (LN) metastasis. Recently published surgical series demonstrated that even in case of minimal submucosal invasion of BC, the risk for LN metastasis is very low. In consequence, also these patients might be eligible for curative ET. The aim of this study was to prospectively evaluate the efficacy and safety of endoscopic resection (ER) in these patients. From September 1996 to September 2003, the suspicion or definite diagnosis of submucosal BC was made in 80 patients referred to our department. Of those, 21 patients (20 male [95.2%], mean age 62 +/- 9 yr, range 47-78) fulfilled the definition of \"low-risk\" submucosal cancer: invasion of the upper submucosal third (sm1), absence of infiltration into lymph vessels/veins, histological grade G1/2, and macroscopic type I/II. ET was carried out using ER with the suck-and-cut technique with or without an additive ablation of non-neoplastic remnants of Barrett's esophagus. One of the 21 patients was referred to surgery directly after the detection of sm1 invasion at the beginning of the study. One patient died (not tumor-related) before completion of ET. Using definitive ET, complete remission (CR) was achieved in 18 of 19 patients (95%) after a mean of 5.3 months (range 1-18) and a mean of 2.9 resections (range 1-9). Only one minor complication (bleeding without drop in hemoglobin level >2 g/dL) occurred (5% of patients). During a mean follow-up (FU) of 62 months (range 45-89), recurrent or metachronous carcinomas were found in 5 patients (28%). Repeat ET was carried out successfully using ER (4 patients) and argon plasma coagulation (1 patient). In one of the 19 patients (5%), tumor freedom had not been achieved after a total of 2 ER. This patient died of a heart attack before surgery could be performed. The calculated 5-yr survival rate of all 21 patients was 66%. No tumor-related death occurred. As in mucosal BC, ER is associated with favorable outcomes even in case of \"low-risk\" submucosal BC. Further and larger clinical trials are required before a general recommendation for ER as the treatment of choice in \"low-risk\" submucosal BC can be given."}
{"id": "18774355", "title": "Prospective comparison of endosonography, computed tomography, and histopathological stage of junctional oesophagogastric cancer.", "content": "Prospective comparison of endosonography, computed tomography, and histopathological stage of junctional oesophagogastric cancer. To assess the strength of agreement between the perceived preoperative stage of Siewert II (oesophagogastric junction) and Siewert III (proximal gastric tumours) as determined by computed tomography (CT) and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), both alone and in combination, with histopathological stage. Forty-four patients with Siewert II (n=18) and III (n=26) adenocarcinomas of the oesophagogastric junction underwent preoperative CT at their local hospitals followed by specialist EUS, and the strengths of the agreement between the radiological stages and the histopathological stages were determined by the weighted Kappa statistic (Kw). Kw for Siewert II T and N stages was 0.491 (p=0.016) and 0.4 (p=0.087) for CT compared with 0.852 (p=0.0001) and 1 (p=0.0001) for EUS. Kw for Siewert III T and N stages was 0.181 (p=0.206) and 0.121 (p=0.376) for CT compared with 0.173 (p=0.195) and 0.263 (p=0.031) for EUS. Siewert II tumour T and N stages were more accurately predicted by EUS than CT, but Siewert III tumour T and N stages were more difficult to assess, arguably because of anatomical constraints at the oesophagogastric junction. CT and EUS are complimentary techniques, and these results highlight the importance of multidisciplinary discussion in planning treatment."}
{"id": "18711673", "title": "Comments on new technology--Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) routine method and new applications.", "content": "Comments on new technology--Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) routine method and new applications."}
{"id": "18708997", "title": "Pre-operative staging of gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Pre-operative staging of gastric carcinoma. This study is a prospective clinical investigation that includes 195 patients (pts), of whom 64 were diagnosed with gastric cancer and endosonographically determined operability. Endosonography is not used in the primary detection and diagnosis of gastric cancer, but as a supplementary method that, besides the basic detection of the presence or absence of a tumour, gives additional information about the extent of the neoplasm. For this investigation the patients were divided into 3 groups. The first group of 58 pts (30%) were those with benign gastric lesions, 18 pts with polyps and 40pts with gastric ulcers respectively. The second groups of 64 pts (32.5%) consisted of those with gastric cancer. According to the endosonographic findings this group consisted of 2 subgroups: 45 operable patients and 19 inoperable patients with gastric cancers. The third group consisted of 73 pts (37.5%) who were without any changes in the gastric wall. The endosonographic findings in the first subgroup that underwent surgery were correlated with the final intraoperative stage and pathohistology, and in the second subgroup they were compared with the operative finding during the palliation procedure and the final diagnosis of the additional investigation. All these qualities make this method useful for the diagnosis, control and follow-up of the findings in all of the stadiums of the disease including the post-operative period."}
{"id": "18705349", "title": "Multiple early gastric cancer with gastritis cystica profunda showing various histological types.", "content": "Multiple early gastric cancer with gastritis cystica profunda showing various histological types. We report a case of multiple early gastric cancer showing varied histological types associated with gastritis cystica profunda (GCP). A 61-year-old man who had early gastric cancer associated with GCP underwent a distal gastrectomy with lymphadenectomy. Histological examination showed various histological types of cancer -well differentiated, moderately differentiated, poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenocarcinoma and signet ring cell carcinoma- that had developed independently in the mucosal and submucosal layers of the resected specimen. Furthermore, multiple cysts with a single layer of columnar epithelium were present in the submucosa around the cancerous lesions. However, no neoplastic changes were found in those epithelial cells. Helicobacter pylori was detected in the residual stomach 3 months after surgery. Although the mechanism of the relationship between gastric carcinoma and GCPs is obscure, we speculate that repeated erosion and regeneration induced by chronic inflammation causes multicentric carcinogenesis as well as an aberration of the gastric glands. GCPs may be a risk factor for multiple gastric cancer."}
{"id": "18705348", "title": "Gastric cancer with features of submucosal tumor: a case report.", "content": "Gastric cancer with features of submucosal tumor: a case report. A case of stomach carcinoma showing the features of a submucosal tumor (SMT) is reported. The patient was a 65-year-old woman admitted to the Internal Medicine Department with autoimmune hepatitis and complaining of anemia and tarry stools. Endoscopy revealed a submucosal tumor-like lesion with central ulceration. The lesion was the suspected cause of the anemia; therefore, a partial resection of the stomach was performed. The histopathologic examination revealed a mucinous adenocarcinoma (MUC). The tumor extended to the submucosa. Accordingly, a subtotal gastrectomy with regional lymph node dissection was performed. In stomach carcinoma simulating an SMT, generally preoperative diagnosis is important. However, in this patient, surgery was selected as the best treatment."}
{"id": "18670347", "title": "Retrospective study of clinicopathologic features and prognosis of high-grade neuroendocrine carcinoma of the esophagus.", "content": "Retrospective study of clinicopathologic features and prognosis of high-grade neuroendocrine carcinoma of the esophagus. Clinicopathologic features of esophageal neuroendocrine carcinoma (NEC), apart from those of small-cell carcinoma, have not been characterized. We evaluated the clinicopathologic features and prognosis including overall survival of NEC of the esophagus. We identified 40 patients with esophageal NEC from our institutional database. All cancers had been clinically staged using endoscopic ultrasonography, computed tomography, and positron emission tomography. Neuroendocrine differentiation was confirmed by immunohistochemical staining. The NEC component was classified into small-cell and large-cell subtypes, and non-neuroendocrine components were evaluated. Patients with locoregional disease were treated with chemoradiation with or without surgery or with surgery only. Patients with distant metastasis were treated with systemic therapy. The extent of residual tumors was evaluated in esophagectomy specimens after preoperative chemoradiation. Twenty-seven patients had large-cell NEC, and 13 had small-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma. An adenocarcinoma component was present in 15 patients and squamous carcinoma component in 1 patient. Synaptophysin was positive in all cases, and chromogranin was positive in 31 cases. Seventeen patients had distant metastasis, and 21 had locoregional disease. Seventeen patients with locoregional disease received preoperative chemoradiation. Disease progressed in 7 patients, and 10 had residual tumor in resection specimens. Overall survival was better with locoregional disease than with distant metastasis (P=0.006). Overall survival was better in patients with non-neuroendocrine component than in patients with pure NEC (P=0.031). There was no difference in prognosis between patients with large-cell NEC and those with small-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma. Esophageal NEC is an aggressive tumor, and patients with mix NEC have better outcome."}
{"id": "18656040", "title": "Laparoscopic spleen-preserving splenic hilar lymph node dissection during total gastrectomy for gastric cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic spleen-preserving splenic hilar lymph node dissection during total gastrectomy for gastric cancer."}
{"id": "18655220", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography-detected low-volume ascites as a predictor of inoperability for oesophagogastric cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography-detected low-volume ascites as a predictor of inoperability for oesophagogastric cancer. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) can detect low-volume ascites (LVA) not apparent on computed tomography. The aim of this study was to assess the importance of LVA for management of patients with oesophagogastric (OG) cancer. Patients with LVA were identified from a prospective OG cancer unit database between January 2002 and January 2006. Of 1118 patients staged with OG cancer, 802 had EUS. The incidence of LVA was 8.4 per cent overall but fell to 6.5 per cent when those with metastases on computed tomography were excluded. Only patients with gastric and OG junction carcinoma had LVA. Staging laparoscopy in the 21 patients with LVA revealed that 11 (52 per cent) were inoperable. The remainder had laparotomy and complete (R0) resection was possible in only five (50 per cent). In 106 patients who had staging laparoscopy after EUS without LVA, 37 (34.9 per cent) were inoperable and 56 of the remaining 69 (81 per cent) had R0 resection. The presence of LVA on EUS is uncommon in patients with OG cancer but very important, being indicative of incurable disease in 76 per cent. This information will be helpful in counselling patients regarding management options and the low likelihood of potentially curative treatment."}
{"id": "18645535", "title": "Knowledge of indications and utilization of EUS: a survey of oncologists in the United States.", "content": "Knowledge of indications and utilization of EUS: a survey of oncologists in the United States. Since its advent, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has emerged as an invaluable tool in the diagnosis and management of gastrointestinal and adjacent cancers. Yet, it remains unclear how non-gastroenterologists who manage these malignancies use EUS in their practices. A link to a self-administered questionnaire, hosted on our university website, was emailed to 650 practicing medical, radiation, and surgical oncologists in the United States. Data were analyzed from 100 responses. When available, the overall utilization of EUS for staging nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC) was significantly low (19.0%), although available. When EUS was unavailable, majority of the patients with pancreatobiliary cancer (79%; P<0.01) were not referred for staging, unlike those with esophageal (57.9%) and rectal cancer (73.7%) were. EUS availability did not impact its use in staging gastric cancer. Majority of the respondents thought EUS made an impact in managing patients with rectal (89.5%), esophageal (84.5%), and pancreatobiliary cancers (58.5%) but not gastric (54.7%) or NSCLC (61.5%). In staging NSCLC, endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspirate (35.7%) and mediastinoscopy (34.7%) were noted as the most accurate for tissue sampling of lymph nodes in levels 5, 7, and 8. EUS was deemed better than computerized tomography or magnetic resonance imaging by 42% in detecting small pancreatic tumors. Majority have not referred patients for EUS-guided celiac plexus neurolysis for palliation of pain in unresectable pancreatic cancer. These data highlight the utilization of EUS that did not necessarily follow established guidelines. Further research is essential to evaluate obstacles to utilization of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspirate."}
{"id": "18635171", "title": "Secondary linitis plastica of the rectum: EUS features and tissue diagnosis (with video).", "content": "Secondary linitis plastica of the rectum: EUS features and tissue diagnosis (with video). Luminal metastases to the GI tract may be seen at the time of the primary diagnosis or may represent evidence of a distant recurrence. To determine the prevalence of rectal-wall metastases in patients undergoing an EUS and to describe the EUS features and yield of EUS-guided FNA (EUS-FNA) and Trucut biopsy (TCB). A case series. A single tertiary-referral center. Patients undergoing lower GI (LGI) EUS from July 1, 2005, to October 31, 2007. EUS-FNA and/or TCB. EUS features and cytologic and/or histologic confirmation of secondary rectal linitis plastica. Over the 28-month period, an LGI-EUS was performed in 598 patients with presumed primary rectal cancer, of whom 6 (1%) were diagnosed with rectal-wall metastases. The EUS features were that of diffuse, circumferential, hypoechoic wall-thickening that mimics that of linitis plastica, breaching the muscularis propria in all cases. EUS-FNA and/or TCB of the rectal wall or perirectal lymph node established a diagnosis in all cases. The primary cancers originated from the bladder (n = 3), breast (n = 1), stomach (n = 1), and a right forearm cutaneous melanoma (n = 1). The time interval from the initial primary cancer diagnosis to that of GI-tract rectal metastasis ranged from 0 days (simultaneous diagnoses) to 119 months (mean +/- SD 49 +/- 43 months). Although firm EUS criteria of rectal-wall metastases cannot be established based on 6 patients alone, certain features may prove useful for the diagnosis in the clinical practice. EUS-FNA and/or TCB can confirm the diagnosis of secondary linitis plastica of the rectum."}
{"id": "18634267", "title": "[Endosonography and endoscopic submucosal dissection in rectal cancer--case report].", "content": "[Endosonography and endoscopic submucosal dissection in rectal cancer--case report]. This paper presents a case report of a 61 year-old man who had diagnosed in colonoscopy rectal cancer of early stage. In endosonography (EUS) intramucosal lesion without enlargement of regional lymph nodes was demonstrated. The patient was qualified for endoscopic therapy by submucosal dissection (ESD). The treatment was performed without any complications. The histological findings confirmed an early stage of rectal cancer--This, according to TNM classification."}
{"id": "18633900", "title": "Esophageal varices and early esophageal cancer: can we perform endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR)?", "content": "Esophageal varices and early esophageal cancer: can we perform endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR)?"}
{"id": "18619382", "title": "Imaging of gastrointestinal lymphoma.", "content": "Imaging of gastrointestinal lymphoma. The gastrointestinal (GI) tract contains the largest collection of lymphocytes anywhere in the body. GI lymphoma may arise at any site in the GI tract but typically involves the stomach and small bowel in cases of systemic disease. Most cases are non-Hodgkin B-cell type. Enteropathy-associated T cell lymphoma can complicate celiac disease. Less commonly, lymphoma may originate in the GI tract without systemic involvement. This sometimes occurs in response to chronic infections. This article discusses the role of imaging in detecting and staging GI tract lymphomas, using fluoroscopy and cross-sectional imaging, primarily CT."}
{"id": "18616020", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is being used to diagnose and evaluate a number of conditions of the gastrointestinal tract. This article describes the type of EUS equipment that is being used in clinical practice, the type of conditions for which it is used to diagnose and evaluate, and its therapeutic uses."}
{"id": "18609685", "title": "How good is endoscopic ultrasound for TNM staging of gastric cancers? A meta-analysis and systematic review.", "content": "How good is endoscopic ultrasound for TNM staging of gastric cancers? A meta-analysis and systematic review. To evaluate the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) for staging of gastric cancers. Only EUS studies confirmed by surgery were selected. Only studies from which a 2 x 2 table could be constructed for true positive, false negative, false positive and true negative values were included. Articles were searched in Medline, Pubmed, Ovid journals, Cumulative index for nursing and allied health literature, International pharmaceutical abstracts, old Medline, Medline nonindexed citations, and Cochrane control trial registry. Two reviewers independently searched and extracted data. The differences were resolved by mutual agreement. 2 x 2 tables were constructed with the data extracted from each study. Meta-analysis for the accuracy of EUS was analyzed by calculating pooled estimates of sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratios, and diagnostic odds ratio. Pooling was conducted by both the Mantel-Haenszel method (fixed effects model) and DerSimonian Laird method (random effects model). The heterogeneity of studies was tested using Cochran's Q test based upon inverse variance weights. Initial search identified 1620 reference articles and of these, 376 relevant articles were selected and reviewed. Twenty-two studies (n=1896) which met the inclusion criteria were included in this analysis. Pooled sensitivity of T1 was 88.1% (95% CI: 84.5-91.1) and T2 was 82.3% (95% CI: 78.2-86.0). For T3, pooled sensitivity was 89.7% (95% CI: 87.1-92.0). T4 had a pooled sensitivity of 99.2% (95% CI: 97.1-99.9). For nodal staging, the pooled sensitivity for N1 was 58.2% (95% CI: 53.5-62.8) and N2 was 64.9% (95% CI: 60.8-68.8). Pooled sensitivity to diagnose distant metastasis was 73.2% (95% CI: 63.2-81.7). The P for chi-squared heterogeneity for all the pooled accuracy estimates was >0.10. EUS results are more accurate with advanced disease than early disease. If EUS diagnoses advanced disease, such as T4 disease, the patient is 500 times more likely to have true anatomic stage of T4 disease."}
{"id": "18589911", "title": "[Early diagnosis is crucial for prognosis in gastric cancer].", "content": "[Early diagnosis is crucial for prognosis in gastric cancer]."}
{"id": "18537089", "title": "[Role of endoscopic ultrasound in gastrointestinal lymphomas].", "content": "[Role of endoscopic ultrasound in gastrointestinal lymphomas]. The majority of gastrointestinal lymphomas belongs to the group of the MALT (mucosa-associated lymphoid type) lymphomas arising in the stomach, therefore rendering them accessible to endoscopy. Staging currently follows the modified Ann Arbor classification but most likely in the future, the TNM-based Paris staging system will be applied due to its detailed description of the local spread as well as the extraintestinal dissemination. For assessment of gut wall infiltration and local lymphonodular involvement, endoscopic ultrasound currently represents the standard procedure and is an essential diagnostic tool regarding locoregional staging. Additionally, the method confers a high prognostic value regarding treatment response in MALT lymphoma. In endoscopic ultrasound stage EI 1, Helicobacter pylori eradication leads in 70 - 100 % to a complete response. However, the value of endoscopic ultrasound in the follow-up of lymphomas after chemotherapy remains elusive and controversial. There is no clear correlation between histologically proven residual disease and endosonographic results. Thus, so far, endoscopic ultrasound will not replace bioptic surveillance after MALT lymphoma treatment."}
{"id": "18537087", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasound-guided biopsy: diagnostic yield, pitfalls, quality management part 1: optimizing specimen collection and diagnostic efficiency].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasound-guided biopsy: diagnostic yield, pitfalls, quality management part 1: optimizing specimen collection and diagnostic efficiency]. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided biopsies have proven to be of significant value in the diagnostic evaluation of benign and malignant diseases, as well as in the staging of malignant tumours of the gastrointestinal tract and adjacent organs. The high prognostic and therapeutic relevance of the resulting cytopathological diagnoses necessitates a shared responsibility of endosonographer and cytopathologist. Quality control programs are required. The diagnostic yield of endoscopic ultrasound-guided biopsies depends on the location, size and characteristics of target tissues, and technical factors (i. e., type of needle used, biopsy technique, and material processing). Other weighing factors include training, expertise and interaction of the endosonographer with cytopathologists. On-site cytological evaluation, which has proven to be successful in optimising the diagnostic efficiency of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy, is notably practiced in Northern American and French academic institutions. It seems to be a sensible alternative to collect specimens for histological and immunohistochemical investigations in addition to the cytological smears in consideration of the economic and structural terms in the German health-care system. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration succeeds in harvesting core biopsies in 3 out of 4 cases with 22-gauge needles. Therefore the use of 19-gauge needles for endoscopic ultrasound-guided aspiration or trucut biopsy may be necessary only in selected cases."}
{"id": "18537084", "title": "[Endosonography of the esophagus and stomach].", "content": "[Endosonography of the esophagus and stomach]. Endosonography is considered to be the most exact method for the staging of carcionomas of the oesophagus and stomach. It enables a differentiation of the T stages of carcinomas of the oesophagus and stomach with an accuracy of between 65 and 90 %. Endosonography with a mini-probe, however, does not appear to be superior to the macroscopic evaluation by an experienced endoscopist. A further decisive criterion for therapy is the lymph node status. Here, endosonography exhibits a high sensitivity albeit with an unsatisfactory specificity. The specificity can be increased by the cytological evaluation of biopsy samples from the fine needle puncture of suspicious lymph nodes, a method with a very low complication rate. But new methods such as contrast medium-enhanced endosonography or elastography also appear to be useful for the differentiation of suspicious lymph nodes."}
{"id": "18487569", "title": "Prospective phase II trial of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with gemcitabine and cisplatin for resectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreatic head.", "content": "Prospective phase II trial of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with gemcitabine and cisplatin for resectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreatic head. To test the safety of neoadjuvant chemotherapy for resectable pancreatic cancer. Patients with cytologically proven resectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreatic head were eligible for this prospective phase II trial. After confirmation of resectability by contrast-enhanced computed tomography (ceCT), positron emission tomography/CT, laparoscopy, and endoscopic ultrasound, patients received four biweekly cycles of gemcitabine 1,000 mg/m(2) and cisplatin 50 mg/m(2). Thereafter, staging was repeated and patients underwent surgery. Quality of life (QoL) and prealbumin serum levels were determined pre- and postchemotherapy. Follow-up included 3-month CA 19-9 measurements and ceCT after 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. Histologic tumor response was assessed by two scoring systems. Twenty-eight patients entered this study. Adverse effects were mainly gastrointestinal and hematologic, most often mild, and never of grade 4. Twenty-six patients (93%) had resectable cancer on restaging examinations, and the R0 resection rate was 80%. Histologic tumor response and cytopathic effects were documented in 54% and 83% of patients, respectively. On intention-to-treat analysis, disease-free and overall survival were 9.2 months (95% CI, 5.6 to 12.9 months) and 26.5 months (95% CI, 11.4 to 41.5 months) and 9 months (95% CI, 6.99 to 10.1 months) and 19.1 months (95% CI, 15 to 23.1 months) for ductal adenocarcinoma, respectively. QoL improved in two items and was unchanged in all other items. Moreover, prealbumin serum levels significantly improved during chemotherapy (P = .008). CONCLUSION Neoadjuvant chemotherapy with gemcitabine and cisplatin is well tolerated and does not impair resectability of pancreatic cancer. Furthermore, it improves the QoL and the nutritional status of affected patients with favorable overall and disease-free survival."}
{"id": "18464198", "title": "[Multimodal imaging of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors].", "content": "[Multimodal imaging of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors]."}
{"id": "18425224", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in the preoperative staging of gastric cancer: correlation with the surgical and/or pathological findings].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in the preoperative staging of gastric cancer: correlation with the surgical and/or pathological findings]. Gastric adenocarcinoma is the major cause of death by cancer in Brazil. For the planning of the treatment and evaluation of the prognosis, the preoperative staging according to the TNM classification is very important. To evaluate the results of endoscopic ultrasound for the T and N categories. We examined 30 patients with gastric adenocarcinoma in the period of 1 year. We used a Olympus GIF UM-20. After positioning in the third portion of the duodenum, we started to evaluate the lymph node stations 16, 13, 12, 6, 5, 4, 3, 8, 7, 9, 10, 11, 1 and 2, using the frequency of 7.5 MHz. The depth of the tumor in the gastric wall was evaluated with the frequencies of 7.5 and 12 MHz. The results T and N were compared with the conclusive findings. In the unresectable cases, the correlation was made by the macroscopic findings. We performed 16 total gastrectomies, 7 subtotal gastrectomies, 5 exploratory laparotomies and 2 laparoscopies. For T category, endoscopic ultrasound results were correct in 25/30 cases (83.3%). All the other 16.7% were overestimated. The accuracy varied from 90% to 96.7% according to the subcategories T1 to T4. For the N category, endoscopic ultrasound results were correct in 23/30 cases (76.7%). Sixteen point six percent were underestimated and 6.7% overestimated. The accuracy varied from 76.7% to 90%, in agreement with the subcategories N1 to N3. There was a clear correlation between endoscopic ultrasound and the surgical and pathological findings in the evaluation of T and N categories in patients with gastric adenocarcinoma."}
{"id": "18416467", "title": "Primary gastric mucosa associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma: clinical data predicted treatment outcome.", "content": "Primary gastric mucosa associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma: clinical data predicted treatment outcome. To determine clinical characteristics and treatment outcome of gastric lymphoma after chemotherapy and immuno-chemotherapy. Thirty four patients with primary gastric mucosa associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma (Ann Arbor stages I to IV) were enrolled. All had upper gastric endoscopy, abdominal ultrasonography, CT and H pylori status assessment (histology and serology). After anti-H pylori treatment and initial chemotherapy, patients were re-examined every 4 mo. Histological regression of the lymphoma was complete in 22/34 (64.7%) and partial in 9 (26.5%) patients. Median follow up time for these 31 responders was 60 mo (range 48-120). No regression was noted in 3 patients. Among the 25 (73.5%) H pylori positive patients, the eradication rate was 100%. Using univariate analysis, predictive factors for overall survival were international prognostic index (IPI) score, hemoglobin level, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and platelet numbers (P < 0.005). In addition to this, Cox proportion hazard model differentiate IPI score, ESR, and platelets as predictors of survival."}
{"id": "18392238", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy in the diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the stomach. A study of 17 cases.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy in the diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the stomach. A study of 17 cases. The gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) is an uncommon tumor usually diagnosed by endoscopic biopsy or surgical resection. We evaluated the efficacy and accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy in the diagnosis of GIST. Seventeen patients with gastric GIST diagnosed by EUS-guided FNA were included in this study (from 2005 to 2007). A single endosonographer performed all procedures. An attending cytopathologist was present on site to assess specimen adequacy. All tumors were reviewed for EUS, cytomorphologic, histologic and immunohistochemical features. Eleven patients (64.7%) were male and six (35.5%) were female, with a median age of 60.7 years. The clinical indication for EUS-FNA procedure in all patients was the evaluation of submucosal tumor. EUS revealed a solid hypoechoic tumor in all cases with the largest diameter being from 9.5 mm to 70 mm (median diameter 31.9 mm). Cytologic specimen was adequate upon on-site evaluation in all cases, with an average of two passes performed. Spindle cells were present in the cytologic material in all cases and epithelial cells in two cases. Nuclear irregularities and mitoses were not observed. Immunohistochemical (IHC) stain in cell blocks confirmed the c-kit and CD34 positivity in all cases. There were no false negative or false positive findings. This is the first study of EUS-guided FNA procedure in the diagnosis of gastric GIST in Greece. We demonstrated that EUS-FNA provides accurate diagnosis of GIST in combination with IHC reactivity for c-kit, performed in adequate cytology specimens obtained by FNA."}
{"id": "18374717", "title": "Gastric schwannomas: radiological features with endoscopic and pathological correlation.", "content": "Gastric schwannomas: radiological features with endoscopic and pathological correlation. To describe the radiological, endoscopic, and pathological findings of gastric schwannomas in 16 patients. The radiological, endoscopic, and pathological findings of 16 surgically proven cases of gastric schwannoma were retrospectively reviewed. All patients underwent computed tomography (CT) and four patients were evaluated with upper gastrointestinal series. Two radiologists reviewed the CT and upper gastrointestinal series images by consensus with regard to tumour size, contour, margin, and growth pattern, the presence or absence of ulcer, cystic change, and the CT enhancement pattern. Endoscopy was performed in eight of these 16 patients. Six patients underwent endoscopic ultrasonography. Pathological specimens were obtained from and reviewed in all 16 patients. Immunohistochemistry was performed for c-kit, CD34, smooth muscle actin, and S-100 protein. On radiographic examination, gastric schwannomas appeared as submucosal tumours with the CT features of well-demarcated, homogeneous, and uncommonly ulcerated masses. Endoscopy with endoscopic ultrasonography demonstrated homogeneous, submucosal masses contiguous with the muscularis propria in all six examined cases. On pathological examination, gastric schwannomas appeared as well-circumscribed and homogeneous tumours in the muscularis propria and consisted microscopically of interlacing bundles of spindle cells. Strong positivity for S-100 protein was demonstrated in all 16 cases on immunohistochemistry. Gastric schwannomas appear as submucosal tumours of the stomach and have well-demarcated and homogeneous features on CT, endoscopic ultrasonography, and gross pathology. Immunohistochemistry consistently reveals positivity for S-100 protein in the tumours."}
{"id": "18365909", "title": "Transrectal ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging in the staging of rectal cancer. Effect of experience.", "content": "Transrectal ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging in the staging of rectal cancer. Effect of experience. To evaluate the effect of experience on preoperative staging of rectal cancer using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and transrectal ultrasound (TRUS). From January 2002 to May 2006, 134 consecutive patients with biopsy-proven rectal cancer were examined with a 1.5-Tesla MRI unit and TRUS using a 6.5-MHz transducer. An experienced gastrointestinal radiologist (R1) or a general radiologist (R2) performed the evaluations. All patients (78 M, 56 F, mean age 69.1 years, range 38-89) were treated with surgery alone. The mean size of the tumour was 4.0 cm (range 1.1-7.5). A complete postoperative histopathological examination was used as the gold standard. At pathology, 42 of 134 (31%) tumours were classified as T1-T2 and 92 (69%) were classified as T3-T4. The TRUS sensitivity in rectal tumour T-staging was 93% for R1 and 75% for R2 (p<0. 01); specificity was 83% for R1 and 46% for R2 (p<0.05). The MRI sensitivity in rectal tumour T-staging was 96% for R1 and 77% for R2 (p<0. 05); the specificity was 74% for R1 and 40% for R2 (p<0.05). There was no difference in the results of N-staging between R1 and R2 for either TRUS or MRI. Reader experience had a statistically significant positive effect on the preoperative prediction of tumour involvement of the rectal wall. To obtain high-quality preoperative prediction of rectal cancer T-stage, it is suggested that preoperative TRUS and MRI staging should be supervised by an expert in the colorectal cancer team. In addition to this supervision, the person responsible for staging should be trained through a defined training programme."}
{"id": "18317850", "title": "Laparoscopic local resection based on sentinel node evaluation for early gastric cancer: a preliminary report.", "content": "Laparoscopic local resection based on sentinel node evaluation for early gastric cancer: a preliminary report. We previously reported that lymphatic mapping using isosulfan blue can be used to identify sentinel nodes (SNs). This study was undertaken to evaluate the feasibility of using the SN technique in treating early gastric cancer and to explore its usefulness for minimal invasive surgery. Twenty-three patients with early gastric cancer who underwent SN biopsy were retrospectively evaluated. Based on SN evaluation, individualized surgery was performed in five patients with T1N0M0 gastric cancer. When pathological examination of frozen sections revealed metastasis in SNs, we performed a standard D2 gastrectomy. Laparoscopic local resection was applied when the SN biopsy was negative. Our results showed that the success rate with SN biopsy in early gastric cancer was 100%, as were the accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity. All five patients with early gastric cancer had SNs negative for metastases both by frozen section and by postoperative pathology. Thus, all these patients underwent laparoscopic local resection without extended lymphadenectomy. We conclude that SN biopsy is a useful tool to individualize the operative procedure, and laparoscopic local resection can be safely performed using SN guidance in selected patients with early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "18279861", "title": "Needle tract implantation on the esophageal wall after EUS-guided FNA of metastatic mediastinal lymphadenopathy.", "content": "Needle tract implantation on the esophageal wall after EUS-guided FNA of metastatic mediastinal lymphadenopathy."}
{"id": "18277026", "title": "Hamartomatous inverted polyp successfully treated by endoscopic submucosal dissection.", "content": "Hamartomatous inverted polyp successfully treated by endoscopic submucosal dissection. We report a case of gastric hamartomatous inverted polyps that are a rare histological type of gastric polyp and difficult to diagnose. Gastric submucosal tumor was detected by upper gastrointestinal X-ray series in 37-year-old man. Endoscopy revealed a submucosal tumor (SMT) , which eroded with a depression on its surface in the fornix. Endoscopic ultrasonography showed a heterogeneous tumor in the third layer. Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) was performed to resect the tumor completely. The pathological diagnosis was a gastric hamartomatous inverted polyp. The patient was later discharged without any complications. Hamartomatous inverted polyps without a stalk are classified as the SMT type because the tumor is inverted down growth into the submucosal layer, otherwise polyps with a stalk are classified as the polyp type. All of the polyps were resected endoscopically, however, surgical resection was performed for those of the SMT type, because it is difficult to remove this type completely by en-block resection using conventional EMR technique. ESD method may be indicated for SMT-type hamartomatous inverted polyps."}
{"id": "18253139", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound delivery of an antitumor agent to treat a case of pancreatic cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound delivery of an antitumor agent to treat a case of pancreatic cancer. A 72-year-old white male presented to a University Digestive Disease Center with epigastric pain and weight loss. A CT scan suggested that the patient had a mass in his pancreas and he was referred for further diagnostic work-up, staging and treatment. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration. Locally advanced, unresectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. Opioid analgesics and EUS-guided celiac neurolysis (transgastric injection of bupivacaine and alcohol on both sides of the celiac artery) for pain relief. Five once-weekly intratumoral injections of TNFerade (GenVec, Inc., Gaithersburg, MD) by EUS-guided fine needle injection, in combination with chemoradiation (5 FU/XRT), as part of a multicenter clinical trial. Repeat fine-needle aspiration followed by surgical resection of the tumor."}
{"id": "18251793", "title": "Current utilization and performance status of endoscopic ultrasound in a community hospital.", "content": "Current utilization and performance status of endoscopic ultrasound in a community hospital. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is an essential tool for cancer staging and investigating gastrointestinal diseases. Although it is not a widespread skill, as its expanded indications became much more advanced so did its popularity and hospital acceptance. We aimed to study the utilization and indications of upper EUS in a Hong Kong community hospital. The secondary aim was to assess our accuracy in staging of esophageal and gastric cancer and in evaluating submucosal tumors. All patients who had undergone upper EUS in Tuen Mun Hospital from January 2002 to December 2006 were recruited. Their background data, indications, radiological investigations, upper endoscopy and operation records and histopathologic results were retrieved for analysis. The accuracy of EUS in esophageal cancer staging, gastric cancer staging and evaluating submucosal tumors was assessed by comparing surgical and histopathologic findings. A total of 645 upper EUS examinations were performed and there has been a steady increase in EUS utilization in our hospital. The most common indications were evaluating submucosal tumors and staging esophageal and gastric cancer. The accuracy of T and N staging of esophageal cancer was 71.2 and 79.7%, respectively and for gastric cancer was 64.0 and 74.7%, respectively. Endoscopic ultrasound was 70% accurate in identifying lesions arising from the submucosal layer and 100% accurate in identifying lesions from the muscularis propria. Endoscopic ultrasound is an accurate method and its demand is increasing. The performance in a community hospital can be further improved and its utilization should expand to other indications."}
{"id": "18226703", "title": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection of recurrent or residual superficial esophageal cancer after chemoradiotherapy.", "content": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection of recurrent or residual superficial esophageal cancer after chemoradiotherapy. Treatment of local recurrent or residual superficial esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma (SCC) with conventional EMR often results in a piecemeal resection that requires further intervention. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD). A case series. Between January 2006 and September 2006, 4 local recurrent or residual superficial esophageal SCCs were treated by ESD. ESD procedures were performed by using a bipolar needle knife and an insulation-tipped knife. After injection of glycerol into the submucosal (sm) layer, a circumferential incision was made, and an sm dissection was performed. All lesions were determined to be intramucosal or sm superficial, without lymph-node metastasis by EUS before treatment. Tumor size, en bloc resection rate, tumor-free lateral margin rates, and complications were recorded. All 4 ESD cases were successfully resected en bloc, and the tumor-free lateral margin rate was 75% (3/4) by histopathology examination. The mean tumor size of the resected specimens was 35 mm (range, 15-50 mm). There were no complications. The number of ESDs in our series was limited, and there are no long-term follow-up data. ESD for recurrent or residual superficial esophageal tumors after chemoradiotherapy achieves the goal of an en bloc resection, with a low rate of incomplete treatment without any greater risk than the EMR technique."}
{"id": "18209979", "title": "[Transesophageal ultrasonography for mediastinum diagnostics].", "content": "[Transesophageal ultrasonography for mediastinum diagnostics]. Along with endosonographic fine needle aspiration, transoesophageal ultrasonography is now well established for staging gastrointestinal tumors. It is especially well suited to assessing mediastinal structures due to its transoesophageal approach and its high local definition. The mediastinum can be viewed all the way from the tracheal bifurcation to the diaphragm. This technique is already in regular use for pulmonary problems and especially for staging pulmonary carcinomas."}
{"id": "18197937", "title": "A large series, resection controlled study to assess the value of radial EUS in restaging gastroesophageal cancer following neoadjuvant chemotherapy.", "content": "A large series, resection controlled study to assess the value of radial EUS in restaging gastroesophageal cancer following neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The true value of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy for esophageal carcinoma is not established. Superior loco-regional detail may yield useful staging and prognostic information but information on its accuracy, as compared with computed tomography (CT), remains undefined and limited by small study size. We prospectively studied 109 patients with gastroesophageal cancer; 99 of whom were undergoing surgery. All had EUS and helical CT imaging before and after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and the results were compared with pathological staging of resected specimens. Tumor response was assessed by the reduction in maximal tumor depth at EUS and correlated with patient survival. There was no difference in T and N stage accuracies between EUS and CT following neoadjuvant chemotherapy. manova showed a reduction in maximal tumor depth by > 50% at EUS to be associated with longer survival (relative risk = 0.48, P < 0.05). EUS responders had a median survival of 38 months compared to 30 months for non-responders (P < 0.05). The identification of lymphadenopathy at radial EUS was not predictive of survival. This large series study demonstrates the staging accuracy of CT and non-biopsy EUS in the setting of neoadjuvant chemotherapy for gastroesophageal cancer to be equivalent and poor. An endosonography may contribute useful clinical information in respect of potential survival. It is questionable whether radial EUS should be included in protocols for restaging."}
{"id": "18154819", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound: accuracy in staging superficial carcinomas of the esophagus.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound: accuracy in staging superficial carcinomas of the esophagus. Endoscopic procedures may represent an alternative to esophagectomy for superficial neoplasms of the esophagus (T1m/T1sm), but they are considered curative only in case of no lymph node involvement. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is the most accurate method to define both T and N staging of esophageal carcinoma. Aims of the study were to assess the staging accuracy of EUS in superficial lesions (T1m and T1sm) of patients who were candidates for esophagectomy or local endoscopic resection and to establish which variables (site of neoplasm, histologic type, macroscopic appearance) can affect the accuracy of EUS in distinguishing between T1m and T1sm lesions. The study population consisted of 55 patients with superficial carcinoma of the esophagus who underwent EUS (October 2002 to January 2007). Endoscopic ultrasound features were compared with findings from surgical specimens or samples obtained at mucosectomy. There were 33 patients with adenocarcinoma (60%), which developed on Barrett's esophagus in 27 cases, 21 patients (38%) with squamous cell carcinoma, and 1 (2%) with lymphoepithelial-like carcinoma. All lesions were confirmed as T1 on pathology. Of the 22 (40%) T1m lesions on EUS, 19 (86%) were confirmed as T1m on pathology; of the 33 T1sm on EUS, 22 (66%) were confirmed as T1sm. Positive predictive value of EUS for invasion of the submucosa was 67%, negative predictive value 86%, sensitivity 88%, specificity 63%, and diagnostic accuracy 75%. The accuracy of EUS in evaluating lymph node metastases was 71%, with a negative predictive value of 84%. Endoscopic ultrasound accuracy in differentiating mucosal from submucosal lesions increased from the lower esophagus or gastroesophageal junction to the mid and upper esophagus (71%, 76%, and 100%, respectively; not significant). As for the histologic type, accuracy was 70% for adenocarcinoma and 81% for squamous cell carcinoma, (not significant); for lesions detected as type 0-IIa (13 patients), accuracy was 100%; for type 0-I lesions (23 patients), accuracy was 70% (p = 0.03). Despite difficulties in differentiating mucosal from submucosal lesions, even with 20-MHz miniprobes, EUS remains an extremely valuable tool when nonsurgical treatments are considered. Its staging accuracy depends on site and macroscopic appearance of the neoplasm."}
{"id": "18084953", "title": "Surgical palliation of advanced pancreatic cancer.", "content": "Surgical palliation of advanced pancreatic cancer. In about 80% of patients with pancreatic cancer surgical resection is not feasible at the time of diagnosis. Therefore, palliative treatment plays a key role in the treatment of pancreatic cancer. The defined goals of palliative treatment are: reduction of symptoms, reduction of in-hospital stays, and an adequate control of pain. In patients with nonresectable pancreatic carcinoma the leading goal of palliative strategies should be the control of biliary and duodenal obstructions such as jaundice-associated pruritus or sustained nausea and vomiting due to gastric outlet obstruction. Although the role of endoscopy for palliation has been increasing, operative palliation is still indicated in selected cases. Obstructive jaundice is found in approximately 70% of patients suffering from carcinoma of the pancreatic head at diagnosis and has to be eliminated to avoid progressive liver dysfunction and liver failure. In up to 50% of patients with pancreatic cancer, clinical symptoms such as nausea and vomiting occur. For the treatment of malignant biliary obstructions in patients with pancreatic carcinoma, endoscopic biliary drainage is the option of first choice. In case of persistent stent-problems such as occlusion or recurrent cholangitis, a hepaticojejunostomy should be considered. The role of a prophylactic gastroenterostomy is still under discussion. In patients with combined biliary and gastric obstruction a combined bypass should be performed to avoid a second operation. The significance of laparoscopic biliary bypass is not yet clear. A surgical, minimally invasive approach for treating bile duct obstruction is not the standard nowadays. The role of surgical pain relief is mostly negligible today. Computed tomography (CT)- or EUS-guided celiac plexus neurolysis has replaced surgical intervention today. The significance of palliative resections is currently a controversial topic. However, beyond controlled randomized studies, a palliative pancreaticoduodenectomy in patients with advanced pancreatic carcinoma cannot be recommended at this time."}
{"id": "17906857", "title": "Gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in children and young adults.", "content": "Gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in children and young adults. We review the imaging findings of pediatric gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NETs) using contemporary anatomic and molecular imaging techniques. A low index of suspicion can result in significant delays in diagnosis of pediatric GEP-NETs. A multimodality imaging approach, using both anatomic and functional imaging, is essential in the diagnosis, staging, and surveillance of these potentially malignant tumors."}
{"id": "17704882", "title": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection used for treating early neoplasia of the foregut using a combination of knives.", "content": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection used for treating early neoplasia of the foregut using a combination of knives. Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) has emerged as a novel technique for achieving en bloc resection for early esophageal or gastric carcinoma limited to the mucosa. The authors report their experience with a combination of various devices to treat early neoplasia of the foregut using the ESD technique. In this prospective case series, ESD was performed for early esophageal or gastric carcinoma limited to the mucosa. These lesions were staged by endoscopic ultrasonography before resection. Magnifying endoscopy and chromoendoscopy were used to locate the tumor and define the margin. The resection was accomplished with submucosal dissection using the insulated tip knife, the hook knife, and the triangular tip knife. The resected specimen was examined systematically for the lateral and deep margins. From January 2004 to March 2006, ESD was performed to manage 30 cases of early gastric or esophageal carcinoma. For 29 of these patients, R0 resection was successfully achieved. The mean operating time was 84.6 min. One patient experienced reactionary hemorrhage 12 h after resection, which was controlled endoscopically. There was no perforation. Most of the circumferential mucosal incisions were performed using the insulated tip knife (76.6%), whereas submucosal dissection was accomplished with a combination of various knives. One of the specimens showed involvement of the lateral margin, whereas another patient had two areas of new early gastric cancer 6 months after the initial procedure. These patients received salvage laparoscopically assisted gastrectomy. Endoscopic submucosal dissection to manage early neoplasia of the foregut can be achieved safely and effectively with a combination of knives."}
{"id": "17681735", "title": "Current relevance of cervical ultrasonography in staging cancer of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction.", "content": "Current relevance of cervical ultrasonography in staging cancer of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction. To evaluate the value of external ultrasonography (US) of the neck in current dedicated preoperative staging of patients with cancer of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction (GEJ). We analyzed 180 consecutive patients (154 men, 26 women, and mean age 63 (38-84) years) without palpable cervical lymphadenopathy, treated between January 2001 and March 2006. Suspicious lesions were confirmed by cytological examination. All first 125 consecutive patients (group A) were staged by standard endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), multidetector computed tomography (md-CT), positron emission tomography with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) and external US. The other 55 patients (group B) were prospectively staged according to a revised protocol consisting of routine EUS and md-CT, while PET was only performed in subjects with T3-T4 and/or N1 disease and external US solely on indication. Cervical metastases were found in seven patients from group A (6%) and in five from group B (9%). Twenty percent (4/20) of the tumors above the carina and 5% (8/160) of the distal tumors presented with cervical metastases. All were diagnosed as T3 and T4 tumors on EUS. Eleven of these metastases were detected by external US and nine on md-CT. All nodal metastases were detected by the combination of PET and md-CT. No cervical metastases were missed by the diagnostic algorithm in group B. In present staging procedures for esophageal cancer, routine external US seems to have no additional value in detecting cervical metastases. It is still indicated to obtain cytological proof of suspected cervical lesions."}
{"id": "17619927", "title": "Role of PET/PET CT in the staging and restaging of thoracic oesophageal cancer and gastro-oesophageal cancer: a literature review.", "content": "Role of PET/PET CT in the staging and restaging of thoracic oesophageal cancer and gastro-oesophageal cancer: a literature review. Current evidence for the use of FDG PET/PET-CT in staging thoracic oesophageal and GOJ cancer is reviewed. PubMed, Medline, Embase (1988-November 2006) and the Cochrane database identified studies in which FDG PET and PET CT were used for the assessment of thoracic and GOJ cancer. Conventional assessment remains the mainstay for evaluating the primary site. EUS is used for assessing the primary site, but when EUS is incomplete or not tolerated FDG PET CT is invaluable. The major of advantage of FDG PET CT lies in the ability to detect metastatic disease beyond the celiac axis. There is growing evidence to show that FDG PET CT is useful for assessment of treatment response. FDG PET CT will also detect other occult primary cancers. The contribution of FDG PET CT to the investigation of patients with primary thoracic oesophageal and GOJ cancer has resulted in improved staging, so providing the ability to optimise treatment."}
{"id": "18330087", "title": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection is useful and safe for intramucosal gastric neoplasms in the elderly.", "content": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection is useful and safe for intramucosal gastric neoplasms in the elderly. Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) has recently gained popularity for use against intramucosal gastric neoplasms in Japan, but few studies have examined whether ESD is feasible for elderly patients. This study aims are to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ESD according to age in consecutive elderly patients treated with ESD. Subjects comprised 116 patients (90 men, 26 women) with 125 lesions treated using ESD from November 2002 to March 2006 at Nagoya City University Hospital and Iwata Municipal Hospital, Japan. Patients were categorized into: Group A, <65-years-old (n=34); Group B, > or =65-years-old but <75-years-old (n=41); and Group C, > or = 75-years-old (n=41). En bloc resection rate and treatment time were examined according to age, tumour size and location, and frequency of complications was examined according to age. Rate of concomitant disease was significantly higher in Group C than in the other groups. En bloc resection rates and median treatment times were 91.4% and 80 min in Group A, 91.1% and 97 min in Group B and 86.7% and 110 min in Group C, respectively. No significant differences were noted between groups, or for en bloc resection rate and treatment time according to tumour size and location, or between groups for frequency of complications. ESD for gastric neoplasms is effective and safe in elderly patients, and may be positively recommended to elderly patients with intramucosal gastric neoplasms."}
{"id": "18317657", "title": "[I Brazilian consensus of endoscopic ultrasonography].", "content": "[I Brazilian consensus of endoscopic ultrasonography]. In the last 20 years, several papers have focused on demonstrating the impact of endoscopic ultrasonography findings on the management of different clinical scenarios in digestive disease. This fact is an indirect evidence of the difficulty of popularization of the method. On other hand, the limited availability of endoscopic ultrasonography in Brazil is a direct evidence of this limitation. This was the rationale for the organization of a consensus meeting on endoscopic ultrasonography. It was aimed to identify the best evidence that support the use of endoscopic ultrasonography in gastroenterology. A panel of experts on endoscopic ultrasonography was selected based on the files of the Gastroenterology and Endoscopy Societies and on the registries of endoscope manufacturers. Two members of the meeting selected the relevant topics that were transformed into questions. The topics and the questions were debated among the experts five months before the consensus meeting. The experts were asked to perform systematic reviews in order to answer the questions so it could be possible to grade the answers based on the strength of the evidence. During the two days of the meeting the answers were presented, debated and voted. Consensus was reached when a minimum of 70% of the voters were in agreement. The final consensus report was submitted to the experts' evaluation and approval. Seventy nine questions were debated by the experts at the pre-Consensus meeting. As the result of this debate 85 questions came out and were assigned to the members of the panel. During the Consensus meeting 22 experts debated and voted 85 answers. Consensus was reached for several clinical scenarios for which the impact of endoscopic ultrasonography findings were supported by level 1 evidences: differential diagnosis of subepithelial lesions and thickening of gastric folds, staging and diagnosis of unresectable esophageal cancer, indirect signs of peritoneal involvement of gastric cancer, MALT gastric lymphoma and rectal cancer staging, diagnosis of common bile duct and gallbladder stones, diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis and differential diagnosis of a solid mass in chronic pancreatitis, differential diagnosis of the pancreatic cyst, prediction of the results of the endoscopic treatment of esophageal varices and diagnosis and staging of non-small cell lung cancer. There are the highest levels of evidences that support the indication of endoscopic ultrasonography for several digestive diseases and even for non-small cell lung cancer."}
{"id": "18096635", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound in cancer staging.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound in cancer staging. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) represents one of the most significant developments in endoscopy over the past 20 years. It allows highly detailed assessment of the gastrointestinal wall layers as well as to visualize extraluminal structures such as the mediastium and retroperitoneum. The literature was reviewed to assess the role of EUS in cancer staging. EUS is an integral part of the staging of many upper gastrointestinal cancers as well as rectal and lung cancer and has been shown to be cost-effective. It can be used to confirm malignancy in suspicious lesions as well as to identify and confirm nodal or metastatic spread. It has been used to re-stage cancers following chemoradiotherapy, but results are disappointing. Future developments are discussed, which may include using EUS-guided delivery of anti-tumour agents directly into tumours."}
{"id": "18031362", "title": "Gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the stomach: endosonographic differentiation in relation to histological risk.", "content": "Gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the stomach: endosonographic differentiation in relation to histological risk. The aim of this study was to determine the endosonographic characteristics of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) of the stomach according to histological risk classification. Twenty-four cases of histologically proven c-kit positive GISTs were divided into three groups according to histological risk: low risk (n = 14), intermediate risk (n = 7) and high risk (n = 3). Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) features recorded were: size, ulceration, regularity of marginal border, lobulation, shape of tumor, marginal halo, homogeneity, internal echogenic or cystic foci, and the presence of exophytic development. Significant differences were seen in size between the groups studied (P = 0.026). All tumors in the high risk group had mucosal ulceration, which was more commonly seen in the intermediate risk group compared to the low risk group (P = 0.014). All tumors in the high risk group had irregular borders, but only three cases out of 11 in the low risk group had irregular borders (P = 0.039). Thirteen cases in the low risk group and five cases in the intermediate risk group had an oval or round shape; however, only one case in the high risk group showed this (P = 0.043). The optimal size value for prediction of the intermediate and high risk group was 30 mm. Sensitivity and specificity with this value was 80% and 79%, respectively. Large, especially larger than 30 mm, GISTs of the stomach with irregular borders, mucosal ulceration and a non-oval shape on EUS suggest higher risk GISTs of the stomach. These criteria might aid in the clinical management of GISTs of the stomach."}
{"id": "18025508", "title": "PET/CT of esophageal cancer: its role in clinical management.", "content": "PET/CT of esophageal cancer: its role in clinical management. Positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) has important utility and limitations in the initial staging of esophageal cancer, evaluation of response to neoadjuvant therapy, and detection of recurrent malignancy. Esophageal cancer is often treated by using a combined modality approach (chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and esophagectomy); correct integration of PET/CT into the conventional work-up of esophageal cancer requires a multidisciplinary approach that combines the information from PET/CT with results of clinical assessment, diagnostic CT, endoscopic gastroduodenoscopy, and endoscopic ultrasonography. PET/CT has limited utility in T staging of esophageal cancer and relatively limited utility in detection of dissemination to locoregional lymph nodes. However, PET/CT allows detection of metastatic disease that may not be identifiable with other methods. PET/CT is not sufficiently reliable in the individual patient for determination of treatment response in the primary tumor. Interpretation of PET/CT results is optimized by understanding the diagnostic limitations and pitfalls that may be encountered, together with knowledge of the natural history of esophageal cancer and the staging and treatment options available."}
{"id": "18004617", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound for gastric cancer: a technique for preoperative risk stratification in need of further refinements.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound for gastric cancer: a technique for preoperative risk stratification in need of further refinements."}
{"id": "17985093", "title": "Localisation and staging of gastrin producing tumours using cross-sectional imaging modalities.", "content": "Localisation and staging of gastrin producing tumours using cross-sectional imaging modalities. Cross sectional imaging in the assessment of gastrinomas has three major applications: Tumor localization (sporadic gastrinoma, MEN I) in patients undergoing primary or secondary surgery. Staging of metastasized tumors, especially assessment of lymph nodes and liver metastases, possibly including a risk analysis prior to liver resection. Post-surgery follow-up and monitoring of bio- or chemotherapy. Detection of primary tumors is strongly correlated with their size. However, the sensitivity of surgical assessment of the mostly small tumors by experienced surgeons is much higher than that of any imaging modality. Of all imaging modalities, endoultrasonography (EUS) followed by Somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (SRS) is the most sensitive modality for the assessment of pancreatic tumors in asymptomatic patients suffering from a MEN-I syndrome. Scintigraphy has the highest sensitivity in tumors of symptomatic patients and in the assessment of metastases. CT and MRI are only second line diagnostic modalities. Their sensitivity is largely dependent on the selection of patients. As a potential application, 3D reconstruction of nearly isotropic CT data sets for the risk assessment prior to liver resection is currently developing. Due to the absent radiation exposure, MRI is increasingly utilized to monitor the response of metastases under systemic therapy, e.g. in clinical trials."}
{"id": "17970550", "title": "Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma: ultrasound, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging features.", "content": "Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma: ultrasound, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging features. The technologies of computed tomography, magnetic resonance, and ultrasound (transabdominal and endoscopic) have advanced considerably in recent years, having a major impact on the management of pancreatic cancer, guiding surgery for the potential of cure, and avoiding needless surgery in those patients who are unresectable. Knowledge of how these modalities should be utilized, how they can be optimized, and the appearance of ductal adenocarcinoma on each modality are crucial for them to be used effectively and accurately."}
{"id": "17963876", "title": "Clinicopathologic factors influence accurate endosonographic assessment for early gastric cancer.", "content": "Clinicopathologic factors influence accurate endosonographic assessment for early gastric cancer. EUS has become a valuable tool for the selection of patients who are suitable for EMR of early gastric cancer (EGC). The aim of this study was to evaluate the various clinicopathologic factors affecting the diagnostic accuracy of EUS in EGC. A retrospective, single-center study. A total of 206 patients suspected of EGC endoscopically who underwent EUS examination and curative treatment for EGC at Severance Hospital, Seoul, Korea, from October 2001 to May 2005 were included. We reviewed the medical records of 206 patients and compared preoperative EUS staging with final histopathologic staging of the resected specimen according to the clinicopathologic parameters. The diagnostic accuracy of EUS for predicting tumor invasion depth was significantly affected by the histopathologic differentiation and the size of tumor. The differentiated cell types were associated with higher diagnostic accuracy in predicting the tumor invasion. Lesions located in the mid one third of the stomach larger than 3 cm had significantly higher probability of overstaging. Poorly differentiated histologic diagnosis had a significantly higher probability of understaging. There was no significant factor associated with the endosonographic prediction of lymph node metastasis. EGC with undifferentiated histopathologic features or large tumor size is more frequently associated with an incorrect diagnosis in tumor invasion depth by EUS. EGC with a size larger than 3 cm and poorly differentiated histologic diagnosis should be cautiously considered in the decision on treatment modality by pretreatment EUS staging."}
{"id": "17926240", "title": "Endoscopic diagnosis and treatment of gastric tumors.", "content": "Endoscopic diagnosis and treatment of gastric tumors."}
{"id": "17921961", "title": "Mediastinal and gastric EUS: indications and technique of examination.", "content": "Mediastinal and gastric EUS: indications and technique of examination. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is a minimally invasive technology using a high-frequency ultrasound transducer that is incorporated into the tip of a conventional endoscope. This technique permits the diagnosis and staging of gastrointestinal lesions and mediastinal mass. EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA) enables operators to obtain tissue diagnosis of most visualized lesions. This paper reports on the technique of examination and indications for mediastinal and gastric EUS."}
{"id": "17921960", "title": "Endoscopic mucosal resection-endoscopic submucosal dissection: do we really need endoscopic ultrasonography assistance?", "content": "Endoscopic mucosal resection-endoscopic submucosal dissection: do we really need endoscopic ultrasonography assistance? Endoscopic mucosal resection has become the standard of care for early gastrointestinal cancer. The application of this new treatment requires an accurate stadiation of the neoplasia. The exclusion of nodal involvement and the evaluation of the depth of tumor penetration within the gastrointestinal wall is essential to select patients who can benefit from this approach. Echoendoscopy allows endoscopists to evaluate subtle changes in the layers of the gastrointestinal wall giving an important aid to local tumor staging and planning the adequate treatment."}
{"id": "17921958", "title": "State of the art review: developments in endoscopic ultrasound in esophageal and gastric disease in 2005 and 2006.", "content": "State of the art review: developments in endoscopic ultrasound in esophageal and gastric disease in 2005 and 2006. The subject of this review will be recent developments in the field of EUS in esophageal and gastric disease. Selected articles published in the English language in 2005, 2006 and the first half of 2007 will be reviewed in more detail. Subjects discussed in this paper will be esophageal cancer and EUS with special emphasis on staging accuracy, the value of EUS in restaging after neo-adjuvant treatment and quality and impact on the management of patients. Furthermore papers with the subjects gastric cancer and submucosal tumors will be discussed."}
{"id": "17921945", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound and staging of non-small cell lung cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound and staging of non-small cell lung cancer. Accurate cancer staging allows the most favorable therapy and prognosis of a neoplastic process, and allows consistency when performing clinical trials for different stages of tumors. In the case of non small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), the most important parameters for optimal treatment and prognosis are the presence of cancer spread to the lymph nodes within the mediastinum, and to distant organs. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has become a significant tool for the assessment of mediastinal lymph nodes, and in some cases, distant organ metastases because of its minimally invasive access to these sites through a trans-esophageal or trans-gastric approach. The capability of performing fine needle aspiration (FNA) has greatly improved the accuracy and popularity of EUS for lung cancer staging. This review will outline the basic principals of lung cancer staging, EUS-FNA techniques, and role of EUS-FNA in lung cancer staging."}
{"id": "17921942", "title": "Radial EUS: the clinical impact of T staging.", "content": "Radial EUS: the clinical impact of T staging. Endoscopic ultrasound staging of gastrointestinal and pancreaticobiliary cancers is important in guiding the choice of an appropriate treatment strategy such as endoscopic mucosal resection, surgery or palliative chemotherapy. This review will summarize the principles of endoscopic ultrasound T staging using a radial echoendoscope, elaborate on the accuracy rate in T staging, and discuss the clinical impact of endoscopic ultrasound T staging in the context of esophageal, gastric and pancreaticobiliary cancers."}
{"id": "17921934", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound teaching and learning.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound teaching and learning. Scientific publications in the field of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) are raising up since the last twenty years. The value of EUS is directly proportional to the training, skill and experience of the endosonographer. In a recent series, the lowest annual number of examinations requested per year might be around 200-250 procedures. For achieving competence in all the fields of EUS, they recommended a minimum of 150 supervised cases, 75 of them being devoted to pancreaticobiliary diseases and 50 to fine needle aspiration (FNA). Many studies have yet confirmed the importance of the learning curve to improve the EUS accuracy. The accuracy of EUS staging of esophageal cancer was significantly improved over an 8-year period for T staging from 64% to 90% but not for N staging. Considering pancreaticobiliary diseases, some series reported the influence of training on accuracy of EUS-guided FNA of pancreatic masses. Even if the exact type and modalities for EUS training remained to be determined, the usefulness of a period of training in a center performing more than 200 procedures per year is confirmed. Improving cognitive EUS learning and technique required theoretical teaching and practical teaching with observation during live demonstration and echoendoscope hands-on in humans with an expert supervision or with different simulator models. In France, formal EUS training has been underway since 1991, with a two-year intensive program including 4 weeks of theoretical training and 20 one-day practical sessions per year. This program was updated in 2004 to include 3 weeks of theoretical course work including numerous video sessions and 1 week of practical sessions. Theoretical courses are given primarily by gastroenterologists and EUS experts, but also by pathologists, surgeons, anatomists and radiologists. Practical sessions include 4 days of live demonstrations and computed-based simulator (EUS mentor; Simbionix, Tel Hashomer, Israel) and one day with a swine model. Simulators, either computed-based simulator, Erlangen model, or live pigs are believed to shorten the learning phase of EUS. The live pig model was chosen for EUS credentialing because it appears to be similar in many respects to the human anatomy, especially for the pancreas, portal and mesenteric vessels, celiac axis, left kidney and spleen. In addition, for trainees, it often appears more exciting and stimulating than virtual model. However, EUS training on a swine model is recognized to be the more expansive way for EUS teaching. Between the pre and post-test, EUS fellows significantly improved their competence for the visualization of anatomical structures i.e. vena cava, mesenteric/splenic vein, celiac axis, pancreas and bile duct. At the end of the day-session, trainees were mostly able to recognize and follow these anatomical structures with both endoscopes. Interventional EUS learning was also assessed. A significant decrease in procedural duration and a significant increase in FNA precision were demonstrated for the puncture of a hilar liver lymph node."}
{"id": "17921932", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound in gastroenterology and beyond. New challenges in the XXI century.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound in gastroenterology and beyond. New challenges in the XXI century."}
{"id": "17903735", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound predicts outcomes for patients with adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound predicts outcomes for patients with adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is the most accurate locoregional staging tool for gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma, and it may allow pretreatment risk stratification. The purpose of this study was to compare preoperative EUS staging with postoperative pathologic staging and to assess the ability of EUS to predict survival after resection for GEJ adenocarcinoma. Patients with GEJ adenocarcinoma, who had preoperative staging with EUS followed by resection, were identified from a prospectively maintained database. Patients receiving neoadjuvant therapy were excluded. EUS stage was compared with pathologic stage. Survival analyses were performed in patients who underwent complete gross resection. From 1985 through 2003, 209 patients underwent preoperative EUS followed by surgery without neoadjuvant therapy for GEJ adenocarcinoma. EUS correlated with pathologic T stage in 128 of 209 (61%) patients and with pathologic nodal stage in 154 of 206 (75%) patients. EUS accurately stratified patients into \"early\" (T0-2 N0) or \"advanced\" (T3-4 or N1) disease categories in 173 (83%) patients. Curative (R0) resection was performed in 184 patients: EUS \"early\" (n=84) and \"advanced\" (n=122) stages were associated with R0 rates of 100% and 82%, respectively (p=0.001). EUS \"early\" versus \"advanced\" stage was highly predictive of outcomes (p < 0.0001). The 5-year disease-specific survival for EUS \"early\" patients was 65% compared with 34% for EUS \"advanced\" stage. EUS accurately predicts pathologic stage. In addition, EUS is predictive of outcomes after complete gross resection without neoadjuvant treatment for GEJ adenocarcinoma and identifies a high-risk population that might benefit from preoperative therapy."}
{"id": "17899502", "title": "[Mixed exocrine-endocrine gastric carcinoma: a rarity of little consequence?].", "content": "[Mixed exocrine-endocrine gastric carcinoma: a rarity of little consequence?]. A 38-year-old woman was admitted for the diagnosis of joint pains. She had no gastrointestinal symptoms. Barium contrast examination revealed a rigid gastric wall. Gastroscopy showed multifocal carcinoid (neuroendocrine) tumors, up to 3 mm in diameter, and a 2 cm tumor which had apparently not metastasised (as demonstrated by sonography and computed tomography), but had broken into the muscular layer. A partial gastrectomy and lymphadenectomies were performed. Histology showed a mixed exocrine-endocrine carcinoma with submucosal infiltration and lymph node metastases. The postoperative course was without complications. Neuroendocrine tumors are rare diseases of the stomach for which therapeutic options are surgical resection or endoscopic removal. Tumors up to 1 cm diameter and concomitant type A gastritis, multiple endocrine neoplasms with infiltration or Zollinger-Ellison syndrome are removed endoscopically. Bigger tumors or tumors that have infiltrated the muscular layer are managed by partial gastrectomy In our opinion radical surgery is required in all carcinoids larger than 1 cm and other neuroendocrine tumors."}
{"id": "17848957", "title": "Detection of distant metastases in patients with oesophageal or gastric cardia cancer: a diagnostic decision analysis.", "content": "Detection of distant metastases in patients with oesophageal or gastric cardia cancer: a diagnostic decision analysis. Computed tomography (CT) is presently a standard procedure for the detection of distant metastases in patients with oesophageal or gastric cardia cancer. We aimed to determine the additional diagnostic value of alternative staging investigations. We included 569 oesophageal or gastric cardia cancer patients who had undergone CT neck/thorax/abdomen, ultrasound (US) abdomen, US neck, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), and/or chest X-ray for staging. Sensitivity and specificity were first determined at an organ level (results of investigations, i.e., CT, US abdomen, US neck, EUS, and chest X-ray, per organ), and then at a patient level (results for combinations of investigations), considering that the detection of distant metastases is a contraindication to surgery. For this, we compared three strategies for each organ: CT alone, CT plus another investigation if CT was negative for metastases (one-positive scenario), and CT plus another investigation if CT was positive, but requiring that both were positive for a final positive result (two-positive scenario). In addition, costs, life expectancy and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) were compared between different diagnostic strategies. CT showed sensitivities for detecting metastases in celiac lymph nodes, liver and lung of 69, 73, and 90%, respectively, which was higher than the sensitivities of US abdomen (44% for celiac lymph nodes and 65% for liver metastases), EUS (38% for celiac lymph nodes), and chest X-ray (68% for lung metastases). In contrast, US neck showed a higher sensitivity for the detection of malignant supraclavicular lymph nodes than CT (85 vs 28%). At a patient level, sensitivity for detecting distant metastases was 66% and specificity was 95% if only CT was performed. A higher sensitivity (86%) was achieved when US neck was added to CT (one-positive scenario), at the same specificity (95%). This strategy resulted in lower costs compared to CT only, at an almost similar (quality adjusted) life expectancy. Slightly higher specificities (97-99%) were achieved if liver and/or lung metastases found on CT, were confirmed by US abdomen or chest X-ray, respectively (two-positive scenario). These strategies had only slightly higher QALYs, but substantially higher costs. The combination of CT neck/thorax/abdomen and US neck was most cost-effective for the detection of metastases in patients with oesophageal or gastric cardia cancer, whereas the performance of CT only had a lower sensitivity for metastases detection and higher costs. The role of EUS seems limited, which may be due to the low number of M1b celiac lymph nodes detected in this series. It remains to be determined whether the application of positron emission tomography will further increase sensitivities and specificities of metastases detection without jeopardising costs and QALYs."}
{"id": "17825769", "title": "Preinvasive neoplasia in the stomach: diagnosis and treatment.", "content": "Preinvasive neoplasia in the stomach: diagnosis and treatment. This article discusses the proper handling of biopsy samples from mucosal lesions taken from the stomach when there is a suspicion of a malignant process. In addition, the use of endoscopic mucosal resection for therapy and staging of gastric neoplasia is discussed."}
{"id": "17729401", "title": "Gastric adenocarcinoma with features of endodermal sinus tumor.", "content": "Gastric adenocarcinoma with features of endodermal sinus tumor. Extragonadal germ cell tumors are rare. The most common sites for EGGCTs are in midline locations such as the mediastinum, retroperitoneum and pineal gland. These tumors rarely present in the stomach. We describe here a case where a middle aged man presented with typical symptoms of gastric cancer. After extensive workup, which included blood work, CT abdomen scan, upper endoscopy, and endoscopic ultrasound, the patient was diagnosed with gastric cancer. However, due to very high blood levels of alpha-fetoprotein, the specimen was sent for special histochemical staining, which demonstrated that the tumor had features of both adenocarcinoma and endodermal sinus tumor. This is a very aggressive tumor with a very poor prognosis."}
{"id": "17725938", "title": "Preliminary experience comparing routine cytology results with the composite results of digital image analysis and fluorescence in situ hybridization in patients undergoing EUS-guided FNA.", "content": "Preliminary experience comparing routine cytology results with the composite results of digital image analysis and fluorescence in situ hybridization in patients undergoing EUS-guided FNA. Studies indicate enhanced diagnostic accuracy for digital image analysis (DIA) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) versus routine cytology examination (RC) when biliary strictures are evaluated. These tumor markers have not been applied to EUS-guided FNA. Our purpose was to determine the accuracy of RC versus the composite results of DIA/FISH. Patients enrolled with known or suspected malignancy. The final diagnosis was based on strict cytopathologic and imaging criteria and 12-month follow-up. Tertiary referral center. A total of 39 patients were enrolled in whom each diagnostic test was performed on samples from 42 sites to evaluate lymphadenopathy (n=19), pancreatic mass (n=19), esophageal or gastric wall mass (n=3), and thyroid mass (n=1). EUS-guided FNA with RC, DIA, and FISH. Diagnostic accuracy of RC, DIA, and FISH. Malignancy was diagnosed in 30 of 42 patients, including esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, esophageal adenocarcinoma, gastric adenocarcinoma, pancreatic adenocarcinoma, pancreatic mucinous cystic neoplasia, intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasia, metastatic forearm sarcoma, small cell and non-small cell lung cancer, thyroid carcinoma, malignant GI stromal tumor, melanoma, adenocarcinoma of unknown primary, and lymphoma. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of DIA/FISH versus RC for detecting malignancy were 97%, 100%, and 98% versus 87%, 100%, and 90%, respectively. Single-center pilot study. Our findings suggest that DIA and FISH processing of EUS-guided FNA specimens provides higher diagnostic accuracy than RC does. These data suggest that these tumor markers incorporate generic targets as suggested by the high diagnostic sensitivity in this patient cohort with diverse pathologic conditions."}
{"id": "17681503", "title": "EUS elastography in the diagnosis of focal liver lesions.", "content": "EUS elastography in the diagnosis of focal liver lesions."}
{"id": "17679378", "title": "[Methods of treatment on different clinical stages in pancreatic cancer].", "content": "[Methods of treatment on different clinical stages in pancreatic cancer]. Pancreatic cancer is a great surgical problem. Clinical observations confirm 10-15% level of R0 resection ability. Dissatisfying treatment effects results from: lach of simple screening tests, low specificity of methods used to diagnose less than 2 cm lesions, low availability of advanced diagnostic methods (endoscopic ultrasonography), anatomy of pancreatoduodenic area, ability of infiltration adhering structures and causing metastatic tumors. Retrospective evaluation of treatment methods administered to patients with pancreatic cancer according to different clinical stages. Medical documentation of 97 patients treated during 2001-2006 period for pancreatic cancer was analyzed. The age of patients was 42-90 years (medium 66.04, SD 10.27). There were 47 women (48.45% of group) aged 43-90 (medium 67.89, SD 9.93) and 50 men (51.55%) aged 42-86 (medium 64.31, SD 10.64). In analyzed group 87 tumors were located in the head of pancreas, 5 in the corpus and 5 in the cauda. In 13 cases (13.40%) partial resection of pancreas was performed. By passing anastomoses were applied in 45 cases: 26 (26.80% of total group) biliar and gastrointestinal, 19 (19.59%) only biliar anastomoses. Thoracovideoscopic splanchnicectomy was performed 26 times (26.80%) as a method of decreasing pain. 6 patients were treated with bile ducts drainage: endoscopic (4) or percutaneous (2). In 7 cases operations were limited to explorative laparotomy. Complication occurred in 5 (38.46%) cases following resection of the pancreas and 13 cases (15.38%) following paliative operations. Perioperative mortality accomplished 15.38% following pancreatic resection and 4.44% in remaining cases. Pancreatic cancer is a neoplasm connected with unsuccessfull course. In most of cases diagnose is confirmed in clinical stage that disables resection with the aim of curation. Although huge progress in diagnostic methods, operational technique and perioperative care postoperative mortality is high. Videothoracoscopic splanchnicectomy is a worth reccomending method of decreasing pain."}
{"id": "17679360", "title": "[The possibilities and barriers in endoscopic examination and treatment of esophagus cancer].", "content": "[The possibilities and barriers in endoscopic examination and treatment of esophagus cancer]. When it comes to the effective treatment of esophagus tumor is one of the most difficult tumor to treat of all tumors of alimentary tract. It is due to the biological features of this tumor and lack of its early clinical symptoms, which would allow to recognize it in the early stage and to begin with a radical treatment. The main method to recognize the esophagous tumor is the endoscopic treatment with histopathology, and the endosonography is the best method which allows to estimate its local advancement. Endoscopy allows to detect pre-malignant phase and the early stage as well use of the alternative to surgical endoscopic methods of the treatment. Unfortunately, endoscopy made to patients with swallow discordance usually shows the advanced esophagus tumor, which is to be qualified for palliative treatment that include: widening of esophagus, different methods of ablation, endoscopic stenting and implementing alimentary gastrostomy. The choice of the treatment method should be based on the type of the tumor and the advancement stage of disease, but the clinical practice shows that the method of treatment is determined by the availability of the methods and experience. The parallel use of different methods of treatment may give better results, but the wide range of treatment methods shows the lack of optimal way of treatment, on the other hand gives the possibility to chose the individual method of optimal treatment. Surgical treatment is still method of choice in the esophagus tumor, but it is often impossible to perform or is appears to be ineffective and it creates the possibility of use of alternative endoscopic methods. The article shows the possibilities of diagnosing and different endoscopic techniques for radical treatment of earlyphase and palliative treatment of advanced tumor of esophagus."}
{"id": "17676284", "title": "[R1 resection in the surgery of upper gastrointestinal tumors: relevance and therapeutic consequences].", "content": "[R1 resection in the surgery of upper gastrointestinal tumors: relevance and therapeutic consequences]. Microscopically involved tumor margins are an important problem in the surgery of locally advanced esophageal and gastric carcinomas. We conducted a systematic review of the literature and a specific analysis of our own patient database. This article summarizes current knowledge of the incidence and prognosis of R1 resections in upper gastrointestinal cancers. Preoperative strategies for reducing the rate of R1 resections are presented, and the surgical options in case of R1 resection are discussed."}
{"id": "17674366", "title": "Supraclavicular lymph nodes in patients with esophageal or gastric cardiac cancers: imaging.", "content": "Supraclavicular lymph nodes in patients with esophageal or gastric cardiac cancers: imaging."}
{"id": "17659723", "title": "Role of endoscopic ultrasound in diagnosis and therapy of pancreatic adenocarcinoma.", "content": "Role of endoscopic ultrasound in diagnosis and therapy of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Since its advent more than 20 years ago, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has undergone evolution from an experimental to a diagnostic instrument and is now established as a therapeutic tool for endoscopists. Endoscopic ultrasound cannot accurately distinguish benign from malignant changes in the primary lesion or lymph node on imaging alone. With the introduction of the curved linear array echoendoscope in the 1990s, the indications for EUS have expanded. The curved linear array echoendoscope enables the visualization of a needle as it exits from the biopsy channel in the same plane of ultrasound imaging in real time. This allows the endoscopist to perform a whole range of interventional applications ranging from fine needle aspiration (FNA) of lesions surrounding the gastrointestinal tract to celiac plexus block and drainage of pancreatic pseudocyst. This article reviews the current role of EUS and EUS-FNA in diagnosis, staging and interventional application of solid pancreatic cancer."}
{"id": "17643702", "title": "Dynamic analysis of EUS used for the differentiation of benign and malignant lymph nodes.", "content": "Dynamic analysis of EUS used for the differentiation of benign and malignant lymph nodes. EUS elastography was reported to offer supplemental information that allows a better characterization of tissue, and that might enhance conventional EUS imaging. Our purpose was to apply real-time elastography during EUS examinations and to assess the accuracy of the differentiation of benign versus malignant lymph nodes. Prospective cross-sectional feasibility study. Department of Surgical Gastroenterology, Gentofte University Hospital, Hellerup, Denmark. Patients diagnosed by EUS with cervical, mediastinal, or abdominal lymph nodes were included, with a total number of 78 lymph nodes examined. The final diagnosis of the type of lymph node was obtained by EUS-FNA cytologic analysis or by surgical pathologic examination and by a minimum 6 months of follow-up. Hue histogram analysis of the average images computed from EUS elastography movies was used to assess the color information inside the region of interest and to consequently differentiate benign and malignant lymph nodes. Differentiate between malignant and benign lymph nodes. By using mean hue histogram values, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for the differential diagnosis were 85.4%, 91.9%, and 88.5%, respectively, on the basis of a cutoff level of 166 (middle of green-blue rainbow scale). The proposed method might be useful to avoid color perception errors, moving artifacts, or possible selection bias induced by analysis of still images. Lack of the surgical standard in all cases. Computer-enhanced dynamic analysis based on hue histograms of the EUS elastography movies represents a promising method that allows the differential diagnosis of benign and malignant lymph nodes, offering complementary information added to conventional EUS imaging."}
{"id": "17641581", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound in esophageal carcinoma: comparison with multislice computed tomography and importance in the clinical decision making process.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound in esophageal carcinoma: comparison with multislice computed tomography and importance in the clinical decision making process. As resective surgery for oesophageal carcinoma is only appropriate for a selected cohort of patients, preoperative staging plays an important role in the management of these patients. This study assessed the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) staging in comparison with computerised tomography (CT) staging and the impact of EUS in management of patients with oesophageal carcinoma undergoing gastro-esophagectomy. Ninety-six consecutive patients with oesophageal carcinoma underwent preoperative staging with multislice CT and EUS. Of these, 50 patients underwent gastro-esophagectomy, allowing preoperative staging data from these imaging modalities to be compared to postoperative histopathological staging, classified according to the TNM system. Management plans for these patients made without use of EUS were then compared to those following EUS staging. The overall accuracy rate of EUS for T staging was 64%, showing good agreement with postoperative histopathological staging of the resected specimen (weighted k=0.42, 95%CI= 0.32-0.52). In terms of clinical decision making, the T stage accuracy rose to 90% when differentiating T1 from T2/3 lesions. In terms of N staging, the overall accuracy was 72% (weighted k=0.44, 95% CI=0.34-0.54). In comparison, N staging by CT was significantly less accurate (62% vs 72%, P<0.01, chi squared) and showed poor agreement with postoperative histopathological nodal staging (weighted k=0.24, 95%CI =0.11-0.37). Importantly, in 56% of patients, staging information obtained from EUS instigated change in management compared to that configured without EUS. EUS enhances preoperative staging of oesophageal cancer and is important in preoperative clinical decision making process, especially with increasing use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy."}
{"id": "17636525", "title": "Clinical stage after preoperative chemoradiation is a better predictor of patient outcome than the baseline stage for localized gastric cancer.", "content": "Clinical stage after preoperative chemoradiation is a better predictor of patient outcome than the baseline stage for localized gastric cancer. For patients with localized gastric cancer (LGC) who are receiving preoperative chemoradiation (CTRT), the postsurgical pathologic stage predicts overall survival (OS) better than the baseline stage. The authors hypothesized that presurgical (postCTRT) stage would also correlate better with patient outcome than the baseline stage. The authors analyzed 74 LGC patients treated with preoperative CTRT receiving similar treatment. Patients were staged with baseline endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and laparoscopy. Patients received induction chemotherapy, then CTRT (45 Gy), and had an attempted surgery. After CTRT, patients had complete preoperative staging including EUS in 35 patients. Thirty-five had all 3 sets of staging, baseline, presurgical, and postsurgical. Baseline stage did not associate with OS (P = .16) nor disease-free survival (DFS; P = .13). However, presurgical stage was associated with OS (P = .01), and DFS (P = .05). OS was also associated with postsurgical stage and was longer for stages 0 and I than for stages III and IV (P = .01 and .04, respectively). Similarly, DFS was longer in postsurgical pathologic stages 0, I, and II than in stage III or IV (P < .001, <.001, and <.01, respectively). Baseline staging did not correlate with the proportion of patients alive at 4 years; however, presurgical staging did. Patients with stage I or II survived longer than those with stage III or IV (81% vs 25%; P < .01). Heterogeneity in clinical biology of LGC is best reflected after CTRT in presurgical and postsurgical pathologic stages rather than by the baseline stage. Correlation of outcome with presurgical staging may facilitate strategies to individualize therapy for LGC."}
{"id": "17632318", "title": "The impact of endoscopic ultrasonography on the management of suspected pancreatic cancer--a comprehensive longitudinal continuous evaluation.", "content": "The impact of endoscopic ultrasonography on the management of suspected pancreatic cancer--a comprehensive longitudinal continuous evaluation. Between 1997 and 2001, a single-center chart review demonstrated significant impact of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in evaluating suspected pancreatic cancer (PCA). Repeating and comparing this review with that from 2001 to 2004 was performed to determine whether increased use of EUS results in more patients being accurately chosen for curative versus palliative procedures, and for surgical versus nonsurgical oncotherapy. The complete systematic review was made up of electronic files from the gastroenterology, oncology, and pathology departments of patients presenting with suspected PCA. Results were compared with those obtained in 1997-2001. From 2001 to 2004, 72 patients had PCA. Seven tumor types were identified. Forty-seven percent (34/72) of patients with suspected PCA were preoperatively staged by EUS; 24% (17/72) of all patients underwent surgery. Comparatively, from 1997 to 2001, only 32% (20/62) of patients were evaluated by EUS (P = 0.056) and 45% (28/62) of all patients underwent surgery (P < 0.01). The EUS detected a tumor in 32 of 34 cases. The EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology identified PCA in 14 of 18 cases. F-18-deoxyglucose-positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging were not used. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was performed in 29% (21/72) of patients, with 15 stents inserted. Increased EUS use for diagnosing and staging PCA resulted in fewer patients undergoing futile surgery. The EUS plays a pivotal role in the management of patients with PCA."}
{"id": "17614044", "title": "Advanced gastric adenocarcinoma mimicking a submucosal tumor.", "content": "Advanced gastric adenocarcinoma mimicking a submucosal tumor."}
{"id": "17611381", "title": "[A case of alpha-fetoprotein-producing minute mucosal gastric cancer].", "content": "[A case of alpha-fetoprotein-producing minute mucosal gastric cancer]. The endoscopic examination of a 63-year-old man revealed a IIc lesion, 5 mm in diameter, in the lesser curvature of the gastric body. His serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) level was high at 14.3 ng/ml. Immunohistological studies on the biopsy specimens showed a positive reaction for AFP. Endoscopic ultrasonography revealed that the tumor was limited to the second layer of the gastric wall and this tumor was diagnosed as mucosal cancer. The final diagnosis was AFP-producing mucosal gastric cancer (AFPMGC). Cases of AFPMGC are rarely encountered. The present case suggested that even minute mucosal gastric cancer could produce AFP."}
{"id": "17599290", "title": "[Current status of ultrasound in gastroenterology--bowel and upper gastrointestinal tract--part 1].", "content": "[Current status of ultrasound in gastroenterology--bowel and upper gastrointestinal tract--part 1]. Ultrasonography has become widely accepted as a diagnostic tool for gastrointestinal diseases. It not only assesses the lumen but more importantly also the wall and the surrounding structures of the stomach and bowel. Furthermore, functional processes (peristalsis, blood flow) can be visualised and provide important information for passage and perfusion. Modern high resolution (compressive) sonography represents an ideal complementary method besides endoscopy for the gastroenterologist. It is used in emergency diagnosis in cases of acute appendicitis and peridiverticulitis. Here sonography is the method of first choice achieving a high sensitivity. The same applies to ileus, which can be diagnosed significantly earlier by sonography than with conventional X-ray methods. Meanwhile sonography can contribute considerable information to clarify pathogenesis (e. g., invagination, intususception). The detection of a perforation depends strongly on the competence of the examiner. The main advantage is the detection of a covered perforation and the genesis (e. g., ulcer). Ultrasound is less commonly considered in celiac sprue but important complementary information can be obtained. Advanced tumours of the gastrointestinal tract can easily be visualised, although early stages can hardly be detected by means of sonography. An accurate T-staging of tumours is not possible with transabdominal sonography, not least because some parts of the bowel (colon and rectum) cannot always and completely be seen. Exclusion of tumour or early detection is not possible by ultrasound. In intestinal diseases additional information besides clinical and endoscopic aspects can be achieved by ultrasound. Sonography is important for differential diagnosis and follow-up and spares the patient from more incriminatory endoscopic operations. Ultrasound is equal to other imaging methods in detecting complications (fistulas, abscess, stenosis). Due to the complexity of the topic the following review will concentrate on giving an idea of the present status of sonography in chronic inflammatory bowel disease, some less frequent intestinal infections (bacterial, pseudomembranous, neutropenic colitis, intestinal tuberculosis), the ischaemic bowel diseases as well as diseases of the upper gastrointestinal tract."}
{"id": "17531648", "title": "EUS staging of upper GI malignancies: results of a prospective randomized trial.", "content": "EUS staging of upper GI malignancies: results of a prospective randomized trial."}
{"id": "17522512", "title": "CDH1 truncating mutations in the E-cadherin gene: an indication for total gastrectomy to treat hereditary diffuse gastric cancer.", "content": "CDH1 truncating mutations in the E-cadherin gene: an indication for total gastrectomy to treat hereditary diffuse gastric cancer. Approximately 1% to 3% of all gastric cancers are associated with families exhibiting an autosomal dominant pattern of susceptibility. E-cadherin (CDH1) truncating mutations have been shown to be present in approximately 30% of families with hereditary diffuse gastric cancer (HDGC) and are associated with a significantly increased risk of gastric cancer and lobular breast cancer. Individuals from a large kindred with HDGC who were identified to have a CDH1 mutation prospectively underwent comprehensive screening with stool occult blood testing, standard upper gastrointestinal endoscopy with random gastric biopsies, high-magnification endoscopy with random gastric biopsies, endoscopic ultrasonography, CT, and PET scans to evaluate the stomach for occult cancer. Subsequently, they each underwent total gastrectomy with D-2 node dissection and Roux-en-Y esophagojejunostomy. The stomach and resected lymph nodes were evaluated pathologically. Six patients were identified as CDH1 carriers from a single family. There were 2 men and 4 women. The mean age was 54 years (range, 51-57 years). No patient had any signs or symptoms of gastric cancer. Exhaustive preoperative stomach evaluation was normal in each case, and the stomach and adjacent lymph nodes appeared normal at surgery. However, each patient (6 of 6, 100%) was found to have multiple foci of T1 invasive diffuse gastric adenocarcinoma (pure signet-ring cell type). No patient had lymph node or distant metastases. Each was staged as T1N0M0. Each patient recovered uneventfully without morbidity or mortality. CDH1 mutations in individuals from families with HDGC are associated with gastric cancer in a highly penetrant fashion. CDH1 mutations are an indication for total gastrectomy in these patients. This mutation will identify patients with cancer before other detectable symptoms or signs of the disease."}
{"id": "17513817", "title": "Imaging in local staging of gastric cancer: a systematic review.", "content": "Imaging in local staging of gastric cancer: a systematic review. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has been established as the diagnostic modality of choice in local (T) staging of gastric cancer. Multidetector row computed tomography (MDCT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are promising alternatives. The aim of this study was to systematically review the literature regarding the performance of each of these imaging modalities. A systematic search for relevant studies was performed in the PubMed/MEDLINE and EMBASE databases. Two reviewers independently assessed the methodological quality of each study. Local staging performance of included studies was calculated. Twenty-two EUS studies, five MDCT studies, one combined EUS and MDCT study, and three MRI studies met the inclusion criteria. The studies were of moderate methodological quality. Diagnostic accuracy of overall T staging for EUS, MDCT, and MRI varied between 65% to 92.1%, 77.1% to 88.9%, and 71.4% to 82.6%, respectively. Sensitivity for assessing serosal involvement for EUS, MDCT, and MRI varied between 77.8% to 100%, 82.8% to 100%, and 89.5% to 93.1%, respectively. Specificity for assessing serosal involvement for EUS, MDCT, and MRI varied between 67.9% to 100%, 80% to 96.8%, and 91.4% to 100%, respectively. EUS, MDCT, and MRI achieve similar results in terms of diagnostic accuracy in T staging and in assessing serosal involvement. Most experience has been gained with EUS. Few MDCT studies and even fewer MRI studies are available. Thus, EUS remains the first-choice imaging modality in preoperative T staging of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "17465457", "title": "Relationship between preoperative staging by endoscopic ultrasonography and MMP-9 expression in gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Relationship between preoperative staging by endoscopic ultrasonography and MMP-9 expression in gastric carcinoma. To investigate the relationship between the staging by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and the expression of carcinoma metastasis associated gene in the patients with gastric carcinoma. Sixty-three patients with gastric cancer were diagnosed by electric gastroscopy and EUS. The preoperative staging of gastric cancer was measured by EUS and compared with pathologic staging and MMP-9 expression. Peripheral serum level of MMP-9 was measured with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), while the expression of MMP-9 protein was tested with immunohistochemistry and hybridization in situ in the gastric carcinoma tissues. The total accuracy of EUS in estimating invasive depth of gastric cancer was 80.95%, while that in estimating lymphatic metastasis was 73.02%. Serum MMP-9 levels were consistent with the expression of MMP-9 protein and MMP-9 mRNA in tissue, a result closely correlated with invasive degree, staging with EUS and lymphatic metastasis in gastric cancer (P<0.05). The total accuracy of estimating invasive depth in gastric cancer was 95.22% using both EUS and MMP-9. The MMP-9 level of preoperative serum presents the reference value for preoperative staging by EUS in the patients with gastric cancer. When serum MMP-9 level in gastric cancer is significantly high, physicians should pay closer attention to the metastasis which reaches the serosa or beyond. Combining EUS and MMP-9 improves the accuracy in deciding the invasion and metastasis in the patients with gastric carcinoma."}
{"id": "17461483", "title": "Enlarged accessory spleen presenting stomach submucosal tumor.", "content": "Enlarged accessory spleen presenting stomach submucosal tumor. A 62-year-old man presented with upper abdominal discomfort underwent upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. Gastroscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography revealed a submucosal tumor (SMT) with homogenous echogenicity originated from extragastric organs. An abdominal contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) showed that the well-marginated ovoid mass, approximately 6 cm in diameter, enhanced homogenously to a similar degree as splenic parenchyma. (99m)Technetium sulfur colloid scintigraphy revealed the splenic nature of the mass. A diagnosis of accessory spleen mimicking gastric SMT was made. Subsequent follow-up was uneventful without performing splenectomy."}
{"id": "17454885", "title": "Gastric GIST malignancy evaluated by 18FDG-PET as compared with EUS-FNA and endoscopic biopsy.", "content": "Gastric GIST malignancy evaluated by 18FDG-PET as compared with EUS-FNA and endoscopic biopsy. The usefulness of 18F-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18FDG-PET), whose high rate of FDG accumulation indicates high metabolism and malignant potential, has already been reported. The aims of this study were to evaluate the malignancy of primary gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) in the stomach by 18FDG-PET and to correlate the FDG uptake values with known risk factors as determined by histology after EUS-guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) or endoscopic biopsy. Of 29 patients with histologically proven GI-mesenchymal tumours, 21 with gastric GISTs underwent 18FDG-PET. Tumour size, mitotic index, Ki-67 labelling index (LI) and cellularity of the tumour tissue were compared with the standardized uptake value (SUV) of FDG. Strong correlations were found between the SUV of FDG and EUS size, and mitotic index of EUS-FNA specimens (tumour size versus SUV, p=0.004, r=0.542; number of mitotic cells versus SUV, p=0.0078; n=21). Moreover, we examined the association between SUV and risk categories based on EUS-FNA findings using ROC curves. The cut-off values of FDG SUV were 2.2, 4.2 and 6.5 for the very low-, low-, intermediate- and high-risk groups, respectively. 18FDG-PET may be used to assess malignancy of GISTs. This image modality helps us determine the management strategy for these patients and complements the information on the biological behaviour and cellular proliferation of the tumours."}
{"id": "17443300", "title": "[Endosonography of the gastrointestinal tract].", "content": "[Endosonography of the gastrointestinal tract]. The clinical value of endosonography (EUS) in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract is currently increasing and supported by new imaging techniques. Conventional EUS combined with contrast application or elastography might further refine the diagnostic yield for GI cancers. The present review discusses current standards of EUS and endosonographically guided therapy and discusses newly available imaging modalities."}
{"id": "17427068", "title": "Publication bias does not play a role in the reporting of the results of endoscopic ultrasound staging of upper gastrointestinal cancers.", "content": "Publication bias does not play a role in the reporting of the results of endoscopic ultrasound staging of upper gastrointestinal cancers. An overestimation of the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) results in rectal cancer staging has been reported recently, which was found to be caused by the selective reporting of more positive results. In this study, we assessed whether publication bias was also present in the reporting of EUS staging results in upper gastrointestinal cancer. A Medline literature search was performed. English-language articles containing information on the accuracy of EUS for T staging and/or N staging of esophageal, gastric, and pancreatic cancer were included. Articles published in abstract form only, case reports, and reviews were excluded. Studies reporting EUS results of patients who had undergone preoperative radiation and/or chemotherapy were also excluded. EUS results were plotted against numbers of patients, year of publication, journal type, and journal impact factor. The plots of the numbers of patients against accuracies for T stage and N stage and the statistical analyses showed no evidence of publication bias with regard to upper gastrointestinal cancer. The reported accuracy of EUS for the T stage of esophageal, gastric, and pancreatic cancer declined slightly over the years, but this was statistically significant only in the case of esophageal cancer (P = 0.01). No statistically significant correlations were found for N staging for any of the three types of cancer. In addition, no correlations were found between EUS results and journal type or journal impact factor. No evidence was found for the selective reporting of more positive EUS results for esophageal, gastric, and pancreatic cancer staging, which suggests that publication bias was not present."}
{"id": "17419284", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography with three miniature probes of different frequency is an accurate diagnostic tool for endoscopic submucosal dissection.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography with three miniature probes of different frequency is an accurate diagnostic tool for endoscopic submucosal dissection. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) examinations are necessary to determine the vertical cancer invasion depth. In this study, we prospectively performed EUS with three miniature probes of different frequency (12, 20, and 30 MHz) in patients with early gastric cancer scheduled for endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) based on endoscopic findings. The study included 142 early gastric cancer lesions in 132 patients in our hospital. We then evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of the use of three miniature probes of different frequency in the determination of vertical margins. Finally, we evaluated the value of EUS as an additional examination tool used along with conventional endoscopic findings for determination of indication for ESD. The accuracies of the early gastric cancer invasion depths of the m+sm1 group were 81.0%, 86.0% and 92.3% as measured by the 12-, 20- and 30-MHz probes, respectively. Even though ulceration was associated with the lesions, the 30-MHz probe was the most accurate as compared to the 12- or 20-MHz probes in the m+sml cancer group. EUS examinations with probes of varying frequency are useful for determining appropriate treatment strategies for early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "17357856", "title": "Clinical correlation of endoscopic ultrasonography with pathologic stage and outcome in patients undergoing curative resection for gastric cancer.", "content": "Clinical correlation of endoscopic ultrasonography with pathologic stage and outcome in patients undergoing curative resection for gastric cancer. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is considered valuable for preoperative staging of gastric cancer and defining patient eligibility for enrollment in neoadjuvant protocols. The aim of this study was to correlate EUS staging with pathologic evaluation and outcome in patients undergoing curative R0 resection for gastric cancer. All patients who underwent preoperative clinical assessment of T/N stage with EUS and subsequent R0 resection for gastric adenocarcinoma between 1993 and 2003 were identified from a prospective database. Patients who received neoadjuvant chemotherapy were excluded. Clinical staging results from preoperative EUS were compared with postoperative pathologic staging results and correlated with clinical outcome. Two hundred twenty-five patients with gastric cancer underwent EUS followed by R0 resection, without preoperative chemotherapy. The accuracy of the individual EUS T stage was 57% (127 of 223) and was 50% for N stage (110 of 218). Although EUS was less able to predict outcome according to individual T stage, patients with lesions <or=T2 on EUS had a significantly better outcome than patients with lesions >or=T3. Preoperative assessment of risk was not predicted by EUS N stage alone. Patients identified as high risk on EUS and those with a combination of serosal invasion and nodal disease had both the highest concordance with pathology and a significantly worse outcome (P = .02). The concordance between EUS and pathologic results was lower than expected for individual T and N stages. Patients with lesions <or=T2 had a significantly better prognosis than patients with more advanced lesions. Individual EUS N stage has limited value in preoperative risk assessment. Combined assessment of serosal invasion and nodal positivity on EUS identifies 77% of patients at risk for death from gastric cancer after curative resection."}
{"id": "17355626", "title": "Factors influencing change of preoperative treatment intent in a gastrointestinal cancer practice.", "content": "Factors influencing change of preoperative treatment intent in a gastrointestinal cancer practice. Postoperative assessment of indications for cancer directed surgical procedures frequently differs from preoperative plans. Specifically defined preoperative indications and postoperative results were followed prospectively over 48 months in a single surgeon academic practice, and relationships to postoperative outcomes evaluated. Operations were performed on 406 patients with a median age of 61 (range: 18-90). Major operations (n = 303, 75%) involved 270 abdominal resections including pancreatectomies (37%), liver resections (23%), gastrectomies (19%), and others (21%). Preoperative curative (70%), diagnostic (38%), palliative (12%), access (9%), and non-cancer related therapy (21%) goals were in part combined in 176 patients (43%). Postoperative assessment differed from preoperative goals in 118 patients (29%). Predominant reasons were proof of benign disease (n = 35), incomplete resection (R1 or R2, n = 23), unresectability by laparoscopy (n = 21) or laparotomy (n = 21), or others (n = 18). Potential preoperative cure or palliation goals were not achieved in 37% or 15% of cases, respectively. Circumstances of changed treatment intent were specific for disease site. Preoperative therapeutic intent frequently differs from postoperative assessments in gastrointestinal cancer, based on shortcomings in diagnosis or therapy. Formulations of precise operative indications are recommended to optimize individual outcomes and avoid unnecessary or ineffective procedures."}
{"id": "17344017", "title": "The role of staging laparoscopy in oesophagogastric cancers.", "content": "The role of staging laparoscopy in oesophagogastric cancers. Selection of patients for treatment of oesophagogastric cancers rests on accurate staging. Laparoscopy has become a safe and effective staging tool in upper gastrointestinal cancers because of its ability to detect small peritoneal and liver metastases missed by imaging techniques. The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of staging laparoscopy (SL) in determining resectability of oesophagogastric cancers. A review of 511 patients with oesophagogastric cancers referred to our centre during a 7-year period was performed. Four hundred and sixteen of them assessed to have resectable tumours after preoperative staging with CT and/or ultrasound underwent SL. The main outcome measure was the number of patients in whom laparoscopy changed treatment decision. Staging laparoscopy changed treatment decision in 84 cases (20.2%): locally advanced disease in 17, extensive lymph node disease in four and distant metastases (liver and peritoneum) in 63 cases. The sensitivity of laparoscopy for resectability was 88%. Eighty-one percent of patients who had combined CT scan and EUS were resectable at surgery compared with 65% of those who had CT scan alone (statistically significant with P-value<0.05). Of those patients deemed resectable by SL 8.1% were found to be unresectable at laparotomy, 16 with locally advanced disease and 11 with metastases. Staging laparoscopy avoided unnecessary laparotomy in 20.2% of our patients and was most useful in adenocarcinoma, distal oesophageal, GOJ and gastric cancers and probably not necessary in lesions of the upper two-third of the oesophagus."}
{"id": "17327968", "title": "Upper gastrointestinal tumors.", "content": "Upper gastrointestinal tumors."}
{"id": "17327860", "title": "A 25-year-old woman with a gastric GIST and a PET-positive epicardial tumor.", "content": "A 25-year-old woman with a gastric GIST and a PET-positive epicardial tumor. A 25-year-old woman presented with a history of abdominal pain. Endoscopy of the upper gastrointestinal tract revealed a tumor that protruded into the prepyloric antrum. After resection, a 'high-risk' gastrointestinal stromal tumor was histologically confirmed. Endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasound, hemigastrectomy, [(18)F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG)-PET/CT scan, histological examination, immunohistochemistry, cardiac MRI, high-resolution CT with electrocardiogram gating, CT angiography, and cardiac surgery. Gastrointestinal stromal tumor, epicardial paraganglioma, and Carney's syndrome. Abdominal ultrasound and endoscopy combined with endoscopic ultrasound, annual FDG-PET/CT scan."}
{"id": "17321235", "title": "The role and clinical value of EUS in a multimodality esophageal carcinoma staging program with CT and positron emission tomography.", "content": "The role and clinical value of EUS in a multimodality esophageal carcinoma staging program with CT and positron emission tomography. EUS, CT, and positron emission tomography (PET) have all been used in the preoperative staging of esophageal cancer separately or in various combinations. Our purpose was to determine the value and role of EUS when used in conjunction with CT and PET imaging in staging cancer of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction. Retrospective single-center clinical trial. Academic tertiary care center. Data were examined for 56 patients who concomitantly underwent examination with EUS, CT, and PET in a multimodality staging program. EUS, CT, and PET were examined for their ability to detect the primary tumor, local tumor stage, locoregional adenopathy, and distant metastases. With use of surgical resection as baseline therapy, the frequency at which EUS, CT, and PET affected and changed management was examined. EUS is the only imaging test that identified all primary tumors and provided tumor staging. EUS identified a significantly greater number of patients (58.9%) with locoregional nodes than did CT (26.8%), P = .0006, or PET (37.5%), P = .02. CT identified 14.3% and PET identified 26.8% of patients with distant metastases. With CT alone, 15.2% of patients were not taken to surgery, whereas PET affected management by preventing surgery because of metastatic disease in 28.3% of patients. EUS changed management by guiding the need for neoadjuvant therapy in 34.8% of patients. Retrospective study, nonblinded study, lack of pathologic reference standard. The primary strength of EUS in a multimodality staging strategy is in identifying patients with locally advanced disease and guiding the need for preoperative neoadjuvant therapy. EUS is not suited to determine resectability of esophageal cancer alone and thus is most effective when used in conjunction with other imaging tests such as CT and PET."}
{"id": "17306018", "title": "Gastrointestinal stromal tumor of the anal canal: an unusual presentation.", "content": "Gastrointestinal stromal tumor of the anal canal: an unusual presentation. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) of the stomach are the most frequent followed by those of the intestinal tract, while colon and rectum represent rare sites. GIST of the anal canal are extremely rare. They have been studied along with GIST of the rectum, as a single entity, and along with them they represent 5% of GIST. GIST arising from the anal canal account for only 2%-8% of the anorectal GIST. Thus anal GIST must be considered an exceptional case. A 78-year-old man was referred to our Institution for an anal mass, in absence of any symptom. The patient was treated by local excision. An histological diagnosis of a low grade GIST was made. No further treatment was necessary. No local recurrence of distant metastases were found at follow-up. At the moment, only ten cases of c-kit positive anal GIST are reported in the literature. These few data are not sufficient to establish a widely accepted approach for this neoplasia. We recommend to perform an initial local excision, to define the risk of aggressive behavior and the resection margins and proceed to a more aggressive treatment, if the GIST belongs to high or very high risk group. The role of adjuvant therapy is still uncertain. Although inhibitors of tyrosine-kinase receptor needs further studies before their routine use, their role in case of distant or local recurrence has been accepted. Patients' close follow up is mandatory to disclose as soon as possible local recurrences or metastases."}
{"id": "17305993", "title": "Role of endoscopic ultrasound in staging upper gastrointestinal cancers.", "content": "Role of endoscopic ultrasound in staging upper gastrointestinal cancers. The key clinical management points in this article are that (i) endoscopic ultrasound is the most accurate imaging method for local staging of oesophageal, gastric and pancreatic neoplasms; (ii) addition of fine-needle aspiration biopsy to the technique is safe and well tolerated and increases diagnostic accuracy for nodal staging purposes; and (iii) endoscopic ultrasound +/- fine-needle aspiration has the capacity to influence significantly, the management of patients with malignancies of the upper gastrointestinal tract, particularly with respect to selection for surgery. The learning objectives were that at the end of this paper the reader should be able to (i) understand the usefulness and limitations of various imaging methods in the staging of upper gastrointestinal cancers; and (ii) incorporate the various imaging methods, particularly endoscopic ultrasound, into management algorithms for oesophageal cancer, gastric cancer, mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphomas, gastrointestinal stromal tumours, pancreatic cystic lesions and pancreatic cancer."}
{"id": "17295269", "title": "Gastric glomus tumor: a hypervascular submucosal tumor on power Doppler endosonography.", "content": "Gastric glomus tumor: a hypervascular submucosal tumor on power Doppler endosonography. Gastric glomus tumors are rare submucosal lesions that typically occur in the fourth endosonographic layer. We describe a 69-year-old patient who presented with intermittent epigastric pain and in whom a submucosal tumor was encountered during upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. Endosonography revealed a heterogeneous, hypoechoic fourth-layer tumor. Power Doppler imaging revealed prominent intratumoral vascular signals demonstrating its hypervascular nature. A diagnosis of glomus tumor was made via histopathologic evaluation of the resected tumor."}
{"id": "17285484", "title": "Giant fundic gland polyp mimicking a gastric malignancy.", "content": "Giant fundic gland polyp mimicking a gastric malignancy."}
{"id": "17273006", "title": "Endoscopic resection of benign very low-risk gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Is it enough?", "content": "Endoscopic resection of benign very low-risk gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Is it enough? Great ongoing debate still exists over the definition, diagnosis and treatment of gastrointestinal stromal tumour especially for small gastric submucosal tumours. Simple endoscopic biopsy is not sufficient to determine their biological behaviour and their complete excision is necessary. We report the case of a 65-year-old woman, who was kept under observation after previously operated breast cancer, with a casual computed tomography-diagnosed submucosal gastric lesion. Endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasound confirmed a submucosal mass of 2-3 cm in diameter. An endoscopic resection was performed and the mass was integral at pathologic examination. It confirmed the stromal origin with a mitotic index of 1 (5/50 high power field). No more treatment was carried out because it was classified as a very low risk gastrointestinal stromal tumour according to Fletcher's classification. After 34 months follow-up, the patient is disease free and we believe that endoscopic treatment is sufficient and recommended for mainly intragastric growing gastrointestinal stromal tumour with a diameter of less than 3 cm."}
{"id": "17252454", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "17245217", "title": "Olympus Lucera high-resolution vascular ectasia mapping in combination with the type V crypt pattern for the invasive depth estimation and nodal disease estimation in Paris type II colorectal cancers: a comparative prospective analysis to 20 MHz ultrasound.", "content": "Olympus Lucera high-resolution vascular ectasia mapping in combination with the type V crypt pattern for the invasive depth estimation and nodal disease estimation in Paris type II colorectal cancers: a comparative prospective analysis to 20 MHz ultrasound. Flat and depressed neoplastic lesions of the colorectum [Paris type (PT) 0-II] localized to the superficial submucosal (sm) layer can be managed using endoscopic mucosal resection. Successful endoluminal management can be enhanced using endoscopic or ultrasound tools that help predict the degree of sm invasion. Previous studies addressing invasive depth estimation using high-magnification chromoscopic colonoscopy showed a low specificity for deep sm layer 3 invasion with miniprobe ultrasound demonstrating better nodal and T stage in vivo prediction. High-resolution vascular mapping of lesions can show microvascular superficial changes that may predict sm invasive disease. Vascular mapping in combination with high-magnification chromoscopic colonoscopy (HMCC) may provide an accurate tool for the invasive depth estimation of PT type II neoplastic lesions as compared with high frequency 20/12.5 MHz miniprobe ultrasound. Sixty-eight patients with a known diagnosis of PT II neoplasia were imaged using 3 \"back to back\" imaging modalities. Phase 1-vascular ectasia mapping; phase 2-HMCC with crypt analysis according to Nagata criteria; phase 3-12.5/20 MHz miniprobe ultrasound. Lesions predicted as T0/1/N0 were resected using endoscopic mucosal resection with the remaining referred for surgery. Each imaging modality was then compared with the resected histopathologic specimen used as the \"gold standard.\" N=68 lesions (19 sm1/13 sm2/36 sm3). Overall accuracy of Nagata criteria, Nagata criteria combined with vascular mapping, and ultrasound staging was 65%, 78%, and 94%, respectively (P<0.001) when observing the between phase differences. Fifty-two lesions were resected surgically. The prevalence of node positive disease was 16% (8/52) with the remaining 44/52 (84%) being confirmed pN0 at histopathology. The kappa coefficient of agreement between invasive depth estimation (using histopathology as the gold standard), Nagata stage, Nagata stage plus vascular ectasia mapping and ultrasound stage was 0.47, 0.65, and 0.9, respectively. A significant improvement in between phase differences was observed (P=0.001). This is the first study to address the in vivo clinical utility of vascular mapping in combination with HMCC for the T and N staging of PT II neoplasia. Combination imaging may provide an adequate clinical tool for both T and N stage assessment in vivo and help stratify those patients at high risk for T2/N1 disease that may benefit from further high-frequency miniprobe ultrasound (HFUS) assessment and possible primary surgical excision. This is important in the clinical context, given the high overall costs of a second HFUS examination, limitation of HFUS resources, and safe selection of patients undergoing primary endoscopic resection versus surgical resection."}
{"id": "17185086", "title": "EUS to predict cure of gastric mucosa-associated lymphoma after Helicobacter pylori eradication.", "content": "EUS to predict cure of gastric mucosa-associated lymphoma after Helicobacter pylori eradication."}
{"id": "17185085", "title": "The value of EUS in predicting the response of gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma to Helicobacter pylori eradication.", "content": "The value of EUS in predicting the response of gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma to Helicobacter pylori eradication. Gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma is associated with Helicobacter pylori infection, and regression of the tumor has been described after its eradication. To determine the value of EUS, in addition to other clinical/endoscopic features, in predicting the response of low-grade MALT lymphoma to H pylori eradication. A retrospective, single-center study. Twenty-two patients with primary gastric MALT lymphoma were identified through a retrospective review of charts of patients seen at the American University of Beirut Medical Center. Only 19 patients with histopathologically confirmed gastric MALT lymphoma and H pylori infection who had EUS staging were included in the study. Regression of the gastric MALT lymphoma as determined by follow-up endoscopy and mucosal biopsies. Patients with disease restricted to the gastric mucosa had a significantly higher rate of complete remission after H pylori eradication compared with patients who had disease infiltrating into the gastric submucosa (77.8% vs 12.5%, P value .007). There was no statistical difference in terms of the mean follow-up time to achieve such response (P value .212). Age, sex, location of the tumor within the stomach, and endoscopic appearance did not correlate with the probability of complete remission of the MALT lymphoma. The limitations include a retrospective design and a relatively small sample population. EUS determination of the invasion depth of gastric MALT lymphoma helps predict a complete response to H pylori eradication."}
{"id": "17180286", "title": "Impact of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) on surgical decision-making in upper gastrointestinal tract cancer: an international multicenter study.", "content": "Impact of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) on surgical decision-making in upper gastrointestinal tract cancer: an international multicenter study. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is an integrated part of the pretherapeutic evaluation program for patients with upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract cancer. Whether the clinical impact of EUS differs between surgeons from different countries is unknown. The same applies to the potential clinical influence of EUS misinterpretations. The aim of this study was to evaluate the interobserver agreement on predefined treatment strategies between surgeons from four different countries, with and without EUS, and to evaluate the clinical consequences of EUS misinterpretations. One hundred patients with upper GI tract cancer were randomly selected from all upper GI tract cancer patients treated at Odense University Hospital between 1997 and 2000. Based on patient records and EUS database results, a case story was created with and without the EUS result for each patient. Four surgeons were asked to select the relevant treatment strategy in each case, at first without knowledge of the EUS and thereafter with the EUS result available. Interobserver agreement and impact of EUS misinterpretations were evaluated using the actual final treatment of each patient as reference. Three of four or all four surgeons agreed on the same treatment strategy for nearly 60% of the patients with and without the EUS results. Treatment decisions were changed in 34% based on the EUS results, and the majority of these changes were toward nonsurgical and palliative treatments (85%). Interobserver agreement was relatively low, but overall EUS increased kappa values from 0.16 (\"poor\") to 0.33 (\"fair\"), thus indicating increased overall agreement after the EUS results were available. EUS conclusion regarding stage or resectability was wrong in 17% of the cases, but only one serious event would have been the clinical result of EUS misinterpretations. Despite being used in different ways by different surgeons, EUS did change patient management in one third of the cases. The impact of EUS misinterpretations seemed very low, and this study confirmed one of the strongest clinical possibilities of EUS, i.e., the ability to detect nonresectable cases. EUS is an important imaging modality for oncosurgeons from different countries."}
{"id": "17103278", "title": "Endoscopic band ligation of small gastric stromal tumors and follow-up by endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Endoscopic band ligation of small gastric stromal tumors and follow-up by endoscopic ultrasonography. Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) is a relatively common gastric submucosal tumor with potential for malignant transformation. The efficacy of a new method for resection of these tumors, endoscopic band ligation, was evaluated. The study included 29 patients with small gastric stromal tumors arising in the gastric muscularis propria as determined by endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), and deep endoscopic biopsies. A standard endoscope with a transparent cap attached to the tip was used. The cap was placed over the lesion, maximum sustained suction was applied, and an elastic band was released around the base. Beginning two weeks after banding, the lesions were observed endoscopically once per week until healing was complete. Thereafter, all patients underwent EUS every two to three months on schedule. The 28 GISTs sloughed completely. The mean time required for complete healing after band ligation was 4.8 weeks. One lesion did not slough because they were not completely ligated. The lesion was ligated for the second time and sloughed completely. Bleeding occurred in one patient three days after ligation because the lesion sloughed early. The bleeding was managed successfully with metallic clips. No perforation and other complications occurred. Followup ranged from 36 to 51 months, during which time only one recurrence was observed four months postoperatively. Endoscopic band ligation with systematic followup by EUS is an effective and safe treatment for small GISTs."}
{"id": "17097828", "title": "Adenocarcinoma arising in gastric inverted hyperplastic polyp: a case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Adenocarcinoma arising in gastric inverted hyperplastic polyp: a case report and review of the literature. A 54-year-old man, found to have a submucosal tumor in the stomach by double contrast roentgenography, endoscopy, and endoscopic ultrasonography, underwent a laparoscopic partial gastrectomy. The pathological examination revealed that the lesion, measuring 45 mm x 35 mm, was an inverted hyperplastic polyp (IHP) located in the submucosal layer and consisting mostly of columnar cells resembling foveolar epithelium and pyloric gland cells. Notably, adenocarcinoma with adjacent dysplasia was observed in the submucosal glands. Transition from hyperplasia to dysplasia and from dysplasia to adenocarcinoma was noted. The adenocarcinoma component was intensely and diffusely positive for p53 overexpression, while the dysplasia component showed only weak and focal positivity, suggesting a role of p53 mutation in the dysplasia-carcinoma sequence. Gastric IHP is very rare, and only 31 cases (in 29 patients) have been reported. Five of these IHPs coexisted with gastric adenocarcinomas, which had all developed separately from the IHP lesions. Therefore, this is the first case of adenocarcinoma arising within gastric IHP itself."}
{"id": "18080789", "title": "Ulcerous change decreases the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography diagnosis for the invasive depth of early gastric cancer.", "content": "Ulcerous change decreases the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography diagnosis for the invasive depth of early gastric cancer. With the development of endoscopic submucosal dissection, an expansion of the criteria for local treatment was suggested for lesions with ulcerous changes or undifferentiated-type adenocarcinoma. To determine the efficacy of endoscopic ultrasonography for such lesions, we retrospectively analyzed factors that influenced accurate diagnosis by endoscopic ultrasonography of the depth of tumor invasion. We investigated 267 gastric adenocarcinomas for which histopathological results were obtained by endoscopic mucosal resection or gastrectomy. The lesions were divided into four groups by histological type and the presence of ulcerous changes. Five clinicopathological factors were assessed for their possible associations with incorrect diagnosis. The positive predictive value (PPV) for cancer limited within the mucosa (endoscopic ultrasonography, EUS-M) and cancer invaded into the submucosal layer (EUS-SM) were 88.0% (125 of 142 lesions) and 60.0% (30 of 50 lesions), respectively. The lesions diagnosed as EUS-M/SM borderline (37 lesions) included 19 lesions (51.4%) of M cancer and 17 lesions (45.9%) of SM cancer. In logistic analysis, ulcerous changes (p < 0.0001) and macroscopic classification (p = 0.0284) were factors that caused incorrect diagnosis by endoscopic ultrasonography. In the group having differentiated-type adenocarcinoma with ulcerous changes, the PPV of EUS-SM was 25% (3 of 12), and there was a significant difference (p < 0.05) between the EUS-SM of this group and that of the differentiated-type adenocarcinoma without ulcerous changes. The accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography tumor staging was not sufficient for the lesions with ulcerous changes in our study. Therefore, we should be careful to perform endoscopic submucosal dissection for lesions with ulcerous changes."}
{"id": "17274543", "title": "A gastric fibrolipoma presenting as acute gastrointestinal hemorrhage.", "content": "A gastric fibrolipoma presenting as acute gastrointestinal hemorrhage. A 56-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital with upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage from a gastric submucosal tumor that was treated by a laparoscopic technique. Endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) revealed a 2-cm submucosal tumor located in the posterior wall of the upper gastric body, showing a heterogeneous hyperechoic tumor. A laparoscopic wedge resection of the stomach was performed. Pathological examinations revealed that the tumor was composed of spindle cells like fibroblasts and mature adipocytes. Immunohistochemical examinations revealed that the tumor was negative for desmin and alpha-smooth muscle actin. Based on these findings, a diagnosis of fibrolipoma was made. EUS is useful for differentiating a fibrolipoma from a gastrointestinal stromal tumor or lipoma by the findings of characteristic echogenesity and detection of the tumor origin."}
{"id": "17208679", "title": "Upper gastrointestinal tumours: diagnosis and staging.", "content": "Upper gastrointestinal tumours: diagnosis and staging. Upper GI tumours have a dismal prognosis. Only early diagnosis and accurate staging can optimize patient management."}
{"id": "17152491", "title": "[Comparison of endoscopic ultrasonography with computer-assisted tomography in the determination of preoperative stage and resectability of pancreatic and ampullary cancers].", "content": "[Comparison of endoscopic ultrasonography with computer-assisted tomography in the determination of preoperative stage and resectability of pancreatic and ampullary cancers]. To study and compare the accuracy and sensitivity of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and CT scaning in determination of preoperative stage and vascular invasion by pancreatic and ampullary cancers. Fourty-two pancreatic cancer patients and 18 ampullary cancer patients were studied. With patients prepared according to conventional endoscopy, Olympus EUM-30 scope 1 set with a side view and 360 degrees rotate and switchable scanning probe [ultrasound frequency (7.5/12 MHz)], was introduced to the descending duodenum through the esophagus. Gas within the duodenum and stomach was aspirated. Then, in order to to facilitate ultrasound transmission, 200 ml deaerated water was injected into the duodenum and 500 ml into the stomach to distend it. The structures of each part of pancreatic head and ampullary together with surrounding vessels were scanned. Then, the scope was withdrawn to the gastric antrum, body and fundus gradually, while the pancreatic body and tail were scanned. Between Apr. 1996 to May 2004, a total of 42 pancreatic cancer patients and 18 ampullary cancer patients were examined by EUS. Meanwhile, all these 58 patients received preoperative CT scaning. The results of stage and vascular invasion determined by EUS in this series were as following; pancreatic cancer group (n = 42): accuracy in T2-4 stage was 100.0% (5/5), 75.0% (9/12) and 48.0% (12/25), respectively; ampullary cancer group (n = 18): T1-4 stage was 75.0% (3/4), 66.7% (2/3), 75.0% (6/8) and 33.3% (1/3), respectively; the accuracy in N stage: P-group: 80.0% in N1 (4/5), 90.0% in N0 (9/10); A-group: 50.0% in N1 (3/6), 91.0% in N0 (10/11). The sensitivity, specificity of vascular invasion, resectability and unresectablilty determined by EUS and CT as compared with surgical findings during operation was 52.9% (9/17), 93.1% (27/29), 77.1% (27/35) and 81.8% (9/11) for EUS (n = 60), respectively; and 11.8% (2/17), 92.6% (25/27), 62.5% (25/40) and 50.0% (2/4) for CT (n = 58), respectively. Endoscopic ultrosonography being one of the best image examinations to determine the stage and vascular invasion for pancreatic and ampullary cancer paitients is able to detect small pancreatic or ampullary cancer less than 2.0 cm in diameter due to its high resolution; but can not detect the secondary multiple distal metastases such as spread into the liver, peritonium or hepatoduodenal ligament, etc. due to its ultrasound depth limitation."}
{"id": "17148924", "title": "[A case of gastrointestinal stromal tumor of the stomach arising from the muscularis mucosae].", "content": "[A case of gastrointestinal stromal tumor of the stomach arising from the muscularis mucosae]. A 75-year-old man, in whom upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed a submucosal tumor in the greater curvature of the gastric angle, was hospitalized for further investigations. Since the tumor was shown to be located in the submucosal layer by endoscopic ultrasonography, we performed endoscopic mucosal resection. Pathological studies of the resected specimen revealed a gastrointestinal stromal tumor of the stomach. It was also formed that the tumor was connected not to muscularis propria, but to the muscularis mucosae. There has been no previous report about a case of gastrointestinal stromal tumor of the stomach arising from the muscularis mucosae in Japan."}
{"id": "17123147", "title": "Mucinous carcinoma of the duodenum associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer: report of a case.", "content": "Mucinous carcinoma of the duodenum associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer: report of a case. We herein report a rare case of primary mucinous carcinoma of the duodenum associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC). A 50-year-old man known to have HNPCC based on the Amsterdam criteria I was admitted because of the presence of a duodenal tumor. Duodenoscopy revealed an ulcerated tumor in the posterior wall of the second portion of the duodenum and the malignancy was confirmed by a biopsy. He underwent a pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy with a regional lymph node dissection. The histological diagnosis was mucinous carcinoma of the duodenum with lymph node metastasis. High-frequency microsatellite instability (MSI-H) was identified in both the colon and a duodenal specimen based on a microsatellite assay. A germline mutation in the hMSH2 gene was also identified. Even though extracolonic malignancies are associated with HNPCC, duodenal cancer is nevertheless very rare, and only two cases have been reported over the past 20 years. The present case is therefore only the third such case and the patient is herein described with a brief review of the literature."}
{"id": "17111330", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "17083379", "title": "A prospective analysis of low-grade gastric malt lymphoma after Helicobacter pylori eradication.", "content": "A prospective analysis of low-grade gastric malt lymphoma after Helicobacter pylori eradication. Primary gastric low-grade B-cell lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT lymphoma) is known to be successfully treated with anti-Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) therapy alone. However, there are few reports on long-term results after eradication therapy. The aims of this study were to analyze the rate and the interval to reach complete remission (CR), and to assess the rate and the factors affecting recurrence of MALT lymphoma. Between 1996 and 2003, a total of 90 H. pylori-infected patients with low-grade MALT lymphoma were included in this study. For initial staging, endoscopic ultrasonography, chest-abdomen-pelvis CT scans, and bone marrow examination were taken. All patients were made to take anti-H. pylori therapy for 14 days. Tumoral response was assessed by endoscopy every 3 months till CR and every 6 months after achieving CR. Among 90 treated patients, 85 (94.4%) reached CR. The median interval to CR was 3 months (range, 1-24). Seventy-nine (92.9%) patients were in CR at 12 months. Median follow-up period after CR was 45 months (range 15-109). Among 77 patients who were followed-up after CR, 8 (10.4%) patients were proved with recurrence of MALT lymphoma. Cumulative recurrence rate was 2.7, 11.5, and 12.2% at 1, 2, and 3 years. The presence of H. pylori was only a significant risk factor affecting recurrence. The status of H. pylori is the most important risk factor affecting recurrence. Therefore, adequate eradication regimen and accurate regular evaluation for H. pylori status are needed during follow up of primary gastric low-grade B-cell MALT lymphoma."}
{"id": "17080734", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided celiac plexus neurolysis for pancreatic cancer pain: a single-institution experience and review of the literature.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided celiac plexus neurolysis for pancreatic cancer pain: a single-institution experience and review of the literature. Pancreatic cancer is a common gastrointestinal malignancy with a poor prognosis. The primary goal for caregivers is effective palliative care, especially pain control, which is routinely managed by administration of narcotic analgesics. An alternative or adjunctive modality is celiac plexus neurolysis (CPN), a safe and effective procedure. Recent advances in the use of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) have made it an attractive guidance technique for CPN while allowing for a simultaneous tissue diagnosis. We report our experience using EUS-guided CPN and review the available literature regarding this modality."}
{"id": "17069596", "title": "Multiple giant leiomyomas of the esophagus and stomach.", "content": "Multiple giant leiomyomas of the esophagus and stomach. Leiomyomas are rare esophageal disorders, although among the benign esophageal neoplasms, they are the most common. Multiple leiomyomas are distinguished from esophageal leiomyomatosis, an extremely rare condition, which is associated with Alport syndrome, showing deletions and rearrangements of the COL4A5/COL4A6 gene. There are only a few reports of diffuse multilocular lesions. A 19-year-old man presented with upper gastrointestinal bleeding and diffuse abdominal pain. On endoscopy multiple nodules covered with intact mucosa were present, the largest tumor arising from the gastro-esophageal border infiltrating the cardia. Barium swallow demonstrated narrowing of the middle and lower esophagus with the upper third of the stomach filled by the tumor. Thorax and abdominal CT scans revealed infiltration of almost the total aboral esophagus by the tumor with compression of left and right bronchi. The infiltration reached the whole lesser curvature of the stomach. Endosonography showed multiple encapsulated nodules. Due to the extended tumor growth with infiltration of the upper third of the stomach, a total esophago-gastrectomy with reconstruction by colon interposition was performed. On histopathological examination multiple esophageal leiomyomas with infiltration of the proximal third of the stomach was shown. Immunohistochemically the tumor stained positive for desmin and sm-actin and negative for CD34 and c-kit. Genetic analysis ruled out a deletion of the COL4A5/COL4A6 locus on chromosome X that is linked with Alport syndrome-diffuse leiomyomatosis. Extended mutations in the COL4A5 gene, associated with Alport syndrome, to the COL4A6 gene, are required for the development of leiomyomatosis. In young patients with diffuse multinodular infiltration by encapsulated tumors, esophageal leiomyomatosis should be considered. If the proximal third of the stomach is infiltrated by the tumor an extended resection is necessary. Reconstruction procedures include colon interposition."}
{"id": "17069595", "title": "The multidisciplinary team meeting improves staging accuracy and treatment selection for gastro-esophageal cancer.", "content": "The multidisciplinary team meeting improves staging accuracy and treatment selection for gastro-esophageal cancer. The object of this article is to assess current staging accuracies for individual modalities and to investigate the influence of the multidisciplinary team (MDT) on clinical staging accuracies and treatment selection for patients with gastro-esophageal cancer. Patients newly diagnosed with gastric or esophageal cancer and who were deemed suitable for surgical resection by the MDT were studied. Patients were staged with a combination of computerized tomography (CT), endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and laparoscopic ultrasound (LUS). Additionally, the MDT determined an overall clinical stage for each patient after discussion at the MDT meeting. Treatments were selected according to this final clinical stage. Final histopathological staging (pTNM) was available for all patients and was used as the gold standard for determining staging accuracy. Suitability of treatment selection was assessed once final pTNM was available. One hundred and eighteen patients were studied. Endoscopic ultrasound was the most accurate individual staging modality for the loco-regional assessment of esophageal tumors (T stage accuracy 78%, N stage accuracy 70%). Laparoscopic ultrasound was the most accurate modality in T staging of gastric cancers (91%). The MDT stage was more accurate than each individual staging modality for T and N staging for both gastric and esophageal cancers (accuracy range: 88-89%) and was better for the assessment of nodal disease than each individual modality (CT P < 0.001, EUS P < 0.01, LUS P < 0.01). Overall staging accuracy as determined at the MDT meeting was increased and resulted in only 2/118 (2%) patients being under-treated. The MDT significantly improves staging accuracy for gastro-esophageal cancer and ensures that correct management decisions are made for the highest number of individual patients."}
{"id": "17058169", "title": "Endoscopic mucosal resection of early esophageal squamous cell cancer using the Duette mucosectomy kit.", "content": "Endoscopic mucosal resection of early esophageal squamous cell cancer using the Duette mucosectomy kit. Endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) is a less invasive alternative treatment strategy to surgery for intramucosal esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). This study described our initial experience with the newly introduced Duette Multiband Mucosectomy Kit (Cook Ireland Ltd, Limerick, Ireland) for the treatment of extensive early esophageal SCC. Five patients with extensive early esophageal SCC, covering at least half of the circumference of the esophageal wall and measuring a mean of 2.8 cm longitudinally, underwent EMR after EUS staging. EMR was successfully completed in one session in five patients. Post-EMR stricture occurred in four patients but was successfully treated with bougienage. One patient did not return for follow-up after bougienage and died from ischemic heart disease 3 months later. For the remaining four patients, there was no recurrence over a mean follow up of 14.7 months. This new device obviates the need for repeated insertion of the endoscope during the process of ligation and resection and thus facilitates EMR of extensive SCC."}
{"id": "17058168", "title": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for the treatment of intraluminal gastric subepithelial tumors originating from the muscularis propria layer.", "content": "Endoscopic submucosal dissection for the treatment of intraluminal gastric subepithelial tumors originating from the muscularis propria layer. Subepithelial tumors of the stomach used to be considered as benign, but they do have malignant potential, especially when they originate from the muscularis propria layer. The aims of this study were to determine the feasibility of endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for the removal of subepithelial tumors from the muscularis propria layer and to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ESD for this indication. A total of 12 lesions in 11 patients were eligible for inclusion in the study during the period between December 2004 and February 2006. ESD using an insulated-tip knife was used to remove gastric subepithelial tumors from the muscularis propria where this was possible. Endoscopic mucosal resection using a suction and cap method (\"EMR-c\") was used to obtain a sufficiently large specimen for tissue diagnosis if complete resection by ESD was not possible. Nine tumors were resected completely by ESD (success rate 75 %). The mean tumor size as determined by endoscopic ultrasound as 20.7 mm (range 6 - 40 mm). The histological diagnosis was gastrointestinal stromal tumor for eight lesions and leiomyoma for four tumors. The mean operation time was 60.9 minutes (range 20 - 170 minutes), and the average blood loss was 30 ml. No patient developed perforation or massive hemorrhage requiring surgical treatment, and there were no other immediate postprocedure complications. ESD can be used for the resection of intraluminal gastric subepithelial tumors and could replace treatment by surgical resection in some cases. EMR-c is an alternative method that can be used to obtain sufficient tumor tissue for histological diagnosis if complete resection by ESD fails."}
{"id": "17054580", "title": "Accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound staging of gastric cancer in routine clinical practice in Singapore.", "content": "Accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound staging of gastric cancer in routine clinical practice in Singapore. Endoscopic ultrasound has emerged as the leading modality to assess the T and N stage in gastric cancer. This study aimed to assess the accuracy of TN staging by endoscopic ultrasound in routine clinical practice in Singapore. Over a period of 7 years, 77 patients (male: 70%; median age 62.8 years) with gastric cancer underwent preoperative staging with endoscopic ultrasound. Fifty-seven patients eventually underwent surgery with tissues available for histopathological staging and comparison. The tumor locations were: cardia: 13; corpus: 20; incisura: 19; antrum: 25. The majority was poorly differentiated (57.1%); 26% were moderately differentiated and 16.9% were well differentiated adenocarcinoma. Compared to pathological staging, the overall accuracy of T staging by endoscopic ultrasound was 77.2% (17.5% under-staged: 5.3% over-staged). The staging accuracy of T1 (92.9%) and T3 (81.8%) was higher than T2 (57.1%) and T4. For N staging, the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound was 59.6% (26.3% under-staged; 14% over-staged); this was significantly superior to computer tomography (43.9%). Endoscopic ultrasound is useful for the T staging of gastric cancer, with an overall accuracy rate of 77%, and up to 93% for T1 lesions. Under-staging may occur due to microscopic tumor infiltration, while over-staging may arise due to inflammatory reactions. The accuracy of N staging is lower at 60%, but could be further improved with the use of fine needle aspiration."}
{"id": "17048995", "title": "EUS-guided mucosectomy for gastrointestinal cancer.", "content": "EUS-guided mucosectomy for gastrointestinal cancer. the only way of improving prognosis and survival in gastrointestinal cancer is early diagnosis, with intramucosal localization as confirmed by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) or 20-MHz miniprobes (MPs) (T1) being most appropriate. Endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) has proven effective in the treatment of this sort of lesions. in a group (18 cases) with 15 cases of superficial gastrointestinal cancer and 3 cases of severe gastric dysplasia, 9 cases (3 esophageal, 4 gastric, 2 rectal) underwent a classic EMR following EUS or a 7.5- and 20-MHz miniprobe exploration. ultrasonographic studies showed a T1 in all but one esophageal case (Tis), and in both gastric dysplasias, with no changed layer structure being demonstrated in the latter (T0). No complications arose with classic EMR, and all 9 patients are alive and free from local or metastatic recurrence, except for one esophageal case, which recurred distally to the esophageal lesion (metachronous). echoendoscopically-assisted EMR is a safe, effective technique in the endoscopic management of superficial gastrointestinal (esophageal, gastric, colorectal) cancer. Recurrence most likely depends upon cancer multiplicity."}
{"id": "17048994", "title": "MRI and endoscopic ultrasonography in the staging of gastric cancer.", "content": "MRI and endoscopic ultrasonography in the staging of gastric cancer. to determine the diagnostic precision of endoscopic ultrasounds (EUS) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the preoperative staging of gastric cancer. a prospective, blind study was carried out in 17 patients diagnosed with gastric cancer (GC) using endoscopic biopsy from November 2002 to June 2003. Patients underwent preoperative MRI and EUS. The reference test used was pathology, and laparotomy for non-resectable cases. MRI (53%) was better than EUS in the assessment of gastric wall infiltration (35%). MRI (50%) was also superior to EUS (42%) for N staging. After pooling stages T1-T2 and T3-T4 together, results improved for both MRI (67 and 87.5%, respectively) and EUS (67 and 62.5%, respectively) (p < 0.05). N staging--lymph node invasion--results were correct in 50% for MRI as compared to EUS (42%). In classifying positive and negative lymph nodes EUS was superior to MRI (73 versus 54%). MRI was the best method in the assessment of gastric wall infiltration. EUS was superior to MRI for T1 staging, and in the assessment of lymph node infiltration."}
{"id": "17032186", "title": "The impact of endoscopic ultrasound and computed tomography on the TNM staging of early cancer in Barrett's esophagus.", "content": "The impact of endoscopic ultrasound and computed tomography on the TNM staging of early cancer in Barrett's esophagus. Computed tomography (CT) and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) are part of the regular staging protocol in esophageal cancer. The value of the two methods was assessed in patients with early cancer in Barrett's esophagus. One hundred consecutive patients (median age 64 yr, interquartile range [IQR] 58-72) with suspected early cancer in Barrett's esophagus who were referred to our hospital for endoscopic therapy were prospectively included in a standardized staging program with upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, EUS (7.5 MHz in all cases plus 12.5 or 20 MHz for elevated and/or depressed lesions), CT of the chest and upper abdomen, and abdominal ultrasonography. The results were summarized in accordance with the TNM classification. On the basis of the lymph node findings on CT and/or EUS, the patients were assigned to three categories: C1, no suspicious lymph nodes; C2, paraesophageal lymph nodes < or =1 cm in size at the tumor level, lymph nodes > or =1 cm in size not at the tumor level in the mediastinum or celiac trunk; and C3, paraesophageal lymph nodes > 1 cm in size at the tumor level. The EUS and CT findings were checked every 6 months in patients who underwent endoscopic treatment. Surgical resection was scheduled in operable patients if staging showed a T category higher than T1 and/or the lymph node staging was assessed as C3. Patients with suspected submucosal infiltration underwent diagnostic endoscopic resection, and if submucosal involvement was confirmed were referred for surgery. The median follow-up period was 25 months (IQR 19.5-30.0). The T category diagnosed with CT was < or = T1 in all patients. On EUS, the T category was classified as T1 in 92% of cases (N = 92) and as > T1 in 8% (N = 8, p < 0.05). Enlarged lymph nodes (C2 and C3) were detected in 45% of the patients. Significantly more C2 lymph nodes were diagnosed with EUS than CT (28 vs 19, p < 0.05). Lymph nodes at the level with the highest suspicion, C3, were detected using CT in only three of nine cases. Sensitivity of CT for N staging was not acceptable compared with EUS (38%vs 75%). No extranodal metastases were found on CT. In suspected early cancer in Barrett's esophagus, EUS is superior to CT for T staging and N staging. As CT had no influence on the TNM classification in any of these patients, it may be possible to dispense with this method as a staging procedure in patients with cancer in Barrett's esophagus. By contrast, EUS is required in order to differentiate between patients with cancer in Barrett's esophagus in whom endoscopic therapy is suitable and those in whom surgical treatment is required."}
{"id": "17014036", "title": "Treatment of gastric cancer.", "content": "Treatment of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "16997159", "title": "The role of surgery in patients with advanced gastric cancer.", "content": "The role of surgery in patients with advanced gastric cancer. Surgery remains the mainstay of treatment with curative intent for established gastric cancer. Patient selection is critical to achieving satisfactory outcomes, and involves careful assessment of both patient fitness and disease stage. Staging techniques have multiplied and become much more sensitive in recent years. Current best practice involves a combination of spiral CT scan, Endoscopic ultrasound, PET scanning and laparoscopy. Only a minority of patients progress to potentially curative surgery after staging and fitness assessment in Western centres. Conventional treatment involves a distal subtotal gastrectomy or total gastrectomy depending on the site of the lesion. Innovative techniques include the Merendino operation, and pylorus and nerve sparing gastrectomies for earlier stage disease in the proximal and distal stomach, respectively. There is evidence of nutritional and quality of life benefit in the first 2 years after surgery from formation of a gastric substitute reservoir. Laparoscopic resection is well established in Japan and is developing rapidly elsewhere but its role and outcomes are not yet well defined. Radical lymph node dissection remains controversial: randomised trial evidence of overall benefit is lacking, but expert series have produced excellent results, and there are indications of a sub-group benefit for patients with stage II and III disease. The increased morbidity and mortality associated with radical dissection appear to be largely attributable to pancreatic and splenic resection together with limitations in Unit expertise. Surgical palliation has become less important in recent years as interventional radiology and endoscopy techniques have been developed for the same purposes. Overall mortality and survival results have improved dramatically over the last 20 years, but interpretation of these figures is made difficult by major changes in staging and case selection. The chances of long-term survival are, however, clearly much greater, and those of peri-operative death much less for an individual patient accepted for surgery in 2006 than they would have been in 1986."}
{"id": "16996369", "title": "Synchronous abdominal soft-tissue sarcomas: an unusual case of upper-GI bleeding diagnosed by EUS-guided FNA.", "content": "Synchronous abdominal soft-tissue sarcomas: an unusual case of upper-GI bleeding diagnosed by EUS-guided FNA."}
{"id": "16996340", "title": "Advantage of EUS Trucut biopsy combined with fine-needle aspiration without immediate on-site cytopathologic examination.", "content": "Advantage of EUS Trucut biopsy combined with fine-needle aspiration without immediate on-site cytopathologic examination. Endoscopic ultrasonographically guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) is a safe and accurate method for obtaining diagnostic material from lesions within and immediately adjacent to the upper GI tract. To determine whether EUS Trucut biopsy (EUS-TCB) (Quickcore, Wilson-Cook, Winstom Salem, NC) can increase the accuracy of EUS-guided tissue sampling when combined with FNA when no cytopathologist is present. Retrospective case review. University-based referral practice. All patients who had lesions that were accessible through the esophagus or stomach and that were greater than 20 mm and amenable to Trucut biopsy were included. A total of 41 patients underwent both EUS-FNA and TCB with a separate pathologist evaluating each specimen. The diagnostic performance of FNA, TCB, and its combination were compared. The overall accuracy in our series was as follows: FNA, 76%; TCB, 76% (P not significant); and combination of FNA and TCB, 95% (P = .007). In the 26 patients with malignant diagnoses, the accuracy of combination was 100% versus 77% for FNA (P = .03). The median number of passes with the FNA and TCB was 4.4 (range 2-8) and 2.8 (range 2-5), respectively. One patient in the series had fever and chest pain after EUS biopsy. Retrospective study. In our series EUS-TCB accuracy was equal to FNA when no on-site cytopathologist is present. TCB was helpful in the diagnosis of pancreatic masses, gastric submucosal lesions, lymphoma, and necrotic tumors. A 100% accuracy of FNA + TCB was seen in patients with malignant diseases and in patients who had failed or been refused biopsy by other modalities in the past. More data are needed before the exact role of TCB in the absence of on-site cytopathology can be accurately defined."}
{"id": "16996339", "title": "Choosing from the expanding EUS armamentarium menu: high-frequency probes, radial or linear endosonography for staging of upper GI malignancy?", "content": "Choosing from the expanding EUS armamentarium menu: high-frequency probes, radial or linear endosonography for staging of upper GI malignancy?"}
{"id": "16996338", "title": "EUS staging of upper GI malignancies: results of a prospective randomized trial.", "content": "EUS staging of upper GI malignancies: results of a prospective randomized trial. Electronic 270 degrees transverse-array EUS (TA-EUS) provides high-quality cross-sectional images but cannot guide FNA. Linear EUS (L-EUS) provides longitudinal images of malignancies and the ability to guide FNA. We conducted a prospective randomized comparison of TA-EUS and L-EUS for the staging of upper-GI (UGI) malignancies. Forty-three patients underwent L-EUS immediately followed by TA-EUS (N = 27, 63%) or TA-EUS immediately followed by L-EUS (N = 16, 37%). Forty-three subjects (mean age, 64 years; 37 men) with an UGI malignancy (4 stomach and 38 esophageal) were evaluated with both TA-EUS and L-EUS. Abnormal lymph nodes were sampled by FNA for cytology. There was agreement on the T stage by linear and radial techniques in 38 of 43 subjects (88%). Twenty-seven of 43 patients (63%) had abnormal lymph nodes by linear or transverse-array imaging. L-EUS demonstrated 66 abnormal lymph nodes in 27 subjects (average of 2.4 nodes/subject). TA-EUS demonstrated 90 abnormal lymph nodes in 27 subjects (average of 3.3 nodes/subject, P = .009, compared with L-EUS). In 16 of the 27 subjects, an FNA was performed, which was positive in 13 cases (81%) and negative in 3 cases (10%) for malignancy. TA-EUS and L-EUS provide similar results of T staging of UGI malignancies. However, the number of abnormal lymph nodes detected by TA-EUS was more than by L-EUS. These findings suggest that radial or transverse-array EUS imaging should be the primary method for staging of UGI malignancies."}
{"id": "16970009", "title": "[Guideline 'Diagnosis and treatment of oesophageal carcinoma'].", "content": "[Guideline 'Diagnosis and treatment of oesophageal carcinoma']. An evidence-based guideline for the diagnosis and treatment of oesophageal carcinoma was developed on the initiative of the Netherlands Society of Gastroenterohepatology in cooperation with the Dutch Institute for Healthcare Improvement (CBO) and the Dutch Association of Comprehensive Cancer Centres. If a patient with oesophageal carcinoma is eligible for treatment with curative intent, they should undergo thoracic and abdominal CT, ultrasound investigation of the supraclavicular region and endoscopic ultrasonography for staging purposes. Endoscopic therapy is the preferred treatment for high-grade dysplasia or early cancer in Barrett's oesophagus confined to the mucosa. Surgical resection is indicated if the tumour invades the submucosa. If resection of the oesophageal carcinoma is performed with curative intent, one should aim for radical resection. The type and extent of the resection depends on the location of the tumour. There is evidence that the mortality rate following surgery can be reduced by performing it in centres with ample experience with oesophageal cancer surgery. Preoperative chemotherapy and radiotherapy may improve survival in patients with oesophageal carcinoma. Palliative treatment for oesophageal carcinoma should be considered in cases of local invasion of surrounding organs, metastases, poor physical condition of the patient or recurrent disease after previous curative treatment. Psychosocial support is an important element in the follow-up of patients with oesophageal carcinoma."}
{"id": "16944539", "title": "Surgical pathology stage by American Joint Commission on Cancer criteria predicts patient survival after preoperative chemoradiation for localized gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Surgical pathology stage by American Joint Commission on Cancer criteria predicts patient survival after preoperative chemoradiation for localized gastric carcinoma. Preoperative chemoradiation for localized gastric cancer can modify baseline stage, as determined by surgical pathology stage. Therefore, the authors hypothesized that surgical pathology stage would be a better prognosticator of overall survival (OS) than baseline stage. Patient populations were combined from 2 prospectively conducted, preoperative chemoradiation trials that used the same therapeutic strategy. Patients must have had localized gastric adenocarcinoma and were staged extensively, including endoscopic ultrasonography and laparoscopy. Patients had to be fit for surgery medically with a technically resectable cancer. All patients provided written informed consent. Patients first received induction chemotherapy for up to 2 months followed by chemoradiation (45 grays) and an attempted surgery. OS was correlated with pretreatment and posttreatment parameters, including surgical pathology stage according to American Joint Commission on Cancer criteria. Of 74 patients who were registered, 69 patients (93%) had undergone surgery. Nineteen patients (26%) had a pathologic complete response (pathCR), and 55 patients (81%) had a curative (R0) resection. None of the pretreatment parameters correlated with OS; however, longer OS correlated with lower pathologic stage (P < .0001), R0 resection (P < .001), clinical response noted prior to surgery (P = .002), pathCR (P = .004), lower pathologic lymph node classification (P = .006), and lower pathologic tumor classification (P = .03). Pathologic stage and R0 resection were independent prognostic factors for OS (multivariate Cox model; both P = .05). When preoperative chemoradiation strategy was employed for gastric cancer, the surgical pathology stage, a reflection of cancer's biologic heterogeneity, was a better prognosticator of OS than the baseline clinical stage. Surgical pathology stage, in this setting, may serve as an intermediate endpoint for Phase II/III trials."}
{"id": "16910362", "title": "Gastric outlet obstruction due to inflammatory fibroid polyp.", "content": "Gastric outlet obstruction due to inflammatory fibroid polyp. Inflammatory fibroid polyp (IFP) is a rare mesenchymal tumor of the gastrointestinal tract. The lesion is characterized by spindle-shaped stromal cells and an inflammatory infiltrate rich in eosinophils. The AA. present a case of the IFP of the stomach. A 85-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital for early vomiting and epigastric pain. The patient underwent a gastroduodenoscopy that revealed a polypoid lesion mimicking cancer of the antrum and subtotal obstruction of the gastric transit. The Endoscopic Ultrasound Sonography suggested the presence of a lesion of the submucosal layer such as lymphoma or other type of malignancy like gastrointestinal stromal tumor (G.I.S.T)."}
{"id": "16909683", "title": "[MALT-lymphoma].", "content": "[MALT-lymphoma]. Gastric lymphoma is most frequently an extranodal marginal zone-B-cell-lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT). The diagnosis is established by biopsy of the tumor. Computed-tomography, endosonography and recently capsule-endoscopy are used for staging. It is a relative new finding that MALT-lymphomas of the stomach are induced by Helicobacter pylori. A side-effect-poor breakthrough has been achieved by eradication of this bacterium with antibiotics. Refractory cases are amenable to radiotherapy, chemotherapy or surgical resection. The rarer aggressive lymphomas of the stomach are treated primarily by chemotherapy and radiotherapy. For both entities a further improvement may be achieved in ongoing prospective clinical trials by addition of the monoclonal antibody rituximab, which targets CD20 on lymphoma cells."}
{"id": "16896560", "title": "Multimodal imaging of esophagus and cardia cancer before and after treatment.", "content": "Multimodal imaging of esophagus and cardia cancer before and after treatment. Prognosis and treatment of esophagus and cardia cancer (ECC) depend on the precision with which the disease is staged according to the American Joint Committee of Cancer (AJCC) criteria. Imaging modalities normally used in clinical staging are esophagography, esophagoscopy, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), computed tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography- CT fusion (CT-PET). The combination of these methods is crucial in determining not only the right diagnosis but also the stage and follow-up after multimodal treatment. The purpose of our investigation was to define the role of each imaging modality in determining the most appropriate treatment options in patients with ECC. Fifty-six patients with ECC diagnosed by X-ray of the upper digestive tract, endoscopy and biopsy were staged using EUS, chest and abdomen CT scan, and CT-PET. Thirty-four patients in stage II and 18 patients in stage III underwent surgery after neoadjuvant chemotherapy; four patients in stage IV were treated with the positioning of an endoprosthesis after chemoradiotherapy. In the 52 patients who had surgery, follow-up included digestive tract X-ray, endoscopy and CT of the chest and abdomen every 6-8 months for the first 3 years. CT-PET was only performed in patients with a clinical suspicion of recurrence and/or CT findings suspicious of persistent disease (12 cases). In all 56 patients, endoscopy, EUS, CT and CT-PET in combination were crucial in determining the site of disease, locoregional extent and depth of esophageal wall penetration (T), and any involvement of the mediastinal lymph nodes (N1), extrathoracic lymph nodes (M1) or hepatic metastases. In the locoregional staging of ECC before chemotherapy, we were able to differentiate T2-T3 from T4 in 40 patients; T4 disease was found in 12 potentially resectable cases. We were able to distinguish N0 from N1 in 12 patients. In four cases, the presence of small lymph node and/or liver metastases prompted positioning of an endoprosthesis. The specificity of CT in detecting small lymph nodes in the mediastinum was less than 50% while for CT-PET, it was more than 80%; EUS revealed sensitivity higher than 90% but a low specificity in seven cases. Only CT-PET revealed metastatic subdiaphragmatic lymph nodes (diameter <15 mm) in three cases. Presurgical restaging of the 18 patients (stage III) who had chemotherapy was based on endoscopy, EUS, CT of the chest and abdomen and CT-PET (only in suspected cases) and was compatible with surgery. Anastomotic recurrence was diagnosed in 16 patients by endoscopy with associated biopsy; any intramediastinal spread from anastomotic recurrences was evaluated by chest CT, and CT-PET in suspected cases. X-ray of the upper digestive tract and chest and abdomen CT scan are useful in preliminary evaluation of ECC. Endoscopy is particularly indicated for evaluating tumour morphology, taking biopsies for a histological diagnosis and the early diagnosis of anastomotic recurrences. EUS is indicated mainly for evaluating T stage before and after chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy. CT-PET is extremely useful in identifying small mediastinal metastatic lymph nodes (N1) or extrathoracic lymph nodes (M1) and hepatic metastases (</=1 cm), which may escape multislice CT. PET alone is useful for identifying residual or recurrent tumour in the esophageal wall when an endoprosthesis is in place."}
{"id": "16865626", "title": "Lessons learned from laparoscopic treatment of gastric and gastroesophageal junction stromal cell tumors.", "content": "Lessons learned from laparoscopic treatment of gastric and gastroesophageal junction stromal cell tumors. Stromal cell tumors of the gastric and gastroesophageal junction are rare neoplasms that traditionally have been resected for negative margins using an open approach. This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy laparoscopic resection of gastric and gastroesophageal stromal cell tumors and the lessons learned from experience with this method. This retrospective review evaluated all patients who underwent laparoscopic resection of gastric or esophageal stromal cell tumors at a tertiary referral center between December 2002 and March 2005. Medical records were reviewed with regard to patient demographics, preoperative evaluation, operative approach, tumor location and pathology, length of operation, complications, and length of hospital stay. A total of 12 consecutive patients with a mean age of 55 +/- 5.9 years were treated. Preoperative endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) was performed for 11 of 12 patients with a diagnostic accuracy of 100%, whereas EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration was performed for 10 of 12 patients with a diagnostic accuracy of 50%. Four patients with symptomatic gastroesophageal junction leiomyomas were treated with enucleation and Nissen fundoplication. Eight patients were treated with laparoscopic wedge resection of gastric lesions. Complete R0 resection was achieved for all the patients undergoing laparoscopic resection. Intraoperative endoscopy was performed for four patients and resulted in shorter operative times. The average operative time for this entire series was 169 +/- 17 min: 199 +/- 24 min for the first six cases and 138 +/- 19 min for the last six cases. The median hospital length of stay was 2 days. One patient with esophageal leiomyoma had persistent dysphagia at the 12-month follow-up assessment. There were no other complications and no deaths in this series of patients. Laparoscopic resection of gastric and gastroesophageal junction stromal cell tumors may be performed safely with low patient morbidity. This approach can achieve adequate surgical margins and lead to short hospital stays. Improvements in the technique have led to shorter operative times."}
{"id": "16860623", "title": "Therapeutic approach to tumors of the ampulla of Vater.", "content": "Therapeutic approach to tumors of the ampulla of Vater. Indications for local resection for tumors of the ampulla of Vater have not been established. The present study evaluated suitable treatments for tumors of the papilla of Vater. Clinicopathological factors were reviewed for 53 patients with tumors of the ampulla of Vater treated between February 1993 and August 2003. Of 53 patients, 41 were treated surgically. Local resection was performed in 7 of these 41 patients, with a histologically involved margin evident in 4 patients. Lymph node metastasis was identified in 20 patients who received radical resection, including 1 patient with pT1 cancer. Given the presence of some positive surgical margins, local resection is indicated as a therapeutic approach to tumors of the papilla of Vater only for benign tumors or some malignant tumors that cannot undergo pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD)."}
{"id": "16858502", "title": "Gastric calcifying fibrous tumor.", "content": "Gastric calcifying fibrous tumor. Intramucosal gastric tumours are most commonly found to be gastrointestinal stromal tumours or leiomyomas (smooth muscle tumours); however, a variety of other uncommon mesenchymal tumours can occur in the stomach wall. A rare benign calcifying fibrous tumour is reported and the endoscopic appearance, ultrasound findings and morphology are documented. A review of the literature found only two similar cases."}
{"id": "16817044", "title": "Does endoscopic ultrasound staging already allow individual treatment regimens in gastric cancer.", "content": "Does endoscopic ultrasound staging already allow individual treatment regimens in gastric cancer. The aim of our study was to evaluate the accuracy of preoperative TNM staging with endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in gastric cancer patients in comparison with the pathohistological stage of the resected specimen, and to determine the possible implications of EUS for individualized treatment of gastric cancer patients at our institution. The study included 82 patients operated for resectable gastric cancer between January 1(st) 2001 and July 1(st) 2003 at the Maribor Teaching Hospital Department of Abdominal and General Surgery. The EUS stage was assessed preoperatively at the Endoscopical Unit, and the pathohistological stage in the resected specimen was determined postoperatively at the Department of Pathologic Morphology according to recommended standards. Comparison of EUS and pathohistological assessments revealed accuracy of EUS staging for locoregional tumor infiltration (category T) in 68% of patients. The accuracy of EUS staging was 68% for T1, 69% for T2, 69% for T3 and 60% for T4. Lymph nodes (category N) were correctly staged with EUS in 57% of cases. The EUS stage was correct for lymph nodes with no metastases (N-) in 40% of cases, and for lymph nodes with metastases (N+) in 90%. There was no significant difference in accuracy of EUS staging with regard to tumor site (P = 0.768) or tumor size (P = 0.766). According to our results the accuracy of EUS staging matched pathohistological staging with regard to tumor infiltration and lymph node stage in 68% and 57% of cases respectively. Underestimation of the final T2 and T3 stages as T1 stage by EUS presents a problem regarding the consistency of EUS examination at our institution, particularly with respect to individual treatment for early gastric cancer. The present uncertainty in EUS stage reliability makes it necessary to have a strategy of radical resection with D2 lymphadenectomy in patients within EUS stages T1-T3, with additional CT examinations in more advanced EUS stages in order to visualize the circumstances of tumor growth. Nevertheless, EUS provides an opportunity for the surgeon to gain more insight into the loco-regional circumstances of the gastric tumor process. For development of individual modes of treatment based on EUS staging, a more reliable assessment of EUS stage is mandatory."}
{"id": "16802008", "title": "Preoperative noninvasive EUS evaluation in patients with esophageal cancer considered for esophagectomy.", "content": "Preoperative noninvasive EUS evaluation in patients with esophageal cancer considered for esophagectomy. Worldwide, esophageal cancer ranks fifth in the mortality rate regarding tumor locations. EUS is an essential tool in the evaluation of these patients allowing accurate staging and permitting stratified treatment options. AIM. We have studied prospectively the impact of EUS in the evaluation and decision for therapy of patients with esophageal cancer diagnosed in our center. From March 2001 through March 2006, 220 patients were hospitalized at the Center of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Fundeni Clinical Institute, with the diagnosis of esophageal cancer. Out of the 220 patients, 41 patients, with no major comorbidities contraindicating esophagectomy already having been screened by abdominal and thoracic CT to disclose distant metastases, had EUS with the definite purpose of staging esophageal carcinoma and selecting adequate therapy. Assuming that without preoperative staging by EUS, all 41 patients in the study group would have been offered surgical treatment, we evaluated the number of patients and the modality in which EUS resulted in changes to the therapeutic plan. Depth of invasion was recorded for the 41 patients as follows: T1 in 2 patients (4.9%), T2 in 6 patients (14.6%), T3 in 24 patients (58.5%), and T4 in 10 patients (22%). Regional lymph node (N) status as determined by EUS criteria was as follows: N0 in 7 patients (17%) and N1 in 34 patients (83%). Assessment of distant metastases (M) was recorded showing 4 patients with celiac axis lymph nodes metastases (M1). Preoperative EUS staging changed the decision for surgery in 18 of 41 patients (44%) (p<0.0001) and allowed primary esophagectomy in only 6 patients (15%) (p<0.0001). Compared to histopathology, the overall accuracy of EUS staging for pT1 and pT2 was 80% for staging pT3 and pT4 77% and for lymph node evaluation was approximately 75%. Esophageal EUS offers useful information to clinicians caring for patients with esophageal cancer, impacts clinical decision making, and should be used in appropriate settings to plan patients' care."}
{"id": "16790035", "title": "Detection of unsuspected left hepatic lobe metastases during EUS staging of cancer of the esophagus and cardia.", "content": "Detection of unsuspected left hepatic lobe metastases during EUS staging of cancer of the esophagus and cardia. High resolution imaging of the left hepatic lobe can be obtained via endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), allowing for detection of unsuspected metastatic disease during cancer staging. The frequency at which occult liver metastases are detected during EUS staging of cancer of the esophagus and cardia is unknown. Over an 18-month period, 98 patients underwent EUS staging for a new diagnosis of cancer of the esophagus and cardia. Wire-guided dilation was performed if necessary. Standard radial examination was followed by curvilinear evaluation with attention to the left hepatic lobe. All suspicious liver lesions were aspirated under EUS guidance. The radial and curvilinear echoendoscope were successfully passed to the antrum in 86% and 81% of cases, respectively, without complication. Thirty-two percent of patients required dilation. Lesions suspicious for left hepatic lobe metastases were found in 7% of cases that could be completely evaluated by EUS, all of which underwent EUS-guided fine needle aspiration. All lesions were proven metastases: four true-positive and one false-negative cytologic result. Curvilinear EUS examination of the left hepatic lobe in addition to standard radial EUS examination can be performed safely when staging cancer of the esophagus and cardia. Dedicated left hepatic lobe examination should be performed as it avoids unnecessary surgery in a subset of these patients by detection of occult liver metastases."}
{"id": "16762644", "title": "American Gastroenterological Association Institute technical review on the management of gastric subepithelial masses.", "content": "American Gastroenterological Association Institute technical review on the management of gastric subepithelial masses. This literature review and the recommendations therein were prepared for the American Gastroenterological Association Institute Clinical Practice and Economics Committee. The paper was approved by the Committee on January 19, 2006, and by the AGA Institute Governing Board on April 20, 2006."}
{"id": "16762643", "title": "American Gastroenterological Association Institute medical position statement on the management of gastric subepithelial masses.", "content": "American Gastroenterological Association Institute medical position statement on the management of gastric subepithelial masses. This document presents the official recommendations of the American Gastroenterological Association Institute (AGA Institute) on \"Management of Gastric Subepithelial Masses.\" It was approved by the Clinical Practice and Economics Committee on January 19, 2006, and by the AGA Institute Governing Board on April 20, 2006."}
{"id": "16760764", "title": "Diagnosis and therapy in advanced cancer of the esophagus and the gastroesophageal junction.", "content": "Diagnosis and therapy in advanced cancer of the esophagus and the gastroesophageal junction. The aim of this article is to discuss recent developments in the diagnosis and treatment with curative option of advanced cancer of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction. Recent data indicate improvement of clinical staging accuracy by multi-slice computer tomography, endoscopic ultrasound with fine needle aspiration and positron emission tomography, the latter gaining growing impact as a prognostic indicator. When combined with extended lymphadenectomy primary surgery offers 5-year survivals between 25 and 35% for stage III disease. Results of induction therapy remain conflicting. While the most recent meta-analysis favored induction chemoradiotherapy, a subsequent randomized trial failed to confirm this conclusion. A growing interest in adjuvant chemoradiotherapy is stimulated by promising results from a recent pilot study. Trials investigating definitive chemoradiotherapy indicate a high incidence of locoregional recurrence. The emerging understanding of the molecular pathways that govern neoplastic events are under intense investigation. Results of pilot clinical studies on targeted therapy are expected shortly. Refinements in staging offer incremental increase of accuracy, the impact of positron emission tomography becoming increasingly important. In locally advanced disease, the debate on the added value of multimodality therapy remains unsolved as primary surgery combined with extended lymphadenectomy offers equal results. New drugs in particular in combination with targeted therapy may offer better perspectives in the near future."}
{"id": "16737418", "title": "Endoscopic staging of low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma.", "content": "Endoscopic staging of low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has already proven useful in the assessment of submucosal lesions, and the staging of gastrointestinal cancer, particularly gastric MALT-type lymphoma. The goal of this paper was EUS staging. 24 patients (10 females, 14 males) with a median age of 56 years and possibly gastric MALT lymphoma (25 cases) were studied using videoendoscopy, biopsies, and echoendoscopy with 7.5- and 20-MHz radial EUS, and also with 12- and 20-MHz miniprobes (MPs). Nineteen patients were definitely evaluated (7 females, 12 males) as having 20 MALT-type lymphomas, as five patients were post-hoc disregarded when an invasive, high-grade gastric lymphoma (3c) or plasmocytoma (2c) was subsequently demonstrated. Of these 19 patients, all had T1 lesions except for two with T2 lesions; one patient had a gastroduodenal T1 lymphoma. Echographic findings with MPs were compared to EUS (gold standard) and histology both before and after eradication. Then, patients were followed up every 1-3-6 months using videoendoscopy and MPs. Echoendoscopy correctly identified T stages in 90% of cases. MPs identified T stages in 88% of cases, and N stages in 33% of cases, with results being slightly inferior to those obtained with conventional EUS (91 vs. 45%); they were consequently used for follow-up. After eradication, all but two patients are in complete remission and have been followed every 1-3-6 months using MPs without echographic abnormalities, except for a patient who relapsed."}
{"id": "16733039", "title": "[Impact of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) in the management of patients with esophageal cancer. A critical review of the literature].", "content": "[Impact of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) in the management of patients with esophageal cancer. A critical review of the literature]."}
{"id": "16680651", "title": "Controversy concerning the cutoff value for depth of submucosal invasion after endoscopic mucosal resection of early gastric cancer.", "content": "Controversy concerning the cutoff value for depth of submucosal invasion after endoscopic mucosal resection of early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "16650532", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound probes.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound probes."}
{"id": "16607858", "title": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic use of endoscopic resection of gastric mucosa].", "content": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic use of endoscopic resection of gastric mucosa]. EMR is a widely used treatment option for gastric adenoma and early gastric cancer, but, there are no data on its use in Hungary. The aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic and therapeutic efficacy of EMR. 44 patients (30 females, 14 males, mean age: 67 years) were studied between 1994 and 2005; 33 had severe concomitant diseases (liver cirrhosis or severe cardiovascular disease). Indigo carmine dye staining and electronic magnification was used in all cases, with endoscopic ultrasonography when indicated. 56 EMR-s were performed. The histological results on the biopsy and resected specimens were analyzed. The morphology of the lesions was type I in 20, type IIa in 35, and type IIa-IIc in 1 case. The diagnosis at first biopsy was in situ carcinoma in 3, adenoma with no dysplasia in 19, adenoma with low-grade dysplasia in 2, adenoma with moderate-grade dysplasia in 6, adenoma with high-grade dysplasia in 7, and hyperplastic lesion in 17 cases. The histology of EMR revealed in situ carcinoma in 5, carcinoid in 1, gastrointestinal stromal tumor in 1, adenoma with no dysplasia in 14, adenoma with low-grade dysplasia in 3, adenoma with moderate-grade dysplasia in 9, adenoma with high-grade dysplasia in 1, hyperplastic lesion in 21, and no diagnosis in 1 case. However, the moderate- and high-grade dysplasia was diagnosed in different cases with the two methods. EMR was considered complete in all but 1 case. A Nd YAG laser was used in this patient with in situ carcinoma, where the resection margin was not free of cancer cells. Bleeding occurred in 3 cases; 1 required transfusion and had pneumonia postoperatively. There were no gastric cancer-related deaths during the median follow-up of 33 (1-90) months. In the follow up period we could not observe gastric malignancy in the previously hyperplastic polyp cases. Among adenoma cases one recurrence was seen in the same place and one in another location. One hyperplastic residuum occurred and in one case adenoma has grown in the same place. EMR, a facile and useful diagnostic and therapeutic technique, appears very safe in terms of complications even in patients with comorbidities. Biopsy is generally unreliable to diagnose gastric adenoma. Lesions should be fully resected by EMR for a final diagnosis and (depending on the lesion size and type) possibly definitive treatment."}
{"id": "16555933", "title": "Transendoscopic miniprobe and cardial stenosis.", "content": "Transendoscopic miniprobe and cardial stenosis."}
{"id": "16549326", "title": "Evidence-based diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer.", "content": "Evidence-based diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer. Only 20% of patients who present with pancreatic cancer will be amenable to potentially curative resection. Therefore, it is necessary to reliably identify patients who might benefit from major surgical intervention by employing the appropriate staging methods. In this review, the pros and cons of each imaging technique are discussed and an algorithm for single and combined use of the different imaging modalities is proposed. To date, contrast-enhanced multi-detector row helical CT (MDR-CT) together with endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) remain the first staging methods of choice. MDR-CT has a high sensitivity for identifying vascular invasion and EUS is able to detect lesions as small as 2-3 mm. ERCP is performed mainly in patients with biliary obstruction with the option for therapeutic intervention during the same session. MRI with MR-angiography, MRCP, PET/CT and staging laparoscopy are additional modalities which might give further information in cases of equivocal findings by MDR-CT and EUS. The role of tumour markers such as CA 19-9 and CEA is reserved for monitoring and diagnosing post-surgery recurrence. Cytological or histological confirmation should usually be performed in patients that are not eligible for surgery prior to the commencement of palliative radio- or chemotherapy. In the routine clinical setting, MDR-CT and EUS play the predominant roles by providing the most cost-effective and accurate means for diagnosing and staging most cases of pancreatic cancer."}
{"id": "16511853", "title": "Cytologic diagnosis of gastric linitis plastica by endoscopic ultrasound guided fine-needle aspiration.", "content": "Cytologic diagnosis of gastric linitis plastica by endoscopic ultrasound guided fine-needle aspiration."}
{"id": "16509885", "title": "Adenocarcinoma arising from heterotopic gastric mucosa in the stomach.", "content": "Adenocarcinoma arising from heterotopic gastric mucosa in the stomach."}
{"id": "16488726", "title": "Preoperative 18[F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography standardized uptake values predict survival after esophageal adenocarcinoma resection.", "content": "Preoperative 18[F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography standardized uptake values predict survival after esophageal adenocarcinoma resection. Clinical staging modalities for esophageal cancer are inaccurate at determining prognosis, especially in early-stage patients. We performed a retrospective review of patients with esophageal adenocarcinoma imaged by positron emission tomography before surgical resection to determine whether 18[F]-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake predicted overall survival independently of clinical and pathologic stage. The study is a retrospective review of patients with adenocarcinoma of the esophagus treated by surgery. All patients were imaged with computed tomography and positron emission tomography imaging, and most patients had an endoscopic ultrasound. We compared positron emission tomography standardized uptake values (SUVmax) with clinical and pathologic stage and survival. Prognostic variables were assessed by log-rank test, and survival by the method of Kaplan and Meier. From January 1996 through June 2004, 50 patients meeting study eligibility criteria were analyzed. Median follow-up for surviving patients was 27 months. The median SUVmax was 4.5. Stratification of patients by the median SUVmax predicted survival. The 3-year survival was 57% for patients with an SUVmax greater than 4.5 and 95% for patients with an SUVmax of 4.5 or less (p = 0.02). The survival advantage of the SUVmax 4.5 or less group was also seen in clinically early-stage patients (defined as no adenopathy on computed tomography and positron emission tomography, and by endoscopic ultrasound T1-2 N0), as well as in patients with pathologically early-stage disease (T-2 N0). In surgically managed esophageal adenocarcinoma patients, SUVmax predicts overall survival. Moreover, SUVmax identifies patients who have a poor prognosis from a subset of patients that would otherwise be considered to have early-stage disease."}
{"id": "16454829", "title": "Prospective endoscopic ultrasonographic evaluation of the frequency of nonfunctioning pancreaticoduodenal endocrine tumors in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1.", "content": "Prospective endoscopic ultrasonographic evaluation of the frequency of nonfunctioning pancreaticoduodenal endocrine tumors in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. The frequency of pancreaticoduodenal endocrine tumors in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) remains unknown. To evaluate prospectively with endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) the frequency of nonfunctioning (asymptomatic) pancreaticoduodenal tumors. MEN1 patients without functioning pancreatic involvement underwent systematic pancreaticoduodenal EUS in nine GTE (Groupe des Tumeurs Endocrines) centers. Demographic and clinical factors predictive of pancreatic involvement were sought, and standardized biochemical measurements obtained. Between November 1997 and July 2004, 51 patients (median age: 39 [range: 16-71] yr) were studied. MEN1 had been diagnosed 3 [0-20] yr earlier, notably by genetic screening for 26 (51%) with asymptomatic disease. Twenty-five patients had minor biochemical anomalies (<2 x normal (N)) and serum somatostatin was 10.8 N in 1; EUS detected pancreatic lesions in 28 patients (54.9%; 95% CI: 41.3-68.7%). A median of three [1-9] tumors with a median diameter of 6 [2-60] mm was found per patient; for 19 (37.3%) patients a tumor measured > or =10 mm and > or = 20 mm in 7 (13.7%) patients. Only one duodenal lesion was found and three patients had peripancreatic adenopathies. Pancreatic tumors were not associated with any of the studied parameters, notably age, family history, biochemical anomalies. Sixteen of twenty-six patients underwent EUS monitoring over 50 [12-70] months; six (37.5%) had more and/or larger pancreatic lesions. The frequency of nonfunctioning pancreatic endocrine tumors is higher (54.9%) than previously thought. The size and number of these tumors can increase over time. Pancreatic EUS should be performed once MEN1 is diagnosed to monitor disease progression."}
{"id": "16446988", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for gastric cancer: does it influence treatment?", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for gastric cancer: does it influence treatment? This study aimed to evaluate the utility and shortcomings of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in tumor node metastasis (TNM) staging of gastric cancer and its influence on treatment. The series included 126 patients (65 men and 44 women) with gastric cancer who underwent EUS from July 1997 to June 2003 at the National University Hospital, Singapore. The final analysis included 109 patients ranging in age from 29 to 97 years (mean, 63.13 years). EUS staging for primary disease: Specimen histology was available for 102 of the 109 patients who underwent surgery. The accuracy was 79% for T1, 73.9% for T2, 85.7% for T3, and 72.7% for T4. The overall accuracy was 80.4%. EUS staging for nodes: The sensitivity of EUS for detecting nodal disease was 74.2% for N0, 78% for N1, 53.8% for N2, and 50% for N3. Overall, the N staging by EUS showed a sensitivity of 82.8%, a specificity of 74.2%, a positive predictive value of 85.4%, a negative predictive value of 70.2%, and an accuracy of 77.7%. Radical gastrectomy was proposed for 95 patients on the basis of the staging with EUS and computed tomography (CT) scan, and 87 patients (91.6%) underwent the surgery. Preoperative staging accurately predicted the operative strategy for 89% of the patients. No significant predictor for accuracy was achieved by performing a logistic regression analysis for the correct staging of T stage using EUS and adjusting for tumor location (middle part/distal third/whole stomach vs proximal/cardioesophageal) (p = 0.873), operator (p = 0.546), and subject's sequence (initial 50 vs last 50 cases) (p = 0.06). Ultrasound is the most accurate and reliable method for the preoperative staging of gastric carcinomas, and it is mandatory if a tailored therapeutic approach is planned according to stage."}
{"id": "16440415", "title": "Usefulness of endoscopic ultrasonography in preoperative TNM staging of gastric cancer.", "content": "Usefulness of endoscopic ultrasonography in preoperative TNM staging of gastric cancer. To evaluate the value of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in the preoperative TNM staging of gastric cancer. Forty-one patients with gastric cancer (12 early stage and 29 advanced stage) proved by esophagogastroduodenoscopy and biopsies preoperatively evaluated with EUS according to TNM (1997) classification of International Union Contrele Cancer (UICC). Pentax EG-3630U/Hitachi EUB-525 echo endoscope with real-time ultrasound imaging linear scanning transducers (7.5 and 5.0 MHz) and Doppler information was used in the current study. EUS staging procedures for tumor depth of invasion (T stage) were performed according to the widely accepted five-layer structure of the gastric wall. All patients underwent surgery. Diagnostic accuracy of EUS for TNM staging of gastric cancer was determined by comparing preoperative EUS with subsequent postoperative histopathologic findings. The overall diagnostic accuracy of EUS in preoperative determination of cancer depth of invasion was 68.3% (41/28) and 83.3% (12/10), 60% (20/12), 100% (5/5), 25% (4/1) for T1, T2, T3, and T4, respectively. The rates for overstaging and understaging were 24.4% (41/10), and 7.3% (41/3), respectively. EUS tended to overstage T criteria, and main reasons for overstaging were thickening of the gastric wall due to perifocal inflammatory change, and absence of serosal layer in certain areas of the stomach. The diagnostic accuracy of metastatic lymph node involvement or N staging of EUS was 100% (17/17) for N0 and 41.7% (24/10) for N+, respectively, and 66% (41/27) overall. Misdiagnosing of the metastatic lymph nodes was related to the difficulty of distinguishing inflammatory lymph nodes from malignant lymph nodes, which imitate similar echo features. Predominant location and distribution of tumors in the stomach were in the antrum (20 patients), and the lesser curvature (17 patients), respectively. Three cases were found as surgically unresectable (T4 N+), and included as being correctly diagnosed by EUS. EUS is a useful diagnostic method for preoperative staging of gastric cancer for T and N criteria. However, EUS evaluation of malignant lymph nodes is still unsatisfactory."}
{"id": "16437280", "title": "The useful combination of a higher frequency miniprobe and endoscopic submucosal dissection for the treatment of T1 esophageal cancer.", "content": "The useful combination of a higher frequency miniprobe and endoscopic submucosal dissection for the treatment of T1 esophageal cancer. There are few published data on the discrimination ability of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) among each subdivision of T1 cancer, and overdiagnosis is an unsolved problem that eventually causes overtreatment. The purpose of this study was to verify whether our treatment strategy incorporating EUS realizes a tailored patient management of T1 esophageal cancer. This study comprised 20 esophageal cancer patients undergoing 12- to 20-MHz miniprobes for T staging and a 7.5-MHz dedicated echoendoscope for N staging. Initial therapy constituted endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for endosonographically node-negative, mucosal, or slight submucosal cancers and a primary esophagectomy with three-field lymphadenectomy for deeper cancers. If the ESD specimen revealed no cancer involvement of the muscularis mucosa, the patients entered a follow-up program; otherwise, they were advised to undergo a subsequent esophagectomy and three-field lymphadenectomy. Perfect discrimination accuracy was achieved among T1, T2, and T3 cancers. Whether cancer depth was up to the slight submucosal layer or deeper was correctly differentiated in 12 of 14 T1 cancers (86%). EUS categorized all patients correctly into candidates for either ESD or surgery. The pathological cancer depth of the resected specimens revealed that no patients experienced unnecessary overtreatment. A higher frequency miniprobe is useful for the detailed evaluation of cancer depth, contributing to decision making for treatment options of T1 esophageal cancer. A miniprobe and echoendoscope in combination with ESD provide an appropriately tailored management plan on an individual basis, avoiding unnecessary treatment or indicating radical surgery."}
{"id": "16429349", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "16405535", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in patients with large gastric folds at endoscopy and biopsies negative for malignancy: predictors of malignant disease and clinical impact.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in patients with large gastric folds at endoscopy and biopsies negative for malignancy: predictors of malignant disease and clinical impact. The aims of the study were to assess in patients with large gastric folds at endoscopy and endoscopic biopsies that tested negative for malignancy: (i) the predictive variables of malignancy in endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), (ii) the impact of EUS. Patients with this condition evaluated with radial EUS (following the standard study protocol of our Unit in these patients) during a 5-yr period were included. Nine variables were evaluated as possible predictors of malignancy (chi2, t-test, and logistic regression procedure) using pathology results, or a minimum of 2 yr of follow-up as gold standard. Likelihood ratios (LR), pre-EUS, and post-EUS probabilities for the diagnosis of malignancy were used to assess the clinical impact of the technique. Sixty-one patients were included (40 benign and 21 malignant). Predictive factors of malignancy were as follows: thickened gastric wall, thickened deep layers, impaired gastric distension, loss of the wall structure, and presence of ascites or lymph nodes, whereas the enlargement of superficial layers was a predictor of a benign condition. The enlargement of deep layers, as assessed by EUS was the only independent predictive factor for malignancy. When using this parameter, the pre-EUS probability of malignancy in our series (34%) increased up to 95% when EUS suggested malignancy (positive LR = 45), whereas it decreased to 4.7% when EUS precluded this diagnosis (negative LR = 0.102). (i) The enlargement of deep layers is the only independent predictive factor for malignancy in patients with large gastric folds at endoscopy and biopsies testing negative for malignancy and (ii) EUS has a high clinical impact in these patients."}
{"id": "16405532", "title": "Usefulness of contrast-enhanced endoscopic ultrasonography in the differentiation between malignant and benign lymphadenopathy.", "content": "Usefulness of contrast-enhanced endoscopic ultrasonography in the differentiation between malignant and benign lymphadenopathy. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is considered the most useful diagnostic modality for regional staging; however, it is still difficult to diagnose lymph node metastasis by EUS images only. In this study, we report the usefulness of contrast-enhanced EUS (CE-EUS) in the evaluation of benign lymph nodes (BLN) or malignant lymph nodes (MLN) based on blood flow patterns. In the retrospective study, CE-EUS was performed in 46 patients in whom EUS revealed lymph node in the mediastinum or abdominal cavity. The subjects consisted of 22 patients with BLN and 24 patients with MLN. The lesions were examined by EUS, and the maximal and minimal diameters of lymph nodes were measured. Thereafter, the shape and internal echoes were investigated, and the findings were morphologically classified based on Catalano's report. Enhancement effects and the diagnostic capability of CE-EUS were evaluated. In the prospective study, BLNs were differentiated from MLN using the enhancement patterns on CE-EUS based on the results of the retrospective study, and the diagnostic capability was evaluated. In the retrospective study, there were no significant differences in the maximal diameter and maximal/minimal diameter ratio between MLN and BLN. The morphology was classified into four types. Based on the morphological classification, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy rate were 88.2%, 77.3%, and 82.1%, respectively. On CE-EUS, the enhancement pattern was classified into three types. The BLN lesions showed uniform enhancement (19/22). In all patients with MLN, a defect of enhancement was observed (24/24). The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy rate of CE-EUS were 100%, 86.4%, and 92.3%, respectively. In the prospective study, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy rate of CE-EUS were 100%, 81.8%, and 92.0%, respectively. CE-EUS is useful for differentiating BLN from MLN."}
{"id": "16377316", "title": "The art and science of painting in early gastric cancer: is there a role for ablation therapy?", "content": "The art and science of painting in early gastric cancer: is there a role for ablation therapy?"}
{"id": "16369707", "title": "Surgical management of small gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the stomach.", "content": "Surgical management of small gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the stomach. Small gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) (< 3 cm) occasionally are found in the stomach during endoscopy. There is no consensus about the surgical management of these small tumors, although this clinical issue is crucial because some of the tumors show unexpected malignant behavior. In this study, we evaluated the clinical management of patients with gastric GISTs who underwent surgical resection. Altogether, 31 patients with gastric GISTs were examined retrospectively. Surgical resection was fundamentally indicated for the patients with gastric GISTs suspected to be malignant by endoscopy or endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). The malignant grade of the GISTs was evaluated by the mitotic rate, tumor size, and MIB-1 index. EUS was useful for differentiating benign from malignant GISTs; but by limiting the study to patients with small tumors (< 3 cm), the diagnostic value of EUS was not satisfactory for defining the surgical indication. Tumors that were < 50 mm were successfully treated by laparoscopic surgery. Of the 31 patients, 4 had a relapse of the disease, and 1 of those 4 patients had a small tumor (30 mm). All of the recurrences were classified in the high risk category. Surgery is indicated for gastric GISTs that are > or = 20 mm or are suspected to be malignant based on EUS findings. Laparoscopic resection is feasible and is recommended as the treatment of choice for patients with tumors < 50 mm. Risk assessment can be most useful for predicting recurrence."}
{"id": "15994110", "title": "Systemic sclerosis and gastric MALT lymphoma.", "content": "Systemic sclerosis and gastric MALT lymphoma. A 76-year-old woman was admitted for evaluation of esophagitis complicating limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis. Endoscopy showed persistent grade III esophagitis and an erythematous antral lesion found upon biopsy to be a lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT). Tests were positive for Helicobacter pylori. Moderate mucosal infiltration by endoscopic ultrasonography was the only finding from staging investigations. Six months after treatment to eradicate H. pylori, a repeat endoscopy showed no evidence of the lesion. MALT lymphomas are usually confined to the gastric wall. Gastric MALT lymphomas have a well-established association with H. pylori infection. The clinical manifestations are nonspecific. Endoscopy usually shows a focus of erythema or, less often, erosion. The diagnosis rests on histological examination of a biopsy, which shows infiltration by monoclonal cells whose immunophenotype is characteristic of marginal-zone B cells. Eradication of H. pylori is the mainstay of treatment."}
{"id": "16552963", "title": "[Application of endoscopic ultrasonography to preoperative clinical staging of esophageal cancer].", "content": "[Application of endoscopic ultrasonography to preoperative clinical staging of esophageal cancer]. Preoperative clinical staging is the key to choose ideal therapy plan for esophageal cancer. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), an accuracy diagnostic technique for TN staging of esophageal cancer, is used commonly in foreign countries, but seldom in China. This study was to evaluate the application of EUS to preoperative clinical staging of esophageal cancer. A total of 72 patients were examined preoperatively with EUS, and staged according to UICC (1997) TNM staging system. The EUS findings were compared with surgical pathologic findings. The accuracy rates of T staging and N staging by EUS were 80.6% (58/72) and 88.9% (64/72), respectively. The accuracy rates of T staging were 50.0% (2/4) for T0, 75.0% (3/4) for T1, 70.6% (12/17) for T2, 90.0% (36/40) for T3, and 71.4% (5/7) for T4; those of N staging were 92.3% (36/39) for N0 and 84.8% (28/33) for N1, of which the accuracy rates of diagnosing mediastinum and abdomen lymph node metastases were 90.0% and 64.5%. The staging results by EUS were significantly accordant with those by surgical pathology: T staging, association coefficient = 0.687, P < 0.001; N staging, association coefficient = 0.878, P < 0.001. Twenty-two cases were staged incorrectly, including 14 cases of T staging, of which 8 cases were due to not distinguishing T2 and T3 correctly, and 8 cases of N staging, of which 5 cases were due to not distinguishing lymphadenitis and metastatic lymph nodes correctly. The accuracy rate of EUS is high for preoperative staging of esophageal carcinoma, especially for T3 and mediastinum lymph node. Distinguishing T2 and T3, lymphadenitis and metastatic lymph nodes correctly and diagnosing abdomen lymph node metastasis can improve the diagnosis accuracy rate of EUS."}
{"id": "16422371", "title": "[Early gastric cancer--two case reports].", "content": "[Early gastric cancer--two case reports]. Gastric cancer is a serious disease with a high mortality rate. Early diagnosis of the disease improves its prognosis. We report two cases of early gastric cancer and we specify the clinical, endoscopic, histologic and therapeutic aspects of the disease. This study is about two female patients, respectively, 36 and 70 years old. The diagnosis of early gastric cancer was based on pathologic examination of the resected stomach. The two patients are in remission 2 years and 6 months later, respectively. The diagnosis of early gastric cancer is often made on nonspecific symptoms. Oeso-gastro-duodenoscopy shows gastric mucosal anomalies. Pathologic examination of gastric biopsies confirm the diagnosis of adenocarcinoma. Endoscopic ultrasound is essential; it specifies the submucosal infiltration and evaluates the lymph node invasion. Surgery is the primary treatment but in some cases endoscopic mucosal resection provides good long-term results. Early diagnosis of adenocarcinoma improves the prognosis of the disease, which remains poor nowadays."}
{"id": "16393217", "title": "Practice patterns and attitudes toward the role of endoscopic ultrasound in staging of gastrointestinal malignancies: a survey of physicians and surgeons.", "content": "Practice patterns and attitudes toward the role of endoscopic ultrasound in staging of gastrointestinal malignancies: a survey of physicians and surgeons. It is unknown how physician specialties other than gastroenterologists that manage gastrointestinal (GI) malignancies utilize endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in their practices. The aim of this study was to (i) assess the proportion of gastroenterologists, oncologists, and surgeons that utilize EUS for staging of GI malignancies; (ii) assess the general availability of EUS; and (iii) determine which factors are associated with the use and availability of EUS. A self-administered questionnaire was mailed out to 1,200 randomly selected gastroenterologists, oncologists, and surgeons throughout the United States. The data was analyzed from 521 (43%) responses. There were 60% respondents who had EUS available within their practices. There was greater availability of EUS within the practices of surgeons (81%; p < 0.001), within academic practices (87%; p= < 0.001), and in practices that serve a population >500,000 (p < 0.001). The majority of respondents (71%) utilized EUS in their practices. There was a similar utilization of EUS across specialties (p= NS). There was greater utilization of EUS in academic centers (82%; p < 0.001), in practices that served a community of >500,000 (p= 0.003), and among respondents who had been in practice for less than 5 yr (p= 0.005). Employing logistic regression models for utilization of EUS, lesser number of years in practice, and availability of EUS were found to be the only significant predictors of utilization. The majority of practitioners utilized EUS in management of GI malignancies. There was similar utilization of EUS across specialties. EUS is available to the majority of practitioners who manage GI malignancies."}
{"id": "16382404", "title": "[How should patients with completely resected gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST) be followed up?].", "content": "[How should patients with completely resected gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST) be followed up?]. Gastrointestinal stromal tumours are topical because of their uncertain biological behaviour and the potential of treatment with imatinib. In the following study we have examined which pattern of follow-up is both appropriate for detecting recurrences and cost-effective. Between July 1997 and February 2004 we treated 43 patients diagnosed with a GIST. Patients with high risk (HR), intermediate risk (IR), or overtly malignant (OM) tumours were followed-up regularly. In 2004 we screened all patients independent of their risk of malignant disease with an ultrasound scan and endoscopy followed by endosonography. Further diagnostic procedures were carried out if necessary. Overall, we diagnosed recurrences in five out of 33 patients at risk (two in patients with OM, one in a patient with HR, and 2 in patients with IR according to the NIH criteria). The time period between resection of the primary tumour and recurrence ranged from 4.5 to 33 months. One of the patients with a recurrence was seen before the imatinib era, the other four were treated with imatinib mesylate. In our experience, regular follow-up should be restricted to patients with OM, HR, and IR GIST. We suggest that patients are initially seen in six months intervals for two years and annually for another three years thereafter."}
{"id": "16350723", "title": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic difficulties in MEN 1 syndrome].", "content": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic difficulties in MEN 1 syndrome]. MEN 1 syndrome (Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia type 1) is a rare endocrine disorder characterized by the association of tumors in several endocrine glands, mainly in parathyroids, gut and pituitary. At our institution in the years 1982-2004 we have followed 26 patients with MEN 1 syndrome belonging to 19 families. The diagnosis of MEN 1 was based on Gubbio Consensus (JCEM 86: 5658-5671, 2001). Mean age at the diagnosis of MEN 1 was 35 years. Primary hyperparathyroidism was the most frequent pathology, which was diagnosed in 25 of 26 patients (96%). Gut endocrine tumors were found in 20 patients (77%), while pituitary tumors in 18 (70%). Non-functioning gut tumors were most frequent (n=9), followed by insulinoma (n=7) and gastrinoma (n=4). Prolactinoma was the most frequent pituitary tumor found in 12 patients (67%). Three patients died during the observation period - all of them of generalized gut endocrine tumor (gastrinoma in 2 cases and foregut carcinoid in one case). The management of MEN 1 is not easy and careful analysis of clinical picture is necessary in each individual case. Several important observations can be made on the basis of own experience and the literature: 1. In each sporadic pathology, which may be a part of MEN 1, one should consider. the possibility of MEN 1. The individual MEN 1 abnormalities are often diagnosed after 40 and later 2. MEN 1 tumor are usually multiple thus necessitating a different therapeutic approach (more radical surgery) 3. The most valuable screening tests are: Ca++, PP, CgA and prolactin 4. Endoscopic ultrasound is the most specific method for the localization of pancreatic endocrine tumors. 5. The results of surgical treatment of MEN 1 tumors are worse than that of sporadic tumors. 6. Prognosis in MEN 1 is determined by the behaviour of gut neuroendocrine tumor 7. No genotype/phenotype correlation in MEN 1 syndrome was found so far. In summary, it should be underlined that MEN 1 syndrome is an endocrine disorder, in which early diagnosis and optimal treatment may significantly improve the prognosis."}
{"id": "16296577", "title": "[Tumor volume in advanced gastric cancer as a prognostic factor correlating with lymph node involvement].", "content": "[Tumor volume in advanced gastric cancer as a prognostic factor correlating with lymph node involvement]. It has been established that measurement of tumor volume, rather than its diameter, is a better indicator of the depth of tumor invasion and lymph node involvement. The present study evaluates the significance of tumor volume as a prognostic factor in gastric cancer. This prospective clinical trail included 87 patients with gastric cacncer admitted to Surgery Clinic \"Dr. Dragisa Misovi\u0107\" in Belgrade from 1998 to 2003. All patients were evaluated by standard diagnostic procedures, and after that underwent radical surgical treatment. Oncologic-surgical principles recommended by Japanese Research Society for Gastric Cancer were respected. Tumor volume was determined by measurement of specimens that had been obtained during surgery and by histopathological analysis. These criteria were analyzed and correlated with the lymph node status and clinicopathological factors. Single-factor analysis showed that lymph node metastases correlated with larger tumor diameter, larger tumor volume, depth of tumor invasion, diffuse and low-grade differentiation of the intestinal type of gastric carcinoma. Using a linear correlation coefficient, it was found that there was a highly significant correlation of tumor volume and number of metastatic nodes in groups between lymph nodes r = 0.567; p < 0.0001 in drainage group 1, r = 0.511; p < 0.0001 in drainage group II, r = 0.579; p < 0.0001 in drainage group III. Also, there was highly significant correlation with the total number of metastatic nodes (r = 0.577; p < 0.0001) and significant correlation with the depth of tumor invasion and tumor diameter (p < 0.05). With 97% sensitivity and 88% specificity, \"cut off\" point was established by determining the tumor volume above which there were metastases into lymph nodes. In this study that volume was 2750 cmm. Tumor volume can be used as a valuable prognostic factor for advanced gastric cancer, and hopefully it will be calculated preoperatively by 3D-EUS volumetric analysis."}
{"id": "16277021", "title": "Spontaneous intestinal melanoma in dogs.", "content": "Spontaneous intestinal melanoma in dogs. Primary melanoma of the gastrointestinal tract is a rare, highly malignant neoplasm that is associated with an unfavorable long-term prognosis. Animal studies are needed to further characterize this tumor and to develop new and more effective protocols. A spontaneous canine intestinal melanoma is described which, because of its local aggressive behavior and advanced stage, was not treatable with conventional strategies, thus being a potential candidate for investigational trials."}
{"id": "16265099", "title": "Technology insight: Current status of endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Technology insight: Current status of endoscopic ultrasonography. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has become the most accurate imaging modality for locoregional cancer staging of the gastrointestinal tract. Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) has added a new level of accuracy for EUS in nodal staging, with reported numbers in the 90% range for luminal and pancreaticobiliary disease. In addition, new non-gastrointestinal applications are being evaluated, such as the role of EUS-FNA for the staging of non-small-cell lung cancer and exploration of the posterior mediastinum. Furthermore, the same techniques that make safe tissue sampling possible are being explored for their use as interventional applications, such as EUS-guided celiac plexus neurolysis, fine-needle injection, EUS-guided pseudocyst drainage, and EUS-guided cholangiography and pancreatography. This review describes the current clinical status of EUS in gastrointestinal oncology, as well as future and novel indications and therapeutic strategies for this technology."}
{"id": "16253903", "title": "Pancreatic tumours as part of the MEN-1 syndrome.", "content": "Pancreatic tumours as part of the MEN-1 syndrome. Pancreaticoduodenal tumours (PETs) occur in a majority of MEN-1 patients, and have appeared as a major cause of disease-related death. Previous discussions about treatment have mainly dealt with management of various functioning tumours and clinical syndromes of hormone excess. However, hormonal syndromes often occur late with MEN-1 pancreatic tumours, and when developed indicate presence of metastases in up to 50% of the patients. Prospective screening is therefore recommended in MEN-1 with biochemical markers and endoscopic ultrasound for early detection of PETs, and early surgery before metastases have developed. Surgery is recommended in patients with or without hormonal syndromes in absence of disseminated liver metastases. The suggested operation includes enucleation of tumours in the head of the pancreas, excision of duodenal gastrinomas together with clearance of lymph node metastases, and distal 80% subtotal pancreatic resection as prophylaxis against tumour recurrence. This strategy with early and aggressive surgery is believed to reduce the risks for malignant progression."}
{"id": "16253898", "title": "Endocrine tumours of the hindgut.", "content": "Endocrine tumours of the hindgut. Neuroendocrine tumours of the colon and rectum are rare but distinct with regard to clinical symptoms, diagnostic and therapeutic management and prognosis compared to other neuroendocrine tumours of the gut as well as ordinary colorectal cancer. Therapeutic algorithms are proposed depending mainly on analogous TNM categories and grading considering conventional and experimental surgical and non-surgical therapy. Colonic neuroendocrine tumours are often misdiagnosed as undifferentiated adenocarcinoma and are therefore not properly treated with adjuvant and additive chemotherapy. As most rectal neuroendocrine tumours are benign because of submucosal extension only, the size and infiltration depth correlates with lymph-node and distant metastases and therefore with the prognosis. It is unknown whether endoscopic ultrasound can improve the diagnostic accuracy compared to size-related conclusions, and therefore whether it can change therapeutic strategies and improve survival by modern rectal surgery."}
{"id": "16246710", "title": "Metastatic low-grade endometrial stromal sarcoma presented as a subepithelial mass in the stomach was diagnosed by EUS-guided FNA.", "content": "Metastatic low-grade endometrial stromal sarcoma presented as a subepithelial mass in the stomach was diagnosed by EUS-guided FNA."}
{"id": "16241088", "title": "Gastrointestinal stromal tumors: clinical pathological review of a personal series.", "content": "Gastrointestinal stromal tumors: clinical pathological review of a personal series. The Authors report their experience on the management of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). In addition to recent cases immediately diagnosed as GISTs, a pathological review of stored material from non-epithelial tumors of the gastrointestinal tract operated on over the past 20 years was performed. Twenty-three out of a total of 31 cases were shown to be positive for the immunophenotypic characteristics (CD117/CD34) of GISTs. Most cases (approximately 60%) were symptomatic, with hemorrhage being the most common presenting sign, followed by occlusion, pain and perforation. Asymptomatic cases were detected incidentally during procedures for other conditions. Diagnostic techniques (ultrasound, endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasound, X-ray, CT, MRI) allowed only the detection of wall (extraluminal) involvement. Apart from differentiating between benign and malignant, preoperative biopsy was seldom valuable. All cases were treated surgically, with intervention tailored to location and anatomical/surgical and anatomical/pathological features. Long-term follow-up was conducted in all patients and for most is still ongoing: five patients died from recurrent disease at varying intervals after surgery (from 17 to 102 months). Relationships between observed aggressiveness and risk were studied. Parameters that may prove useful for the early detection and appropriate management of these lesions are discussed."}
{"id": "16193595", "title": "Diagnosis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma metastatic to mediastinal lymph nodes by endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy.", "content": "Diagnosis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma metastatic to mediastinal lymph nodes by endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy. We report the case of a patient with nasopharyngeal carcinoma who was diagnosed as having metastasis in mediastinal lymph nodes and successfully underwent systemic chemotherapy without surgery. A 61-year-old male with a history of nasopharyngeal carcinoma presented with odynophagia. Examination revealed two palpable lymph nodes in the right neck. Pharyngoscopy showed a mass in the left inferior pharyngeal mucosa, and upper gastrointestinal endoscopy showed only chronic gastritis, with no sign of esophageal disease. Chest CT confirmed the presence of a non-enhancing 20-mm soft tissue mass in the paraesophageal area, with increased attenuation compared with the adjacent esophagus. To evaluate this lesion we applied endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (EUS-FNA). Two passes were made with a 21-gauge fine needle and the patient tolerated the procedure well, without complications. Cytological findings were compatible with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma from a nasopharyngeal tumor, and the clinical stage was determined as T3N2bM1 (stage IVC) because of mediastinal lymph node metastasis. We thus determined the nodal status of a head and neck tumor by means of EUS-FNA. In conclusion, EUS-FNA is a safe and reliable technique for evaluation of mediastinal lymphadenopathy, and is especially valuable for head and neck tumors with suspected metastasis."}
{"id": "16174173", "title": "Primary gastrointestinal lymphomas: a radiological-pathological review. Part 1: Stomach, oesophagus and colon.", "content": "Primary gastrointestinal lymphomas: a radiological-pathological review. Part 1: Stomach, oesophagus and colon. Primary gastrointestinal lymphomas are most common in the stomach, followed by small intestine and then colon. The most frequently used pathology classification of lymphomas is the Revised European and American Lymphoma /World Health Organization classification. The correlation of radiological morphology with histology is relatively poor, although characteristic subtypes will be discussed. In the stomach, the majority of primary lymphomas are of B-cell origin of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) type. Low-grade MALT lymphomas are associated with Helicobacter pylori infection and often respond to eradication of this organism. Radiological features include thickened folds, nodularity, depressed lesions, ulcers, prominent areae gastricae. High-grade (large B-cell) tumour patterns include infiltrative, polypoid, nodular, ulcerated or a combination. Endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasound and CT are important in diagnosis and staging, although appearances on barium studies should be recognized. Primary colonic lymphomas are rare. Most are of B-cell origin. Focal and diffuse forms are seen, the former producing polypoid or nodular or cavitating masses and the latter producing ulcerative or nodular (polyposis) patterns on imaging. Even when circumferential, lymphoma rarely causes obstruction. Small bowel lymphomas will be discussed in the forthcoming part 2 of this review."}
{"id": "16166979", "title": "Gastric cancer.", "content": "Gastric cancer. Gastric cancer is a very challenging malignancy given that it presents late, has complex pathogenetic mechanisms with multiple carcinogenic processes implicated, and is only moderately sensitive to chemotherapy and radiation. Accurate staging for gastric cancer is possible with the availability of sophisticated imaging studies, endoscopic ultrasound, and laparoscopy. Postoperative chemoradiation is the standard of care in high-risk patients with resected primary disease. Recent encouraging results with the preoperative approach need to be studied further and prospectively compared to postoperative chemoradiation. Chemotherapy has yielded better results than best supportive care for metastatic gastric cancer and also improves quality of life, although all of these studies included a small number of patients. The last decade has seen newer agents used alone or in combination, with promising results. We anticipate that improved trial design, availability of molecular techniques, and continued search for better cytotoxic and targeted agents will help develop better treatments for patients with advanced gastric cancer."}
{"id": "16154828", "title": "Lower gastrointestinal tract tumours: diagnosis and staging strategies.", "content": "Lower gastrointestinal tract tumours: diagnosis and staging strategies. In patients with colorectal cancer, accurate assessment of tumour extent within and beyond the bowel wall and detection of lymph node and distant metastases are of paramount importance in planning the surgical approach, in deciding whether neo-adjuvant chemotherapy or radiation therapy is necessary, and in determining the risk of tumour recurrence and overall prognosis. The utility of MDCT, MR, transrectal ultrasound, PET, PET/CT is discussed and recommendations for cost-effective imaging in these patients are presented."}
{"id": "16154827", "title": "Upper gastrointestinal tract tumours: diagnosis and staging strategies.", "content": "Upper gastrointestinal tract tumours: diagnosis and staging strategies. In patients with oesophageal and gastric cancer, accurate assessment of tumour extent within and beyond the gut wall and detection of lymph node and distant metastases are of paramount importance in planning the surgical approach, in deciding whether neo-adjuvant chemotherapy or radiation therapy is necessary, and in determining the risk of tumour recurrence and overall prognosis. The utility of MDCT, MR, endoscopic ultrasound, PET, PET/CT is discussed and recommendations for cost-effective imaging in these patients are presented."}
{"id": "16138769", "title": "[Current diagnosis and treatment of pancreatic cancer].", "content": "[Current diagnosis and treatment of pancreatic cancer]. Adenocarcinoma of the pancreas (pancreatic cancer) is the most frequent tumor entity in the pancreas. While the results of surgical therapy of pancreatic cancer were disappointing in the past due to high perioperative mortality rates, resection of pancreatic cancer nowadays represents the standard treatment for non-metastatic cancer with a mortality rate below 5%. This decrease in perioperative mortality of the Whipple operation is inversely correlated to the case load of the hospital and the responsible surgeon, and is mainly related to improvements in the intensive care management, the surgical technique and patient selection. In particular, the perioperative use of octreotide resulted in a significant decrease in the rate of pancreatic fistula. Furthermore, modern staging examinations such as diagnostic laparoscopy, PET, or endoscopic ultrasound resulted in improved patient selection. In addition, the long-term results of the surgical treatment of pancreatic cancer has been improved by adjuvant and neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the past 10 years. Similar progress has been made in the palliative treatment of metastatic or locally advanced cancer. Nowadays, endoscopic procedures can replace surgical palliation of obstructive jaundice in most cases and sometimes even gastric outlet obstruction. Moreover, systemic chemotherapy using gemcitabine-based protocols has resulted in a significant prolongation of survival. However, further progress in the treatment of pancreatic cancer can only be achieved by an interdisciplinary management of this disease."}
{"id": "16123900", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration]."}
{"id": "16121346", "title": "Evaluation of Siewert classification in gastro-esophageal junction adenocarcinoma: What is the role of endoscopic ultrasonography?", "content": "Evaluation of Siewert classification in gastro-esophageal junction adenocarcinoma: What is the role of endoscopic ultrasonography? Preoperative assessment of gastro-esophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma stage and its location according to Siewert are essential for planning the therapeutic approach. The present study was aimed at analyzing the utility of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in evaluating GEJ adenocarcinoma stage and whether this modality added to EGD improves assessment of Siewert type. The results of 51 patients studied by EGD plus EUS (EGD/EUS group) were compared with the results of 54 patients studied by EGD only (EGD group). A differentiation of pT1 tumors was attempted by measurement of the tumor length using 4 cm as a criterion. This goal was not achieved because of a high rate of advanced tumors less than 4 cm (sensitivity and specificity were 81.3% and 34.2%, respectively). Conversely EUS ability in pT1 assessment was very reliable (92%). The accuracy in defining the Siewert type was 72.5% and 64.8% for EGD/EUS and EGD groups, respectively (P = 0.394). Some difficulties in distinguishing between type II and III tumors were observed in both groups with an extremely low specificity (44%) in classifying type II tumors by EGD group. EUS seems to be essential in differentiating pT1 from advanced tumors. It shows an accuracy in defining the Siewert type of 72.5%, with some difficulties in distinguishing from type II and III tumors."}
{"id": "16119315", "title": "[The role of endosonography (EUS) in preoperative staging of patients with stomach cancer].", "content": "[The role of endosonography (EUS) in preoperative staging of patients with stomach cancer]. To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of endosonography (EUS) in preoperative staging of stomach cancer. Sixty-two patients with gastric carcinoma were investigated by endosonography. 49 underwent surgery. EUS reports were compared with operative and histology findings. Tumours were staged according to the 2000. TNM classification. EUS had a diagnostic accuracy of 89.8% for the T category, 83.7% for the N category. EUS is an excellent clinical procedure for the staging of local-regional spread of gastric cancer and useful complement to the other gastrointestinal examinations for evaluation of these tumours."}
{"id": "16118804", "title": "Value of baseline positron emission tomography for predicting overall survival in patient with nonmetastatic esophageal or gastroesophageal junction carcinoma.", "content": "Value of baseline positron emission tomography for predicting overall survival in patient with nonmetastatic esophageal or gastroesophageal junction carcinoma. The value of baseline positron emission tomography (PET) for predicting overall survival (OS) or disease-free survival (DFS) is unclear in patients with nondistant metastatic (locoregional only) esophageal carcinoma. The authors tested the hypothesis that, in this setting, the number of PET abnormalities (NPA) would correlate with OS and DFS. The authors of the current study analyzed patients with localized esophageal carcinoma (Stages II and III) who had a baseline PET and endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and were all treated with chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery. The standardized uptake value (SUV) of PET avid lesions were evaluated for: SUV of the primary, NPA, peak SUV, and total SUV. Correlations were performed with baseline EUS results, OS, DFS, and clinical and pathologic response. Forty-seven patients who underwent chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery were analyzed. Most patients had clinical Stage III cancer. NPA was significantly associated with OS (Cox model, P = 0.02; log-rank test, P = 0.04) and DFS (P = 0.04). Patients with NPA > 1 had a death hazard ratio of 4.49 (reference, NPA = 1). In a multivariate analysis, NPA was independently predictive of OS (P = 0.03). Alternatively, SUV of the primary tumor, peak SUV, total SUV, and EUS clinical stage did not correlate with the type of response, OS or DFS. Data from the current study suggest that for nondistant metastatic esophageal carcinoma, baseline PET can predict patient outcome. Baseline NPA (> 1), reflecting the regional nodal metastases, is an independent predictor of OS. Baseline PET may become a useful stratification factor in randomized trials and for individualizing therapy."}
{"id": "16111960", "title": "The skeptical endoscopist.", "content": "The skeptical endoscopist."}
{"id": "16086122", "title": "Hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery for a large gastrointestinal stromal tumor of the stomach.", "content": "Hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery for a large gastrointestinal stromal tumor of the stomach. We report two cases of large gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) of the stomach that were successfully treated by hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery (HALS). Two patients, a 56-year-old woman and a 60-year-old man, were admitted to our department for the treatment of a large submucosal tumor of the stomach. After gastrointestinal endoscopy, ultrasonography, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging, we suspected that the masses, measuring 7.0 cm and 8.0 cm in diameter, respectively, were GISTs in the stomach. However, preoperatively, we could not rule out the possibility of malignant neoplasms, because they had been bleeding or gradually growing. Hand-assisted laparoscopic wedge resection was safely performed for the diagnosis and treatment of the submucosal tumor of the stomach. The immunohistochemical diagnosis in both patients was GIST of the stomach with intermediate-grade malignancy. HALS may be a good indication for large GISTs of the stomach that are difficult to diagnose preoperatively, whether they are malignant or benign, because it is safe and minimally invasive, promoting rapid recovery."}
{"id": "16082311", "title": "Laparoscopy-assisted resection of gastric remnant cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopy-assisted resection of gastric remnant cancer. We report a case of gastric remnant carcinoma (GRC) that was successfully treated by laparoscopy-assisted gastrectomy. A 69-year-old man was referred to our department for management of GRC. Preoperative investigations revealed a slightly elevated tumor, 5.0 cm in maximal diameter, confined to the gastric mucosa. Computed tomography and endoscopic ultrasonography identified no lymph node metastasis. Laparoscopy-assisted gastrectomy was performed including perigastric and mesenteric lymph node dissection. The postoperative course was uneventful. This is the first reported case of laparoscopically treated GRC. In cases with little adhesion from previous surgery, laparoscopic procedure might represent the treatment of choice for early GRC in terms of minimal invasiveness."}
{"id": "16037686", "title": "Clinical applications of endoscopic ultrasound to oncology.", "content": "Clinical applications of endoscopic ultrasound to oncology. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is a useful imaging modality in patients with certain gastrointestinal malignancies as well as lung cancer. In many cases, EUS has been shown to have superior staging accuracy compared with other imaging techniques such as computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography. This article will review the role of EUS in diagnosing and staging esophageal, rectal, pancreatic and lung cancers as well as subepithelial lesions. Newer therapeutic applications of EUS, namely endoscopic mucosal resection for removal of localized lesions as well as celiac plexus neurolysis for pain control, will also be discussed."}
{"id": "16035248", "title": "Anal GIST in older old patient: a case report.", "content": "Anal GIST in older old patient: a case report. GIST are a group of quite rare neoplastic pathologies. This type of pathology is currently the subject of discussion as for their origin and treatment. It is generally difficult to determine if they are to be considered as a benign or malignant neoplastic disease. We present the case of a patient with recurrence of anal GIST who was examined 8 years after the first treatment. C.M., female, 81 years old, came to our Clinic in March 2001 complaining of rectal haemorrhage and abdominal pain in the lower quadrants; she had also suffered from constipation for 1 month. During rectal exploration we found a mass spreading inside the lumen 3 cm from the anal verge. Colonoscopy showed that the tumour, which was 7 x 5 cm in size, was inside the wall with normal mucosa. EUS revealed that the origin was within the muscular layer; therefore we chose transanal excision as surgical treatment. The patient was discharged 5 days after surgery and is alive; she only showed a small local recurrence of disease 30 months after treatment. Histological examination confirmed that the tumour was a GIST This case provides the basis for a discussion about characteristics and the evolution of this group of pathologies."}
{"id": "16013651", "title": "EUS-guided endoscopic resection using band ligation of oesophageal granular cell tumour: report of a case.", "content": "EUS-guided endoscopic resection using band ligation of oesophageal granular cell tumour: report of a case. A 60-year-old Japanese man was referred for treatment of a polypoid oesophageal tumour. Radiographic examination of the upper gastrointestinal tract disclosed a nodule with central depression in the lower esophagus. By endoscopy the nodule was yellowish and appeared submucosal. Endoscopic ultrasonography demonstrated a hypoechoic solid tumour limited in submucosa without lymph node involvement. Endoscopic resection using band ligation was performed under guidance by endoscopic ultrasonography. By histologic examination the tumour consisted of large cells arranged in nests. These cells had abundant granular cytoplasm and small round nuclei. They expressed S-100 protein and were CD68, and periodic acid-Schiff positive. No expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin was noted. The tumour was limited in submucosa. Findings were consistent with complete endoscopic resection. This report may be the first concerning an oesophageal granular cell tumour successfully treated with EUS-guided endoscopic resection using band ligation."}
{"id": "16001347", "title": "Giant fold gastritis with consecutive gastric carcinoma in a patient with peutz-jeghers syndrome.", "content": "Giant fold gastritis with consecutive gastric carcinoma in a patient with peutz-jeghers syndrome. We describe the case of a 36-year-old patient with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome and a very unusual gastric morphology resembling giant fold gastritis. The latter lacked additional features of Menetrier's syndrome, was not influenced by eradication of Helicobacter pylori and persisted for more than ten years under regular endoscopic surveillance. Histologically, foveolar hyperplasia was found in the enlarged folds. Endoscopic ultrasound documented a hyperechoic widening of the gastric mucosa without involvement of the deeper layers. However, despite annual control gastroscopies, an adenocarcinoma developed between the folds and was in an already advanced stage at diagnosis (UICC III). We suggest that a variant of Peutz-Jeghers syndrome may be characterised by marked foveolar hyperplasia similar to Menetrier disease, and that not conventional endoscopy alone, but rather endoscopic ultrasound may be considered in such patients."}
{"id": "15990940", "title": "Curative endoscopic ultrasound-assisted submucosal resection of a gastric stromal tumor.", "content": "Curative endoscopic ultrasound-assisted submucosal resection of a gastric stromal tumor. Endoscopic submucosal resection has been proposed as a feasible alternative for the diagnosis and treatment of small submucosal tumors (< 3 cm), as compared to classic interventions (surgical intervention or frequent follow-up). Therapeutic options should be established after precise endoscopic ultrasound assessment of the tumor characteristics. We present the case of a 60 year-old patient, admitted to the Emergency Department for upper gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding. Upper GI endoscopy showed a submucosal tumor on the posterior gastric wall, with hyperemic covering mucosa, without central ulceration. Endoscopic ultrasound identified a 10-mm well-delimited hypoechoic lesion, with the origin in the third hyperechoic layer (submucosa). After injection of 1:10000 epinephrine in the submucosa, with subsequent elevation of the protrusive formation, we performed an endoscopic submucosal resection without any complications. Pathology exam showed a gastric stromal tumor with low mitotic activity, the endoscopic resection being considered curative. The absence of independent risk factors determined by ultrasound endoscopy (size > 3 cm, irregular margins, hyperechoic foci > 3 mm, cystic spaces > 4 mm, presence of intratumoral Doppler signal), as well as the low mitotic activity, permitted the subsequent follow-up of the patient. A control endoscopic examination performed after 4 weeks showed the healing of the post-resection ulceration. In conclusion, ultrasound endoscopy allowed the establishment of a correct presumptive diagnosis and the subsequent assistance of endoscopic submucosal resection, used for pathological confirmation and for curative endoscopic treatment."}
{"id": "15990051", "title": "Endoscopic approach to gastrointestinal stromal tumors.", "content": "Endoscopic approach to gastrointestinal stromal tumors. Unrevealing CT scans and ambiguous surveillance endoscopies fuel rising frustration for patient and physician. Several recent developments have added considerably to our understanding of submucosal masses and the stromal cell tumors often lurking within them."}
{"id": "15990049", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound for luminal malignancies.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound for luminal malignancies. Luminal gastrointestinal (GI) tract cancers are responsible for substantial morbidity and mortality. Since the first pairing of ultrasonography with endoscopy in 1980, technologic advances and the increased availability of trained endosonographers have propelled endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) to the forefront of luminal GI cancer staging. In this article we discuss the role of EUS for evaluating luminal GI cancers."}
{"id": "15966244", "title": "Regression of EI2-stage low-grade gastric MALT-lymphoma after H. pylori eradication.", "content": "Regression of EI2-stage low-grade gastric MALT-lymphoma after H. pylori eradication. To our knowledge there are only a few reports showing a role of eradication therapy for H. pylori in the treatment of low-grade MALT-lymphoma, of stage EI2. We report a rare case of MALT-lymphoma, invading all of the gastric wall, which regressed after eradication of H. pylori. The regression was well documented by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). A 70-year-old man was referred to us for upper endoscopy that showed a single ulcer of 3cm in diameter at the gastric angulus. Histology, immunohistochemistry and PCR analyses diagnosed a low-grade MALT-lymphoma in the presence of H. pylori infection. EUS showed a tumor invasion of all the gastric wall. The serosa layer, also, appeared irregular and interrupted in some points. The lymph nodes around the duodenum and the stomach were not involved. An anti-H. pylori therapy was started. After 1 year from the diagnosis, EUS showed the reappearance of the normal layers of the stomach. The patient is actually disease free. This result suggests that in EI2-stage gastric lymphoma of MALT type, in the absence of both high-grade malignancy foci and t(11;18)(q21;q21) chromosomal translocation, an eradication treatment may be considered as a first therapeutic option."}
{"id": "15957097", "title": "Gastric stromal tumor.", "content": "Gastric stromal tumor. Gastric stromal tumors are rare neoplasms of the stomach. In this report we present a gastric stromal tumor with an exophytic growth pattern, and describe magnetic resonance imaging and endoscopic ultrasonography findings."}
{"id": "15955787", "title": "Accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosing ascites and predicting peritoneal metastases in gastric cancer patients.", "content": "Accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosing ascites and predicting peritoneal metastases in gastric cancer patients. Preoperative diagnosis of peritoneal metastases (PM) is difficult in patients with gastric cancer (GC). To assess the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in diagnosing ascites and its predictability for the presence of PM in GC patients. Consecutive patients with newly diagnosed GC from 1998 to 2004 were studied. All patients underwent EUS, ultrasound (US), and computed tomography (CT) scan for preoperative staging and the presence of ascites. The results were compared with operative findings. The diagnosis of PM was confirmed by histopathology or peritoneal fluid cytology. A total of 301 patients were recruited and in 250 patients the presence of ascites (n = 93) and PM (n = 71) were confirmed. EUS was more sensitive (87.1%) than combined US and CT scan examinations (16.1%) and operative findings (laparoscopy or laparotomy) (40.9%) in diagnosing ascites. Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and accuracy for predicting the presence of PM were 73%, 84%, 64%, 89%, and 81% by EUS; 18%, 99%, 87%, 75%, and 76% by combining US and CT scan; and 77%, 94%, 83%, 91%, and 89% by operative findings, respectively. In multivariate logistic regression analysis, EUS detected ascites was the only significant independent predictor for the presence of PM (p<0.001; odds ratio 4.7 (95% confidence interval 2.0-11.2)). EUS is a sensitive method for diagnosing ascites which is an important predictive factor for the presence of PM in GC patients."}
{"id": "15930991", "title": "Staging and treatment of advanced esophageal cancer.", "content": "Staging and treatment of advanced esophageal cancer. To evaluate the recent developments in treatment of advanced esophageal cancer since January 2004. Today's stage-adjusted treatment of advanced esophageal cancers requires a meticulous diagnostic work-up. The use of standard staging tools (endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasound, computed tomography) is increasingly supplemented with additional use of positron emission tomography with fluoro-desoxyglucose. Positron emission tomography with fluoro-desoxyglucose improves detection of systemic metastases, but assessment of locoregional lymph node metastases remains poor.Multimodal (especially neoadjuvant) strategies have gained far-reaching impact on advanced esophageal cancer treatment: A recent meta-analysis of randomized trials suggests a survival benefit at 3 years with preoperative radio-chemotherapy compared with surgery alone. Patients who respond to neoadjuvant treatment appear to benefit most from subsequent surgical resection. This makes response evaluation and prediction most desirable. Positron emission tomography with fluoro-desoxyglucose appears to provide reliable information on response as early as 14 days after initiation of treatment. Several studies have contributed to controversies regarding surgical technique (e.g. extent of lymphadenectomy, shape of gastric tube, location of anastomosis). Surgical complications have been directly correlated with long-term prognosis. In patients with systemic metastases, all therapeutic attempts remain palliative. In a multicenter trail, investigating the best palliation of dysphagia, brachytherapy was found superior over placement of self-expanding metal stents. Positron emission tomography with fluoro-desoxyglucose is established as an additional staging tool and appears useful for response prediction during multimodal treatment. Brachytherapy should be considered as an alternative to stent placement for palliation of dysphagia."}
{"id": "15908763", "title": "[Low-grade mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma of stomach].", "content": "[Low-grade mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma of stomach]. Stomach is the most common site of primary extranodal lymphoma. Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma is a unique type of extranodal lymphoma which is associated with Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori). The development of low-grade MALT lymphoma of stomach is dependent on H. pylori. A transformed clone carrying the translocation t(11;18)(q21;q21) forms a MALT lymphoma, the growth of which is independent of H. pylori and will not respond to bacterial eradication. And inactivation of the tumor suppressor genes, p53 can lead to high-grade transformation. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is essential to document the extent of disease and is superior to CT scan in the detection of spread to perigastric lymph nodes and follow-up EUS may determine the response to therapy and detect the relapse in early phase. Lesions that are confined to the mucosa or submucosa of gastric wall can be successfully treated with H. pylori eradication. Those low-grade MALT lymphomas that are not H. pylori positive or do not respond to antibiotic therapy can be treated with surgery, radiation, or chemotherapy. Follow-up is critical in all patients who have been treated with H. pylori eradication and consists of multiple endoscopic biopsies and EUS."}
{"id": "15894867", "title": "The emerging role of endoscopic ultrasonography in cancer staging.", "content": "The emerging role of endoscopic ultrasonography in cancer staging. The management of solid organ cancers relies on accurate staging. Once distal metastasis has been excluded by conventional radiographic methods, local staging of the tumor and its nodal involvement is essential to determine the most optimal therapeutic approach. Many radiographic imaging modalities are unable to determine subtle tumor involvement. However, the emergence of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has given promise to improved staging with its unique ability to examine tumors from within the gastrointestinal lumen with extremely close proximity. An additional advantage is the ability to perform fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy to confirm or exclude tumor involvement. Many studies have shown superior accuracy in staging with EUS and EUS-FNA for tumors of the esophagus, stomach, pancreas, rectum, and mediastinum, including lung cancer. This review illustrates the principles of EUS and its role in staging of a variety of cancers and particularly its role alongside other imaging modalities."}
{"id": "15870977", "title": "Spontaneous remission of primary diffuse large B-cell gastric lymphoma.", "content": "Spontaneous remission of primary diffuse large B-cell gastric lymphoma. Spontaneous and complete disappearance of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBL) of the stomach is extremely rare. Although regression of gastric DLBL after eradication of Helicobacter pylori has recently been reported, we present two consecutive cases of stage I DLBL of the stomach which disappeared after only nonspecific therapy, including histamine 2-receptor antagonist (H2RA); both cases were documented histologically and endoscopically. Both patients were positive for H. pylori, and later received H. pylori eradication therapy. The disease has not recurred after 11 and 6 months, respectively. Our cases suggest that the option of combination therapy with H2RA either with or followed by H. pylori eradication is appropriate for consideration as an initial approach in standard therapy for stage I diffuse large B-cell gastric lymphoma."}
{"id": "15868240", "title": "Endorectal ultrasound in the management of patients with malignant rectal polyps.", "content": "Endorectal ultrasound in the management of patients with malignant rectal polyps. This study was designed to determine the efficacy of endorectal ultrasound in the management of patients with malignant rectal polyps removed by snare excision during colonoscopy. A retrospective review of the medical records and endorectal ultrasound images of 63 patients with endoscopically removed rectal polyps containing invasive adenocarcinoma subsequently staged by endorectal ultrasound. Patients underwent surgery or were followed at a single institution. The polyp characteristics and ultrasound images were compared with the presence of residual tumor in the surgical specimen in patients who underwent further surgery or with recurrence in patients who did not. The morphology of the polyps was described in 31 patients (49 percent); they were sessile in 26 (41 percent) and pedunculated in 6 (9 percent). The margins were positive in 22 patients (35 percent), negative in 19 (30 percent), and not specified in 22 (35 percent). Most tumors were well or moderately differentiated; only 3 (5 percent) were poorly differentiated. Thirty-three patients underwent further surgery (3 low anterior resection, and 30 transanal excision); 30 had no further surgery. The accuracy of endorectal ultrasound in assessing the presence of residual cancer in the rectal wall in patients who had surgery was 54 percent, with a 39 percent positive predictive value and 65 percent negative predictive value. Endorectal ultrasound accurately identified metastatic lymph nodes in two of three patients who had radical surgery. Endorectal ultrasound was more useful than polyp morphologic or histologic criteria to determine the presence of residual cancer in the rectal wall. Endorectal ultrasound does not definitely exclude the possibility of residual tumor in the rectal wall or mesenteric nodes of patients who had a malignant polyp snared endoscopically. Consequently, decisions regarding the definitive management of these patients cannot be based exclusively on the endorectal ultrasound images of the polypectomy site."}
{"id": "15837048", "title": "Endosonographic characteristics of perigastrointestinal lymphnodes studied ex-corpore.", "content": "Endosonographic characteristics of perigastrointestinal lymphnodes studied ex-corpore. Assessment of morphological characteristics of lymphnodes studied ex-corpore by echoendoscopy--shape, sharpness of limits, echogenicity and dimensions--to categorize them either as metastatic or non-metastatic. Fifty-four lymphnodes were studied. They were identified and studied by echoendoscopy in fresh surgical specimens of oesophagus, stomach and rectum. Eight nodal characteristics were evaluated. The data obtained were studied by multivariate analysis using the logistical estimate method in two different statistical models. In model 1, logistical estimate demonstrated that well-defined limits (WDL) of the lymphnodes and the association of hypoechogenicity and round shape were the most significant variables suggesting the presence of invasion. In model 2, the most significant variables were WDL, round shape and association of round shape with WDL. The first model had a high sensitivity of 93.1% and specificity of 68% whereas the second model had a greater specificity of 84%, with a slight fall in sensitivity. These models might have an application to clinical practice particularly in the pre-operative assessment of patients with oesophageal carcinoma, gastric carcinoma or rectal carcinoma."}
{"id": "15831220", "title": "Minimally invasive treatment of stomach cancer.", "content": "Minimally invasive treatment of stomach cancer. The rate of detection of early gastric cancer has increased because of the development of diagnostic techniques, such as endoscopy, biopsy, and endoscopic ultrasonography. Recently, minimally invasive surgical procedures for benign gastric conditions have been advocated, and the laparoscopic approach is noted as a technique that increases the quality of life. However, the development of laparoscopic gastric resections and laparoscopically assisted gastric operations for malignancy still deserve a word of caution. Laparoscopic local resection of the stomach is used to treat mucosal cancer without lymph node metastasis, and laparoscopy-assisted distal gastrectomy is used to treat early gastric cancer with lymph node metastasis in the perigastric portion. According to short-term results reported by a small group of surgeons, laparoscopic approaches for gastric cancer result in a minimally invasive approach, early recovery, and decreased morbidity and mortality. However, the longterm results of these less invasive treatments are not known in advanced gastric cancer. If the results of randomized controlled studies for advanced gastric cancer are confirmed, the use of these techniques will spread worldwide and may become a standard technique for the resection of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "15817234", "title": "Local excision: some reality testing.", "content": "Local excision: some reality testing."}
{"id": "15812432", "title": "Atypical EUS features of gastric inflammatory fibroid polyps.", "content": "Atypical EUS features of gastric inflammatory fibroid polyps."}
{"id": "15784023", "title": "Assessment of publication bias in the reporting of EUS performance in staging rectal cancer.", "content": "Assessment of publication bias in the reporting of EUS performance in staging rectal cancer. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has emerged as a promising diagnostic modality for locoregional staging of rectal cancer. However, as with any new technology, publication bias, the selective reporting of studies featuring positive results, may result in overestimation of the capability of EUS. The aim of this study was to systematically assess for publication bias in the reporting of the accuracy of EUS in staging rectal cancer. A MEDLINE search for all published estimates of EUS accuracy in staging rectal cancer between 1985 and 2003 was performed. All retrieved studies were fully published in the English literature. Published studies were analyzed and the following information was abstracted: accuracy of EUS, year of publication, number of subjects studied, impact factor of journal, and type of journal (gastroenterology, surgery, radiology, other). Two hundred and two abstracts were reviewed; 41 publications met the stated criteria for inclusion. EUS T-staging accuracy was reported in 40 studies while EUS N-staging accuracy was reported in 27 studies. The experience of 4, 118 subjects was reported with an overall mean T-staging accuracy of 85.2% (median, 87.5%) and N-staging accuracy of 75.0% (median, 76.0%). There was a paucity of smaller studies expressing low EUS accuracy rates. Both T-staging and N-staging accuracy rates also declined over time with the lowest rates reported in more recent literature. The performance of EUS in staging rectal cancer may be overestimated in the literature due to publication bias. This inflated estimate of the capability of EUS may lead to unrealistic expectations of this technology."}
{"id": "15783014", "title": "Impact of laparoscopy and ultrasonography in gastrointestinal malignancies.", "content": "Impact of laparoscopy and ultrasonography in gastrointestinal malignancies. An adequate preoperative disease staging is highly required before surgical treatment, even in gastrointestinal malignancies. Our study wants to give a contribution in order to define echolaparoscopy weight in gastrointestinal tumors and its impact in surgical therapy. 33 patients were affected by pancreas, 22 by stomach, 16 by extrahepatic biliary tract and 18 by liver cancers; every patient was considered worthy of radical or palliative surgery according to preoperative staging (thorax-abdominal CT and percutaneous ultrasonography). Paired sample t-tests were used to analyze the results of each methodical and probability values of less than 0.05 were considered significant. Preoperative instrumental examinations gave correct evaluations only in 44 of 89 cases (49%) while echolaparoscopic gave correct evaluations in 82 on 89 cases (92%) (P<0.05). So after echolaparoscopic in only 7 cases we performed an explorative laparotomy. Laparoscopy and ultrasound impact on therapy is worthy of attention. It seems to be able to give advantages in staging gastrointestinal malignancies, except for pancreas cancers, in which some limits and negative aspects have been demonstrated, regarding the possibility of giving correct diagnosis of portal axis infiltration."}
{"id": "15773837", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound for esophageal and gastroesophageal junction cancer: Impact of increased use of primary neoadjuvant therapy on preoperative locoregional staging accuracy.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound for esophageal and gastroesophageal junction cancer: Impact of increased use of primary neoadjuvant therapy on preoperative locoregional staging accuracy. Initial treatment of locally advanced esophageal and gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) malignancies for selected patients at some institutions has recently changed from surgical resection to neoadjuvant therapy. The aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of this change in treatment strategy on both the overall disease profile and locoregional endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) staging accuracy for a cohort of patients managed with primary surgical resection over a 10-year period at our institution. All subjects at our institution who underwent primary esophagectomy from 1993 to 2002 following preoperative EUS for known or suspected esophageal and/or GEJ cancers were identified. Patients with dysplasia alone, prior upper gastrointestinal tract surgery, preoperative neoadjuvant therapy, cancer of the gastric cardia or recurrent malignancy were excluded. EUS findings and staging results were compared to surgical pathology following resection. The impact of the gradually increased use of primary chemoradiation during the second half of the study was assessed. Of the 286 operations performed, 184 subjects were excluded. The remaining 102 underwent primary surgical resection a median of 18 days following EUS staging for adenocarcinoma (88%) or squamous cell carcinoma (12%) of the esophagus (69%) or GEJ (31%). Overall EUS locoregional T and N staging accuracy was 72% and 75% respectively; accuracy for T1, T2, T3 and T4 cancer was 42%, 50%, 88% and 50% respectively. Despite an increased frequency of pathologically confirmed T1 and T2 cancers (P = 0.005) and an insignificant trend toward increased N0 malignancy (P = 0.05) during the second half of the study period, no statistically significant changes in T (P = 0.07) or N (P = 0.82) staging accuracies for EUS or disease characteristics were noted between the first and second half of the study period. Despite both inaccurate radial EUS staging and increased relative use of primary surgery for early cancers, recent increased use of primary neoadjuvant therapy did not change overall disease characteristics and accuracy of locoregional EUS staging of esophageal and GEJ cancers managed with primary surgical resection."}
{"id": "15772477", "title": "Gastric cancer mimicking a submucosal tumor diagnosed by laparoscopic excision biopsy.", "content": "Gastric cancer mimicking a submucosal tumor diagnosed by laparoscopic excision biopsy. We report a case of advanced gastric cancer exhibiting the features of a submucosal tumor (SMT) of the gastric body. The patient was a 50-year-old male in whom a gastric SMT was detected during a mass screening examination. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed a protuberant tumor, 2 cm in diameter, covered with normal-appearing mucosa. Examination of an endoscopic biopsy specimen of the tumor revealed chronic gastritis with regenerative and erosive changes. An endoscopic ultrasound examination demonstrated a hypoechoic mass in the third layer of the gastric wall. The clinical diagnosis was gastric SMT, and the patient's course was monitored. Twenty-six months after the initial visit to our hospital, an endosonograph-guided biopsy revealed Group III (borderline lesion). Three months after the biopsy, the size of the SMT had increased slightly. Laparoscopic wedge resection of the tumor was performed to make a pathologic diagnosis and we were able to make a diagnosis of gastric lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma intraoperatively. Gastrectomy with lymph node dissection was followed as curative surgery. Laparoscopic total excision biopsy is a useful technique in patients with a gastric SMT whose diagnosis has not been confirmed pathologically."}
{"id": "15758616", "title": "EUS in the management of the patient with dysplasia in Barrett's esophagus.", "content": "EUS in the management of the patient with dysplasia in Barrett's esophagus. Barrett's esophagus is the most important risk factor in the development of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus. Barrett's esophagus is generally regarded as the most significant complication of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Adenocarcinoma occurs more frequently in the setting of high-grade dysplasia. The prognosis of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus is strongly correlated with the stage of disease. The prognosis of late stage disease is extremely poor. Cure may be achieved when disease is found at an early stage. Esophagectomy has been the definitive treatment of limited stage adenocarcinoma of the esophagus. The morbidity and mortality rate for esophagectomy is high. Therefore, alternative endoscopic methods for curative treatments have gained popularity. The two main endoscopic therapies, photodynamic therapy and endoscopic mucosal resection, are both effective when applied to early-stage disease. Traditional evaluation of the patient with Barrett's esophagus with high-grade dysplasia includes esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy (EGD) with biopsy and computed tomography of the chest. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has gained popularity in the evaluation of the patient with Barrett's esophagus and high-grade dysplasia because it is the only imaging technique capable of delineating the separate histologic layers of the gastrointestinal tract. The principal role of EUS in evaluating patients with Barrett's-associated dysplasia is to identify patients who may be candidates for endoscopic ablative (endoscopic mucosal resection, photodynamic therapy) therapies. EUS has been shown to be superior to computed tomography (including high resolution spiral CT) or magnetic resonance imaging for preoperative staging in patients with high-grade dysplasia and carcinoma. This review of the literature summarizes the ability of EUS to evaluate patients with Barrett's esophagus and high-grade dysplasia."}
{"id": "15756663", "title": "Three-dimensional reconstruction of endosonographic images of gastric lesions: preliminary experience.", "content": "Three-dimensional reconstruction of endosonographic images of gastric lesions: preliminary experience. This study was conducted to assess the ability of the endoluminal sonographic probes to image upper gastrointestinal lesions detected with conventional endoscopy and to reconstruct 3-dimensional (3D) images. Sonographic images were obtained from 25 gastrointestinal lesions in 22 patients using a sonographic miniprobe manually drawn at a set speed across lesions detected during conventional endoscopy. 3D images were then reconstructed using an in-house software program. In 16 lesions (64%), the 3D sectional images were evaluated as good, and all 25 lesions (100%) could be visualized both transversely and longitudinally. In 12 lesions (48%), the 3D display of the endosonographic surface image corresponded to the endoscopic appearance. In all 11 cases of gastric cancer, the depth of tumor invasion measured using the 3D image was consistent with the histologic diagnosis (100% accuracy). When videotaped sonographic images were stored on a hard disk, it took an average of 3.5 minutes to obtain and display 3D images of the targeted area. 3D sonographic reconstructions of digestive lesions were useful in diagnosis, and we believe that further improvements should enhance the clinical usefulness of 3D endosonography."}
{"id": "15718321", "title": "Paclitaxel-based chemoradiotherapy in localized gastric carcinoma: degree of pathologic response and not clinical parameters dictated patient outcome.", "content": "Paclitaxel-based chemoradiotherapy in localized gastric carcinoma: degree of pathologic response and not clinical parameters dictated patient outcome. Preoperative chemoradiotherapy may increase the R0 (curative) resection rate, overall survival (OS) duration, and disease-free survival (DFS) duration. We evaluated paclitaxel-based induction chemotherapy and chemoradiotherapy in patients with localized gastric or gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma to determine its feasibility, impact on the R0 resection rate, type of pathologic response, OS, and DFS. Patients with operable, localized gastric, or gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma were eligible. Staging included endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and laparoscopy. Patients received two 28-day cycles of induction chemotherapy of fluorouracil, paclitaxel, and cisplatin followed by 45 Gy of radiation and concurrent fluorouracil plus paclitaxel. The cancer was restaged and surgery was attempted. Postsurgery pathologic findings and R0 resection were correlated with OS and DFS. Forty-one patients were enrolled. Most carcinomas were proximal (83%) and pretreatment stage EUST3 (85%). Forty patients (98%) underwent surgery, and 78% had an R0 resection. We observed a pathologic complete response (pathCR) rate of 20% and a pathologic partial response (pathPR) rate of 15% (< 10% residual cancer cells in the resected specimen). No pretreatment parameter (sex, cancer location, baseline T stage, or baseline N stage) predicted the type of postsurgery pathologic response, OS, or DFS. However, pathCR (P = .02), pathCR + pathPR (P = .006), R0 resection (P < .001), and postsurgery T and N stages (P = .01 and P < .001, respectively) were associated with OS. Same parameters were significantly correlated with DFS. Toxicity was manageable. The type of pathologic response but not pretreatment parameters was associated with OS and DFS. Efforts to increase the rate of pathologic response and better systemic cancer control are warranted."}
{"id": "15657854", "title": "Diagnosis of esophagogastric tumors.", "content": "Diagnosis of esophagogastric tumors. With regard to esophageal tumors, important reports on several topics have been published recently. 1) The place of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) as the best locoregional staging technique for cancer of the esophagus has been further consolidated. The addition of fine-needle aspiration makes EUS more sensitive than computed tomography (CT) and more accurate than CT or EUS alone for nodal staging. 2) High-resolution endoscopy with chromoendoscopy has been found to be very effective for mucosal lesions, but not for submucosal lesions. In combination with EUS, the sensitivity for submucosal tumors increases up to 60 %. 3) Autofluorescence-guided biopsy has been reported to be a good tool for detecting high-grade dysplasia. A narrow-band imaging system improved the overall accuracy for depth of invasion. 4) The incidence of hypopharyngeal cancer increases after resection for esophageal carcinoma. Patients with a scattered staining pattern after application of Lugol's solution are more prone to develop upper lesions. 5) Fluorescence imaging makes it possible to detect low-grade intraepithelial neoplasia in Barrett's mucosa, with fewer biopsies. 6) Patients with Barrett's esophagus with a length of over 3 cm had a significantly greater prevalence of dysplasia in comparison with those in the whom the Barrett's segment was shorter than 3 cm (23 % vs. 9 %, P = 0.0001). With regard to gastric tumors, 1) Helicobacter pylori eradication can significantly reduce the development of gastric cancer, but only in patients without precancerous lesions. 2) Intestinal metaplasia types II and III have been shown to have a higher rate of progression to low-grade dysplasia than type I. 3) With regard to screening in asymptomatic individuals, serum pepsinogen may represent an alternative to conventional fluoroscopy methods. 4) In patients who have undergone esophagectomy for esophageal cancer, annual follow-up endoscopies are vital for detecting early secondary gastric cancer and ulcerations in which curative treatment is possible. 5) High-resolution endoscopy allows more precise diagnosis of early gastric cancer. The presence of irregular minute vessels and variations in vessel caliber were found to be specific of early gastric cancer. The small regular pattern of sulci and ridges was observed significantly more frequently in differentiated carcinoma than in undifferentiated carcinoma. 6) Infrared-ray electronic endoscopy combined with indocyanine green injection appears to be effective in detecting sentinel nodes that contain metastases in patients with gastric cancer. 7) Gastric adenocarcinoma was found to show specific changes in the fluorescence spectra emitted, in comparison with normal gastric mucosa. However, there was wide variation in the emitted autofluorescence spectra in gastric cancer with signet-ring cells in comparison with normal mucosa."}
{"id": "15657851", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography. This paper covers the literature published between June 2003 and August 2004 on endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA). During this period, more than 120 original studies were published on the topic, not to mention editorials and case reports--indirect evidence of the ever-increasing importance of EUS in everyday clinical practice. However, due to limitations of space, this review will focus only on a few articles selected for their importance and originality. The studies presented deal either with the outcome of EUS--i. e., its real importance in affecting the choices physicians are faced with in their clinical work--or definitively clarify certain technical issues that have often been a matter of debate at EUS meetings. Finally, a few papers describing new potential diagnostic or interventional applications of EUS are presented. Many other relevant papers in addition to those discussed in detail are cited in the references."}
{"id": "15609403", "title": "Trisomy 3 may predict a poor response of gastric MALT lymphoma to Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy.", "content": "Trisomy 3 may predict a poor response of gastric MALT lymphoma to Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy. To investigate the relation of the response to Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy to the depth of tumor invasion and chromosome abnormalities in patients with mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma and to determine the clinical value of aneuploidy. We studied 13 patients with localized gastric MALT lymphoma of stage E1. Before eradication therapy, the depth of tumor invasion was assessed by endoscopic ultrasonography in 8 patients and by endoscopic examination and gastrointestinal series in the remaining patients. To detect chromosomal abnormalities, paraffin-embedded tissue sections of diagnostic biopsy specimens underwent tissue-fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), using chromosome-specific alpha-satellite DNA probes for chromosomes 3,7,12, and 18 and YAC clones for t(11;18)(q21;q21). Seven of the 13 patients had complete regression (CR) in response to H pylori eradication therapy. No patient with CR had submucosal tumor invasion. Trisomy 18 was seen in 1 patient with CR, and both trisomies 12 and 18 were present in another patient with CR. All patients with no response or progressive disease had deep submucosal tumor invasion and showed t(11;18)(q21;q21) or trisomy 3. Trisomy 7 was not detected in this series of patients. The depth of tumor invasion is an accurate predictor of the response of stage E1 MALT lymphoma to H pylori eradication therapy and is closely associated with the presence of chromosomal abnormalities. Trisomy 3 may predict the aggressive development of MALT lymphoma."}
{"id": "15527812", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the diagnosis, staging, and management of gastrointestinal and adjacent malignancies.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the diagnosis, staging, and management of gastrointestinal and adjacent malignancies. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is a superior modality for local staging of gastrointestinal cancer. In interventional endosonography linear array echoendoscopes permit real-time EUS-guided puncture of target lesions for cytologic evaluation of such lesions. This article describes the basic principles of EUS, established indications pertaining to gastrointestinal cancer and other malignancies, and emerging indications for this minimally invasive technology."}
{"id": "15757146", "title": "[Endoscopic surgery in neoplasms of the upper digestive tract].", "content": "[Endoscopic surgery in neoplasms of the upper digestive tract]. Endoscopic surgery has been performed since 1987 when in France the first laparoscopic cholecystectomy was done. Since then it has evolved and found a place in surgical practice. In the field of surgical oncology it has allowed the diagnosis, staging, resection and palliation of a great variety of neoplasms. evaluate usefulness and recent advances of endoscopic surgery in neoplasms of the upper digestive tract, applied specifically to the esophagus and stomach. We did a review of the medical literature using Medline data base (Pubmed). All series of cases, cohort and controlled studies published between January 1995 and April 2003 were included. For esophageal carcinoma as well as for gastric carcinoma, endoscopic surgery is used as a complement for computed tomography and endoscopic ultrasound to define clinical stage, increasing sensibility to detect metastatic disease. Techniques of endoscopic or video assisted esophageal transhiatal and thoracoscopic resection have been described, as well as Japanese studies including radical gastric resections in early gastric cancer with multiple advantages. There are also several developing possibilities of palliative endoscopic or video assisted treatment which are discussed in this article. Usefulness of endoscopic surgery in staging gastric and esophageal carcinoma is proven. Nevertheless oncologic endoscopic resections are still experimental and the advantages between these and open surgery are still to be shown with prospective randomized trials."}
{"id": "15756395", "title": "Ampullary tumors: endoscopic versus operative management.", "content": "Ampullary tumors: endoscopic versus operative management. Most ampullary adenomas (80%) are common benign ampullary tumors; however, they can range from mild dysplasia to high-grade dysplasia to invasive carcinoma. They are considered premalignant lesions found in the setting of familial polyposis syndromes or found sporadically, usually manifested by vague abdominal pain, liver enzyme elevation, jaundice, recurrent pancreatitis, or with uncommon symptoms such as gastrointestinal bleeding or duodenal obstruction. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography with biopsy is a minimally invasive technique used to visualize these tumors directly and to evaluate their histologic characteristics. Definitive treatment primarily depends on these histologic results. Local resection has a high rate of recurrence (5% to 30%) and requires postoperative endoscopic surveillance, which is the reason it is not considered as a first choice in the management of ampullary tumors. The operative mortality is 10% or less for pancreaticoduodenectomy, a procedure of choice at most experienced centers for frank carcinoma, foci papillary adenocarcinoma in pre-excisional biopsies, or high-grade dysplasia ampullary adenomas. Endoscopic interventions for presumed benign ampullary adenomas have resolved symptoms of obstruction, but long-term follow up is necessary to detect early malignant transformation. In summary, the choice of treatment depends on level of surgical skill available, patient tolerance of long-term endoscopic surveillance versus radical surgery, and the presence or absence of coexisting familial adenomatous polyposis."}
{"id": "15646531", "title": "Locally advanced adenocarcinomas of the gastric cardia: results of pre-operative chemoradiotherapy.", "content": "Locally advanced adenocarcinomas of the gastric cardia: results of pre-operative chemoradiotherapy. Overall prognosis of adenocarcinomas of the gastro-esophageal junction remains poor as most patients present with advanced disease. To examine the effects of preoperative chemoradiotherapy in locally advanced adenocarcinomas of the gastro-esophageal junction. Forty-two consecutive patients received a course of radiotherapy (45 Gy, administred in 25 fractions) with concurrent infusion of 5-Fluorouracil and cisplatin, followed by surgery. Endoscopic ultrasonography was used to assess response to chemoradiotherapy. A transhiatal or a transthoracic approach was used for surgical resection. Tumor size, node invasion and margins of resection were analyzed. Thirty-eight patients underwent subsequent surgery and complete resection (RO) was achieved in 34. Operative mortality was 13.2% (5/38). A histological complete response was observed in 6 patients. Median survival was 23 months (range: 15-31) and median disease-free survival was 19 months (range: 15-23). At one and two years, 70.7 and 45.6% of the patients were alive, respectively. The pTNM status, node involvement and tumor size were predictors of survival. Pre-operative chemoradiotherapy is effective in patients with locally advanced carcinoma of the gastro-esophageal junction, resulting in high resection rates. However it seems to increase operative morbidity and mortality. Certain prognostic factors such as resection margins, need to be examined in further detail."}
{"id": "15630987", "title": "[Surgical treatment of early adenocarcinoma arising in Barrett's oesophagus].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of early adenocarcinoma arising in Barrett's oesophagus]. Endoscopy with biopsy, endoscopic ultrasonography and computed tomography (CT) are prerequisites for an exact preoperative staging of patients with oesophageal cancer. Diagnosing an early adenocarcinoma limited to the mucosa (pT1m), the risk of lymph node metastase is nearly zero. Therefore, consideration could be given to ablate endoscopically the metaplastic mucosa including the pT1m-area. On the other hand, an adenocarcinoma that is invading into the submucosa (pTlsm) has an 18 to 50% likelihood of associated lymphnode metastases. In these patients with a highly curable form of oesophageal cancer only oesophageal resection with systematic abdominal and mediastinal lymph node dissection represents the standard of care. This seems to be also true for more advanced tumours without or with neoadjuvant chemoradiation. Because of substantial complications and long-term side effects the need for extensive resection in patients with early tumour stage (pT1) or down staged 'early' carcinoma (yT1) is questionable. Therefore, a limited resection of distal oesophagus and proximal stomach with two-field lymphadenectomy and jejunal interposition is an attractive alternative in early Barrett's carcinoma providing a low morbidity and mortality and resulting in a more than 90% chance of cure, perhaps in successfully down staged yT1-patients as well. Therefore, the extent of oesophageal resection should be tailored to the patient and the known extent of tumour disease. Although, there is no clear evidence at present that RCTx prolongs survival in patients with potentially resectable oesophageal cancer, preoperative treatment appears to increase the chance for a curative resection. Generally, in case of a T4-tumour or distant metastasis a surgical treatment is not indicated."}
{"id": "15609698", "title": "A rare case of gastric lipoma with early gastric cancer.", "content": "A rare case of gastric lipoma with early gastric cancer. An 84-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with a 1-month history of epigastralgia. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed gastric cancer and a gastric submucosal tumor (SMT) on the greater curvature of the gastric body. By endoscopic ultrasonography, SMT was demonstrated as a well-circumscribed, smooth-bordered and hypoechoic mass localized in the submucosal layer. Total gastrectomy was performed. The histology of the resected specimen revealed a gastric lipoma and an early gastric cancer widespread to the surface on the lipoma. Two lesions were present in the same lesion, but not linked. We report a rare case of gastric lipoma complicated with early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "15560451", "title": "[Epidemiology, diagnosis and surgical treatment of gastrointestinal carcinoids].", "content": "[Epidemiology, diagnosis and surgical treatment of gastrointestinal carcinoids]."}
{"id": "15533229", "title": "Extremely well-differentiated adenocarcinoma of the gastric cardia: a unique case with columnar cells and laminated stones.", "content": "Extremely well-differentiated adenocarcinoma of the gastric cardia: a unique case with columnar cells and laminated stones. Extremely well-differentiated adenocarcinoma (EWDA) is an unusual gastric cancer that is histologically too bland to be diagnosed as malignant neoplasm, particularly using biopsy. EWDA may be a gastric counterpart of 'adenoma malignum' or minimal deviation adenocarcinoma (MDA) in the uterine cervix; however, the clinicopathological features of EWDA remain less apparent than those of MDA. A 60-year-old male was complaining of dysphagia. He had been made aware of a small submucosal tumor in the cardia 2 years before the onset of this symptom. Endoscopic ultrasonographic examination revealed a large cardiac tumor consisting of thickened layers, as observed in Borrmann type IV. Three mucosal biopsies suggested only benign changes including adenoma and hyperplastic polyps. At the fourth biopsy, cytologically bland columnar cells were located in the submucosa along with stromal fibrosis and laminated stones. The possibility that non-neoplastic aberrant pancreas with lithiasis formed the tumor was denied at laparotomy by a frozen section that revealed benign-looking glands invading the diaphragm. Immunohistochemically the cancer glands were positive for CA19-9 and human gastric mucin, but not for p53 or MUC2. To our knowledge, this is a previously unknown combination of EWDA and psammomatous calcification in the stomach."}
{"id": "15532836", "title": "Is peritoneal cytology a predictor of unresectability in pancreatic carcinoma?", "content": "Is peritoneal cytology a predictor of unresectability in pancreatic carcinoma? Demonstration of unresectability often requires diagnostic laparotomy with high co-morbidity in pancreatic carcinoma. The value of detected peritoneal tumor cells and influence on outcome should be determined. In a prospective study 150 consecutive patients with pancreatic carcinoma were evaluated. Improvement of diagnostic accuracy in diagnosing unresectability was calculated for combination of CT, endoscopic ultrasonography and peritoneal cytology. Unexpected subglissonian metastases were found in 10%. 87 patients with peritoneal washings were included in the study, 20 patients with detected peritoneal tumor cells (n=22) were inoperable. In all patients of this group the ventral integrity of pancreas was damaged. In 23 patients with preoperative existent ascites, only in 4 cases could peritoneal tumor cells be detected. In patients with positive cytology together with disrupted ventral pancreatic margin as predictors of unresectability, sensitivity was 100% and specificity 96%. Addition of diagnostic laparoscopy combined with peritoneal cytology and minimally invasive palliation procedures (endoscopic biliary prosthesis, laparoscopic gastrojejunostomy) to the staging-protocol for pancreatic carcinoma may decrease operative lethality and unnecessary laparotomies may be avoided safely. As unexpected subglissonian micrometastases may additionally be present in 5-10%, perioperative laparoscopy is always advisable."}
{"id": "15532798", "title": "Argon plasma coagulation for the treatment of early gastric cancer.", "content": "Argon plasma coagulation for the treatment of early gastric cancer. Endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) is widely used to treat early gastric cancer and is considered safe and effective. However, its indication range is limited. Other endoscopic treatment options are needed for patients with surgical risks. The aim of the study was to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of argon plasma coagulation (APC) for the treatment of early gastric cancer. APC was done in 23 patients (mean age, 77.5 years) with early gastric cancer. The depth of tumor invasion, estimated primarily by endoscopic ultrasonography, was mucosal in 19 patients and submucosal in 4. EMR was not indicated in 4 cases, and 14 cases were not successfully treated by EMR alone. All patients were followed up for more than 12 months (median, 42.0+/-20.8 months). Fifteen patients had no recurrence and survived. Four patients had no recurrence, but died of causes other than gastric cancer. Cancer recurred in four patients. Recurrence was managed by repeated treatment with APC, with no technical problems. No serious complications occurred. APC is useful for follow-up treatment of early gastric cancer after EMR. APC may also be effective for radical treatment of early gastric cancer, especially in elderly patients and patients in whom surgical intervention is contraindicated."}
{"id": "15520913", "title": "Influence of tumor characteristics on the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography in staging cancer of the esophagus and esophagogastric junction.", "content": "Influence of tumor characteristics on the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography in staging cancer of the esophagus and esophagogastric junction. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is the most accurate method of assessing the locoregional extent of cancer of the esophagus and esophagogastric junction. The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of tumor-related factors such as length and location on the accuracy of EUS in staging these tumors. Between January 1997 and September 2002, 280 consecutive patients underwent preoperative EUS for staging cancer of the esophagus and esophagogastric junction. The influence of histopathology, the presence of Barrett's dysplasia or stenosis, and the location and length of the primary tumor on the accuracy of EUS for T, N, and M staging were studied. The overall accuracy rates of EUS for assessing the T, N, and M stages were 73 %, 80 %, and 78 %, respectively. The influence of the tumor's histopathology and the presence of Barrett's dysplasia or stenosis was minimal. The accuracy of EUS was greater in tumors 5 cm or less in size than in tumors larger than 5 cm (82 % vs. 52 % for the T stage, P < 0.05; 88 % vs. 59 % for the N stage, P < 0.05; and 92 % vs. 56 % for the M stage, P < 0.001). The low accuracy of T staging in larger tumors may be due to the exclusion of patients with local unresectability or distant metastases. EUS was also significantly better in esophageal tumors, particularly for identifying celiac trunk metastases (93 % vs. 63 %; P < 0.001). The accuracy of EUS for staging esophageal cancer is lower in tumors larger than 5 cm and in esophagogastric junction tumors than in tumors 5 cm in size or less and in esophageal tumors. These findings should be considered when treatment decisions are being taken."}
{"id": "15520910", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography--new developments and interesting trends.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography--new developments and interesting trends."}
{"id": "15511474", "title": "Endoscopic mucosal resection as a staging technique to determine the depth of invasion of esophageal adenocarcinoma.", "content": "Endoscopic mucosal resection as a staging technique to determine the depth of invasion of esophageal adenocarcinoma. Endoscopic ablation and vagal-sparing esophagectomy offer the potential for reduced morbidity in patients with high-grade dysplasia or early esophageal adenocarcinoma, but neither includes a lymphadenectomy. Although adequate for intramucosal tumors, both are potentially inadequate for patients with submucosal tumor invasion given the high prevalence of nodal metastases with these lesions. Currently there is no test including endoscopic ultrasound that can accurately determine whether a small tumor is confined to the mucosa or has penetrated into the submucosa. The aim of this study was to compare the pathologic depth of invasion by endoscopic mucosal resection with findings and outcome after surgical resection to assess the accuracy and reliability of endoscopic mucosal resection for staging early esophageal adenocarcinoma. From 2001 to 2003, 7 patients presented with small, endoscopically visible adenocarcinomas. All underwent endoscopic mucosal resection followed by surgical resection. Analysis of the resected specimens confirmed that the endoscopic mucosal resection had accurately determined the depth of tumor invasion in all patients, and had completely excised the lesion in all but 1 patient (86%). Lymph node dissection was included as part of the resection in 2 patients with submucosal invasion by endoscopic mucosal resection, and a vagal-sparing esophagectomy was used in the 5 patients with only intramucosal tumors. All patients are alive and disease-free at a median follow-up of 7 months. Endoscopic mucosal resection accurately determines the depth of tumor invasion, and should be used as a staging procedure in patients with early esophageal cancer when therapies that do not include a lymphadenectomy are considered."}
{"id": "15483756", "title": "[Clinical utility of EUS-FNA in upper gastrointestinal and mediastinal disease].", "content": "[Clinical utility of EUS-FNA in upper gastrointestinal and mediastinal disease]. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (EUS-FNA) is increasingly used for the diagnosis of malignant and benign disease in the region of the upper GI tract. We prospectively investigated the clinical accuracy and safety of this method in unselected patients under routine conditions. 101 consecutive patients (median 61.5 years; 56 female) were enrolled in the study, in whom a total of 106 tissue biopsies were obtained by using EUS-FNA. Major indications for EUS-FNA were suspicious lesions located in the mediastinum, esophagus, stomach, pancreas, liver, biliary system, adrenals or retroperitoneum. A longitudinal echoendoscope (HITACHI FG-34UX) equipped with a standard 22G -aspiration needle was used. The aspirated specimens were analyzed further by using standard cytology and/or histology. Lymph-node biopsies were additionally subjected to flow-cytometry (FACS-light-chain restriction). Surgery was used for reference (where available). In the remaining cases the final diagnosis obtained by the clinical course and all available imaging and histologic informations (ultrasound, CT, MRT) was used for reference. EUS-FNA caused no serious complications. In 6/106 specimen (5.6 %) no sufficient cell material could be aspirated. In the remaining 100 specimens EUS-FNA reached an overall sensitivity of 78 % and a specificity of 100 %, while the accuracy was 89 % and the positive and negative predictive values were 100 % and 81 %, respectively. The greatest diagnostic accuracy was achieved in mediastinal and retroperitoneal lesions, while the accuracy of EUS-FNA in pancreatic lesions and perigastric lymph nodes was distinctly smaller (<80 %). Addition of FACS studies in patients with suspected malignant lymphoma increased the diagnostic accuracy in the small number of patients included in the study. EUS-FNA improves the tissue-based diagnosis of suspicious lesions in locations that are difficult to access (e. g., posterior mediastinum). EUS-FNA is safe, while its diagnostic accuracy is relatively high. Our preliminary data suggest that flow-cytometry may improve the fine-needle based diagnosis of non-Hodgkin s lymphoma, which should be further investigated."}
{"id": "15459495", "title": "Long-term follow-up of a pilot phase II study with neoadjuvant epidoxorubicin, etoposide and cisplatin in gastric cancer.", "content": "Long-term follow-up of a pilot phase II study with neoadjuvant epidoxorubicin, etoposide and cisplatin in gastric cancer. The prognosis in T3-T4 or N+ gastric cancer is dismal, and the role of adjuvant therapy remains uncertain. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy could improve both resectability and survival. Here, we report the results of the long-term follow-up of a pilot study aimed at evaluating a neoadjuvant treatment in a group of patients carefully staged by computed tomography (CT), endoscopic ultrasound and laparoscopy. Twenty-five stage II-III patients with histologically proven gastric adenocarcinoma were enrolled in the study. All patients gave informed consent and were thoroughly staged. Patients were treated with epidoxorubicin (40 mg/m2 i.v.) on days 1 and 4, etoposide (VP-16; 100 mg/m2) on days 1, 3 and 4 and cisplatinum (80 mg/m2) on day 2, every 21-28 days for 3 pre-operative cycles before CT clinical restaging followed by laparotomy and D2 gastrectomy. Three further cycles of chemotherapy were planned after radical surgery. Twenty-four patients received the planned pre-operative chemotherapy and underwent surgical resection; total (13 patients) or subtotal (7 patients) R0 D2 gastrectomy was possible in 20 patients. One patient died as a result of gastric bleeding. Perioperative complications occurred in 5 patients (failure of anastomosis in 1 patient and wound infection in the other 4). The pathologic response rate included 7 partial responses (29.1%) and 10 patients with stable disease (41.7%). The main toxicity was grade 3/4 neutropenia (68%), which occurred more frequently during the postoperative chemotherapy, and fatigue (68%). Fever or infection, however, were never observed. The median disease-free survival was 37 months, and median survival has not been reached after 40 months of median follow-up. One-, 2- and 3-year survival rates were 80, 64 and 60%, respectively. The notable long-term survival in the present study suggests a comparison between the neoadjuvant approach, including new drug combinations, and adjuvant chemo- or chemoradio-therapy in locally advanced gastric cancer."}
{"id": "15455287", "title": "[Gastrointestinal lymphomas].", "content": "[Gastrointestinal lymphomas]. Based on new insights into aetiology and pathogenesis of gastrointestinal lymphomas and their histomorphological and molecular characteristics, important progress in their diagnostics and therapy has been made during recent years. The WHO has established an internationally accepted classification of gastrointestinal lymphomas. Although not considered therein, from the clinical point of view a differentiation between low- and high-grade lymphomas would seem to be helpful as the grade of malignancy and stage directly determine the therapeutic strategy. Therefore, a thorough endoscopic-bioptic technique (gastric mapping) and careful clinical staging is necessary. The latter should always include endoscopic ultrasound. Helicobacter pylori represents the decisive causal factor for gastric MALT lymphomas while untreated sprue is an established risk factor for intestinal T cell lymphomas. The therapeutic spectrum ranges from Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy to the well known oncological modalities, namely chemotherapy, radiation or surgery and their combined use. However, also a watch-and-wait strategy may be a good choice in the individual case (minimal residual disease after successful Helicobacter pylori eradication or disseminated stages of indolent lymphomas not offering a curative option)."}
{"id": "15368107", "title": "Still any role for transduodenal local excision in tumors of the papilla of Vater?", "content": "Still any role for transduodenal local excision in tumors of the papilla of Vater? Tumors of the papilla and ampulla of Vater are rare neoplasms which are usually detected at an early stage due to their symptoms. The accurate preoperative histological diagnosis and staging of ampullary tumors is often difficult and inconclusive, leading to controversy over the adequate treatment of these lesions. Three procedures are currently being used to treat such tumors. Pancreatoduodenectomy (PD) is a procedure with low morbidity and mortality at experienced centers, and is considered the treatment of choice for invasive carcinoma and large benign ampullary lesions with suspicion of malignancy. Transduodenal local excision (TDE) of ampullary tumors is a relatively simple procedure with operative morbidity and mortality rates comparable to PD. TDE is challenged at endoscopic centers by endoscopic snare excision (ESE). Due to technical advances, the safety and outcomes of ESE for ampullary tumors have improved in recent years. ESE and TDE represent adequate methods for treatment of benign tumors and also for small malignant tumors detected at an early stage if the diagnosis and stage have been accurately established preoperatively. Due to the safety of PD and the technical advances of ESE, TDE is reserved for selected patients. Randomized controlled studies are needed to establish the correct indications for PD, TDE, and ESE."}
{"id": "15362758", "title": "Esophageal intramural spreading from an adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction.", "content": "Esophageal intramural spreading from an adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction. Although intramural spreading from gastric carcinoma to the esophageal wall is occasionally reported, longitudinal intramural lesion of the esophagus is very rare. We herein report the case of a patient found to have a carcinoma of the gastric cardia with intramural spreading to the esophagus approximately 7.0 cm in length. A 65-year-old man was admitted to our department suffering from a persistent midthoracic pain and mild dysphagia during the previous 3 months. Upper gastrointestinal studies revealed an oval submucosal tumor of the lower esophagus and a flare irregular lesion on the esophagogastric junction. An endoscopic ultrasonography showed the main tumor was in the submucosal layer and invaded beyond the muscularis propria. Histopathological examination of the resected specimen confirmed a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, 7.0 cm in length, which penetrated through the gastric wall, and invaded the submucosal layer of the esophagus. When only a few scattered carcinoma cells infiltrate only the mucosa or submucosa, it is difficult to diagnose the extent of esophageal invasion. In treating patients with gastric cancer with esophageal invasion, it is important to determine the safety of the proximal margin for esophageal resection. Histological examination using frozen sections obtained during surgery is essential for deciding the operative safety margin."}
{"id": "15338368", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy for the diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors in the stomach.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy for the diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors in the stomach. For the diagnosis of gastric submucosal tumors (SMTs), endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) alone does not reveal the complete pathology, such as the degree of malignancy, and EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (EUS-FNAB) has been reported to be more useful. Recently, most cases initially diagnosed as leiomyosarcomas have received further study with immunohistochemical staining and have been given the new diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). The degree of malignancy of GISTs differs widely in clinical aspects. In this study, we examined whether EUS-FNAB was useful in diagnosing GISTs and differentiating their degrees of malignancy. From January 1997 to March 2002, 21 cases of gastric GISTs were diagnosed from the immunohistochemical staining of specimens resected at Aichi Cancer Center Hospital. Of these 21 patients, 14 (5 with high-grade malignancy and 9 with low-grade malignancy) underwent EUS-FNAB preoperatively, and were examined further: their EUS-FNAB specimens were submitted for additional immunohistochemical testing. The EUS-FNAB specimens from all patients were positive for c-kit and CD34 immunohistochemical testing, coinciding with the staining results of the resected specimens. The MIB-1 labeling indices in specimens of high-grade malignancy were significantly higher than those of low-grade malignancy. If we assumed that a tumor with an MIB-1 labeling index of more than 5% was a high-grade malignancy, the diagnostic accuracy was 85.7%. The EUS-FNAB procedure is a useful tool for diagnosing GISTs of the stomach with immunohistochemical staining. When used with MIB-1 staining, the procedure may indicate GIST prognosis and influence decisions regarding therapeutic strategies."}
{"id": "15328428", "title": "Endoscopic sonographically guided fine-needle aspiration yield in submucosal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract.", "content": "Endoscopic sonographically guided fine-needle aspiration yield in submucosal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract. To study the yield of endoscopic ultrasonographically guided fine-needle aspiration cytologic examination in the diagnosis of submucosal masses. From 1999 to 2003, 10 patients underwent ultrasonographically guided fine-needle aspiration for the cytologic diagnosis of submucosal masses in our institution. The endoscopic ultrasonography records and the cytology database were consulted, and the reports were analyzed, as were slide material and the technical aspects related to these procedures. All procedures were performed under conscious sedation and cardiorespiratory monitoring on an outpatient basis. Ten patients (4 men and 6 women; mean age, 60.8 years) were studied. Eight lesions were located in the stomach, and 2 were located in the esophagus, with a mean diameter of 3.3 cm. An experienced cytopathologist was present on-site during all procedures for assessment of adequacy and preliminary cytologic examination. Cytologic diagnoses were obtained in 8 cases as follows: 6 gastrointestinal stromal tumors, 1 organizing submucosal hematoma, and 1 low-grade mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue-associated lymphoma. Two cases consisted of scant gastric epithelium only and were considered nondiagnostic. The cytologic diagnoses guided further clinical treatment. Ultrasonographically guided fine-needle aspiration with cytopathologic analysis has a high accuracy rate (80%) for diagnosing submucosal lesions. These findings potentially affect clinical decision making."}
{"id": "15297944", "title": "Imaging of esophageal and gastric cancer.", "content": "Imaging of esophageal and gastric cancer. The three major aims of imaging in esophageal and gastric cancer are to distinguish between locoregional and systemic disease (M stage), to determine local tumor extension (T and N stages), and to assess response to chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy. Depending on the applied standard of reference, the sensitivity of computed tomography (CT) for detection of distant metastases ranges between less than 50% to greater than 90%. In esophageal cancer, positron emission tomography with the glucose analog fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) has been shown to detect metastatic disease in approximately 20% of the patients who were considered to have only locoregional disease with CT. In clinical studies, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has been shown to differentiate between tumor stages T1/T2 and stages T3/T4 with an accuracy of more than 90%. Accuracy of EUS for differentiating individual tumor stages in routine clinical use has been reported to be markedly lower. Assessment of tumor response by FDG-PET has been shown to correlate with histopathologic tumor regression and patient survival. Furthermore, quantitative measurements of tumor FDG uptake may predict histopathologic tumor response and patient outcome as early as 2 weeks after initiation of preoperative chemotherapy."}
{"id": "15297943", "title": "Staging and preoperative evaluation of upper gastrointestinal malignancies.", "content": "Staging and preoperative evaluation of upper gastrointestinal malignancies. Esophageal and gastric cancers are distinct carcinomas of the upper gastrointestinal tract, although the distinction between them becomes less clear at the gastroesophageal junction (GEJ). Increasingly accurate staging is possible based on newer radiographic and surgical techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET), laparoscopy and thoracoscopy, laparoscopic ultrasound, and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). For both cancer types, tumor classification is determined by depth of penetration of the primary tumor into the gastric or esophageal wall. For esophageal cancer, primary tumor anatomic position-upper, mid, and lower esophagus-is used to define the local nodal basin. Metastases in nodes outside the local basin are considered to be distant (M) rather than regional (N). In gastric cancer, the region of nodal metastasis has been abandoned in favor of the number of lymph nodes containing metastasis, which predicts outcome more accurately-patients with more than 15 positive lymph nodes have an outcome comparable to those with M disease. Increasing consideration is being given to the subclassification of tumors near the GEJ into types based on anatomical position, although this staging scheme (\"Adenocarcinoma of the EsophagoGastric junction\" or AEG type) has not yet been universally adopted. We review the current pathologic staging systems for esophageal and gastric cancers, the clinical staging approaches for these diseases, and the controversy surrounding classification of tumors of the GEJ."}
{"id": "15293725", "title": "[Endosonographic diagnosis of the depth of cancer invasion of the alimentary tube].", "content": "[Endosonographic diagnosis of the depth of cancer invasion of the alimentary tube]."}
{"id": "15261752", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) was introduced in the early 1980s in an attempt to improve sonographic imaging of the pancreas. Its uses have been expanded to include examination of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tracts, hepatobiliary and portal systems,and the anal sphincter; diagnosis and staging of esophageal, gastric,and pancreaticobiliary tumors; and evaluation of mediastinal nodes in lung cancer. Although EUS has its limitations and is greatly dependent on operator skill, it has wide-ranging interventional and therapeutic applications that can be expected to increase in the future with technologic advances and greater educational opportunities for physicians."}
{"id": "15254045", "title": "Multi-institutional trial of preoperative chemoradiotherapy in patients with potentially resectable gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Multi-institutional trial of preoperative chemoradiotherapy in patients with potentially resectable gastric carcinoma. In the West, curative (R0) resection is achieved in approximately 50% of patients with localized gastric carcinoma, and more than 60% die of cancer following an R0 resection. A multi-institutional study of preoperative chemoradiotherapy was done to assess the R0 resection rate, pathologic complete response (pathCR) rate, safety, and survival in patients with resectable gastric carcinoma. Operable patients with localized gastric adenocarcinoma were eligible. Staging also included a laparoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). Patients received up to two 28-day cycles of induction chemotherapy of fluorouracil, leucovorin, and cisplatin, followed by 45 Gy of radiation plus concurrent fluorouracil. Patients were then staged and surgery was attempted. Thirty-four patients were registered at three institutions. One ineligible patient was excluded. Most patients had a promixal cancer and EUST3N1 designation. Twenty-eight (85%) of 33 patients underwent surgery. The R0 resection rate was 70% and pathCR rate was 30%. A pathologic partial response (< 10% residual carcinoma in the primary) occurred in eight patients (24%). EUS T plus N and postsurgery T plus N correlation showed significant downstaging (P = <.01). The median survival time for 33 patients was 33.7 months. Patients achieving a pathCR or pathPR had a significantly longer median survival time (63.9 months) than those achieving less than pathPR (12.6 months; P =.03). There were two treatment-related deaths. Our data suggest that the three-step strategy of preoperative induction chemotherapy followed by chemoradiotherapy resulted in substantial pathologic response that resulted in durable survival time. This strategy is worthy of a direct comparison with postoperative adjuvant chemoradiotherapy."}
{"id": "15243886", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis and staging of neoplasms of the head and neck.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis and staging of neoplasms of the head and neck. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) is a minimally invasive and highly accurate method of detecting mediastinal lymph-node metastases in gastrointestinal and lung cancer. Little information is available regarding the use of EUS-FNA to stage tumors in the head and neck region. This study reports experience with EUS in the diagnosis and staging of these tumors and their mediastinal spread. The records of patients who underwent EUS for diagnosis and/or staging of head and neck tumors were reviewed. Referral criteria were suspected invasion of the esophagus by a lower-neck mass on cervical computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or mediastinal lymphadenopathy > 10 mm on a chest CT. Thirty-two patients (23 men, nine women; mean age 65 years, range 44 - 80) were referred and underwent 35 EUS examinations. In one patient, EUS was not possible due to a benign esophageal stricture. In 17 patients with suspected esophageal invasion on CT scans, EUS demonstrated invasion of the esophagus in four cases and of the pleura in one; 12 tumors showed no visible invasion of adjacent structures. The other 17 examinations were carried out for suspected mediastinal metastatic disease. In eight cases, EUS-FNA confirmed metastatic disease, whereas only benign changes were shown in the other nine cases. EUS-FNA also provided the first tissue diagnosis in two primary tumors and identified malignancy in one patient with no CT suspicion of positive mediastinal lymph nodes. EUS avoided the need for more invasive investigations in all patients with mediastinal lymphadenopathy, and it changed the management in 12 of the 17 patients (71 %) with suspected esophageal invasion and in eight of the 17 patients (47 %) with suspected mediastinal disease. EUS with FNA provides a viable approach to the diagnosis and staging of tumors in the head and neck region when there is a suggestion of esophageal invasion on CT or MRI, or enlarged mediastinal lymph nodes. EUS with FNA may avoid the need for mediastinoscopy or other more invasive techniques for staging of these neoplasms."}
{"id": "15243885", "title": "Endosonography versus helical computed tomography for locoregional staging of gastric cancer.", "content": "Endosonography versus helical computed tomography for locoregional staging of gastric cancer. Endosonography (EUS) has been shown to be more accurate than incremental computed tomography (CT) in the local (T) and regional (N) staging of gastric carcinoma; however, EUS has never been compared with helical CT (HCT). The fifth edition of the TNM classification changed the guidelines for N-staging of gastric carcinoma. The accuracy of imaging methods in this new system remains unknown. Staging accuracy of EUS and HCT were compared prospectively with pathological or intraoperative findings in 88 gastric carcinoma patients. Staging was done according to the fourth and fifth editions of the TNM classification. EUS was done with a radial echo endoscope, and HCT with a scanner with two rows of detectors (two-phase contrast-enhanced scanning of a water-filled stomach). The T-staging accuracy of EUS (63 %, CI 52 - 73 %) was superior to the accuracy of HCT (44 %, CI 34 - 55 %; P = 0.021). N-staging accuracy of both methods was similar when the fourth edition of the TNM classification was used (EUS 47 %, CI 34 - 60 %; HCT 52 %, CI 38 - 65 %). However, HCT was more accurate than EUS when the fifth edition of the classification was applied (EUS 30 %, CI 18 - 43 %, HCT 47 %, CI 34 - 60 %; P = 0.044). The accuracy of detection of lymph node metastases was similar for both methods (EUS 67 %, CI 54 - 78 %; HCT 77 %, CI 64 - 86 %). EUS is more accurate than HCT in the T-staging of gastric carcinoma. Both methods are comparable for N-staging, when this is done according to the older, fourth edition of the TNM classification. If the fifth edition is used, EUS is less accurate than HCT."}
{"id": "15240535", "title": "Detection of lymph node micrometastases by gene promoter hypermethylation in samples obtained by endosonography- guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy.", "content": "Detection of lymph node micrometastases by gene promoter hypermethylation in samples obtained by endosonography- guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy. Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) has become a fundamental procedure for gastrointestinal and lung cancer staging. However, there is growing evidence that micrometastases are present in lymph nodes, which cannot be detected with standard pathological methods. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether hypermethylation gene promoter analysis was feasible on samples obtained by EUS-FNA from lymph nodes, as well as to establish the usefulness of this strategy for the detection of micrometastases in patients with gastrointestinal and non-small cell lung cancer. Suspicious lymph nodes based on EUS findings from consecutive patients with esophageal, gastric, rectal, and non-small cell lung cancer were sampled by EUS-FNA. Hypermethylation analysis of the MGMT, p16(INK4a), and p14(ARF) gene promoter CpG islands were performed by methylation-specific PCR. Effectiveness of conventional cytology, methylation analysis, and their combination were established with respect to the definitive diagnosis. Twenty-seven patients were included, thus representing a total of 42 lymph nodes (esophageal cancer, n = 11; rectal cancer, n = 7; gastric cancer, n = 3; and lung cancer, n = 21). According to definitive diagnosis, 21 (50%) corresponded to metastatic lymph nodes. Sensitivity, specificity, and overall accuracy of conventional cytology were 76%, 100%, and 88%, respectively, whereas the corresponding values for the methylation analysis were 81%, 67%, and 74%, respectively. Combination of both techniques increased sensitivity (90%) but decreased specificity (67%) with respect to conventional cytology. In conclusion, it is feasible to detect occult neoplastic cells in EUS-FNA samples by hypermethylation gene promoter analysis. Moreover, addition of methylation analysis to conventional cytology may increase its sensitivity at the expenses of a decrease in its specificity."}
{"id": "15239279", "title": "Preoperative assessment of the depth of early gastric cancer invasion by transabdominal ultrasound sonography (TUS): a comparison with endoscopic ultrasound sonography (EUS).", "content": "Preoperative assessment of the depth of early gastric cancer invasion by transabdominal ultrasound sonography (TUS): a comparison with endoscopic ultrasound sonography (EUS). Transabdominal ultrasound sonography (TUS) is considered a useful diagnostic tool ascertaining depth of cancer invasion, but there are few detailed studies on its accuracy in preoperative estimations of depth of invasion in early gastric cancer (mucosal and submucosal cancer). We retrospectively analyzed the clinical efficacy of preoperative evaluation by TUS in early gastric cancer in comparison with endoscopic ultrasound sonography (EUS). A total of 101 patients preoperatively diagnosed as early gastric cancer were enrolled in the current study. Patients were given 300cc of water subsequent to administration of an anti-peristaltic agent to facilitate filling the gastric lesion with water and TUS was performed. All patients were preoperatively examined by both EUS and TUS. The depth accuracy in mucosal cancer was 59% with EUS and 66% with TUS. When submucosal cancers were subdivided into shallow and deep submucosal cancers, the depth of mucosal and shallow-submucosal (SM1) cancers were correctly assessed 80% and 78% by EUS and TUS, respectively. Accuracy increased by 12% in mucosal cancer by combining EUS and TUS diagnoses. The diagnostic value of TUS is comparable to that of EUS in assessing depth of invasion of early gastric cancer, however, TUS had a possibility of misdiagnosing the depth of tumors located at the anterior wall. To ensure an accurate estimation of the depth of tumor invasion, it is recommended that TUS and EUS be done simultaneously."}
{"id": "15229778", "title": "Regression of gastric malt-lymphoma under specific therapy may be predict by endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Regression of gastric malt-lymphoma under specific therapy may be predict by endoscopic ultrasound. Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphomas represent a relatively new described class of rare lymphomas, characterized by an indolent course and favourable outcome with specific therapy. Gastric MALT lymphomas are associated with chronic Helicobacter pylori (HP) infection. We report the case of a 67 year old man admitted for an 8-month history of epigastric pain, anorexia and progressive weight loss. He was diagnosed with low-grade primary gastric MALT lymphoma by endoscopy, histopathological examination of gastric mucosa (light microscopy and immunohistochemistry) and endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). The patient received a 2-week course of anti-HP therapy and chemotherapy with Chlorambucil 0.1 mg/kg/day was started. During the follow-up, continuous improvement of clinical status, endoscopic and EUS appearance was noted. We conclude that, facing the trend toward nonsurgical treatment modalities for primary gastric lymphoma, EUS appears an important tool for staging the disease and defining cases suitable for anti-HP, radio- and chemotherapy, as well as for the detection of local recurrence."}
{"id": "15209752", "title": "Thoracoscopic enucleation of esophageal stromal tumor.", "content": "Thoracoscopic enucleation of esophageal stromal tumor. Gastrointestinal stromal tumor is a rare entity, especially in the esophagus. We report a patient with a stromal tumor of the esophagus who underwent a thoracoscopic enucleation of the tumor. The patient was a 61-year-old man complaining of slight dysphagia. A submucosal tumor of the middle thoracic esophagus was found endoscopically. The tumor was approximately 4.0 cm in diameter measured by endoscopic ultrasonography. On 17 May 2001, thoracoscopic enucleation of the esophageal tumor was performed using a Kodama Di-suction. The Kodama Di-suction was useful for the thoracoscopic enucleation of the submucosal tumor of the esophagus, acting as both a dissector and a sucker. The patient's course was uneventful after surgery. Histopathologically the esophageal tumor revealed a high cellularity, consisting of spindle cells, and the tumor cells were immunohistochemically positive for CD34 and c-kit protein, but not for a-smooth muscle actin or S-100 protein. From these findings, the esophageal submucosal tumor was diagnosed as gastrointestinal stromal tumor, distinguished from leiomyoma."}
{"id": "15202101", "title": "Neoplasms of the esophagus and stomach.", "content": "Neoplasms of the esophagus and stomach. Esophageal cancer is one of the most lethal of all neoplasms. During the last two decades, there have been significant changes in the epidemiology and treatment of esophageal cancer. The incidence of adenocarcinoma is increasing whereas that of squamous cancer is decreasing. Surgery, the mainstay of treatment of esophageal cancer, has been used with neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy to improve prognosis in patients with localized disease. Accurate staging is essential for selection of the best mode of therapy and to predict prognosis. In addition, with widespread use of neoadjuvant therapy, accurate assessment of response to therapy has become very important because responders have better a prognosis than nonresponders. Anatomical imaging methods, such as computed tomography and endoscopic ultrasonography, that are commonly used to evaluate esophageal cancer have shortcomings in demonstrating the true extent of disease and in assessing or predicting response to therapy. Positron emission tomography (PET) with 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) has been shown to be a useful adjunct to anatomical imaging methods. For initial staging of esophageal cancer, the combination of PET and endoscopic ultrasonography with fine-needle aspiration biopsy has been suggested to be the most effective strategy. For restaging and monitoring response to therapy, FDG-PET has been shown to be superior to conventional imaging. The incidence of gastric cancer is decreasing worldwide, but it is also a highly lethal cancer. Similar to esophageal cancer, noninvasive staging of this cancer is unsatisfactory. Approximately one-third of the patients thought to have limited disease and to be candidates for surgery by conventional staging methods, are found to have advanced disease at surgery. Only a few published studies have evaluated gastric cancer with FDG-PET. These studies suggest that FDG-PET may be useful in evaluating gastric cancers of intestinal type and nonmucinous tumors."}
{"id": "15181133", "title": "Detection of distant metastases in esophageal cancer with (18)F-FDG PET.", "content": "Detection of distant metastases in esophageal cancer with (18)F-FDG PET. Standard staging of esophageal and gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) tumors substantially lacks accuracy. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the addition of PET with (18)F-FDG is a valuable gain in the initial staging. Between January 1996 and January 2002, (18)F-FDG PET was performed in 74 patients. Conventional staging included CT in all patients and well-performed endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in 52 patients. They were compared with (18)F-FDG PET with pathology and follow-up of suspicious lesions as the gold standard. PET identified 70 primary tumors (sensitivity, 95%). Sensitivity to identify locoregional metastases was highest for EUS (69%) but was not different for CT and PET (44% and 55%, respectively). PET was able to identify distant nodal disease in 71% (17/24 patients) compared with 29% (7/24 patients) after combined CT/EUS alone (P = 0.021). Sensitivity to detect distant nodal and systemic (M1) disease increased with PET (78% vs. 37%; P = 0.012). PET upstaged 15 patients (15/74; 20%) correctly as M1 disease, missed by CT/EUS, and correctly downstaged 4 patients (5%) from M1 to M0 disease. However, false upstaging and downstaging was encountered in 5 (7%) and 3 (4%) patients, respectively. PET improves the currently applied staging of esophageal and GEJ tumors, particularly by ameliorating the detection of M1 disease."}
{"id": "15170656", "title": "Tumor localization using laparoscopic ultrasound for a small submucosal tumor.", "content": "Tumor localization using laparoscopic ultrasound for a small submucosal tumor."}
{"id": "15167828", "title": "Symptoms before and after surgical removal of colorectal endometriosis that are assessed by magnetic resonance imaging and rectal endoscopic sonography.", "content": "Symptoms before and after surgical removal of colorectal endometriosis that are assessed by magnetic resonance imaging and rectal endoscopic sonography. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of colorectal resection for endometriosis on symptoms and quality of life or on potential side effects. After magnetic resonance imaging and rectal endoscopic sonographic evaluations of symptomatic colorectal endometriosis, 27 consecutive women who underwent colorectal resection were included in this prospective study. They completed symptom questionnaires before and after the procedure. Linear pain scores for several gynecologic and digestive symptoms and impact on quality of life were recorded. The sensitivity and positive predictive value of magnetic resonance imaging and rectal endoscopic sonographic evaluation for the diagnosis of colorectal endometriosis were 92.6% and 100% and 89% and 100%, respectively. Nonmenstrual pelvic pain (P = .001), dysmenorrhea (P < .0001), dyspareunia (P = .0002), and pain on defecation (P < .005) were improved by colorectal resection. No correlation was found between symptom intensity and lesion size, as evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging, rectal endoscopic sonographic evaluation, or histologic examination of the surgical specimen. Respectively, the conditions of 14, 11, 0, and 2 women were cured, improved, unchanged, or worsened. Median overall pre- and postoperative quality-of-life scores were 9 (range, 4-10) and 0 (range, 0-10), respectively (P < .0001). Colorectal resection for endometriosis appears to relieve some symptoms. However, women should be informed that some symptoms may persist and that there is a risk of urinary and digestive side effects."}
{"id": "15160337", "title": "Preoperative induction of CPT-11 and cisplatin chemotherapy followed by chemoradiotherapy in patients with locoregional carcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction.", "content": "Preoperative induction of CPT-11 and cisplatin chemotherapy followed by chemoradiotherapy in patients with locoregional carcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction. Patients with localized esophageal carcinoma often develop locoregional and distant disease recurrence. The current study investigated the outcome of a new chemotherapy combination as induction therapy before chemoradiotherapy. Forty-three patients with resectable carcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction were enrolled. Most of the tumors were endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) (EUS)T3 (84%) and (EUS)N1 (63%). The patients received < or = 2 6-week cycles of CPT-11 and cisplatin followed by chemoradiotherapy (45 grays with 5-fluorouracil and paclitaxel). Five to six weeks after chemoradiotherapy, the patients underwent staging and surgery. The feasibility, curative resection rates, overall and disease-free survival rates, rate of significant pathologic response, and patterns of disease recurrence were assessed. Of the 43 patients, 39 (91%) underwent an R0 resection. Two patients (5%) died after surgery. A pathologic complete response (pathCR) was observed in 11 (28%) of the 39 patients (or 26% of the 43 patients). In addition, 16 patients (41% of 39 patients or 37% of 43 patients) had < 10% viable tumor in the surgical specimen (pathPR). A comparison of endoscopic ultrasonograpy T and N classifications with surgical T and N classifications demonstrated significant down-staging (P < 0.01). The median survival period of all 43 patients was 22.1 months. Patients who had achieved a pathCR or pathPR had a longer median survival (25.6 months) than those who achieved less than a pathPR (18.5 months; P = 0.52). None of the clinical parameters examined were found to correlate with survival or pathologic response. CPT-11-based induction chemotherapy resulted in substantial pathCR and pathPR rates, both of which lead to a favorable survival outcome. The three-step strategy needs to be developed further, with the investigation of targeted therapies with chemotherapy and radiotherapy."}
{"id": "15145719", "title": "Comparison of special interest computed tomography, endosonography and histopathological stage of oesophageal cancer.", "content": "Comparison of special interest computed tomography, endosonography and histopathological stage of oesophageal cancer. To assess the strength of agreement between the perceived pre-operative stage of oesophageal tumours as determined by spiral computed tomography (CT) and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), both alone and in combination, with the histopathological stage. Sixty patients with oesophageal cancer underwent both pre-operative CT and EUS performed by two consultant radiologists with a special interest in upper gastrointestinal radiology. The strength of the agreement between the radiological stage and the histopathological stage was determined by means of the weighted Kappa statistic (Kw). Sensitivity for T and N stages was 58% and 79% for CT, and 72% and 91% for EUS. Specificity for T and N stages was 80% and 84% for CT, and 85% and 68% for EUS. Kw for T and N stages was 0.455 (p=0.0001) and 0.603 (p=0.0001) for CT compared with 0.604 (p=0.0001) and 0.610 (p=0.0001) for EUS. In patients when CT and EUS agreed regarding the T and N stages, the strength of agreement between the radiological and the histopathological stage was greater (Kw T 0.613 (p=0.0001), Kw N 0.781 (p=0.0001)). CT and EUS are complimentary techniques for the staging of oesophageal tumours, and these results reinforce the importance of specialist radiology in stage directed management."}
{"id": "15123091", "title": "Ultrasound-guided endoscopic surgery.", "content": "Ultrasound-guided endoscopic surgery. Ten years' development of sectorial linear endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has allowed us to perform guided biopsies of lymph nodes, mediastinal masses and pancreatic tumours. Furthermore, biopsy guided by EUS has been the first step in the development of interventional EUS. This development, in turn, has been made possible by the appearance of the interventional echoendoscope with a large working channel. EUS-guided biopsy obtains the best results for lymph nodes, anastomotic relapses and extrinsicz compression as well as for pancreatic tumours. Results in the literature show a global sensitivity of the technique that varies between 76 and 91%, a specificity of 84-100% and an accuracy of 78-94%. Using alcohol injection of the plexus nerves, the coeliac block guided by EUS is a simple technique. It will replace percutaneous access under US or CT scan guidance. Data from the literature show a significant reduction in pain of the order of 85-90% of cases-results that would have been good for percutaneous techniques. The technique of cystoenterostomy guided by EUS allows more accurate drainage of the cysts with a lower risk of perforation and haemorrhage. With regard to haemorrhage it should be emphasized that colour Doppler and power Doppler assessment of the punctures rules out the risk of vascular perforation during puncture but the risk of haemorrhage due to decompression of a vascular lesion in the vicinity of the cyst remains. The new ultrasound echoendoscope EG 38X, with a large working channel (3.8 mm), is now available. This system allows more effective drainage and also enables the placement of cystodigestive stents."}
{"id": "15108226", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration of lymph nodes: the Hennepin County Medical Center experience.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration of lymph nodes: the Hennepin County Medical Center experience. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA) allows for the sampling and diagnosis of lesions of the gastrointestinal system and adjacent tissues. It has also proved helpful with the sampling of lymphadenopathy both for the staging of malignancy and for the diagnosis of lymphadenopathy of other causes. We review our experience with EUS-guided FNA of lymph nodes. The cytology files were searched at Hennepin County Medical Center (HCMC) for all cases of lymph nodes sampled by EUS. Clinical history, biopsy site, diagnosis, and follow-up information (including ancillary testing) were reviewed. Between January 1, 2000 and December 5, 2002, 217 lymph nodes from 185 different patients were sampled by EUS at HCMC. Biopsy sites included 62 mediastinal, 9 paraesophageal, and 146 intra-abdominal lymph nodes. Diagnoses were as follows: metastatic non-small cell carcinoma (n = 69); benign, reactive lymph node (n = 76); granulomatous lymphadenopathy (n = 18); malignant lymphoma (n = 7); atypical-suspicious for malignancy (n = 5); metastatic small cell carcinoma (n = 2); necrotic debris (n = 4), and foreign material (n = 1); 35 cases were nondiagnostic (16.1%) in 22 of 185 patients (11.9%). Ancillary tests including flow cytometry, cytogenetics, and cultures were performed. EUS-guided FNA of mediastinal and intra-abdominal lymph nodes provides diagnostic material from which ancillary testing may be performed."}
{"id": "15106347", "title": "[Three-dimensional medical images for upper gastrointestinal lesions].", "content": "[Three-dimensional medical images for upper gastrointestinal lesions]. Virtual endoscopy (VE), three-dimensional endoscopic ultrasonography(3-DEUS) and three-dimensional ultrasonography(3D-US) have been utilized for three-dimensional medical images of upper gastrointestinal lesions. VE images are similar to endoscopic images. But because the detection rate of early gastric cancers is from 39.6% to 78%, it is difficult to use for the screening of gastric lesions now. 3-DEUS has been used for assessment of depth of cancerous invasion or treatment for esophageal and gastric cancer. Accuracy of cancerous invasion has been improved by 3-DEUS because both radial images and lineal images are able to be observed simultaneously. One of benefit in 3D-US is not invasive. These methods are thought to be improved and to be popularized."}
{"id": "15086218", "title": "Diagnostic evaluation of patients with early gastric cancer--a literature review.", "content": "Diagnostic evaluation of patients with early gastric cancer--a literature review. Despite the reduction in the incidence and mortality of gastric cancer in recent years, it remains one of the most common and lethal malignant neoplasms worldwide. The diagnosis of gastric cancer at an early stage (early gastric cancer) represents the only hope for improving survival of these patients. Upper GI endoscopy (including chromoendoscopy and magnifying endoscopy) remains the corner-stone for diagnosis, although other modalities such as endoscopic ultrasonography, conventional radiographs, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and virtual endoscopy, are helpful. Histology always seals the correct diagnosis, and makes the final staging. The experience of the endoscopist is a critical point related to correct diagnosis. Better awareness by endoscopists of the various appearances of early gastric cancer, is mandatory. In this review, we discuss the epidemiology, biological characteristics and diagnosis of early gastric cancer based on data derived from the currently available literature."}
{"id": "15083179", "title": "High curative resection rate with weekly cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, epidoxorubicin, 6S-leucovorin, glutathione, and filgastrim in patients with locally advanced, unresectable gastric cancer: a report from the Italian Group for the Study of Digestive Tract Cancer (GISCAD).", "content": "High curative resection rate with weekly cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, epidoxorubicin, 6S-leucovorin, glutathione, and filgastrim in patients with locally advanced, unresectable gastric cancer: a report from the Italian Group for the Study of Digestive Tract Cancer (GISCAD). The aim of the present study was to evaluate the role of a weekly preoperative chemotherapy in locally advanced, unresectable gastric cancer. In all, 82 patients with an Eastern Oncology Cooperative Group PS <or=2 and normal cardiac function were enrolled onto the study. Surgical unresectability was confirmed in 52 patients (63%) at laparotomy, and in 30 (27%) cases by CT scan of the abdomen and endoscopic ultrasonography. Chemotherapy treatment was: cisplatin 40 mg x m(-2); 5-fluorouracil 500 mg x m(-2); epidoxorubicin 35 mg x m(-2); 6S-leucovorin 250 mg x m(-2) and glutathione 1.5 g x m(-2) (PELF). One cycle consisted of 8 weekly treatments. Response to chemotherapy was observed in 40 of 82 patients (49%): six (7%) complete and 34 (41%) partial responses, and in four (5%) cases a complete pathological response was confirmed. Of the 40 responding patients, 37 (45%) had potentially curative surgery. Grade 3/4 leucopenia and thrombocytopenia occurred in three and two patients. At a median follow-up of 48 months, 25 of the 37 resected patients (68%) were alive and 24 (65%) were disease free. The median and 4-year survival for the whole group was 17 months and 31%, respectively. The median survival was 12 months for inoperable patients and it was not reached in resected patients."}
{"id": "15056091", "title": "Preoperative staging and tumor resectability assessment of pancreatic cancer: prospective study comparing endoscopic ultrasonography, helical computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and angiography.", "content": "Preoperative staging and tumor resectability assessment of pancreatic cancer: prospective study comparing endoscopic ultrasonography, helical computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and angiography. The objective of this study was to evaluate prospectively the efficacy of different strategies based on endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), helical computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and angiography (A) in the staging and tumor resectability assessment of pancreatic cancer. All consecutive patients with pancreatic carcinoma judged fit for laparotomy were studied by EUS, CT, MRI, and A. Results of each of the imaging techniques regarding primary tumor, locoregional extension, lymph-node involvement, vascular invasion, distant metastases, tumor TNM stage, and tumor resectability were compared with the surgical findings. Univariate, logistic regression, decision, and cost minimization analyses were performed. Sixty-two patients with pancreatic cancer were included. Helical CT had the highest accuracy in assessing extent of primary tumor (73%), locoregional extension (74%), vascular invasion (83%), distant metastases (88%), tumor TNM stage (46%), and tumor resectability (83%), whereas EUS had the highest accuracy in assessing tumor size (r = 0.85) and lymph node involvement (65%). The decision analysis demonstrated that the best strategy to assess tumor resectability was based on CT or EUS as initial test, followed by the alternative technique in those potentially resectable cases. Cost minimization analysis favored the sequential strategy in which EUS was used as a confirmatory technique in those patients in whom helical CT suggested resectability of the tumor. Helical CT and EUS are the most useful individual imaging techniques in the staging of pancreatic cancer. In those cases with potentially resectable tumors a sequential approach consisting of helical CT as an initial test and EUS as a confirmatory technique seems to be the most reliable and cost minimization strategy."}
{"id": "15042821", "title": "[Laparoscopic assessment of resectability of upper gastrointestinal cancer].", "content": "[Laparoscopic assessment of resectability of upper gastrointestinal cancer]."}
{"id": "15028314", "title": "The role of staging investigations for oesophago-gastric carcinoma.", "content": "The role of staging investigations for oesophago-gastric carcinoma. To study the frequency with which unresectable disease was identified on pre-operative staging investigations in patients with oesophago-gastric carcinoma, and to audit whether a staging protocol had reduced the rate of exploratory surgery. Ninety-eight patients with oesophageal carcinoma, 89 patients with adenocarcinoma of the gastro-oesophageal junction (GOJ) and 68 patients with gastric carcinoma were staged according to a protocol of computerised tomography, laparoscopy and endoscopic ultrasound. The frequency with which each investigation identified unresectable disease was as follows: (a) computerised tomography-oesophagus 12/67, GOJ 13/58, stomach 10/60; (b) laparoscopy-oesophagus 3/22, GOJ 5/45, stomach 8/23; and (c) endoscopic ultrasound-oesophagus 15/55, GOJ 3/30. By tumour location, rates of exploratory surgery were 1/18 for the oesophagus, 12/35 for the GOJ and 4/42 for the stomach. All of the staging failures in patients with GOJ carcinomas related to posterior tumour extension into the lesser sac. Staging investigations precluded resection in one-third of patients, the greatest yield being for laparoscopy in gastric carcinoma. In spite of this, 18% of patients undergoing surgical intervention underwent exploratory surgery alone, notably patients with GOJ carcinoma."}
{"id": "15023013", "title": "Gastric cancer: diagnosis and treatment options.", "content": "Gastric cancer: diagnosis and treatment options. Although the overall incidence of gastric cancer has steadily declined in the United States, it is estimated that more than 12,000 persons died from gastric cancer in 2003. The incidence of distal stomach tumors has greatly declined, but reported cases of proximal gastric carcinomas, including tumors at the gastroesophageal junction, have increased. Early diagnosis of gastric cancer is difficult because most patients are asymptomatic in the early stage. Weight loss and abdominal pain often are late signs of tumor progression. Chronic atrophic gastritis, Helicobacter pylori infection, smoking, heavy alcohol use, and several dietary factors have been linked to increased risks for gastric cancer. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy is the preferred diagnostic modality for evaluation of patients in whom stomach cancer is suspected. Accurate staging of gastric wall invasion and lymph node involvement is important for determining prognosis and appropriate treatment. Endoscopic ultrasonography, in combination with computed tomographic scanning and operative lymph node dissection, may be involved in staging the tumor. Treatment with surgery alone offers a high rate of failure. Chemotherapy and radiotherapy have not improved survival rates when used as single modalities, but combined therapy has shown some promise. Primary prevention, by control of modifiable risk factors and increased surveillance of persons at increased risk, is important in decreasing morbidity and mortality."}
{"id": "15007245", "title": "New concepts of staging in gastrointestinal tumors as a basis of diagnosis and multimodal therapy.", "content": "New concepts of staging in gastrointestinal tumors as a basis of diagnosis and multimodal therapy. The therapy of gastrointestinal tumors is becoming more and more sophisticated and complex. This is due to an improved understanding of the pathogenesis of tumors, a more detailed classification and increasing therapeutic options. The basis of optimized therapeutic concepts is the exact evaluation of tumor spread and exact staging. The following review describes some of the most recent staging concepts in gastrointestinal tumors. Multislice computed tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET) and new supraparamagnetic iron oxide contrast agents for magnetic resonance imaging enable an increasing quality of the visualization of tumors and metastases. 3D imaging will be used for planning of surgical interventions in the future. Optical coherence tomography may contribute to an improved tumor staging and, thus, to the safety of limited interventions in early oesophageal- and gastric cancer patients. Laparoscopy and laparoscopic ultrasound become increasingly important for the identification of small metastases in the peritoneum, in lymph nodes and in the liver. The sentinel lymph node concept will contribute to an improved staging and individualized therapy as well."}
{"id": "15006581", "title": "Right gastroepiploic artery occlusion test for resection of recurrent lesion after esophageal reconstruction using a gastric tube.", "content": "Right gastroepiploic artery occlusion test for resection of recurrent lesion after esophageal reconstruction using a gastric tube. Blood supply to a reconstructed gastric tube after esophagectomy is mainly through the right gastroepiploic artery (RGEA); therefore, a recurrent lesion involving the RGEA is thought to be unresectable, or if possible, resectable combined with a whole gastric tube. We developed a new method of right gastroepiploic artery occlusion test for evaluation of the blood circulation of a reconstructed gastric tube in a patient who has a recurrent lesion involving the RGEA. A balloon occlusion catheter is inserted into the RGEA through the celiac trunk through a 7 Fr angiographic catheter, and the balloon is inflated. Celiac angiography and color Doppler endoscopic ultrasonography can evaluate intragastric blood flow from the right gastric artery during occlusion of the RGEA. We present a case of successful resection of celiac lymph node metastasis invading the RGEA and the celiac trunk after esophageal reconstruction using a gastric tube. When ligation of the right gastroepiploic artery is needed, the test is safe and simple to perform; and findings can be reliably evaluated by angiography and color Doppler endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "14996154", "title": "Role of endoscopic ultrasonography in preoperative staging of gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Role of endoscopic ultrasonography in preoperative staging of gastric carcinoma. Preoperative staging of tumour extent in upper gastrointestinal malignancy greatly facilitates planning of therapy. The present study was undertaken to see whether preoperative endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) accurately predicts the tumour stage in gastric carcinoma. Endoscopic ultrasonography was performed preoperatively on 112 patients with gastric cancer. All 112 patients underwent surgery. The results of EUS were compared with postoperative histological staging. Endoscopic ultrasonography was correct in determining the primary tumour (T) and regional lymph node (N) staging in 83.0% and 64.2% of patients, respectively. EUS was correct in determining the absence of lymph node metastasis in 87.5% but was not reliable in determining metastasis in one to six regional lymph nodes (N1) and metastasis in seven to 15 regional lymph nodes (N2) stages; (61.5% and 33.3%, respectively). Of 26 patients with N1 stage, 10 had false negative results, whereas 11 patients in stage N2 were diagnosed endoscopically as stage N1. The sensitivity and specificity were 67.2% and 89%, respectively. The actual resection rate (75%) was almost identical to the rate predicted preoperatively by EUS (78%). Endoscopic ultrasonography staging is the most accurate method for discriminating between potentially resectable (tumour invading lamina propria or submucosa (T1) to tumour that penetrates the serosa (visceral peritoneum) without invading adjacent structures (T3)) and potentially non-resectable (tumour invading adjacent structures (T4)) cases of upper gastrointestinal cancer."}
{"id": "14990127", "title": "[The clinical value of miniature ultrasonic probes on diagnosis and treatment of digestive tract diseases].", "content": "[The clinical value of miniature ultrasonic probes on diagnosis and treatment of digestive tract diseases]. To investigate the clinical value of miniature ultrasonic probes (MUP) in the diagnosis and treatment of digestive tract diseases. 537 patients who were indicated for endoscopic ultrasorography (EUS) underwent EUS with 7.5 - 20 MHz MUP and double-cavity electronic endoscope. According to the diagnoses of MUP, those patients who presented the indication of treatment were treated by endoscopic resection or surgical excision respectively, the postoperative histological results were compared with the preoperative diagnoses of MUP. A follow-up with MUP was periodically made for a few patients without endoscopic resection or surgical excision. Among the 537 patients the diagnosis of gastrointestinal submucosal lesions was made in the 256 cases, polyp in 56 cases, inflammatory prominence in 37 cases, extrinsic compression 53 cases, digestive tract cancer 50 cases, peptic ulcer 17 cases, cholecystolithiasis 11 cases, chronic pancreatitis in 8 cases, and achalasia 2 cases and 47 cases were diagnosed as normal, After examination of MUP, 220 patients were treated by endoscopic resection or surgical excision respectively, the postoperative histological results of 211 patients were completely consistent with the preoperative diagnosis of MUP, and diagnostic accuracy of MUP was 95.9%. The result of follow-up with MUP indicated that gastrointestinal leiomyoma, lipoma, phlebangioma and cyst were unchanged within 1 - 2 years. The patients who were treated by endoscopic resection or centesis showed no complication. EUS with MUP is a valuable method in diagnosis of gastrointestinal submucosal lesions, staging of digestive tract cancer and diagnosis of biliary-pancreatic diseases. It plays a very important role for making scientific, effective, safe and economic therapeutic plan."}
{"id": "14963789", "title": "[Requirements and recommendations for performing endosonographies].", "content": "[Requirements and recommendations for performing endosonographies]. For improvement of quality the working group of the Society of Gastroenterology in Nordrhein-Westfalen (Germany) was engaged with the questions, which apparative, personal and training conditions for endoscopic ultrasound are useful. The following proposals were preliminarily presented at the annual Congress of the DGVS (German Society of Digestive and Metabolic Diseases) 2001. They are thought to be subject of discussion for guidelines to be elaborated by this national society."}
{"id": "14765321", "title": "Invasive intraductal papillary mucinous tumor of the pancreas with simultaneous invasion of the stomach and duodenum.", "content": "Invasive intraductal papillary mucinous tumor of the pancreas with simultaneous invasion of the stomach and duodenum. An 81-year-old woman was admitted with epigastric pain and weight loss. She had been diagnosed with an intraductal papillary mucosal tumor (IPMT) 7 years previously, but had refused surgery for religious reasons. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy revealed a nodular, elevated lesion that was discharging mucin into the duodenal bulb and posterior wall of the upper body of the stomach. Endoscopic ultrasonography, abdominal computed tomography, and endoscopic retrograde cholangiography were carried out, and a highly invasive IPMT with simultaneous invasion of the stomach and duodenum was diagnosed."}
{"id": "14765308", "title": "Diagnosis of esophagogastric tumors.", "content": "Diagnosis of esophagogastric tumors. Esophagogastric tumors occur in three sectors: the esophagus, the EG junction and the non-cardia stomach. Neoplasia develops in the squamous stratified epithelium of the esophagus and in the columnar epithelium of the Barrett's esophagus or in the stomach. At the junction, tumors arise either in a very short Barrett's esophagus or in the gastric epithelium of the cardia. The prognosis of tumors detected at the advanced stage is poor. Secondary prevention requires detection at the early stage. Most superficial neoplastic lesions in the esophagus and in the stomach have a non-protruding appearance, which is similar for premalignant and malignant lesions. Improved accuracy in endoscopic diagnosis and prediction of histology prior to biopsy and treatment decision is based upon magnification with a optical zoom and electronic processing of the captured image with structure enhancement, enhancement of the color of hemoglobin and narrow band imaging. This applies particularly to the exploration of the Barrett's esophagus for identification of the areas with intestinal metaplasia and of flat neoplastic areas. In spite of the predictive value of endoscopy for histology, biopsy samples are still required for pathology and eventually studies with biological markers. Spectroscopic techniques provide a new perspective, up to the level of molecular endoscopy, but they are unlikely to be cost/effective. The classification in the sub-types 0 of neoplastic lesions has some relevance to prediction of depth of invasion. In the esophagus, EUS staging with high frequency miniprobes is a useful complement."}
{"id": "14752658", "title": "Impact of miniprobe ultrasonography on planning of minimally invasive surgery for gastric and colonic tumors.", "content": "Impact of miniprobe ultrasonography on planning of minimally invasive surgery for gastric and colonic tumors. The use of minimally invasive procedures for the management of gastrointestinal cancer is increasing. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of high-frequency miniprobe endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) for therapeutic decisions making in patients with gastric or colonic tumors. A total of 137 patients underwent EUS with a 12.5-MHz miniprobe for preoperative staging of tumors of the stomach ( n = 49) or colon ( n = 88). After resection, the surgical path was reviewed to analyze the role of preoperative staging with miniprobes. Miniprobe EUS enabled accurate assessment of the infiltration depth of gastric and colonic tumors. The overall accuracy rates were 88% and 87%, respectively. The lymph node status was predicted correctly in 82% of the patients (sensitivity, 61%, specificity, 94%). Based on the results of miniprobe EUS, patients with gastric cancer were accurately selected to undergo endoscopic mucosal resection, laparoscopic resection, or open surgery in 100%, 91%, and 86% of the cases, respectively. In patients with colonic tumors, the treatment decision analysis showed that the stratification was correct in 90% of the patients. Miniprobe EUS is a reliable method for validating treatment decisions for patients undergoing minimally invasive procedures for gastric and colonic tumors. This method is particularly valuable in the management of colon cancer, because endoscopic and laparoscopic resections can be offered to selected patients as an alternative to open surgery."}
{"id": "14752188", "title": "Preoperative staging of gastric adenocarcinoma: comparison of helical CT and endoscopic US.", "content": "Preoperative staging of gastric adenocarcinoma: comparison of helical CT and endoscopic US. To compare the performance of helical computed tomography (CT) and endoscopic ultrasonography (US) in the preoperative staging of gastric cancer. Fifty-one consecutive patients with a primary malignant gastric tumor (stage T2-T4) were preoperatively evaluated with both helical CT and endoscopic US within 3 days. Each tumor was staged according to the TNM classification system with both modalities. All patients subsequently underwent surgery. Results of CT and endoscopic US were compared with histologic staging of tumor invasion depth and regional lymph node metastasis. For comparison of CT and endoscopic US data, the marginal homogeneity test was used, and a P value of less than.05 was determined to indicate statistical significance. In comparison with histologic results, CT achieved correct T staging in 39 patients (76%) and correct N staging in 35 patients (70%). The corresponding results for endoscopic US achieved correct T staging in 44 patients (86%) and correct N staging in 45 patients (90%). There was no significant difference between T staging (P =.55) and N staging (P >.99). Because of challenging detection of wall layers, correct T staging was difficult for CT and endoscopic US in the differentiation of T2 and T3 lesions. Compared with endoscopic US, helical CT focused on the stomach provides valuable results regarding T and N staging in patients with gastric cancer."}
{"id": "14749619", "title": "Applications of endoscopic ultrasonography in pancreatic cancer.", "content": "Applications of endoscopic ultrasonography in pancreatic cancer. Accurate staging of pancreatic cancer is essential for surgical planning and for identification of locally advanced and metastatic disease that is incurable by surgery. Advances in endoscopic sonography (EUS), computed tomography (CT), and positron emission tomography have improved the accuracy of staging and reduced the number of incomplete surgical resections. Tissue acquisition is necessary in nonsurgical cases when chemoradiotherapy is considered. The complex regional anatomy of the pancreas makes cytologic diagnosis of malignancy at this region difficult without exploratory surgery. Although CT-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA) is used for this purpose, reports of an increased risk of peritoneal dissemination of cancer cells and a false-negative rate of nearly 20% make this a poor choice. The ability to position the EUS-transducer in direct proximity to the pancreas by means of the stomach and duodenum, combined with the use of FNA, increases the specificity of EUS in detecting pancreatic malignancies. The current literature regarding the accuracy of EUS with FNA in the evaluation of pancreatic cancer is reviewed. EUS accuracy ranges from 78% to 94% for tumor staging and from 64% to 82% for nodal staging. EUS also enables FNA of lesions that are too small to be identified by CT or MRI or too well encased by surrounding vascular structures to safely allow percutaneous biopsy. The accuracy for detecting invasion into the superior mesenteric artery and vein is lower than that for detecting portal or splenic vein invasion, especially for large tumors. EUS permits delivery of localized therapy such as celiac plexus neurolysis for pain control and direct intra-lesional injection of antitumor therapy. EUS in combination with FNA is a highly accurate method of preoperative staging of pancreatic cancer, especially those too small to be characterized by CT or MRI, and it has the ability to obtain cytological confirmation of pancreatic cancer."}
{"id": "14745281", "title": "Pitfalls of endoscopic ultrasound staging after application of electrocautery.", "content": "Pitfalls of endoscopic ultrasound staging after application of electrocautery. Patients may be referred for endosonography after endoscopic resection of polyps because of cancer identified in the histologic specimen. To assess the effects of electrocautery-induced tissue changes on tumor staging by endosonography, endosonography findings after endoscopic removal of large polyps were correlated with surgical and endoscopic pathology. Endosonography findings revealed irregular and thickened wall layers, especially in the muscularis propria with pseudopod extensions. Five of 7 patients had evidence of cancer in the endoscopic specimen. However, no residual tumor was found in the surgically resected bowel (2 patients) or in subsequent biopsies of the endoscopic resection site (3 patients). In 2 other patients, no cancer was present in the endoscopic specimen, and follow-up biopsies of the endoscopic resection site were all benign. Electrocautery-induced inflammatory changes create hypoechoic changes within the gut wall that may mimic tumor invasion. Irregularities in the muscularis propria layer cannot be relied upon to diagnose a T2 or T3 lesion by endosonography in this setting. Patients with large polyps greater than 2 cm and other mucosal lesions with malignant potential should undergo endosonography prior to endoscopic resection."}
{"id": "14695759", "title": "Primary gastric lymphoma.", "content": "Primary gastric lymphoma. The purpose of this review is to describe the various aspects of primary gastric lymphoma and the treatment options currently available. After a systematic search of Pubmed, Medscape and MDconsult, we reviewed and retrieved literature regarding gastric lymphoma. Primary gastric lymphoma is rare however, the incidence of this malignancy is increasing. Chronic gastritis secondary to Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) infection has been considered a major predisposing factor for MALT lymphoma. Immune histochemical marker studies and molecular biology utilizing polymerase chain reaction have facilitated appropriate diagnosis and abolished the need for diagnostic surgical resection. Advances in imaging techniques including Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Endoscopic Ultrasonography (EUS) have helped evaluation of tumor extension and invasion. The clinical course and prognosis of this disease is dependent on histopathological sub-type and stage at the time of diagnosis. Controversy remains regarding the best treatment for early stages of this disease. Chemotherapy, surgery and combination have been studied and shared almost comparable results with survival rate of 70-90%. However, chemotherapy possesses the advantage of preserving gastric anatomy. Radiotherapy alone has been tried and showed good results. Stage IIIE, IVE disease treatment is solely by chemotherapy and surgical resection has been a remote consideration. We conclude that methods of diagnosis and staging of the primary gastric lymphoma have dramatically improved. The modalities of treatment are many and probably chemotherapy is superior because of high success rate, preservation of stomach and tolerable complications."}
{"id": "12942268", "title": "What is the best surgical treatment for anorectal melanoma?", "content": "What is the best surgical treatment for anorectal melanoma? This study compared outcome following the two common surgical procedures for anorectal melanoma: wide local excision and abdominal perineal resection. We also examined the utility of endoluminal ultrasound to guide therapy. Records of 19 patients surgically treated at our institution were studied. In addition to type of surgical procedure, we noted age, metastatic disease spread, sphincter involvement, tumor size and thickness, and mode of diagnosis. Survival after diagnosis and after recurrence of disease were also recorded. Ultrasound was used in seven, with the lesion delineated in six (all had therapy guided by the ultrasound). Regarding surgery ten had wide local excision, seven had abdominal perineal resection, and two had other procedures. The most common sites of recurrence were distant in 31.6% and regional lymph nodes in 26.3%. Mean survival after recurrence was 13 months (range 5-29). Two patients who had wide local excision are disease free and alive 135 and 29 months after diagnosis. Neither surgical treatment conferred obvious benefit on survival. Ultrasound can guide management by delineating lesions amendable to wide local excision. Since the mortality rate is high, wide local excision offers the advantage of avoiding a permanent colostomy and should be considered the procedure of choice when excision is feasible."}
{"id": "19764148", "title": "Gastric cancer. Clinical practice guidelines in oncology.", "content": "Gastric cancer. Clinical practice guidelines in oncology. Gastric cancer is rampant in several countries around the world. Its incidence in the West has been on the decline for more than 40 years; however, the location of gastric cancer has shifted proximally in the past 15 years. The reason for this shift is not clear. Diffuse histology is also more common now than intestinal type of histology. Advances have been made in staging procedures such as laparoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography and in possible functional imaging techniques. The current TNM classification requires an examination of at least 15 lymph nodes; therefore, at least a D1 dissection is recommended. Patients with locoregional gastric carcinoma should also be referred to high-volume treatment centers. Combination chemotherapy and radiotherapy in the adjuvant setting for select group of patients is considered the new standard in the United States. The NCCN Gastric Cancer Guidelines portray uniformity in the systemic approach to cancer in the United States. We look forward to the results of investigations of a number of new chemotherapeutic agents, including antireceptor agents, vaccines, gene therapy, and antiangiogenic agents. The panel anticipates many advances in the treatment of esophageal carcinoma in the future."}
{"id": "15146804", "title": "EUS for the evaluation of subepithelial tumors and thickened gastric folds.", "content": "EUS for the evaluation of subepithelial tumors and thickened gastric folds. Endoscopic ultrasound examination is extremely useful in clarifying potential etiologies of previously enigmatic subepithelial lesions and thick-fold gastropathies. In cases in which the endosonographic appearance is not diagnostic, EUS may aid in obtaining a definitive tissue diagnosis via EUS-guided needle biopsy or by establishing suitability for endoscopic mucosal resection. The evaluation of subepithelial tumors and thickened folds represents an ideal starting point for the novice endosonographer as adequate interpretation is not dependent upon a firm understanding of extraintestinal anatomy."}
{"id": "15146602", "title": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic strategies in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type I (MEN-I): experience of the Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Research Group: Bichat 1958-1999].", "content": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic strategies in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type I (MEN-I): experience of the Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Research Group: Bichat 1958-1999]. About 25% of patients with ZES have MEN 1. Except diarrhoea, less frequent in patients with ZES-MEN 1 than in sporadic ZES, and specific MEN 1-related signs, clinical characteristics are similar in both ZES types. Acid output and gastrin levels are also similar whether in the basal state or after secretin stimulation. Primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) exists in the majority of ZES-MEN 1 patients, 30% have pituitary adenoma (prolactinomas for half), 30% adrenal involvement, 25 to 30% have EC-Lomas; bronchial and thymic carcinoids have probably been underevaluated. Gastrinomas are multiple predominantly located in the duodenal wall, but also in the pancreas in association with clinically silent endocrine tumors. The spread of the disease: metastases to the liver (LM), mediastinum, bones, is evaluated at best by Octreoscan. Endoscopic ultrasonography evaluates the number, size and anatomical characteristics of gastrinomas. Patients without LM have an excellent prognosis. Surgery never cures ZES, but is necessary in case of associated life-threatening condition such as insulinoma and has been advocated to prevent LM development in patients with large pancreatic tumor(s). However although, indeed, the size of the tumor, when located in the pancreas > 3 cm, favours metachronous LM occurrence, surgery, in our experience, has not been able to prevent LM development. Hepatic malignancies remain however the most pejorative prognostic determinant for survival and raise the most difficult therapeutic challenge. Surgery is the best option whenever feasible; specific chemotherapy and chemo-embolisation have not conclusively achieved definite successes. Long-term octreotide treatment, however, has been shown recently to obtain tumour stabilisation. Internal irradiation with 90 Ytrium-labelled octreotide is a new promising option, presently under evaluation (Novartis European trial). Preliminary results are promising."}
{"id": "14653414", "title": "Staging esophageal adenocarcinoma.", "content": "Staging esophageal adenocarcinoma. The incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma has increased dramatically in Western societies over the last 20 years. Most patients present with advanced disease. Stage-dependent treatment protocols require the most complete and accurate staging possible. With all esophageal cancers (ie, adenocarcinomas and squamous carcinomas), it is perhaps most important to identify patients who are unlikely to benefit from aggressive treatment. The performance characteristics and clinical utility of CT scanning, endoscopic ultrasound, FDG-PET, and minimally invasive surgery in staging esophageal cancer are reviewed, including issues relating specifically to staging of adenocarcinomas. These investigations are not mutually exclusive and each has its own strengths and shortcomings. Accurate staging often requires the use of multiple modalities. The optimal staging algorithm for a given practice setting (if it exists) will be determined largely by local variables that include patient population, available technology, and local expertise in applying such technology. A lack of consensus on the effectiveness of therapeutic alternatives (particularly surgical v nonsurgical methods) may also affect the perceived value of the various staging modalities and how they are used."}
{"id": "14648424", "title": "Hepaticogastrostomy by echo-endoscopy as a palliative treatment in a patient with metastatic biliary obstruction.", "content": "Hepaticogastrostomy by echo-endoscopy as a palliative treatment in a patient with metastatic biliary obstruction. A palliative hepaticogastrostomy was performed under endoscopic ultrasound guidance in a patient with inoperable hepatic hilar obstruction, creating an anastomosis between the dilated left hepatic duct and the stomach, to relieve symptoms of cholangitis and to allow biliary drainage. This therapeutic procedure was used as an alternative method of drainage of the biliary tree because endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was not possible and because the percutaneous metallic stent which had been inserted earlier had become occluded (probably by tumor overgrowth). It was a two-step procedure. In the first step a hepatic duct was punctured through the gastric wall with placement of a plastic stent, which created a fistula between them. In a second step a covered, metallic, self-expandable stent was substituted for the plastic stent to maintain the anastomosis and to improve patency over the medium term. The patient's fever was relieved and the bilirubin level fell; the patient remained asymptomatic at the five-months-follow-up."}
{"id": "14630513", "title": "Positron emission tomography using 2-deoxy-2-[18F]-fluoro-D-glucose for response monitoring in locally advanced gastroesophageal cancer; a comparison of different analytical methods.", "content": "Positron emission tomography using 2-deoxy-2-[18F]-fluoro-D-glucose for response monitoring in locally advanced gastroesophageal cancer; a comparison of different analytical methods. To determine the ability of 2-deoxy-2-[18F]-fluoro-D-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) to monitor response in locally advanced gastroesophageal cancer (LAGEC). Additionally, optimal FDG-PET methods for response monitoring were selected. Sequential dynamic FDG-PET scans were performed in 13 patients with LAGEC (T2-3N0-1M0-1a) treated with neoadjuvant cisplatin and gemcitabine plus granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating growth factor at a three weekly schedule. The standard FDG-PET method, nonlinear regression (NLR), was compared with computed tomography (CT), endoscopic-ultrasound (EUS), and histopathology as well as with 21 simplified analytical FDG-PET methods. Five out of 12 operated tumors responded histopathologically with less than 10% residual tumorcells (42%). These had a higher decrease in FDG uptake compared with nonresponders (P=0.008). Early (after two cycles) and late (after completed induction therapy) response evaluation showed a specificity of 86% and 100%, respectively, and a sensitivity of 100%. Both FDG-PET and EUS were superior to CT. From 21 methods analyzing FDG uptake, the quantitative Patlak analysis, the simplified kinetic method (SKM), and the semiquantitative standardized uptake value corrected for bodyweight (SUV-BW) seemed to correlate best with NLR. FDG-PET reliably predicted response in LAGEC. FDG-PET measurements using Patlak analysis or the more clinical applicable SKM and SUV-BW were acceptable alternatives to NLR."}
{"id": "14627253", "title": "Laparoscopic resection of gastric stromal tumor: a tailored approach.", "content": "Laparoscopic resection of gastric stromal tumor: a tailored approach. Many different laparoscopic approaches to resection of gastric stromal tumor have been described in the literature. We reviewed our experience of laparoscopic approaches to surgical resection of gastric stromal tumors seven in six consecutive patients. The tumor locations were the gastric cardia (n = 2), gastroesophageal junction (n = 1), gastric fundus (n = 2), and gastric antrum (n = 2). Laparoscopic localization of endoluminal tumors included intraoperative endoscopy, laparoscopic ultrasound, and laparoscopic palpation. There were five males with a mean age of 57 years. Laparoscopic approaches to resection were laparoscopic wedge resection (n = 4) for tumors in the gastric fundus and antrum, laparoscopic enucleation (n = 2) for tumors in the gastric cardia, and transgastric endoluminal resection (n = 1) for a tumor located at the gastroesophageal junction. There was no conversion to laparotomy. The mean operative time was 143 +/- 54 minutes and mean blood loss was 57 +/- 27 mL. None of the patients required intensive care stay. The mean length of hospital stay was 3 days. There were no major or minor complications and no mortality. Surgical pathology demonstrated gastric stromal tumor with less than 2/50 mitosis per high power field in all seven specimens. Tumor size ranged from 2.8 cm to 7.1 cm in greatest diameter. There has been no tumor recurrence with a mean follow-up of 9 months. Laparoscopic resection of benign gastric stromal tumor is safe and feasible. The laparoscopic approaches to surgical resection should be tailored based on the location and characteristics of the tumor."}
{"id": "14619205", "title": "[Diagnosis and treatment of esophageal cancer in the Netherlands: wide variation in the second line].", "content": "[Diagnosis and treatment of esophageal cancer in the Netherlands: wide variation in the second line]. To survey the diagnostic procedures and treatment strategies currently employed in hospitals for patients with oesophageal cancer. Questionnaire. A questionnaire was sent to all clinicians working in the field of gastroenterology in the Netherlands. This questionnaire focused on clinical preferences regarding diagnostic procedures and treatment strategies for oesophageal cancer. Also, six hypothetical patient vignettes were presented in order to investigate which factors affected choice of treatment, in particular surgical treatment. The response rate was 64% (426/667); 336 questionnaires were relevant to the investigation. Almost 90% of the clinicians treated fewer than 20 patients annually, usually in their own hospital. CT was the most frequently used staging procedure; endoscopic ultrasound was less frequently used (42% used it in less than half the patients). The treatment choice for the patient vignettes varied widely among clinicians. Factors influencing the choice to operate or not were: metastases, loco-regional tumour ingrowth, poor general health, and advanced age with 8, 22, 20, and 53%, respectively, of the clinicians still considering surgery in the presence of one of these factors as opposed to 99% if none of these factors were present. Surgeons opted for operation more often than internists and gastroenterologists. Stent placement was the most frequently chosen method to palliate malignant dysphagia. There is a wide variation in the use of diagnostic procedures and treatment strategies for patients with oesophageal cancer in the Netherlands. This stresses the need for scientifically based practice guidelines, taking into account specific patient and tumour characteristics."}
{"id": "14585568", "title": "Computed tomographic image of an inflammatory fibroid polyp of the stomach.", "content": "Computed tomographic image of an inflammatory fibroid polyp of the stomach. Inflammatory fibroid polyp (IFP) is a rare benign lesion of the gastrointestinal tract. We report a case of IFP and its computed tomographic (CT) findings. On CT, the tumor protruded into the stomach and was covered with mucosa that was well enhanced. The inside of the tumor was irregularly enhanced, reflecting the typical histological findings of IFPs. Not only endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) but also CT findings may be useful to diagnose IFP before polypectomy."}
{"id": "14571720", "title": "Differentiation of benign and malignant lymph nodes with contrast-enhanced echolymphography using endoscopic ultrasound-guided puncture.", "content": "Differentiation of benign and malignant lymph nodes with contrast-enhanced echolymphography using endoscopic ultrasound-guided puncture. Although endoscopic ultrasonography is considered the most useful diagnostic modality for the regional staging, the capability of diagnosing lymph node metastasis based on endoscopic ultrasonography images alone is not sufficient. To improve the capability of differential diagnosis of lymph node enlargement, contrast-enhanced echolymphography was performed using endoscopic ultrasonography-guided puncture. Contrast-enhanced echolymphography was performed in 8 metastatic lymph nodes surgically resected from patients with gastrointestinal cancers (in vitro study) and also in 55 patients in whom abdominal lymph node swelling was indicated by endoscopic ultrasonography (in vivo study). Lymph nodes were punctured under real-time endoscopic ultrasonography guidance, and carbon dioxide microbubbles were injected to evaluate echo features before and after microbubbles injection. Contrast-enhanced echolymphography of freshly resected metastatic lymph nodes showed nonhomogeneous echo patterns. In regions demonstrating filling defects detected by contrast-enhanced echolymphography, neoplastic infiltration was pathologically observed. In almost all of the malignant lymph nodes studied in vivo, filling defects and heterogeneous enhancements were observed by contrast-enhanced echolymphography. However, contrast-enhanced echolymphography demonstrated uniform patterns in most of the benign group. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value, and accuracy of differential diagnosis by contrast-enhanced echolymphography were 95.8%, 90.3%, 88.5%, 96.6%, and 92.7%, respectively. Contrast-enhanced echolymphography is a useful method for help in the differentiation between reactive and malignant alterations of lymph nodes."}
{"id": "14551871", "title": "Gastritis cystica polyposa found in an unoperated stomach: an unusual case treated by endoscopic polypectomy.", "content": "Gastritis cystica polyposa found in an unoperated stomach: an unusual case treated by endoscopic polypectomy."}
{"id": "12960785", "title": "Staging laparoscopy for gastric cancer.", "content": "Staging laparoscopy for gastric cancer. Surgical resection remains the only potentially curative treatment of patients with gastric cancer. Evaluation of surgery and other treatments depends on accurate staging of the disease. The objective of the study was to compare staging laparoscopy with ultrasonography, endoscopic ultrasound, computed tomography, and histology for serosal infiltration, lymph node metastasis, peritoneal seeding, and hepatic metastasis. Diagnostic laparoscopy was carried out in 48 patients. Prelaparoscopic staging in all cases included upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and biopsies followed by endosonography, ultrasound, and computed tomography. Preoperative combined examination using CT and laparoscopy was superior when compared with each modality alone or the combinations of the other tests. The present study showed that preoperative evaluation of patients with laparoscopy is superior to all other diagnostic tests. We also found that laparoscopy and computed tomography were better in accurately assessing the serosal infiltration, peritoneal seeding, and hepatic metastases, which thus allows the surgeon to choose more effective treatment modality."}
{"id": "12921574", "title": "[A preliminary study of endoscopic ultrasonography in the preoperative staging of early gastric carcinoma].", "content": "[A preliminary study of endoscopic ultrasonography in the preoperative staging of early gastric carcinoma]. To study the clinical value of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in the preoperative staging of early gastric carcinoma. EUS was performed in 149 gastric carcinoma patients proved by biopsy (including 33 patients with early gastric cancer), of which the results were compared with postoperative pathologic findings. The accuracy of EUS in determining the T stage of gastric carcinoma was 80.3% (T1 81.8%, T2 70.4%, T3 88.9%, T4 71.4%). The accuracy of EUS in differentiating early gastric carcinoma from advanced ones was 95.1%, and the accuracy of EUS in differentiating mucosal cancer from submucosal cancer was only 63.6%. The diagnostic accuracy of EUS for mucosal and submucosal cancer was 52.9% and 75%, with positive predictive value of 90% and 70.6%, respectively. The accuracy of invasion depth of EUS for the bulging and flat type of early gastric carcinoma was 100%, whereas the accuracy was only 58.6% for the depressed type. The accuracy of invasion depth of the differentiated and undifferentiated early cancer was 71.4%and 57.9%, without any significant difference (P > 0.05). The accuracy of invasion depth of EUS for early gastric carcinoma decreased as tumor size increased. The diagnostic accuracy of lymph node status of early gastric carcinoma by EUS was 90.9%, and the sensitivity and specificity of lymph node metastasis was 66.7% and 96.3%, respectively. The clinical value of endoscopic ultrasonography in the preoperative staging of early gastric carcinoma is relatively high."}
{"id": "12914383", "title": "Endoscopic diagnosis and staging of gastric tumors.", "content": "Endoscopic diagnosis and staging of gastric tumors. Endoscopy, biopsy, and cytology represent the gold standard for the diagnosis of gastric malignancies. Guidelines have been developed to select the patient-population at risk of gastric cancer as well as for the appropriateness of endoscopic examination among large gastric cancer screening programs. Endoscopic ultrasound is an essential part of preoperative staging in view of gastric resection and may be useful to identify high-risk patients potentially eligible for investigational neoadjuvant treatment programs. Some of the current issues in endoscopic diagnosis and staging of gastric tumors are reviewed."}
{"id": "12884143", "title": "[Minimally invasive options for gastric tumors].", "content": "[Minimally invasive options for gastric tumors]. Depending on the origin of the tumor tissue, gastric tumors may be more or less accessible for biopsy diagnostics. However, especially submucous tumors present a diagnostic problem. Entity and dignity may remain unclear particularly in larger tumors and may not be clarified before operative excision via gastrotomy and frozen section diagnostics. Similar problems may occur in the diagnostics of epithelial tumors, if a reliable appraisal of the dignity based on forceps biopsy is impossible. To clarify their entity and dignity, tumors can be completely extirpated with minimally invasive techniques. Apart from the endoscopic mucosa resection (EMR), laparoscopic intragastric tumor resection and laparoscopic wedge resection were performed, especially in larger tumors. In the period from December 1999 to December 2001, we saw an indication for minimally invasive procedures in 22 patients. There were 5 cases of submucous tumors of unclear entity and 17 epithelial lesions. The epithelial lesions included 12 patients with tumors of unclear dignity and five cases with early gastric carcinomas. The EMR was performed without complications in all 14 cases. One of the three cases with wedge resection was followed by a gastrectomy for oncological reasons. One early postoperative bleeding occurred, which was controlled laparoscopically. Conversion to open surgery due to technical problems was necessary in two cases of laparoscopic intragastric resection, and in one case a gastrectomy was required for oncological intention. Beside the diagnostic aspect, the mentioned techniques also enable a minimally invasive therapy of locally excisable gastric tumors. In addition to benign and low grade malignant lesions, early gastric carcinomas of the intestinal type present an indication."}
{"id": "12865288", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography: imaging and beyond.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography: imaging and beyond."}
{"id": "12843941", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasound-guided biopsy: when is it indispensable?].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasound-guided biopsy: when is it indispensable?]."}
{"id": "12822096", "title": "Images of early gastric cancer.", "content": "Images of early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "12809817", "title": "Gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma.", "content": "Gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma. The connection between Helicobacter pylori and gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma is well established. H. pylori infection causes an immunological response, leading to chronic gastritis with formation of lymphoid follicles within the stomach. These lymphoid follicles resemble nodal tissues found throughout the body and are composed of reactive T cells and activated plasmal cells and B cells. The B cells are responsible for initiating a clonal expansion of centrocyte-like cells that form the basic histology of MALT lymphoma. Early diagnosis of MALT lymphoma is difficult but essential for adequate treatment. Clinical symptoms are vague and varied, with abdominal pain being a common presenting complaint. The endoscopic appearance of this tumor is varied and can be infiltrative, exophytic, or ulcerative. In addition, the tumor can have a multifocal distribution, and therefore aggressive tissue sampling is crucial for diagnosis. Endoscopic ultrasound is essential to document the extent of disease and is more accurate than CT scan in detection of spread to perigastric lymph nodes. Lesions that are confined to the mucosa or submucosa of the gastric wall are believed to be dependent on H. pylori stimulation and therefore can be successfully treated with H. pylori eradication. Those MALT lymphomas that present at more advanced stages require more aggressive management and can be treated with surgical resection, radiation, or chemotherapy. Follow-up is critical in all patients who have been treated with H. pylori eradication and consists of multiple endoscopic biopsies for histological and molecular studies as well as endoscopic ultrasound at 3, 6, and 12 months after treatment. The reappearance of MALT lymphomas has been seen years after treatment, and therefore follow-up of these patients should be indefinite."}
{"id": "12785208", "title": "[Potential of abdominal computed tomography and ultrasonography for the complex diagnosis of early gastric cancer].", "content": "[Potential of abdominal computed tomography and ultrasonography for the complex diagnosis of early gastric cancer]. The potential of computed tomography and ultrasonography in making complex diagnosis of \"small forms\" of early gastric cancer was demonstrated by evaluation of the data on examination of 116 patients and the pivotal role of the extent of intramural invasion was established. The semiotics of computed tomography and ultrasonography for intramural invasion and the sequence of X-ray and endoscopic procedures were developed."}
{"id": "12783253", "title": "Staging of colonic neoplasms by colonoscopic miniprobe ultrasonography.", "content": "Staging of colonic neoplasms by colonoscopic miniprobe ultrasonography. In contrast to the situation in the upper gastrointestinal tract staging of colonic neoplasm by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has not gained importance because until yet preoperative staging is without any clinical consequences. This may change with the introduction of minimally invasive surgical procedures and endoscopic resection techniques as an alternative to conventional (open) surgery. We performed EUS with a miniprobe in 54 consecutive patients with colonic tumors who had been referred to our hospital for endoscopic resection or for laparoscopic resection of their lesions. Therefore patients with locally advanced tumors or systemic tumor spread were not included. After detection of the lesion during colonoscopy miniprobe EUS was performed with water-filling of the colonic lumen. The depth of invasion (T classification) and the local lymph node status (positive or negative) was ascertained. Lymph node-negative lesions staged as T1 underwent endoscopic resection whenever this was technically possible. In lymph node-negative T2-3 tumors laparoscopic resection was planned if they were localized at least 10 cm apart from the flexuras. All other lesions were resected by open surgery. The EUS findings were later compared with the final pathological results (pTN classification) of the resected specimen. In 50 patients (93%) a sufficient EUS evaluation of the colonic tumor was possible. In one patient with a tumor at the left flexura the lesion could not be completely visualized, and in three patients a sufficient water filling of the colon was impossible. The infiltration depth was correctly classified in 17 adenomas, 16 T1, 8 T2, 5 T3, and one T4-carcinoma (EUS accuracy for T staging: 94%). Two T2 and one T3 carcinoma were overstaged by EUS while no understaging was recorded. The lymph node status was correctly classified in 42/50 patients (84%), and a false-negative lymph node status was found in only 4/50 cases (8%). The overall accuracy of EUS was 80%. Miniprobe EUS is suitable and has a sufficient but not optimal accuracy for staging of colonic neoplasm. Its employment makes sense if minimally invasive resection techniques in patients with high-risk for open surgery are planned."}
{"id": "12772051", "title": "High interobserver variability in endosonographic staging of upper gastrointestinal cancers.", "content": "High interobserver variability in endosonographic staging of upper gastrointestinal cancers. Mostly based on results of experienced examiners, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has been reported to be highly accurate for locoregional staging of upper gastrointestinal cancers. However, data on interobserver variability among EUS examiners, depending on their experience levels, is sparse. A study was therefore conducted to analyse well-documented videotapes of EUS examinations of 108 patients with resected cancers of the esophagus (n = 55) or stomach (n = 53) in a strictly blinded fashion by 5 examiners, all of whom were experienced in EUS (more than 300 examinations: n = 3, more than 100 examinations: n = 2). Besides the individual accuracy rates in cancer staging, a kappa-statistic was calculated to check for interobserver variability. Under the conditions described, the staging accuracy of all investigators was lower than that usually achieved under clinical routine conditions. The mean T staging accuracy was 41.1 % +/- 9.4 and 46.9 % +/- 5.4 in gastric and esophageal cancers, respectively. For N-staging the respective values were 47.9 % +/- 5.1 (stomach) and 67.7 % +/- 5.4 (oesophagus). Kappa-values were above 0.4 only in the staging of non-invasive esophagogastric tumours of the N0 and T1-category, corresponding to a fairly good agreement among the five investigators. Differences depending on experience levels could not be consistently found. Hence, it can be concluded that endosonographic cancer staging performed in a blinded manner results in a low accuracy and high interobserver variability even among experienced examiners."}
{"id": "12768637", "title": "Glomus tumor of the stomach: cytologic diagnosis by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration.", "content": "Glomus tumor of the stomach: cytologic diagnosis by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration. The glomus tumor is usually a benign solitary neoplasm that arises from modified smooth muscle cells of the glomus body, a type of neuromyoarterial receptor that plays a role in the regulation of arterial blood flow. We report a case of gastric glomus tumor diagnosed by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration. Smears exhibited groups of cohesive, uniform, small, round to polygonal cells with scant cytoplasm, indistinct cell borders, and round, hyperchromatic nuclei with homogeneous chromatin. The cell block contained fragments of cells with similar morphologic features and immunohistochemical staining exhibited positivity for smooth muscle actin and vimentin. The diagnosis was confirmed by the surgically resected specimen. Ultrastructural examination revealed prominent pinocytotic vesicles lining the plasmalemma. In this report, we discuss the differential diagnosis of gastric glomus tumor and compare the cytologic features of this case with two others reported in the literature."}
{"id": "12737445", "title": "Early cancer of the stomach arising after successful treatment of gastric MALT lymphoma in patients with autoimmune disease.", "content": "Early cancer of the stomach arising after successful treatment of gastric MALT lymphoma in patients with autoimmune disease. Extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma of the mucosa associated lymphoid tissue (MALT lymphoma) arises in lymphoid tissue acquired through chronic antigenic stimulation as exemplified by Helicobacter pylori. Secondary development of gastric cancer, however, is thought to be a rare event. The detection of a signet ring cell carcinoma during follow-up endoscopy after successful therapy of MALT lymphoma in a patient with Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome prompted us to analyse the frequency of subsequent gastric cancer in patients with underlying autoimmune disease (AD). Patients with early stage MALT lymphoma and an underlying AD were evaluated for the occurrence of a secondary gastric cancer during the course of follow-up. Data analysed included the type of AD, stage of MALT lymphoma, H. pylori status, treatment for MALT lymphoma and response, follow-up, the presence of a secondary cancer, and time to development of cancer. In all patients, histologic samples were reassessed for the extent of gastritis, presence of intestinal metaplasia or focal atrophy at the time of lymphoma diagnosis. A total of eight patients with overt AD at the time of diagnosis of MALT lymphoma were identified. All patients were women aged between 56 and 77 years; 5 had Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome, 2 had autoimmune thyroiditis (1 along with psoriasis) and 1 suffered from polymyalgia rheumatica. All patients had early stage MALT lymphoma restricted to the mucosa and submucosa at the time of diagnosis, and the presence of H. pylori was found in all cases. Two of these patients achieved complete remission (CR) of the lymphoma following H. pylori eradication, while six were judged unresponsive and underwent chemotherapy, resulting in CR in all cases. One patient died from stroke while being in CR for 2 months following chemotherapy. Two patients (25%) developed early cancer limited to the gastric mucosa while being in CR from lymphoma for 9 and 27 months, respectively, and underwent partial gastrectomy. Final staging of gastric cancer revealed pT1pN0M0 in both cases. Of the remaining 5 cases, 1 patient had a local lymphoma relapse 18 months after CR and was salvaged with radiotherapy. In the remaining 4 patients, no evidence of lymphoma recurrence or a second malignancy has been found so far by regular follow-up every 3 months for a time-span between 52 and 63 months after initial diagnosis. Patients with concurrent MALT lymphoma and an underlying autoimmune condition show not only an impaired response to H. pylori eradication but might also be at increased risk for the development of gastric cancer. In view of this, such patients should be followed closely by regular endoscopies after remission of MALT lymphoma."}
{"id": "12734683", "title": "Pathophysiological studies on the relationship between postgastrectomy syndrome and gastric emptying function at 5 years after pylorus-preserving distal gastrectomy for early gastric cancer.", "content": "Pathophysiological studies on the relationship between postgastrectomy syndrome and gastric emptying function at 5 years after pylorus-preserving distal gastrectomy for early gastric cancer. Pylorus-preserving distal gastrectomy (PPG) has frequently been performed on patients with early gastric cancer in Japan to prevent the postgastrectomy syndrome seen after conventional distal gastrectomy (CDG). The long-term postoperative quality of life (QOL) and gastric emptying function in patients after PPG has not been assessed in detail. To clarify the usefulness of PPG for treating early gastric cancer we investigated the relation between postgastrectomy syndrome and gastric emptying function 5 years after PPG and then compared the results with those 5 years after CDG. Altogether, 32 patients who underwent curative gastrectomy at our clinic for early gastric cancer (submucosal cancer without lymph node metastasis) were studied. Ten subjects who underwent PPG with D2 lymphadenectomy without preserving the hepatic and pyloric branches of the vagal nerve [group A: eight men, two women; age 33-70 years (mean 60.7 years)] were interviewed and asked about appetite, weight loss, epigastric fullness, reflux esophagitis, and early dumping syndrome. They were compared with patients after CDG [group B: 36-72 years (mean 63.6 years)]. Esophagogastric endoscopy, abdominal ultrasonography, and gastric emptying function were also studied. The gastric emptying time of a semisolid diet was measured with a radioisotope method using (99m)Tc-labeled rice gruel; the gastric emptying time of a liquid diet was measured with the acetaminophen method using orange juice. The control subjects (group C) consisted of 18 healthy volunteers (10 men, 8 women) without gastrointestinal symptoms aged 38 to 68 years (mean 60.8 years). The following results were obtained: PPG (group A) alleviated postoperative gastrointestinal symptoms such as appetite loss, reflux esophagitis, early dumping syndrome, lost body weight, endoscopic reflux esophagitis, endoscopic gastritis in the remnant stomach, and postogastrectomy cholecystolithiasis better than did CDG (group B). The only weak point with the PPG procedure was that it produced a feeling of epigastric fullness. The pattern of the gastric emptying curve for the semisolid diet was almost the same among groups A, B, and C, although delayed gastric emptying was clearly more frequent in group A than in group B or C ( p < 0.05). Gastric emptying with the liquid diet in group B was significantly faster than that in groups A and C ( p < 0.01). Gastric emptying in groups A and C was similar. These results showed that PPG improved the postoperative QOL, but the delayed emptying of semisolid diet after PPG led to a feeling of epigastric fullness after meals due to retention of contents in the residual stomach. Epigastric fullness after meals continued in many patients after PPG. Thus the only disadvantage of the PPG procedure is the sensation of epigastric fullness and gastric stasis due to delayed gastric emptying of a semisolid diet."}
{"id": "12701028", "title": "Novel endosonographic findings in Cronkhite-Canada syndrome.", "content": "Novel endosonographic findings in Cronkhite-Canada syndrome."}
{"id": "12695946", "title": "[Report on the working session \"Endoscopic Ultrasound\" of the German Society for Digestive and Metabolic Diseases in Bonn, 11.9.2002].", "content": "[Report on the working session \"Endoscopic Ultrasound\" of the German Society for Digestive and Metabolic Diseases in Bonn, 11.9.2002]."}
{"id": "12667395", "title": "Endoscopic miniprobe ultrasonography in diagnosis of carcinomas and submucosal tumors of large intestine.", "content": "Endoscopic miniprobe ultrasonography in diagnosis of carcinomas and submucosal tumors of large intestine. To assess the value of endoscopic miniprobe ultrasonography in the diagnosis of carcinomas and submucosal tumors of the large intestine. A total of 96 patients with carcinomas and submucosal tumors of the large intestine were given colonoscopic ultrasonography with a miniprobe (Olympus UM-2R, 12 MHz; UM-3R, 20 MHz) from December, 2000 to January, 2002. Carcinomas of the large intestine of 81 patients appeared as a hypoechoic mass under endoscopic ultrasonography, by which 67 patients (82.7%) were accurately diagnosed as having infiltrated colorectal carcinomas. The sensitivity of endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis of lymph node metastasis was 55.4%, while the specificity was 68.8%. The positive predictive value and the negative predictive value were 0.88 and 0.28, respectively. All 15 cases with submucosal tumors were diagnosed correctly under endoscopic ultrasonography except for one leiomyoma, which was misdiagnosed as leiomyosarcoma. Endoscopic miniprobe ultrasonography has a high accuracy in determining the invasion depth of carcinomas of the large intestine and the diagnosis of submucosal tumors. The pre-operative endoscopic ultrasonography may provide valuable information and influence the choice of therapy for carcinomas and submucosal tumors of the large intestine."}
{"id": "12647078", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in routine clinical practice for staging adenocarcinomas of the stomach and distal esophagus].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in routine clinical practice for staging adenocarcinomas of the stomach and distal esophagus]. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is an important diagnostic tool for determining the best therapeutic strategy (primary resection, neoadjuvant therapy or palliation only) to offer esophageal or gastric cancer patients. In the present study (1992-2001),we evaluated the accuracy of EUS in adenocarcinomas of the distal esophagus and stomach and compared our results with pathologists findings as the gold standard. Of the 222 patients studied, the precise examination of 11% EUS was not completely possible due to severe tumor stenosis. The accuracy of EUS with respect to T, N+/- and TN+/- amounted to 51%, 65% and 34% in 131 patients with adenocarcinomas of the esophageal gastric junction and to 50%, 66% and 37% in 91 patients with adenocarcinomas located in the fundus, corpus or antrum of the stomach respectively. With respect to T-stage, the overstaging of tumors was more common than understaging, especially in pT2b-carcinomas. The subgroup analysis of the 131 EGJ adenocarcinoma patients showed that the results obtained by EUS were slightly better in type I (distal esophageal cancer) than in type II and III cardia carcinomas (proximal gastric cancer).When comparing two observation periods (1992-1996 and 1997-2001), the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound staging was very similar in both periods for T-category (51% vs 49%) and N-category (63% vs 64%) as well as for combined TN-staging (36% vs 35%) respectively. In clinical routine examinations of adenocarcinomas of the stomach and the distal esophagus, the accuracy of EUS is not as good as the excellent results in the past--mostly obtained under study conditions--may suggest."}
{"id": "12584637", "title": "Endoscopic mucosal resection in the management of gastric carcinoid tumors.", "content": "Endoscopic mucosal resection in the management of gastric carcinoid tumors. Gastric carcinoid tumors are a rare disease. Previously, total gastrectomy was regarded as the treatment of choice. However, differences in biological malignancy have recently led to the increased use of endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) for treatment. We studied the outcome of EMR in patients with gastric carcinoids who were treated at our hospital and discuss the indications for endoscopic treatment. Between 1986 and 1999 we carried out gastric mucosal resection in five patients with gastric carcinoid tumors. The procedure used for EMR was either strip biopsy or endoscopic aspiration mucosectomy. The carcinoid tumors measured 10 mm or less in four of the five patients. Two patients had type A gastritis, and all had hypergastrinemia. There was no evidence of recurrence during follow-up (range 6 - 66 months; mean 32.6 months). EMR is useful in the management of type 1 gastric carcinoids as classified by Rindi (hypergastrinemia; tumor diameter of 10 mm or less)."}
{"id": "12582774", "title": "Endosonography of upper gastrointestinal tract cancer on demand using miniprobes or endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Endosonography of upper gastrointestinal tract cancer on demand using miniprobes or endoscopic ultrasound. The aim of this study was to investigate whether endosonography on demand with miniprobes and conventional endoscopic ultrasound improves the accuracy of endosonographic staging of upper gastrointestinal tract cancer. Altogether, 173 patients underwent endoscopic ultrasonography for preoperative staging of esophageal (n = 63) or gastric cancer (n = 110). Depending on the endoscopic appearance (i.e., size and growth pattern), tumors were examined with a linear-array echoendoscope (7.5 MHz) or with high-resolution miniprobes (12.5 MHz). The results of preoperative staging were correlated with histopathology of the resection specimen. The overall accuracy of miniprobe ultrasonography and endoscopic ultrasound in assessing the infiltration depth of upper gastrointestinal cancer was 87% and 81%, respectively. Miniprobe ultrasonography was superior to conventional endoscopic ultrasound in the staging of early cancers, particularly T1 tumors (accuracy, 81% vs 56%). The combined accuracy of both techniques for all tumor stages was 82%. Correct diagnosis of lymph node involvement was obtained with miniprobe ultrasonography or endoscopic ultrasound in 76% and 71% of the cases, respectively. The combined accuracy in assessing the lymph node status was 73% (sensitivity, 68%; specificity, 81%). Endosonography on demand using either miniprobes or conventional endoscopic ultrasound may result in more effective and less invasive staging of esophageal and gastric cancer. Selective use of high-resolution miniprobes and conventional endoscopic ultrasound offers accurate staging of all tumor stages."}
{"id": "12552408", "title": "[Glomus tumour of the stomach. A case report].", "content": "[Glomus tumour of the stomach. A case report]. Glomus tumours are benign neoplasms that usually arise in the skin of the extremities but have infrequently been found to occur in other sites including the stomach. We report on a 71-year-old female with non-specific epigastric pain who was diagnosed as having a small, intramural gastric tumour in addition to a cholecystolithiasis. Intraoperatively, the tumour was investigated by frozen section, but the diagnosis remained inconclusive. The ultimate histological examination showed clusters of uniform epithelioid cells surrounding wide vascular spaces. This led to the diagnosis of a glomus tumour. In a review of the recent literature,we discuss the methods and limitations of preoperative diagnostic measures."}
{"id": "12544191", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound and upper gastrointestinal disorders.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound and upper gastrointestinal disorders. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) plays a vital role in management of upper gastrointestinal disorders, particularly cancer of the esophagus, pancreas, stomach, lung (via transesophageal mediastinal staging), and bile duct. Endoscopic ultrasound has also been valuable in detection of early chronic pancreatitis (CP). In cancer of the esophagus, the primary role of EUS is to determine whether disease is localized (T1-2, N0) and appropriate for surgery, locally advanced (T3-4, N1, M1a) (which may benefit from chemoradiation with or without surgery), or metastatic. Pancreatic and bile duct cancers are more complex given the controversy over portal vein resection. In centers that resect tumors invading the portal venous system, the role of EUS is limited to tissue confirmation or identification of metastases to the liver or distant lymph nodes. In centers that do not resect the portal vein invasion, EUS plays an important role in local staging. In lung cancer, EUS is emerging as an accurate, nonsurgical alternative to staging the mediastinum through EUS fine-needle aspiration. Endoscopic ultrasound has an important role in diagnosing CP because of its high degree of sensitivity. This has also led to controversy over whether EUS can overdiagnose CP. For these reasons, we recommend the use of a high threshold for EUS and that CP be diagnosed in conjunction with other standard tests (endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, pancreatic function tests)."}
{"id": "12542600", "title": "Long-term follow up of gastric low-grade mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma by endosonography emphasizing the application of a miniature ultrasound probe.", "content": "Long-term follow up of gastric low-grade mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma by endosonography emphasizing the application of a miniature ultrasound probe. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is a useful tool for the evaluation of gastric wall infiltration including gastric lymphoma. The aims of this study were to characterize gastric low-grade mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma according to EUS findings and to evaluate the role of a miniature ultrasound probe in the long-term follow up. From January 1994 to March 2002, 20 patients were proven to have gastric low-grade MALT lymphoma. Endoscopic ultrasonography was performed with a conventional echoprobe and/or a miniature ultrasound probe for initial staging and a miniature ultrasound probe was performed during follow up. All patients positive for Helicobacter pylori received a 2-week course of omeprazole, amoxicillin and clarithromycin. Helicobacter pylori infection was found in 17 (85%) patients. In all patients, H. pylori was eradicated after treatment. Initial EUS showed significantly greater wall thickness (6.1 +/- 3.0 mm) in MALT lymphoma patients when compared with control (2.8 +/- 0.3 mm). The infiltrative patterns included wall thickening (3.5-14.1 mm) in 18 patients: stage E-I1 in 16 (mucosa and/or submucosa), stage E-I2 in one and stage E-II in one. Complete regression of MALT lymphoma following treatment for H. pylori was noted in 14 patients, with a mean duration of 11.3 +/- 9.1 months. Follow-up miniature ultrasound probe sonography showed comparative reduction in wall thickness (P < 0.05). Endoscopic ultrasonography plays a valuable role in the initial staging and long-term follow up of gastric low-grade MALT lymphoma. The application of a miniature ultrasound probe enables adequate evaluation in the majority of these patients, with additional benefits."}
{"id": "12532442", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in preoperative staging of gastric cancer: determination of tumor invasion depth, nodal involvement and surgical resectability.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in preoperative staging of gastric cancer: determination of tumor invasion depth, nodal involvement and surgical resectability. Current study was aimed to evaluate the usefulness of EUS in TNM staging of gastric cancer by comparing EUS preoperative staging with pathological findings, and the preliminary exploration of possible reasons for overstaging and understaging phenomenon was especially intended. A total of 35 patients with histologically confirmed gastric adenocarcinoma were referred to EUS and staged preoperatively by using the TNM system. The preoperative endosonographic results were compared with the histopathological staging. The overall accuracy of EUS for determination of the T stage was 80.0 %, and for T1, T2, T3, and T4 was 100 %, 71.4 %, 87.5 % and 72.7 %, respectively. For N stage, EUS had the accuracy of 68.6 %, with sensitivity and specificity of 66.7 % and 73.7 %, respectively. Resectability was predicted with sensitivity and specificity of 87.5 % and 100 %, respectively. EUS is an accurate staging modality in most cases, with a few exceptions of overstaging and understaging. Patients with gastric cancers can benefit from preoperative EUS staging for establishing individualized therapy. However, EUS criteria to differentiate benign from malignant nodes still need to be further defined by future studies."}
{"id": "12517554", "title": "Laparoscopy-assisted distal gastrectomy with systemic lymph node dissection for early gastric carcinoma: a review of 43 cases.", "content": "Laparoscopy-assisted distal gastrectomy with systemic lymph node dissection for early gastric carcinoma: a review of 43 cases. Recently, laparoscopy and laparoscopy-assisted surgery have been used increasingly as less-invasive alternatives to conventional open surgery. But the use of this approach in gastric carcinoma has received little attention, possibly from the low incidence of early-stage disease in the West and the relative complexity of the surgical procedure. A prospective feasibility study of laparoscopy-assisted distal gastrectomy was performed in patients with histologically confirmed gastric carcinoma located in the lower or middle third of the stomach. Patients whose preoperative evaluations, including endoscopic ultrasonography and computerized tomography, led to a diagnosis of T1 N0 stage disease, and who had no advanced disease discovered during laparoscopy, were eligible. Intraoperative blood loss, time of operation, mortality, and morbidity were assessed, along with the number of lymph nodes retrieved and shortterm survival. Between 1998 and 1999, 43 patients were enrolled. Laparoscopy-assisted distal gastrectomy was converted to an open procedure in one patient. There were no operative or in-hospital deaths, but the incidence of anastomotic leakage was 14% (6 of 43). The mean blood loss was 239 mL, the time of operation was 225 minutes, and lymph node retrieval was 20.2 nodes. These results are comparable with a series of conventional open operations. One patient died of recurrent disease, and all other patients remain disease-free to date. Port-site recurrence was not observed. Although laparoscopy-assisted distal gastrectomy was equivalent to open surgery in several clinical parameters, the relatively high morbidity was a drawback. Its appropriateness to gastric cancer surgery must be verified by further studies."}
{"id": "12510224", "title": "Diagnosis of esophagogastric tumors.", "content": "Diagnosis of esophagogastric tumors. It has been suggested that certain histological criteria may serve to indicate a good prognosis in patients with esophageal carcinoma. These include absence of subepithelial extension of the carcinoma cells, stage no higher than m2, and no neoplastic involvement near the resection margin. As endoscopic mucosal resection is becoming an accepted treatment option in this type of tumor, prognostic parameters of this type are of particular interest. By contrast, when metastases are detected in the celiac lymph nodes, it implies that the tumor is unresectable and that palliative treatment is required. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided fine-needle aspiration has been found to be the most cost-effective option in this setting. Although autofluorescence endoscopy is being tested as a new technique for endoscopic diagnosis, its value is at present unclear. However, such developments may lead to improved diagnosis in the future, particularly in relation to the initial stages of carcinoma. For the moment, EUS is still the most widely accepted method for early diagnosis and staging. Esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma appears to be commonly associated with head and neck cancer, but the cost-effectiveness of surveillance is a matter of controversy. With regard to Barrett's esophagus and adenocarcinoma, p53 staining in areas of low-grade dysplasia appears to be helpful for predicting progression to high-grade dysplasia. The prevalence of short-segment Barrett's esophagus increases with age, but the length of the segment does not increase with time; the length probably depends on individual conditions, not merely on elapsed time. Helicobacter pylori infection appears to be associated with intestinal metaplasia at the esophagogastric junction. However, the most recent data appear to suggest that this scenario (usually termed \"carditis\") may be different from intestinal metaplasia in the lower esophagus, related to acid reflux. A follow-up program might be able to detect Barrett's esophagus adenocarcinoma at earlier stages, but only a minority of Barrett's esophagus patients are likely to be detected before neoplasia has developed. Gastric cancer appears to develop in individuals with H. pylori infection, but not in uninfected persons. In addition, those with severe gastric atrophy, corpus-predominant gastritis, and intestinal metaplasia may be at greater risk for gastric cancer. This again raises the question of H. pylori eradication in asymptomatic individuals with infection, and surveillance of patients with severe intestinal metaplasia. The most recent data appear to support the notion that healing of MALT lymphoma depends not only on H. pylori eradication and on the stage of the tumor, but also on individual factors (possibly immunology-related)."}
{"id": "12690990", "title": "Early-stage gastric MALT lymphomas: eradication of H. pylori and outcome.", "content": "Early-stage gastric MALT lymphomas: eradication of H. pylori and outcome. Lymphomas of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue are special because of their indolent course. Low-grade early-stage tumors resolve after Helicobacter pylori (HP) eradication in a high percentage of cases. The aim of this study was to evaluate this regression in our patients with EI1 stage-low-grade B gastric lymphomas after eradication therapy since the introduction of echoendoscopic examinations in the Gastroenterology Department of 'Juan Canalejo' Hospital. A retrospective study of all cases of low-grade MALT gastric lymphomas in EI1 stage, diagnosed by histological and echoendoscopic examination, from June 1997 to December 2001. After eradication of HP with triple therapy, patients have been followed-up with endoscopic examinations at 2, 3 and 6 months, and yearly afterwards. There were 14 patients in this period with low-grade EI1 stage gastric MALT B cell lymphoma. The median age was 65 years, and 57% were females. HP was eradicated in all cases with first- or second-line (2 patients) antibiotic treatment. Complete remission was observed in 10 patients (71.4%) in a median time of 4.5 months. The other 4 patients needed chemotherapy because of non-remission or early relapse, and also as initial treatment. Complete remission was also obtained in these patients. Only 9 patients have been followed up in our unit for a median time of 20 months, period after which all remain free of disease. Low-grade early-stage MALT gastric B-cell lymphomas have a high rate of response to HP eradication therapy. Echoendoscopic staging helps in distinguishing the group of patients who will benefit from conservative treatment. These patients must be followed up as it remains unclear whether remission is maintained in the long term, and to know what factors could be associated with lymphoma relapse."}
{"id": "12622429", "title": "EUS may have limited impact on the endoscopic management of gastric carcinoids.", "content": "EUS may have limited impact on the endoscopic management of gastric carcinoids. Background. Carcinoids are occasionally found during gastroscopy. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) can determine the depth of invasion and vascularity of submucosal tumors, including carcinoid tumors. Thus, EUS can lead to an informed decision as to whether to attempt endoscopic or surgical excision of a carcinoid. The three cases described here were found by EUS to be amenable to endoscopic resection of submucosal carcinoid tumors. In each case, the margin of the specimen obtained led to uncertainty regarding the completeness of gastroscopic excision of the tumor. Guidelines for follow-up of gastric carcinoid are few. The incompleteness of endoscopic resection of submucosal tumors, with tumor found at the specimen margin, indicates that careful follow-up and/or consideration of other means of excision are indicated."}
{"id": "12607783", "title": "Diagnosis and fine needle aspiration of intraductal papillary mucinous tumor by endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Diagnosis and fine needle aspiration of intraductal papillary mucinous tumor by endoscopic ultrasound. A recently established clinical entity, intraductal papillary mucinous tumor (IPMT) of the pancreas embraces a spectrum of pathology ranging from benign to malignant disease. IPMT must be differentiated from other cystic neoplasms of the pancreas, as well as inflammatory cystic lesions. As the pancreas lies in close proximity to the gastric and duodenal walls, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is ideally suited for imaging the pancreas. Additionally, EUS facilitates fine needle aspiration of pancreatic cysts and/or a dilated pancreatic duct for cytologic and tumor marker analysis. This article presents a brief history of IPMT, differential diagnosis, current imaging modalities, findings of cytologic and tumor marker analysis, prognosis, and treatment strategy. Special emphasis is dedicated to the role of EUS, as well as EUS with fine needle aspiration."}
{"id": "12592099", "title": "Prospective comparison of endoscopy, endosonography and computed tomography for staging of tumours of the oesophagus and gastric cardia.", "content": "Prospective comparison of endoscopy, endosonography and computed tomography for staging of tumours of the oesophagus and gastric cardia. Local and multimodal therapeutic strategies for tumours of the oesophagus and gastric cardia, require precise preoperative staging. Endosonography is considered the most accurate staging method, while computed tomography (CT) has limitations especially in the evaluation of local infiltration. Macroscopic endoscopic evaluation was reported to be accurate in selected series, but no study has yet compared all three staging modalities. One hundred and seventeen unselected patients with tumours of the oesophagus and gastric cardia were prospectively staged first by the endoscopic macroscopic appearance and then by endosonography. All patients had preoperative CT scans, however, only the 36 patients receiving the scans at our institution were included in the study. The preoperative staging results were then compared to postoperative histology which was available as the gold standard in all included patients. Kappa statistics were used to exclude chance agreement of the clinical staging results with the pathohistological findings. Differences between the resulting kappa values for the different staging modalities were analysed with a jack-knife test. Endoscopic macroscopic staging and endosonography (accuracy 67 and 69%, weighted kappa 0.78 and 0.84) were significantly more accurate than CT (accuracy 33%, weighted kappa 0.44) for determination of the T category (p = 0.006 and p = 0.001). After exclusion of tumours of the cardia (n = 33), the accuracy of macroscopic and endosonographic staging (accuracy 72 and 75%, weighted kappa 0.86 and 0.88) increased and remained more accurate than CT (accuracy 50%, weighted kappa 0.62). The main pitfall in our series in staging the T category was the overestimation of T2 tumours in the cardia as T3 or even as T4 tumours due to the inability to visualise the serosa. The accuracy of predicting lymph node metastasis was 68% for macroscopic endoscopic, 79% for endosonographic, and 67% for CT staging. Only endosonographic staging was significantly different from chance agreement with histology (weighted kappa = 0.56). Endosonographic staging was significantly more accurate than endoscopic macroscopic and CT staging (p = 0.03). Endosonography is the most accurate staging modality for overall preoperative staging of oesophageal and cardial tumours. Endoscopic macroscopic staging allows a reasonably accurate assessment of the T category."}
{"id": "12546517", "title": "Endoscopic resection of a cavernous haemangioma of the stomach.", "content": "Endoscopic resection of a cavernous haemangioma of the stomach. A lesion, suspected, from the endoscopic appearance, to be an isolated gastric haemangioma was incidentally detected in a 66-year-old male. At follow-up endoscopy, 5 years later, tumour size had increased and its appearance had changed with respect to previous examinations. On endoscopic ultrasonography, the tumour was solid and confined mainly to the submucosal layer of the gastric wall. Examination of biopsy specimens failed to provide any useful information. After biopsy, tumour size and the area of reddish discoloration decreased and endoscopic ultrasonography revealed multiple small cystic lesions in the tumour. Endoscopic resection was then performed with complete excision of the tumour without complications or recurrence. Pathological examination of resected tissue demonstrated cavernous haemangioma of the stomach."}
{"id": "12510455", "title": "Gastrointestinal endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Gastrointestinal endoscopic ultrasonography. Although conventional endoscopy provides excellent visualization of gastrointestinal mucosa, it provides little information about intramural or nearby extramural lesions. The imaging of intraabdominal structures by conventional transabdominal ultrasound is degraded by ultrasound energy attenuation with distance. The provision of an ultrasound probe on a flexible gastrointestinal endoscope, to form an echoendoscope, provides excellent imaging of the gastrointestinal wall and of adjacent extramural structures. During the last two decades, endoscopic ultrasound, using an echoendoscope, has revolutionized the diagnosis and treatment of gastrointestinal diseases that affect the submucosa, deep bowel wall, and adjacent extramural structures. This article reviews the role of endoscopic ultrasound in the diagnosis and treatment of gastrointestinal disease, including standard and promising new applications, as well as standard and emerging new technology."}
{"id": "12499740", "title": "Is there additional information from laparoscopic ultrasound in tumor staging?", "content": "Is there additional information from laparoscopic ultrasound in tumor staging? Accurate preoperative staging of gastrointestinal malignancies is of major importance in the decision for adequate stage-related therapy. There is evidence that laparoscopy in combination with laparoscopic ultrasound is more accurate in the detection of intra-abdominal metastases than conventional preoperative imaging. Staging laparoscopy in combination with laparoscopic ultrasound is a minimally invasive technique that reveals intra-abdominal disseminated tumor spread and local tumor extent. Therefore laparoscopic ultrasound is an ideal adjunct to laparoscopy because this technique may compensate for the lack of tactile feedback with laparoscopic instruments. Color-coded Doppler imaging can be very valuable for the assessment of resectability in patients with pancreatic cancer. Current data confirm that laparoscopic ultrasound is capable of enhancing the accuracy of staging laparoscopy. Compared to standard laparoscopy, a combination of both techniques markedly increases the sensitivity of staging laparoscopy in the determination of unresectable disease. This is of major importance in the assessment of occult liver metastases and lymph node involvement. Laparoscopic ultrasonography improves the diagnostic accuracy compared to conventional imaging techniques and should be considered as integral part of staging laparoscopy."}
{"id": "12488184", "title": "Preoperative evaluation of hepatic lesions for the staging of hepatocellular and metastatic liver carcinoma using endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Preoperative evaluation of hepatic lesions for the staging of hepatocellular and metastatic liver carcinoma using endoscopic ultrasonography. Noninvasive imaging techniques, such as dynamic computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging and transabdominal ultrasonography are limited in their ability to detect hepatic lesions less than one cm. Intraoperative ultrasonography (IOUS) is currently the most sensitive modality for the detection of small hepatic lesions. However, IOUS is invasive requiring laparoscopy or formal laparotomy. We sought to evaluate the feasibility of using endoscopic ultrasonograhpy (EUS) for the detection and diagnosis of hepatic masses in patients with hepatocellular cancer (HCCA) and metastatic lesions (ML). We hypothesized that EUS could detect small (<1.0 cm) hepatic lesions undetectable by CT scan and could be used for biopsy of deep-seated hepatic lesions. Consecutive patients referred for EUS with suspected liver lesions were evaluated between July 2000 and October 2001. All patients underwent EUS using an Olympus (EM30) radial echoendoscope. If liver lesions were confirmed and fine needle aspiration (FNA) was deemed necessary, a linear array scope was used and an FNA performed with a 22-gauge needle. Two passes were made for each lesion. 14 patients underwent evaluation with dynamic CT scans and EUS. In all 14 patients, EUS successfully identified hepatic lesions ranging in size from 0.3 cm to 14 cm (right lobe: n = 3, left lobe: n = 1, bilobar: n = 8). Moreover, EUS identified new or additional lesions in 28% (4 of 14) of the patients, all less than 0.5 cm in size (HCCA: n = 2, ML: n = 2), influencing the clinical management. In 2 of 14 patients EUS identified liver lesions, previously described as suspicious by CT scan, to be hemangiomas. Nine patients underwent EUS-guided FNA of hepatic lesions (deep seated: n = 3, superficial: n = 6). All FNA passes yielded adequate specimens (malignant: n = 8, benign: n = 1). Our preliminary experience suggests that EUS is a feasible preoperative staging tool for liver masses suspected to be HCCA or metastatic lesions. EUS can detect small hepatic lesions previously undetected by dynamic CT scans. Furthermore, EUS-guided FNA can confirm additional HCCA liver lesions or liver metastases, in deep-seated locations, upstaging patients and changing clinical management."}
{"id": "12481735", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound. Indications and the clinical utility of endosonography have evolved as new technology, such as linear array echoendoscopes and EUS-guided fine needle aspiration, has emerged. The most noteworthy of the EUS applications are for cancer staging; including rectal, pancreatic, lung, and esophageal malignancies. There is little doubt that EUS is a powerful tool for cancer imaging, but its clinical impact in patient care and management has yet to be validated in prospective outcome studies. Other imaging modalities such as positron emission tomography (PET), dual-phased helical CT, and MR imaging technology will undoubtedly provide increasingly accurate diagnostic and staging information for gastrointestinal diseases. EUS imaging alone may assume a less significant role in relation to these noninvasive modalities in the future. EUS-guided FNA, as well as therapeutic EUS applications, will likely continue to expand in scope and play an important role in clinical medicine for many years to come."}
{"id": "12471541", "title": "Is endoscopic ultrasonography indispensable in assessing the appropriateness of endoscopic resection for gastric cancer?", "content": "Is endoscopic ultrasonography indispensable in assessing the appropriateness of endoscopic resection for gastric cancer? Endoscopic resection is increasingly being used in the treatment of early gastric cancer. The aim of the present study was to investigate the accuracy of pretherapeutic staging techniques for assessing the appropriateness of endoscopic resection. Both endoscopy and endosonography were carried out at our institution in the treatment of 234 early gastric cancers, with histological confirmation of malignancy following surgical resection (137 lesions) or endoscopic resection (97 lesions). The accuracy in detecting intramucosal cancer with each of the diagnostic procedures was assessed. The accuracy rates for detecting intramucosal cancer using endoscopy and endosonography were calculated as 84 % (197 of 234) and 78 % (182 of 234), respectively. The accuracy tended to be lower in lesions located in the upper third of the stomach, in those measuring 2 cm or more in diameter, and in those with an undifferentiated histology with ulcer fibrosis. However, there were no significant differences in the accuracy rates between endoscopy and endosonography. Precise staging was achieved by endoscopy alone in 103 of 109 differentiated adenocarcinomas without ulcer fibrosis, where the lesions measured less than 2 cm in diameter. Endoscopic resection is indicated in intramucosal gastric cancer lesions showing differentiated histology, no ulcer fibrosis and a diameter of less than 2 cm. EUS may additionally be used for further evaluation in these patients."}
{"id": "12460468", "title": "Multiparametric in situ mRNA hybridization analysis of gastric biopsies predicts lymph node metastasis in patients with gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Multiparametric in situ mRNA hybridization analysis of gastric biopsies predicts lymph node metastasis in patients with gastric carcinoma. We examined the expression level of several genes that regulate different steps in metastasis formation in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded biopsies of 189 primary human gastric carcinomas prior to surgical resection in patients in whom lymph node metastasis was not evident by endoscopic ultrasound or computed tomography (CT) scan. The expressions of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and E-cadherin were examined by a colorimetric in situ mRNA hybridization technique. The integrity of the mRNAs was verified, leaving 161 (85.2%) patients for study. After gastrectomy, 82 patients had positive lymph nodes and 79 patients had negative lymph nodes. The concurrent expression levels of MMP-2 and E-cadherin mRNAs were significantly higher and lower, respectively, in the metastatic tumors than the non-metastatic tumors. Expression of EGF-R and VEGF was not different between the metastatic and non-metastatic tumors. However, when only the intestinal-type of gastric cancer was evaluated, the level of VEGF mRNA was significantly higher in tumors associated with lymph node metastasis than in those without metastasis. However, a high MMP-2:E-cadherin ratio significantly correlated with lymph node metastasis in both types of gastric cancer. These results suggest that multiparametric in situ hybridization analysis for several metastasis-related genes may allow the preoperative prediction of lymph node metastasis from gastric cancer."}
{"id": "12441316", "title": "Updates to staging system reflect advances in imaging, understanding.", "content": "Updates to staging system reflect advances in imaging, understanding."}
{"id": "12425569", "title": "Peroral pancreatoscopy and intraductal ultrasound for diagnosis of intraductal papillary mucinous tumors of the pancreas.", "content": "Peroral pancreatoscopy and intraductal ultrasound for diagnosis of intraductal papillary mucinous tumors of the pancreas."}
{"id": "12377808", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the follow up and response assessment of patients with primary gastric lymphoma.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the follow up and response assessment of patients with primary gastric lymphoma. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is considered the best technique for local staging of primary gastric lymphomas. Its role in the follow up of patients with gastric lymphoma following organ conserving strategies has not been established. To compare endosonographic response assessment with results of histological evaluation. Thirty three patients with primary gastric lymphomas underwent pretreatment EUS and were followed endosonographically every 3-6 months after administration of organ conserving treatment modalities. A wall thickness of <or=4 mm with preserved five layer structure and the absence of suspicious lymph nodes was defined as endosonographic remission. Decrease in wall thickness, increase in echogenicity, and regression of lymph nodes were tested for their value to predict histological remission. A total of 158 endosonographies were performed (median 4; range 2-12). Within a median follow up period of 15 months (range 3-48), 27 (82%) patients achieved complete histological remission while endosonographic remission was found in 21 (64%) patients. Eighteen patients achieved both forms of remission, with endosonographic remission occurring later (35.1 (11-212.9) weeks v 17.6 (11-97.9) weeks; median (range); p<0.02) than histological remission. A further three patients demonstrated a false negative remission on EUS. Histological relapse was paralleled by endosonographic relapse in only one of five patients. None of the tested endosonographic parameters was able to predict histological remission. In view of the inferior accuracy of EUS when compared with histology, gastroscopy with biopsy seems sufficient for the routine follow up of patients with gastric lymphoma."}
{"id": "12375202", "title": "[Prospective comparison of hydrosonography, endosonography and specimen sonography for TN staging of gastric carcinoma].", "content": "[Prospective comparison of hydrosonography, endosonography and specimen sonography for TN staging of gastric carcinoma]. To compare hydrosonography (HUS), endosonography (EUS) and experimental sonography (PUS) with respect to TN-staging accuracy of gastric carcinoma. Thirty-six patients with gastric carcinoma underwent EUS (7.5/12 MHz transducer, Olympus GF-UM 20) and HUS (3.75 MHz transducer, Toshiba, Sonolayer SSA-270A) for TN-staging according to the UICC-classification. The resected specimens were reexamined (3.75/7.5 MHz transducer) and again TN-staging was performed. Findings were correlated with histopathological results. T- and N-staging accuracies were as follows: EUS 54 % (19/35) and 79 % (27/34); HUS 41 % (15/37) and 61 % (22/36); and PUS 51 % (19/37) and 72 %(26/36). Sensitivities and specificities for the detection of lymph node metastases were as follows: EUS 87 % and 54 %; HUS 57 % and 69 %; and PUS 83 % and 54 %. The accuracy of sonographic TN- staging is limited in patients with gastric carcinoma. Nevertheless, EUS may contribute to the preoperative management of patients with gastric carcinoma if indications are well defined. HUS is not suited for TN-staging of gastric carcinoma."}
{"id": "12360685", "title": "[Diagnostic imaging and histopathologic correlation of gastrointestinal stromal tumors].", "content": "[Diagnostic imaging and histopathologic correlation of gastrointestinal stromal tumors]."}
{"id": "12352295", "title": "Preoperative staging of gastric cancer by endoscopic ultrasound: the prognostic usefulness of ascites detected by endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Preoperative staging of gastric cancer by endoscopic ultrasound: the prognostic usefulness of ascites detected by endoscopic ultrasound. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is the standard modality in local preoperative staging of gastric cancers and is reputedly able to detect ascites. However, the association between ascites detected by EUS and local tumor staging, peritoneal carcinomatosis, or survival after surgery is not well documented. To assess the accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of EUS in the preoperative staging and detection of ascites in gastric cancers. We also try to correlate ascites with histologic staging, tumor differentiation, and survival rate of gastric carcinoma after surgery. The retrospective analysis was made in 57 consecutive patients with histologically confirmed gastric adenocarcinomas that underwent EUS before surgery. The accuracy of EUS was compared with the final surgical-pathologic findings. We estimated the prognostic usefulness by analyzing the clinicopathologic features of gastric adenocarcinomas and following up their survival rates. The overall T staging was 88% accurate by EUS. The accuracy for T staging was as follows: T1, 100%; T2, 33%; T3, 93%; and T4, 100%. About 50% of T2 cases were overstaged. The overall accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of detecting lymph node metastasis by EUS were 79%, 79%, and 80%, respectively. One of the seven T1 cancers had regional lymph node metastasis, and it was missed by EUS, although the T classification was precisely staged based on finding submucosal invasion. A total of 22 patients (39%) had ascites detected by EUS; both the sensitivity and specificity of EUS in demonstrating ascites were 100% in our study. Ascites was significantly correlated with the depth of tumor invasion ( = 0.036), lymph node metastasis ( = 0.008), and poor cellular differentiation ( = 0.007), but it was not significantly correlated with macroscopic peritoneal carcinomatosis. The survival rate after surgical treatment was poor in those with gastric cancers with lymph node metastasis, ascites, or poorly differentiated tumors ( < 0.05). However, multivariate analysis showed that lymph node metastasis was the only significant prognostic predictor ( = 0.004). Endoscopic ultrasound is a valuable diagnostic tool in the local staging of gastric cancers and demonstration of ascites. Although the surgical treatment of gastric cancers with lymph node metastasis, ascites, or poor differentiation had poorer survival rate, only lymph node metastasis was proved to be a significant prognostic predictor in multivariate analysis."}
{"id": "12269963", "title": "The importance of endoscopic ultrasonography in the management of low-grade gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma.", "content": "The importance of endoscopic ultrasonography in the management of low-grade gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma. Anti-Helicobacter pylori therapy has been reported to cause regression of low-grade gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma in a high percentage of patients. However, in some patients, these lesions persist despite antibiotic treatment. To determine the various endosonographic findings that may predict the regression of low-grade gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma post-antibiotics. Seventy-six patients with Helicobacter pylori-positive gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma were studied. Follow-up data were available on 51 patients. All patients were treated with antibiotics. Participants underwent pre- and post-anti-Helicobacter pylori therapy endoscopy with gastric biopsies, followed by endoscopic ultrasonography examination of the stomach. Helicobacter pylori was eradicated in 45 of 51 (88%) patients. At the 2-year follow-up, complete regression of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma was seen in 28 of 51 (55%) patients: 12 of 16 (75%) patients in stage T1m N0, 11 of 19 (58%) patients in stage T1sm N0, four of eight (50%) patients in stages T1m N1 and T1sm N1, and one of four (25%) patients in stage T2 N0. None of the stage T2 N1 patients achieved clinical regression. Endoscopic ultrasonography evaluation of gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma plays a pivotal role in the initial staging and post-treatment follow-up evaluation of these lesions. Accurate staging is essential in the determination of the optimal treatment modality."}
{"id": "12239459", "title": "Comparison of spiral-computed tomography with water-filling of the stomach and endosonography for gastric lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue-type.", "content": "Comparison of spiral-computed tomography with water-filling of the stomach and endosonography for gastric lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue-type. Endosonography has been reported as the method of choice for local staging of patients with gastric lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT)-type. As endosonography is still restricted to specialized centers, we have investigated the use of spiral computed tomography of the abdomen with water-filling of the stomach (hydro-spiral CT) for enhanced contrast in patients with gastric lymphoma. Patients with a histological verified diagnosis of gastric lymphoma of MALT-type were included in this prospective series. All patients underwent routine staging procedures including endosonography of the upper GI-tract carried out by a single individual. In addition, patients were subjected to hydro-spiral CT either before or after endosonography within a maximal time span of 4 weeks. Results of hydro-spiral CT were compared to those of the endosonographic evaluation and histological work-up of biopsy specimens. A total of 14 patients with primary gastric lymphoma of MALT-type (3 with a high-grade component) were studied prospectively. All patients underwent hydro-spiral CT before initiation of treatment, and 2 patients were also studied following chemotherapy. In the pretherapeutic setting, hydro-spiral CT identified gastric lymphoma in 8 patients, while a false negative result was seen in 6 patients. In addition, the localization of the lymphoma within the stomach was divergent between CT and endosonography in 1 patient. In the 2 patients who were also studied after therapy, CT showed unchanged thickening of the stomach wall in spite of normalization in the endosonographic assessment as well as the histologic evaluation. Our results demonstrate the superiority of endosonography over hydro-spiral CT for the staging and follow-up of patients with gastric lymphoma, who should therefore be managed at centers where endosonography is available."}
{"id": "12075697", "title": "Interventional endosonography.", "content": "Interventional endosonography. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has become the most accurate imaging modality for locoregional cancer staging of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) capabilities have added a whole new level of accuracy in nodal staging with reported numbers in the 90% range for luminal and pancreaticobiliary disease. In addition, new non-GI applications are being evaluated like the role of EUS-FNA for non-small cell lung carcinoma and exploration of the posterior mediastinum. Furthermore, the same capabilities that allow for safe tissue sampling are being explored for interventional applications like EUS-guided celiac plexus neurolysis and fine-needle injection. The following review describes the current clinical status of EUS in GI oncology as well as future and novel indications and therapeutic strategies for this technology."}
{"id": "12070411", "title": "[Value of endoscopic ultrasonography and somatostatin receptor scintigraphy in the preoperative localization of insulinomas and gastrinomas. Experience of 54 cases].", "content": "[Value of endoscopic ultrasonography and somatostatin receptor scintigraphy in the preoperative localization of insulinomas and gastrinomas. Experience of 54 cases]. The classic morphological techniques for the localization of insulinomas and gastrinomas are of limited value. Endoscopic ultrasonography and somatostatin receptor scintigraphy have shown high sensitivity for the detection of gastroenteropancreatic endocrine tumors. The aim of the study was to evaluate the sensitivity of endoscopic ultrasonography and that of somatostatin receptor scintigraphy in the localization of insulinomas and gastrinomas. This retrospective study concerned 54 patients with insulinoma (n=29) or gastrinoma (n=26) operated on between March 1991 and March 2000 and who had at least one among the two tested examinations. Forty-two patients had scintigraphy (17 with insulinoma, 25 with gastrinoma), 47 had endoscopic ultrasonography (28 with insulinoma, 17 with gastrinoma). One of the ten patients with MEN 1 had both tumors. All diagnosis were confirmed by histologic examination. The sensitivity of scintigraphy for the localization of insulinomas was 47%. There was one false positive. Sensitivity of endoscopic ultrasonography for insulinomas was 85%. The sensitivity of scintigraphy in the detection of gastrinomas was 65% for the tumors in the duodenopancreatic area, 20% for the tumors in the pancreatic tail and 71% for metastasis. The sensitivity of endoscopic ultrasonography was 46% for duodenal tumors, 75% for pancreatic tumors and 57% for lymph node metastasis. The combination of both localization studies increased sensitivity to 94%. Endoscopic ultrasonography and somatostatin receptor scintigraphy are the gold standard for localization of gastrinomas. Association of both examinations increases the sensitivity. Scintigraphy for the detection of insulinomas should be performed when endoscopic ultrasonography is negative."}
{"id": "12063969", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the preoperative staging of colorectal cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the preoperative staging of colorectal cancer. Endoscopic ultrasonography presents a significant progress in imaging methods for the examination of the digestive system and is commonly used in cancer staging. The aim of this study was to quantify the potential of this modality for diagnosis and staging of colorectal cancer. Eighty patients with histologically proven colorectal cancer were included in this study. All patients were preoperatively diagnosed by colonoscopy and biopsies, abdominal computed tomography and endoscopic ultrasonography. The latter was also used to evaluate the depth of tumor invasion and presence of lymph node or distant metastasis prior to surgery. Endoscopic ultrasonography presented 100% sensitivity in cancer detection versus 60% for computed tomography (P < 0.001). Endoscopic Ultrasonography sensitivity in T, N, M and TNM staging was 93.8%, 93.8%, 92.5% and 82.5% with corresponding specificities of 99.2%, 97.9%, 92.5% and 94.2%. Overall, Endoscopic Ultrasonography staging of the patients did not present statistically significant differences with histological staging (P > 0.05). Endoscopic ultrasonography is of satisfactory accuracy in diagnosis and preoperative staging of colorectal cancer."}
{"id": "12063829", "title": "Interventional endoscopy, neoadjuvant therapy and the gastroenterologist.", "content": "Interventional endoscopy, neoadjuvant therapy and the gastroenterologist. With current treatment, survival of greater than 1 year should be anticipated for many patients with pancreatic cancer. Cure rates (5-year survival) of greater than 10% have been achieved even for unresectable disease. Obstructive jaundice is managed successfully with endoscopic placement of a plastic stent early in the evaluation of a patient with suspected regional pancreatic cancer, and a metal wall stent is reserved for patients with known 1997 AJCC stage IVB carcinoma or nonoperative patients. Relief of biliary obstruction allows improvement in liver function and more time to evaluate tumor stage accurately to determine initial treatment (see Fig. 1). A cost-effective algorithm to determine accurate stage and treatment can start with the size of the mass on initial imaging studies. EUS-guided FNA represents a significant improvement over CT scan-guided FNA to make a tissue diagnosis. Small pancreatic masses that would be resected regardless of whether an FNA is positive or negative require only an EUS evaluation to establish an early resectable stage. Tumors reliably staged as unresectable by nonoperative imaging methods including EUS are treated with chemotherapy with or without concurrent radiotherapy because median survival of these patients is 2 years in some series. Tumors can be resected after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy. For chronic pain or gastric outlet obstruction not responding or treatable by chemoradiotherapy, endoscopically guided celiac plexus nerve block and stenting improve the quality of life for patients with pancreatic cancer. A team approach is required to achieve the objectives of improved quality of life, prolonged survival, and possible cure for pancreatic cancer. The optimal combination and sequencing of staging methods, including EUS, specialized CT scan, MR imaging, intraoperative findings, and pathologic evaluations, would improve selection of patients for potential curative resection. Interpretations of disease stage based on each of these methods may overlap but are not identical and are operator dependent. Rather than reliance on any single standard, clinical judgment and communication among the team are paramount to providing optimal care for patients with a pancreatic neoplasm."}
{"id": "12044699", "title": "Colorectal carcinoma: radiological diagnosis and staging.", "content": "Colorectal carcinoma: radiological diagnosis and staging. Colorectal carcinomas are the most common gastrointestinal tract tumors. 50-60% of the colorectal carcinomas originate in rectum and sigmoid colon. The new developments in imaging modalities have brought improvements in therapeutic aspects. The survival rates in these patients depend on the tumor penetration and the presence of regional lymph node or distant metastasis. The recurrence rates have decreased with the new operation techniques and preoperative radiotherapy, thus increasing the importance of accurate tumor staging. Double contrast barium enema studies enable the diagnosis while staging and follow-up is best done by topographic imaging techniques."}
{"id": "12044697", "title": "Carcinoma of stomach and duodenum: radiologic diagnosis and staging.", "content": "Carcinoma of stomach and duodenum: radiologic diagnosis and staging. Gastric carcinoma is one of the leading causes of cancer mortality worldwide. Accurate preoperative staging of gastric cancer is important in planning the most effective therapy toward cure or palliation. This article reviews the radiologic diagnosis and staging of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "12040654", "title": "Diagnosis of gastric glomus tumor by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy. A case report with cytologic, histologic and immunohistochemical studies.", "content": "Diagnosis of gastric glomus tumor by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy. A case report with cytologic, histologic and immunohistochemical studies. The majority of glomus tumor are small, benign neoplasms that arise from modified smooth muscle cells. They usually occur in the dermis or subcutis of the extremities. However, rare cases have been reported in the visceral locations, most often in the stomach. A 32-year-old woman presented with episodes of right upper quadrant pain. She was found to have a gastric tumor that was biopsied at another hospital, where the diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) was made. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) performed at our institution revealed a gastric submucosal tumor that was then biopsied by fine needle aspiration (FNA). Cytology revealed cohesive clusters of uniform, round, small cells with ill-defined cytoplasmic borders and scanty, amphophilic cytoplasm. Nuclei were round, with smooth nuclear membranes and evenly distributed, dusty chromatin. Intermingled with those epithelioid cells were small, short, spindled, normal endothelial cells. Immunohistochemical studies performed on cell block showed that the tumor cells were negative for CD34, CD117, chromogranin, synaptophysin, desmin and AE1/AE3 and were strongly positive for SMA, HHF-35 and collagen type IV. Glomus tumor was diagnosed and later confirmed by histology. EUS-guided FNA biopsy is efficient and permits adequate sampling for accurate diagnosis of gastric glomus tumor. Although rare, glomus tumor should be in the differential diagnosis among other gastric lesions, such as well-differentiated adenocarcinoma, epithelioid GIST and carcinoid tumor."}
{"id": "12016428", "title": "Gastrointestinal imaging: endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Gastrointestinal imaging: endoscopic ultrasound."}
{"id": "11992807", "title": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy with CPT-11 and cisplatin downstages locally advanced gastric cancer.", "content": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy with CPT-11 and cisplatin downstages locally advanced gastric cancer. We examined the role of neoadjuvant therapy in downstaging locally advanced gastric cancer. Preoperative staging was performed with a combination of CT scans, endoscopic ultrasonography and/or laparoscopy, and laparoscopic ultrasonography. Patients with T > or =3 tumors and/or node-positive disease by preoperative clinical staging were eligible for entry. Neoadjuvant therapy consisted of two cycles of CPT-11 (75 mg/m(2)) with cisplatin (25 mg/m(2)) weekly four times every 6 weeks. This was followed by resection with D2 lymph node dissection and two cycles of intraperitoneal chemotherapy with floxuridine and cisplatin. Twenty-two patients were entered into the study (4 with T3N0 disease and 18 with T3N1 disease). Induction chemotherapy was well tolerated with major toxicities being neutropenia and diarrhea. A median of 78%/75% of the planned dosage of CPT-11/cisplatin was delivered. Two patients withdrew consent during the first cycle and were lost to follow-up. One patient progressed to stage IV disease during induction chemotherapy and did not undergo surgery. Nineteen patients underwent surgery. One patient had undetected stage IV disease (liver) and underwent a palliative R2 resection. Of the 18 remaining patients, 17 had curative R0 resections and one had a palliative R1 resection. A median of 21 lymph nodes (range 1 to 121) were examined histologically. There was one postoperative death. Surgical morbidity did not appear to increase after the neoadjuvant regimen. The median postoperative length of hospital stay was 9 days (range 3 to 75 days). Postoperative pathologic staging yielded 16% T3 lesions compared to 85% before treatment based on clinical staging; postoperative American Joint Committee on Cancer staging yielded 37% stage IIIA disease compared to 70% stage IIIA before treatment. With a median follow-up of 15 months, median survival has not yet been reached. We conclude that CPT-11-based neoadjuvant therapy downstages locally advanced gastric cancer. Further follow-up is necessary to determine the ultimate impact of this combination therapy on recurrence and survival."}
{"id": "11989843", "title": "Diagnosis of a gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma by endoscopic ultrasonography-guided biopsies in a patient with a parotid gland localization.", "content": "Diagnosis of a gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma by endoscopic ultrasonography-guided biopsies in a patient with a parotid gland localization. We report the case of a 32-year-old man with a low-grade mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma of the parotid gland associated with Sj\u00f6gren syndrome. He underwent an upper endoscopy as part of the screening of a gastric localization which showed a diffuse non-specific gastritis. However, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) evidenced a focal wall thickening of the vertical portion of the smaller curvature. EUS-guided biopsies of this area disclosed a MALT lymphoma, whereas biopsies under endoscopy concluded to mild chronic gastritis. The search for Helicobacter pylori infection remained negative. Four months after treatment with anti-CD20 antibodies, EUS showed a diminution of the abnormal thickening of the second layer. Regression was confirmed histologically on new EUS-guided biopsies. MALT lymphoma is usually considered a localized disease; however, dissemination is probably more frequent than initially believed. Our case reflects the importance of a systematic screening for a gastric localization in patients with MALT lymphoma of the salivary glands. In this situation, association to autoimmune disease such as Sj\u00f6gren syndrome is more likely to explain the gastric location than infection with H. pylori. Endoscopic ultrasonography has a major impact for the staging of gastric MALT lymphoma, but may also help diagnose focal infiltration by the disease."}
{"id": "11972277", "title": "Esophageal intramural metastasis from adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction.", "content": "Esophageal intramural metastasis from adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction. Among a total of 143 patients examined for diagnosis of adenocarcinoma of the cardia, intramural esophageal metastases were verified in six patients (4.19 %). In each case the diagnosis was confirmed by histological examination. The histological structure of the primary tumors and metastases was the same. Metastases were detected by endoscopic ultrasound examination in three cases. All the cardia tumors proved to be well advanced. As well as endoscopic identification of the primary tumor, thorough examination of the proximal part of the esophagus is of great importance."}
{"id": "11950802", "title": "You get what you expect? A critical appraisal of imaging methodology in endosonographic cancer staging.", "content": "You get what you expect? A critical appraisal of imaging methodology in endosonographic cancer staging. After an initial period of excellent results with newly introduced imaging procedures, the accuracy of most imaging methods declines in later publications. This effect may be due to various methodological factors involved in the research. Using the example of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), this study aimed to elucidate one of the factors possibly concerned--namely, the extent to which the examiners are adequately blinded. Well documented videotapes of EUS examinations of 101 patients with resected tumours of the oesophagus (n=32), stomach (n=33), or pancreas (n=36) were evaluated in three different ways: firstly, retrospective analysis under routine clinical conditions; secondly, evaluation of EUS videotapes in a strictly blinded fashion; and thirdly, evaluation of the same videotapes but with additional information from the video endoscopic appearance (oesophageal/gastric cancer) or from computed tomography results (pancreatic cancer). Histopathological T staging was used as the reference method. The accuracy of EUS in T staging was 73% under routine conditions. This value fell significantly to 53% for the blinded evaluation but increased again to 62% for the unblinded evaluation. The sensitivity of staging T1/T2 tumours was 72% (routine EUS), 59% (blinded EUS), and 70% (unblinded EUS). The respective values for advanced tumours were 85%, 74%, and 72%. The accuracy of EUS for T staging in clinical practice appears to be lower than has previously been reported. In addition, blinded analysis produced significantly poorer results, which improved when another test was added. It may be speculated that better results with routine EUS obtained in a clinical setting are due to additional sources of information."}
{"id": "11911094", "title": "Predictive value of endoscopic ultrasonography for regression of gastric low grade and high grade MALT lymphomas after eradication of Helicobacter pylori.", "content": "Predictive value of endoscopic ultrasonography for regression of gastric low grade and high grade MALT lymphomas after eradication of Helicobacter pylori."}
{"id": "11866264", "title": "Conservative treatment of primary gastric low-grade B-cell lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue: predictive factors of response and outcome.", "content": "Conservative treatment of primary gastric low-grade B-cell lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue: predictive factors of response and outcome. Primary gastric low-grade B-cell lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue may regress with conservative treatment such as anti-Helicobacterpylori therapy or monochemotherapy. The aims of the present study were to analyze the predictive factors of response to anti-H. pylori treatment, to assess the effects of an adjuvant therapy in responding patients, and to evaluate an alternative therapy in nonresponding patients. From 1995 to 2000, 48 H. pylori-infected patients with localized primary gastric low-grade B-cell lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue were treated with anti-H. pylori therapy. Endoscopic and endoscopic ultrasonography features and histological grading of large cells' proportion were analyzed. Eradication of H. pylori and tumoral response were assessed at 2 and 6 months, respectively. From 1996, patients in remission at 6 months were randomized to receive either chlorambucil p.o. for 6 months or no treatment. Patients who did not respond to H. pylori eradication received chlorambucil p.o. for 1 yr. Among the 48 treated patients, 33 (69%) were in complete (n = 28) or in partial (n = 5) remission, and 15 (31%) were in treatment failure at 6 months. H. pylori was eradicated in 47 patients. The response was not correlated with the endoscopic features or with the histological grade. In contrast, it was related to ultrasonographic features: remission was achieved in 76% of patients when no perigastric lymph node was detected versus only 33% when endoscopic ultrasonography showed presence of lymph nodes (p = 0.025). All responding patients remained in remission (median 34 months) whatever the treatment they received (no treatment or chlorambucil). Remission could be achieved with chlorambucil in 58% of the nonresponding patients to anti-H. pylori treatment. The major negative predictive factor of the tumoral response to anti-H. pylori treatment in patients with primary gastric low-grade B-cell lymphoma of mucosaassociated lymphoid tissue was the presence of perigastric lymph nodes on endoscopic ultrasonography. In responding patients, remission remained stable, suggesting that adjuvant chemotherapy was not useful. In patients who failed to respond to H. pylori eradication, monochemotherapy with chlorambucil proved to be efficient, but new therapeutic modalities should be evaluated to improve the control of the tumoral process."}
{"id": "11859302", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound and Computed Tomography in gastric stromal tumours.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound and Computed Tomography in gastric stromal tumours. Gastric stromal tumors (GIST) have no well defined biological characteristics, from either the pathological or immunohistochemical point of view, which can make their definition by imaging techniques difficult. We evaluated CT and EUS morphologic characteristics and signs of malignancy of eleven cases of GIST and compared the findings to the pathological classification. EUS was performed with a 100 degrees, 5-7.5 MHz convex probe on a Pentax endoscope and CT using the byphasic spiral technique. The 11 GIST cases were ranked according to the criteria of malignancy defined by each of the two imaging techniques. There was a close correlation between the imaging-based and pathological classifications. Size and homogeneous pattern prove to be the most reliable criteria to differentiate between benign and malignant lesions. EUS is more accurate than CT in diagnosing the nature of GIST, but CT allows a more complete and comprehensive evaluation. The data provided by the imaging techniques are fundamental to plan the therapeutic approach."}
{"id": "11858384", "title": "A huge gastric stromal tumor in a 13-year-old girl.", "content": "A huge gastric stromal tumor in a 13-year-old girl. A 13-year-old girl presenting with severe anemia was diagnosed to have a large gastric tumor protruding toward the antrum with two central ulcerations. Partial gastrectomy including antrectomy and gastroduodenostomy were performed. Histologic and immunohistochemical studies revealed one of the most uncommon gastric tumors in children; a gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Close follow-up of the patient with endoscopy, abdominal ultrasonography and/or computed tomography in three to six month intervals revealed no recurrences or metastasis of the tumor following its complete excision."}
{"id": "11831609", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer. Patients with signs and symptoms suggestive of a pancreatic neoplasm typically undergo initial imaging with transabdominal ultrasound or computed tomography. This evaluation often reveals the presence of a pancreatic mass or fullness. At times, the nature of the lesion is poorly characterized, with uncertainty remaining as to whether the lesion is an inflammatory mass or a neoplasm, and if it is cystic or solid. In these circumstances, endoscopic procedures such as endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and/or endoscopic ultrasound may be required. These procedures offer other means of tissue sampling, disease staging, and an option for palliative therapy. In this article, we review the role of endoscopy for the diagnosis and staging of pancreatic tumors, with a particular focus on endoscopic ultrasound."}
{"id": "11809546", "title": "A comparison of computerised tomography, laparoscopic ultrasound and endoscopic ultrasound in the preoperative staging of oesophago-gastric carcinoma.", "content": "A comparison of computerised tomography, laparoscopic ultrasound and endoscopic ultrasound in the preoperative staging of oesophago-gastric carcinoma. Oesophago-gastric carcinoma is associated with a poor prognosis despite advances in diagnosis and treatment. Accurate preoperative staging of gastro-oesophageal carcinoma is, therefore, essential in order to determine patient selection for potentially curative resection. The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare the role of computerised tomography (CT), laparoscopic ultrasound (LapUS) and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in the staging of oesophago-gastric carcinoma. Thirty-six patients with histologically proven carcinoma of the oesophagus or stomach who were considered fit for surgical resection were identified from a prospectively collected database. All patients underwent spiral CT, LapUS and EUS as part of their preoperative staging investigations. RESULTS from the staging modalities were compared retrospectively with final histopathology where available and to intraoperative findings where the tumour was irresectable. Locally advanced tumours (T3/T4) were accurately identified by CT in 15/16 (94%) and by EUS in 14/16 (88%). LapUS was unable to detect 11 tumours (of which five were T3/T4) because they were above the diaphragm, but in the locally advanced cases where the tumour could be seen the accuracy was 10/12 (83%). EUS was the best modality for assessing early tumours and locoregional nodal involvement with accuracies of 8/13 (62%) and 21/29 (72%), respectively. EUS accuracies rose to 64, 92 and 83% for T1/T2, T3/T4 and N staging with the exclusion of those patients (n=6) in whom strictures prevented full assessment. LapUS had a specificity of 100%, compared to 90% for CT and was more accurate than CT for assessing distant metastases (accuracy of 26/32 (81%) compared to 23/32 (72%) for CT). Although this study is small it has confirmed that CT, EUS and LapUS act in a complimentary manner to provide the most complete preoperative staging for patients with oesophago-gastric cancer."}
{"id": "11778127", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography. Over the past two decades, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has undergone a transition from being a novel imaging technique to a clinical diagnostic test that is necessary for the optimal management of gastrointestinal diseases. EUS has established itself as an important diagnostic modality, mainly for the detection and staging of gastrointestinal cancers. As EUS has become more widespread, research has gradually shifted towards studies that explore the effect of EUS on patient management and outcome. These outcome studies have examined the primary clinical applications of EUS, such as esophageal, gastric, pancreatic, and colorectal cancer staging, as well as the role of EUS in the diagnosis of inflammatory pancreatic diseases. Widespread use of EUS has recently led to studies that examine complications associated with the performance of the procedure. Endosonographers have continued efforts to define a clinical role for EUS in other gastrointestinal diseases, such as portal hypertension. EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA) is continuing to develop into a powerful diagnostic tool for the management of lung cancer and other mediastinal diseases. New applications for EUS-FNA are also emerging. Finally, investigators are continuing to explore the remaining frontier of EUS-guided therapy."}
{"id": "11869324", "title": "Prognostic value of laparoscopic ultrasound in patients with gastro-esophageal cancer.", "content": "Prognostic value of laparoscopic ultrasound in patients with gastro-esophageal cancer. Forty-four patients with gastro-esophageal tumors regarded as resectable by conventional staging underwent laparoscopic ultrasonography (LUS). Following LUS, seven were found to be irresectable and were managed by palliative therapies. Thirty-seven patients proceeded to surgical exploration and 36 were resected (R0 80%, R1 11%, and R2 9%). All patients were reviewed until death or for a minimum of 24 months. Patients undergoing resection had a 62% 1-year survival (median 17 months; confidence intervals, CI 6-28). LUS defined nodal status indicated a trend toward prolonged survival in the node-negative group, median 22 months (CI 5-39), compared with 13 months (CI 6-20) in the node-positive group. Disease-free survival was greater in LUS node-negative patients at 29 months (CI 23-35) compared with node-positive patients at 13 months (CI 5-21) P=0.0083. LUS staging allows prediction of the likelihood of recurrence of gastro-esophageal malignancies. This may prove useful for the appropriate allocation of patients to primary and adjuvant therapies."}
{"id": "11817475", "title": "Imaging features of pancreatic neoplasms.", "content": "Imaging features of pancreatic neoplasms. Pancreatic masses are common in daily imaging practice. The advent of helical CT and breathold MRI has provided a new impetus to the study of the pancreas not only for the potential of characterizing pancreatic masses and pancreatitis but also because of the more accurate staging of pancreatic neoplasms using this technique. Pancreatic tumors are classified according to its histologic origin. Ductal adenocarcinoma is the most common. Regarding ductal adenocarcinoma, despite the fast evolving imaging techniques promising an earlier diagnosis and an accurate staging, still the prognosis is extremely poor. However, new surgical data indicate that long-term survival although rare, occurs on resected tumors less than 2 cm, without vascular encasement or adenopathy. Logically, early detection and accurate staging of tumors has become the main focussing in pancreatic imaging since it may result in an increase in the survival of these patients. In this context, the role of imaging to identify, characterize and stage pancreatic neoplasms will be described. Furthermore, the key radiological features of a gamut of more uncommon pancreatic neoplasms will be illustrated. These include other exocrine epithelial tumors (anaplastic carcinoma, pancreatoblastoma, acinar cell carcinoma serous cystic pancreatic adenoma, mucinous cystic tumors, intraductal mucinous papillary tumor, and solid pseudopapillary neoplasm), endocrine tumors or islet cell tumors (insulinoma, gastrinoma, gluconoma, vipoma, non-functioning tumors), rare non-epithelial tumors (lymphoma, teratoma) and metastases to the pancreas."}
{"id": "11816140", "title": "[Esophageal implantation metastasis from adenocarcinoma of the cardia].", "content": "[Esophageal implantation metastasis from adenocarcinoma of the cardia]. A 74 years old male patient was admitted to our department suffering from dysphagia for five months. Gastric Barium studies showed a cardia tumour with polypoid lesions in the wall of the esophagus, and gastro-esophageal reflux disease was also diagnosed. Endoscopy verified a cardia tumour with esophageal metastasis, and biopsy was obtained from the two lesions. Histology showed that both tumours were adenocarcinomas. Endoscopic ultrasonography classified the cardia tumour as grade T2. As observed during endoscopy, the wall of the esophagus at the level of the polypoid lesion was hypo-echogenic and thick which was result of thickened mucosa. Total gastrectomy and oesophagectomy was performed. Pathology showed that the cardia tumour was pT2N2 and type Siewert-Stein II. The esophageal polypoid lesion was also proved an adenocarcinoma, which was localized only to the mucosa. No tumour cells were found in the blood- or in lymph vessels between the tumour and the esophageal adenocarcinoma. We think that the polypoid adenocarcinoma in the esophagus is an esophageal metastasis implantation from the cardia adenocarcinoma. It is based on the exclusion of other possible tumour dissemination routes. Probably the gastro-esophageal reflux is responsible for the implantation of tumour cells."}
{"id": "11805563", "title": "Radiotherapy, concomitant protracted-venous-infusion 5-fluorouracil, and surgery for ultrasound-staged T3 or T4 rectal cancer.", "content": "Radiotherapy, concomitant protracted-venous-infusion 5-fluorouracil, and surgery for ultrasound-staged T3 or T4 rectal cancer. A prospective study was undertaken to evaluate the response and toxicity of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy for ultrasound-staged T3 or T4 rectal cancer. Since 1995, 30 patients (18 males; median age, 56 (range, 25-83) years) have received preoperative chemoradiotherapy for ultrasound-staged T3 or T4 rectal cancer. All patients underwent an endorectal ultrasound, CT scan, and review in our multidisciplinary Gastrointestinal Tumor Board before treatment. All patients had pathology-demonstrated invasive adenocarcinoma of the rectum. Eleven patients were Stage T3N0, 14 were T3N1, and five were T4N1. Patients received radiotherapy to the primary tumor and draining lymph nodes (45 Gy) followed by a tumor boost (50.4-54 Gy). Protracted-venous-infusion 5-fluorouracil (225 mg/m2 per day, seven days per week) was administered throughout treatment. Surgical resection was performed six to ten weeks after completing chemoradiotherapy. Using endorectal ultrasound measurements, the primary tumor was a median of 4 (range, 0-12) cm from the anal verge, encompassed 50 (range, 20-90) percent of the rectal circumference, and was 6 (range, 3-12) cm in diameter. No Grade 4 toxicity was observed during chemoradiotherapy. Three patients experienced Grade 3 toxicity (diarrhea), and four patients required a treatment interruption of greater than three days. All patients completed at least 90 percent of the prescribed radiotherapy dose. All patients underwent surgical resection. Ninety-four percent had clear surgical margins. All pathologic specimens had significant evidence of necrosis, hyalinization, and fibrosis. Thirty-three percent of the specimens had a complete pathologic response (defined as no evidence of viable tumor cells). Of the 19 patients with ultrasound-staged N1 disease, only five had pathologic evidence of nodal involvement after chemoradiotherapy. Of the 25 patients with ultrasound-staged T3 disease, pathologic staging revealed eight with T0, two with T1, five with T2, and ten with T3 disease. Of the five patients with ultrasound-staged T4 disease, pathologic staging revealed two with T0, one with T2, and two with T3 disease. No patient developed progressive disease while on treatment. Two patients have experienced local failure at 6 and 20 months, and one patient failed in the liver at seven months. Twenty-seven patients remain free of disease with a median follow-up of 20 (range, 3-53) months. Our experience suggests that preoperative chemoradiotherapy is well tolerated, down-stages tumors, and sterilizes regional lymph nodes."}
{"id": "11797291", "title": "[Adenocarcinomas of the distal esophagus and cardia: surgical management].", "content": "[Adenocarcinomas of the distal esophagus and cardia: surgical management]. Adenocarcinoma of the esogastric junction is increasing more rapidly than any other cancer in western country. Patients with carcinoma of the cardia often present at an advanced stage of disease. Accurate preoperative staging of cancer of the cardia need computed tomography, endoscopic ultrasound: laparoscopy is useful for advanced cancer to detect liver and peritoneal metastatis, preventing an unnecessary laparotomy in up to 20% of patients. The Siewert's classification of the cancer of the esogastric junction is accepted internationally: type I: tumor center within the late 5 cm of the distal esophagus, treated with subtotal esophagectomy; type II: located at the esogastric junction, treated with distal esophagectomy and, either proximal or total gastrectomy; and type III: subcardial cancer, treated by extended total gastrectomy. The dominating independent prognostic factors are a complete resection (R0) and the lymph node status (pN0) Expected 5 year survival rate is 30% in patients undergoing surgery with curative intent (R0) and less than 1% in patients undergoing palliative surgery."}
{"id": "11797290", "title": "[Adenocarcinomas of the distal esophagus and cardia. Anatomy and volume of irradiation].", "content": "[Adenocarcinomas of the distal esophagus and cardia. Anatomy and volume of irradiation]. The esophagus is divided into four regions: cervical esophagus, intrathoracic esophagus with upper, mid and lower thoracic portion. Cancer may occur on each of these regions. Computed tomography of the thorax and superior abdomen and endoscopic ultrasound are necessary for reliable staging. CT simulation allows accurate definition of tumor volume. GTV includes tumor volume and regional lymph nodes. CTV encompasses GTV plus safety margin and lymph nodes areas considered to harbor potential microscopic disease. The extent of prophylactic lymph node irradiation depends on the anatomic location of the primary tumor."}
{"id": "11760898", "title": "Anorectal sphincter function and rectal barostat study in patients following transanal endoscopic microsurgery.", "content": "Anorectal sphincter function and rectal barostat study in patients following transanal endoscopic microsurgery. This study evaluated the effect of transanal endoscopic microsurgery (TEM) on anorectal sphincter functions and determined the risk factors for anorectal dysfunctions (including incontinence). A study group of 33 patients with small, mobile rectal tumors (adenoma and carcinoma) located up to 12 cm from the anal verge underwent anorectal motility studies (using pull-through anorectal manometry and rectal barostat) and endoanal ultrasound prior to surgery and 3 weeks and 6 months after TEM; controls were 20 healthy volunteers. Resting and squeeze anal pressures were reduced 3 weeks after TEM. Resting anal pressure remained reduced 6 months after surgery; the changes were related to low preoperative levels and to the internal anal sphincter defects rather than to the procedure duration or the type of surgery. High-pressure zone length and vector volume were decreased 3 weeks after TEM and restored 6 months later. Rectoanal inhibitory reflex, reflex sphincter contraction, rectoanal pressure gradients, threshold and maximal tolerable volume of rectal sensitivity, and compliance were significantly changed 3 weeks after TEM; only rectal wall compliance remained low at 6 months. The rectoanal inhibitory reflex, reflex sphincter contraction, rectal sensitivity, and compliance were related to the extent and type of excision (partial or full thickness). Anal ultrasound revealed internal anal sphincter defects in 29% of patients studied 3 weeks after TEM. Only 76% of patients were fully continent. Disturbed anorectal function (including partial fecal incontinence) was observed in up to 50% of patients at 3 weeks. Partial and moderate anorectal dysfunction was found in 21% patients 6 months after surgery. The main risk factors of anorectal dysfunctions following TEM included: postoperative internal anal sphincter defects, low preoperative resting anal pressure, disturbed rectoanal coordination, extent (>50% of wall circumference) and the depth (full thickness) of tumor excision. TEM has a relevant but temporary effect on anorectal motility. As a result of TEM procedures 21% of the patients had disturbed anorectal functions, mostly due to the extent or depth of tumor excision (influencing rectal compliance and rectoanal coordination), and to the sphincter defects lowering resting anal pressure. Preoperative anorectal motility studies and anal ultrasound allow the identification of patients with the risk of postoperative anorectal dysfunctions."}
{"id": "11753234", "title": "[Morphological imaging of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours].", "content": "[Morphological imaging of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours]. Biologically active neuroendocrine tumours produce early symptoms and are often difficult to diagnose owing to their small dimensions (<1 cm), whereas biologically inactive forms are often coarse and sometimes found by chance. As well as identifying the lesion, locoregional staging is also particularly important for therapeutic planning. Morphological imaging plays an important role in the identification of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours, providing an anatomic substrate for receptorial imaging which usually precede it in the diagnostic work-up, whereas it plays a primary role in the locoregional staging of these neoplasms for which surgery is the first and essential therapeutic approach. In the case of endocrine tumours of the pancreas alone, the most accurate method of diagnosis is currently echo-endoscopy using high-frequency probes. Two-phase spiral CT and dynamic MR have proved equally effective means of identifying endocrine tumours of the pancreas with slightly higher sensitivity for MR, both playing a role in the locoregional staging of biologically active and inactive tumours. Traditional radiology also plays a role in the identification of intestinal carcinoids."}
{"id": "11750230", "title": "Cancer of the esophagus and gastro-esophageal junction: potentially curative therapies.", "content": "Cancer of the esophagus and gastro-esophageal junction: potentially curative therapies. The definition of potential curative tumors of the esophagus and gastro-esophageal junction remains problematic. This is due to a lack of accuracy in clinical staging despite recent advances in CT, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), positron emission tomography scan and minimally invasive staging modalities. As a result much controversy persists regarding indications for surgery and extent of resection and lymphadenectomy. Today surgery with curative option results in five-year survival of over 30%. Multimodality regimens, especially neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, seem to be beneficial in patients with a complete response on pathologic staging. Other indications are investigational and should be studied within carefully monitored study protocols. In early carcinoma T(is)-T(1a) endoluminal ablation technique seem to open promising perspectives provided of discrimination between T(is)-T(1a) and T(1b) can be made by the use of 20mhz EUS probes."}
{"id": "11747229", "title": "Cytologic diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the stomach by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy: cytomorphologic and immunohistochemical study of 12 cases.", "content": "Cytologic diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors of the stomach by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy: cytomorphologic and immunohistochemical study of 12 cases. Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) is an uncommon tumor, which was usually diagnosed by endoscopic biopsy or surgical resection. This study evaluated the efficacy and accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) -guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy in the diagnosis of GIST and reported its cytomorphologic features. Twelve patients with gastric GIST were diagnosed through EUS-guided FNA. Immediate on-site evaluation and cytologic diagnoses were given in nine cases (75.0%) with an average of three passes. Cell blocks provided diagnostic material in three cases (25.0%). Spindle cells were present in the cytologic material in all cases. Two patients had subsequent surgical resections. Immunohistochemical (IHC) studies performed in cell blocks and two surgical specimens all supported the original diagnoses. In the two cases with surgical resections, IHC results in cell blocks were similar to that in the resected specimens. This study demonstrated that when combining smears and cell blocks, EUS-guided FNA is accurate and efficient in the diagnosis of GIST. IHC reactivity in cell blocks correlated with that of the main tumors."}
{"id": "11709568", "title": "Prospective study of Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy in stage I(E) high-grade mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma of the stomach.", "content": "Prospective study of Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy in stage I(E) high-grade mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma of the stomach. High-grade mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphomas of the stomach are generally believed to be Helicobacter pylori-independent, autonomously growing tumors. However, anecdotal cases of regression of high-grade lymphomas after the cure of H pylori infection had been described. The present prospective study was conducted to evaluate the effect of anti-H pylori therapy in stage I(E) high-grade gastric MALT lymphomas. Sixteen patients with H pylori infection and stage I(E) gastric high-grade MALT lymphoma consented to a brief antibiotic therapy as first-line treatment from June 1995 through April 2000. Then, patients underwent intensive endoscopic follow-up examinations (+/- endoscopic ultrasonography) with biopsy to evaluate tumor response. Patients with significant improvement of gross lesions that accompanied regression of large cells were followed up without additional treatment. Patients without significant improvement were immediately referred to systemic chemotherapy. Eradication of H pylori was achieved in 15 patients and was accompanied by rapid gross tumor regression and disappearance of large cells in 10. All 10 of these patients with early response had subsequent complete histologic remission of lymphoma. The complete remission rate was 62.5% (95% confidence interval, 35.8% to 89.1%). The response rate was not affected by the tumor grading (proportion of large blast cells within the tumor) but was adversely affected by the depth of tumor invasion. At a median follow-up of 43.5 months (range, 21.1 to 67.4 months), all 10 of these patients remained lymphoma-free. The median duration of complete response was 31.2 months (range, 14.4 to 49.1 months). These results suggest that high-grade transformation is not necessarily associated with the loss of H pylori dependence in early-stage MALT lymphomas of the stomach."}
{"id": "11677489", "title": "Regression of primary gastric diffuse large B-cell lymphoma after eradication of Helicobacter pylori.", "content": "Regression of primary gastric diffuse large B-cell lymphoma after eradication of Helicobacter pylori."}
{"id": "11641096", "title": "Optimizing treatment of carcinoma of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction.", "content": "Optimizing treatment of carcinoma of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction. Overall prognosis in patients with carcinoma of the esophagus and Gastroesophageal junction remains poor mainly because of the late presentation and advanced stage of the disease at the time of diagnosis. Over the last decades, clinical staging has improved, especially since the introduction of CT scan and echo-endoscopy; however, the clinical definition of potential curative tumors still remains unsatisfactory. More recently, the introduction of PET scanning seems to offer better perspective for more precise staging and evaluation of response. In centers with large experience, cure rates today are exceeding 30% after primary surgery. To improve the cure rate, much attention is paid to neoadjuvant multimodality regimens. In resectable tumors, induction therapy offers little or no benefit. In locally advanced tumors especially, the combination of induction chemoradiotherapy results in a complete response in a substantial number of patients. This subset of patients seems to benefit in terms of survival and cure, whereas the others do not. Future research, therefore, needs to focus on early identification of responders (e.g., through molecular biology) and new chemotherapeutic drugs with higher impact on tumor response and fewer side effects."}
{"id": "11595075", "title": "Gastrointestinal: gastric inflammatory fibroid polyp.", "content": "Gastrointestinal: gastric inflammatory fibroid polyp."}
{"id": "11559651", "title": "A systematic review of the staging performance of endoscopic ultrasound in gastro-oesophageal carcinoma.", "content": "A systematic review of the staging performance of endoscopic ultrasound in gastro-oesophageal carcinoma. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) may be used for preoperative staging of gastro-oesophageal carcinoma but performance values given in the literature differ. To identify and synthesise findings from all articles on the performance of EUS in tumour, node, metastasis (TNM) staging of gastro-oesophageal carcinoma. Published and unpublished English language literature, 1981-1996. Data on the staging performance of EUS were retrieved and evaluated. Summary receiver operator characteristic methodology was used for synthesis, and a summary estimate of performance, Q*, obtained. Multiple regression analysis was used to assess study validity and investigate reasons for differences in performance. Twenty seven primary articles were assessed in detail. Thirteen supplied results for staging oesophageal cancer, 13 for gastric cancer, and four for cancers at the gastro-oesophageal junction. For gastric T staging, Q*=0.93 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.91-0.95) and for oesophageal T staging, Q*=0.89 (95% CI 0.88-0.92). For gastro-oesophageal T staging, including cancers at the gastro-oesophageal junction, Q*=0.91 (95% CI 0.89-0.93). Inclusion of cases with non-traversable stenosis was found to slightly reduce staging performance. For N staging, Q*=0.79 (95% CI 0.75-0.83). In articles that compared EUS directly with incremental computed tomography, EUS performed better. None of the variables assessed in the regression analysis was significant using a Bonferroni correction. Three variables (anatomical location, traversability, and blinding) showed strong relationships for future research and validation. EUS is highly effective for discrimination of stages T1 and T2 from stages T3 and T4 for primary gastro-oesophageal carcinomas. The failure rate of EUS from non-traversability of a stenotic cancer may be a limitation in some patient groups."}
{"id": "11554136", "title": "[Value of laparoscopic ultrasound for staging of gastrointestinal tumors].", "content": "[Value of laparoscopic ultrasound for staging of gastrointestinal tumors]. The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of laparoscopic ultrasound on the staging of gastrointestinal tumors prospectively. Between 1993 and 2000 staging laparoscopy was performed on 668 patients with various neoplasms. Laparoscopy provided adequate information regarding resectability in 366 patients. Laparoscopic ultrasonography was performed in 302 patients (45%) using an intraoperative ultrasound unit (B & K) and a semiflexible ultrasound probe (5-7.5 MHz). The results of staging laparoscopy were compared to the preoperative staging and histopathology. Compared to preoperative staging laparoscopic ultrasound provided additional information of therapeutic relevance in 46 of 302 cases (15%). In a group of 384 patients with tumors of the upper gastrointestinal tract, laparoscopic ultrasound was performed in 186 cases and showed occult liver metastases, M1-lymph nodes, or nonresectable disease in 26 patients. Overall, this technique improved the staging of esophageal, gastric and pancreatic cancer in 12%, 3%, and 12% of the patients, respectively. Laparoscopic ultrasound proved to be most useful in esophageal and pancreatic cancer with a rate of 52% and 20% information additional to laparoscopy. The relative contribution of laparoscopic ultrasound to the staging of gastric cancer was only 10%. Laparoscopic ultrasound improves the diagnostic accuracy of staging laparoscopy. However, routine use of this technique is only justified, if neoadjuvant therapy--particularly in controlled trials--is considered in patients with advanced gastrointestinal cancer."}
{"id": "11515456", "title": "Uncommitted gastrointestinal stromal tumour. Case report.", "content": "Uncommitted gastrointestinal stromal tumour. Case report. Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumours (GIST) are mesenchymal tumours with uncertain prognosis. Malignant variety represents about 2.0% of malignant gastroenteric tumours. The Authors report a clinical case of malignant gastric and duodenojejunal GIST, in which the only surgical treatment seems to be definitive. R. S., a 69-year-old female, was admitted for asthenia and fever in January 1997. Endoscopic exploration, ultrasonography and CT-scan of the abdomen demonstrated an exophytic tumour in the greater gastric curvature and one tumour of 5.5 cm of diameter in the Treitz's angle. We performed a resection of the gastric tumour and the duodenojejunal angle. Postoperative course was uneventful and the patient was discharged after 14 postoperative hospital days. Histological analysis showed two spindle cells stromal tumours with mitotic rate > 20/10 HPF. The immunohistochemistry demonstrated the uncommitted origin of tumour cells. The patient refused the chemotherapy treatment. There was no local recurrence or metastasis at a follow up of 47 months, in spite the high malignancy degree. For this reason and because of the uncertain behaviour of benign GIST, the authors propose a lifelong follow up of the patients managed with potentially curative surgical resection."}
{"id": "11512552", "title": "Characteristic endosonographic features of gastric inflammatory fibroid polyps.", "content": "Characteristic endosonographic features of gastric inflammatory fibroid polyps."}
{"id": "11507701", "title": "Fine-needle aspiration biopsy diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors using morphology, immunocytochemistry, and mutational analysis of c-kit.", "content": "Fine-needle aspiration biopsy diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumors using morphology, immunocytochemistry, and mutational analysis of c-kit. Differentiating gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) from other intramural mesenchymal tumors of the GI tract on fine-needle aspiration biopsies (FNABs) is difficult. Recent studies have shown that GISTs are immunophenotypically and genetically distinct. GISTs exhibit consistent immunohistochemical expression of CD-117 (KIT) and often express activating mutations of this protooncogene. The aim of the current study was to employ immunocytochemistry and mutational analysis of the c-kit gene to aid in the diagnosis of GISTs on FNAB. Five endoscopic ultrasound-guided FNABs of gastrointestinal spindle cell neoplasms performed at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) in Portland, Oregon, from 1998-1999 were reviewed. A panel of immunocytochemical stains was performed on each cellblock including CD-117 (KIT), smooth muscle actin (SMA), desmin, S-100, and CD34. Genomic DNA (gDNA) was extracted, and amplification of exons 9, 11, 13 and 17 of c-kit was performed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on CD-117 (KIT) and CD34 positive cases. Direct sequencing of amplicons identified the mutations. Five patients were diagnosed with GISTs based on morphology and immunocytochemical positivity for CD-117 and CD34. PCR analysis of c-kit exon 11 revealed three cases with novel-sized PCR bands in addition to the expected wild-type-sized PCR product. Amplicons from these cases contained an in-frame deletion mutation. One of the two cases with wild-type-;sized exon 11 amplicons was found to be heterozygous for a point mutation producing an amino acid substitution (W557R). No mutations in exon 9, 11, 13, or 17 of c-kit were found in the remaining case. Ancillary techniques such as immunocytochemistry and c-kit gene mutational analysis may aid in the diagnosis of GISTs on FNABs."}
{"id": "11506087", "title": "Current status of diagnostic and therapeutic endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Current status of diagnostic and therapeutic endoscopic ultrasonography. Endoscopic ultrasonography is firmly established as an imaging modality that can be used for diagnosing and staging both malignant and nonmalignant disorders of the pancreas, gastrointestinal tract, biliary tree, and mediastinum. In the future, as more physicians are trained and as technologic developments continue to advance, endosonography will likely assume a greater role in therapeutic management."}
{"id": "11464493", "title": "Staging laparoscopy for gastric cancer.", "content": "Staging laparoscopy for gastric cancer. The growing role of multimodal treatment plans for advanced gastric cancer has contributed to the development of more accurate preoperative staging strategies. The high diagnostic efficacy of video-laparoscopy as regards the M factor has been reported by many; preoperative laparoscopy therefore permits to avoid unhelpful surgical exploration in case of peritoneal dissemination of tumor or liver metastases undetected by conventional staging. At Memorial Sloan Kattering Cancer Center preoperative staging laparoscopy is currently included in the diagnostic algorithm for gastric cancer. Data from a consecutive series of 103 patients demonstrated metastatic disease in 24 patients (37%) who were considered to have localized cancer by computed tomography (CT) or endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), with an accuracy of 94% with respect to the M factor. These patients did not require open surgery. Laparoscopic washings were obtained from 127 patients with gastric cancer and a positive correlation between the extent of disease and prevalence of positive cytology was noted (T1/T2: 0%, T3/T4: 10%, M+: 59%). Our experience suggests that laparoscopy has added value in staging patients with gastric carcinoma. It appears to be a safe and effective staging modality, avoiding unnecessary explorations and providing new means of directing appropriate treatment strategy."}
{"id": "11459275", "title": "The Mayo clinic approach to the surgical treatment of adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.", "content": "The Mayo clinic approach to the surgical treatment of adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. Ductal carcinoma of the pancreas remains a challenging problem for gastrointestinal surgeons. Significant progress has been made in diagnosis, preoperative staging, and safety of surgery; however, long-term survival after resection is unusual, and cure is rare. That said, the authors maintain their aggressive posture regarding this disease, recognizing that resection offers the only potential for cure. The authors' approach such patients in the most efficient and least invasive manner possible, relying primarily on triple phase helical abdominal CT for clinical diagnosis and staging, reserving ERCP and EUS for diagnostic dilemmas. In fit candidates with potentially resectable lesions, the authors eschew pre- or intraoperative biopsy, angiography, or endoscopic stenting and use preliminary limited staging laparoscopy selectively. Surgical palliation is chosen for fit patients who, at exploration for potentially curative resection, are found to have occult distant metastases or locally unresectable disease. Radical pancreatoduodenectomy can be performed with a mortality rate of 3% or less, and although morbidity remains significant, most can be managed with conservative measures. Quality of life after pancreatoduodenectomy is good and, if not, is generally a manifestation of recurrence rather than physiologic alterations inherent to the procedure. Adjuvant chemoradiation is standard therapy after resection, recommended for those with locally unresectable disease but used selectively for those with distant metastasis. Survival after potentially curative resection has remained disappointing. Whether extended lymphadenectomy or neoadjuvant chemoradiation improves survival has not been determined. Clearly, methods for earlier diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and more effective adjuvant therapies are sorely needed."}
{"id": "11451144", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the evaluation and treatment of chronic pancreatitis.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the evaluation and treatment of chronic pancreatitis. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) was developed in the 1970s specifically for the purpose of improved imaging of the pancreas. The close proximity of the pancreas to the gastric and duodenal lumen allows EUS to obtain high-resolution images, unobstructed by overlying bowel gas. EUS has fewer complications than endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) and can detect features of chronic pancreatitis (CP) in the pancreatic parenchyma and duct that are not visible to any other imaging modality. Because of this high sensitivity, questions have arisen whether EUS is oversensitive, especially to ''early\" CP. Without a definitive gold standard against which to measure EUS (or ERCP and function testing), it is currently not possible to know the true accuracy of these modalities for early CP. There is now an extensive body of literature suggesting that these early changes detected by EUS correlate with histologic changes of CP, and may predict response to pancreatic therapy. EUS is uniquely suited to performing endoscopic cyst drainage for pancreatic pseudocysts and for controlling the pain of CP by EUS-directed celiac plexus block. For endoscopic cystenterostomy, EUS allows the endoscopist to localize the cyst, determine if the cyst is drainable, and guide a needle and stent into the cyst in a single step. Several major questions remain. Can EUS features of CP guide other forms of therapy for CP such as enzyme replacement, sphincter of Oddi therapy, and stent therapy? Can the detection of early CP by EUS, and subsequent therapy, delay or prevent the onset of more severe CP? Can EUS detect early forms for dysplasia and malignancy in patients who are at high risk for pancreatic carcinoma? Do changes of \"early\" CP detected by EUS progress to more classic changes (calicification) over time?"}
{"id": "11437039", "title": "Clinical impact of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy in patients with upper gastrointestinal tract malignancies. A prospective study.", "content": "Clinical impact of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration biopsy in patients with upper gastrointestinal tract malignancies. A prospective study. Several studies have evaluated the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (EUS-FNAB) in the upper gastrointestinal tract, but so far no studies have specifically evaluated the clinical impact of EUS-FNAB in upper gastrointestinal tract cancer patients. In this consecutive and prospective study, EUS-FNAB was only performed if a positive malignant finding would change the therapeutic strategy. Between 1997 and 1999, 307 consecutive patients were referred for EUS with a diagnosis or strong suspicion of esophageal, gastric or pancreatic cancer; 274 patients were potential candidates for surgical treatment and had EUS. According to predefined impact criteria, 27% (75/274) of the patients had EUS-FNAB for staging or diagnostic reasons. The overall clinical impact of EUS-FNAB was 13%, 14%, and 30% in esophageal, gastric, and pancreatic cancer, respectively. The staging-related clinical impact was similar for all three types of cancer (11-12.5%), whereas the diagnosis-related impact was highest in pancreatic cancer patients (86%). EUS-FNAB was inadequate in 13% and gave false-negative results in 5%. The overall sensitivity, specificity and accuracy for EUS-FNAB were 80%, 78% and 80%, respectively. No complications related to the biopsy procedure were seen. If EUS-FNAB was performed only in cases where a positive malignant result would change patient management, then approximately one out of four patients with upper gastrointestinal tract cancer would require a biopsy. With this approach the actual clinical impact of EUS-FNAB ranged from 13% in esophageal cancer to 30% in pancreatic cancer. EUS-FNAB plays a limited, but very important clinical role in the assessment of upper gastrointestinal tract cancer."}
{"id": "11432306", "title": "Gastrointestinal tract cancer in the elderly.", "content": "Gastrointestinal tract cancer in the elderly. Gastrointestinal cancers are common in the elderly. In the 1990s, modest advances in the early diagnosis, staging, and treatment of gastrointestinal cancers were made. Emphasis has been placed on screening for colorectal cancer; development of new diagnostic and staging modalities, particularly endoscopic ultrasound; and introduction of new treatment regimens, such as chemoradiation programs for esophageal, pancreatic, and colorectal cancers as well as endoscopic mucosal resection of early gastrointestinal cancers. New palliative techniques, such as laser and photodynamic therapy and placement of enteral stents, are being used increasingly in patients who have advanced cancer and are not surgical candidates. In the past, attitudes toward the elderly affected the management of cancer. Age should not be the only parameter considered when addressing the treatment of a gastrointestinal malignancy. Management decisions in the elderly should follow the same principles as those in younger patients. A thorough medical evaluation in the elderly is necessary to evaluate the patient's risk and to optimize surgical, chemotherapeutic, and palliative outcomes."}
{"id": "11427856", "title": "Endoscopic treatment of gastritis cystica polyposa found in an unoperated stomach.", "content": "Endoscopic treatment of gastritis cystica polyposa found in an unoperated stomach."}
{"id": "11424375", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography for the diagnosis of gastric cancer].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography for the diagnosis of gastric cancer]."}
{"id": "11418369", "title": "Treatment of low grade gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma in stage I with Helicobacter pylori eradication. Long-term results after sequential histologic and molecular follow-up.", "content": "Treatment of low grade gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma in stage I with Helicobacter pylori eradication. Long-term results after sequential histologic and molecular follow-up. Most cases of gastric low-grade mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma are associated with H. pylori. In localized disease (stage I), eradication of H. pylori can result in histologic regression of the lymphoma in 50% to 100% of the patients. Moreover, in half of the apparently cured patients a monoclonal rearrangement of the IgH gene can be demonstrated. However, data on the long-term outcome of the patients are scarce. We report the evolution of a series of patients followed-up since 1994 in order to evaluate the long-term outcome of the apparently cured lymphoma. From January 1994 to July 2000, 19 consecutive patients with stage I gastric low grade MALT lymphoma were sequentially studied in our hospital. They had all been diagnosed by endoscopy and had had a complete staging (including CT-scan, contrast X-ray of the small bowel, bone marrow biopsies, immunophenotyping of bone marrow and peripheral blood and, in the later years, endoscopic ultrasonography). Diagnosis required established histologic criteria for low grade MALT lymphoma in the samples obtained by endoscopy. The investigation of H. pylori status included histologic search, serology and breath test urea-(13)C. Only patients in stage I disease associated with H. pylori were included in the study. Patients received standard triple therapy for eradication of H.pylori and after treatment were sequentially followed-up with endoscopies performed every 2-3 months in the first year, every 6 months in the second year and then yearly. Post-treatment biopsies were obtained by endoscopy for histologic studies, H. pylori cultures and molecular studies. The criteria of Wotherspoon et al. were used for the histological evaluation. Molecular studies were performed with a polymerase chain reaction analysis of the IgH gene using semi-nested procedures with consensus primers for the V(H) (Fr3A/Fr2A) and J(H) (LJH and VLJH) regions. After the eradication treatment, 18 of the 19 patients (94.7%) achieved histologic regression of the MALT lymphoma that occurred after a mean of 4.6 months (range 2-19). In 11 of the 18 histologically cured patients (61%) a monoclonal rearrangement of the IgH gene was demonstrated. In 2 patients the monoclonality disappeared completely, but 9 of the 11 patients (82%) had either persistent (3 patients) or intermittently persistent (5 patients) monoclonality for as long as 64 months. None of the patients who achieved a histologic remission (either with or without monoclonality) relapsed after a mean follow-up of 37 months (range 2-78). Two patients were lost to follow-up and another patient died of a gastric carcinoma; the remaining 15 patients are still in histologic remission after a mean period of 43 months (range 5-78). Ten patients studied between 1994 and the end of 1996 are in remission after a mean of 59 months (range 33-78). In most cases of gastric low-grade MALT lymphoma in stage I eradication of H. pylori can produce histologic regression of the lymphoma and this regression can be maintained for years. However, IgH gene monoclonality can be detected and persists in most cases. Although this persistent monoclonality seems to indicate the presence of a latent lymphoma population, over a period of 6 years it has not so far influenced the outcome. These findings indicate that in cases of localized gastric low-grade MALT lymphoma associated with H. pylori, the first step of treatment should be eradication of the H. pylori; however, a close and long follow-up is essential to determine the ultimate outcome of these patients and the possible significance of the persistent monoclonality."}
{"id": "11398202", "title": "Role of ultrasonography in the staging of gastrointestinal neoplasms.", "content": "Role of ultrasonography in the staging of gastrointestinal neoplasms. This article reviews the capabilities and limits of ultrasonography (US) in the staging of gastrointestinal neoplasms. US is a well-established tool in the investigation of abdominal diseases. Its role is very important in the first approach to liver, gallbladder, biliary, and pancreatic diseases, but its abilities for accurate staging may be limited by various factors, which will be discussed. In the evaluation of the stomach and intestine, US is rarely utilized, but it can occasionally demonstrate an unsuspected gastrointestinal mass that usually must be evaluated further with specific techniques (endoscopy and barium studies) to confirm the diagnosis and to perform an accurate staging (with endosonography and computed tomography)."}
{"id": "11398201", "title": "Role of endoscopy in staging colorectal cancer.", "content": "Role of endoscopy in staging colorectal cancer. The treatment of colorectal cancer depends in large measure on the depth of tumor invasion and the extent of lymph node involvement. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has added a new dimension to the evaluation of tumor invasion and lymph node involvement in gastrointestinal cancer. The overall EUS accuracy for colorectal cancer T-staging is 78%, specificity is 73%, and sensitivity is 94%. In determining the nodal involvement by tumor, EUS has an accuracy of 75%, specificity of 73%, and sensitivity of 74%. Comparison with computerized tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and MRI with endorectal coil (MRIEC) shows that EUS is an effective single modality for assessing tumor penetration of the rectal wall. It does not, however, allow the assessment of distant metastatic disease. For assessing lymph node involvement, MRIEC offers the most comprehensive information."}
{"id": "11398200", "title": "Role of endoscopy in the staging of esophageal and gastric cancer.", "content": "Role of endoscopy in the staging of esophageal and gastric cancer. Progress in instrumentation and clinical research continues to expand the potential utility of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in the treatment of esophageal and gastric cancer. This review focuses on the role of EUS in the staging and treatment planning of patients with esophageal and gastric cancer."}
{"id": "11398199", "title": "Diagnosis and staging of gastrointestinal neoplasms.", "content": "Diagnosis and staging of gastrointestinal neoplasms."}
{"id": "11355084", "title": "Differentiation of benign and malignant gastric stromal tumors using endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Differentiation of benign and malignant gastric stromal tumors using endoscopic ultrasonography. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is a useful modality to show the sonographic features of gastric stromal tumors (GST) which originate from the gastric wall, but it is difficult to distinguish benign from malignant tumors. This study tried to discriminate between them by their EUS patterns. EUS patterns were obtained from 52 histologically proved GST. The tumor size, echo patterns and irregular margin were analyzed. Of 52 GST, 11 were leiomyosarcoma and 41 were leiomyoma. The mean sizes of the leiomyoma and leiomyosarcoma were 3.3 +/- 1.1 cm and 7.1 +/- 2.2 cm (p < 0.01). Using a tumor size > or = 5 cm as a criterion for malignancy resulted in a sensitivity of 72.7% and a specificity of 85.4%. A sonolucent area inside the tumor, resulted in a sensitivity and specificity of 81.8% and 80.5%. With an irregular tumor margin, the sensitivity and specificity were 90.9% and 90.2%. A combination of all 3 criteria, resulted in a sensitivity and specificity of 72.7% and 90.2%. For benign tumors, the criteria of tumor < 5 cm, no sonolucent areas and no irregular margin had a sensitivity of 80.5% and a specificity of 100%. Tumor size is not a sensitive criterion of malignancy. An irregular margin and sonolucent areas in the tumor have better sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of malignant GST. On the contrary, a GST smaller than 5 cm in size with neither a sonolucent area nor an irregular tumor margin strongly suggests a benign lesion."}
{"id": "11335092", "title": "Radiologic diagnosis and staging of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.", "content": "Radiologic diagnosis and staging of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. This article presents imaging modalities in the diagnosis and staging of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) have the highest accuracy in detection of pancreatic cancer. MRI and EUS have similar accuracy in determining the local extent of pancreatic cancer. Angiography, computed tomography (CT) angiography and EUS are similarly accurate in evaluating peripancreatic vascular involvement. MRI is the superior method for detecting liver metastases and peritoneal implants of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) are used to assess the biliary tract of patients with pancreatic cancer. Positron emission tomography (PET) is useful in distinguishing pancreatic cancer from focal pancreatic inflammation."}
{"id": "11335091", "title": "Pancreas: imaging diagnosis with color/power Doppler ultrasonography, endoscopic ultrasonography, and intraductal ultrasonography.", "content": "Pancreas: imaging diagnosis with color/power Doppler ultrasonography, endoscopic ultrasonography, and intraductal ultrasonography. Recent advances of ultrasound imaging have made possible to depict various diseases and conditions of the pancreas. Color/power Doppler ultrasonography, endoscopic ultrasonography, and intraductal ultrasonography are feasible to show vascular abnormalities, differentiate the solid and cystic tumors, decide tumor extent, and help to perform interventional treatments of the pancreatic diseases. Those techniques will contribute to the more precise and easier diagnosis and to prompt decision of the treatments of the pancreatic disorders. Radiologists should recognize the diagnostic feasibility and limitations of those techniques in order to avoid unnecessary examinations on the patients, and obtain precise diagnostic images."}
{"id": "11306753", "title": "Gastric lymphangioma.", "content": "Gastric lymphangioma. Gastric lymphangioma is a rare benign gastric tumor composed of unilocular or multilocular lymphatic spaces. On gastrofiberscopy a submucosal tumor covered with smooth transparent normal mucosa is revealed in the stomach with or without a stalk. Endoscopic ultrasonography has become an indispensable tool for differentiating these gastric tumors. Treatment of lymphangioma depends on its size, location, and presence of complications. Endoscopic resection is safe and easy and plays an important role in confirming the diagnosis and treatment of the tumors especially of small-sized ones. We report a case of gastric lymphangioma in a 68-yr-old woman who presented with nausea and vague epigastric discomfort for two months. She was diagnosed by gastrofiberscopy with endoscopic ultrasonography and treated successfully with endoscopic resection by strip biopsy method."}
{"id": "11274566", "title": "Evaluation of mediastinal lymphadenopathy with endoscopic US-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy.", "content": "Evaluation of mediastinal lymphadenopathy with endoscopic US-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy. To evaluate the safety and accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (US)-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) of lymph nodes in the paratracheal, aortopulmonic, subcarinal, and posterior mediastinal regions. Eighty-six consecutive patients with mediastinal lymphadenopathy who did not have a primary gastrointestinal neoplasm were examined. In 29 patients, endoscopic US-guided FNAB of mediastinal lymphadenopathy was performed as a component of staging non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC); in the remaining 57 patients, it was performed to obtain a primary diagnosis. Final diagnosis was based on clinical follow-up, cytologic, and/or surgical results. In 82 patients in whom a final diagnosis was available, the sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, negative predictive value, and positive predictive value of endoscopic US-guided FNAB in distinguishing benign from malignant mediastinal lymph nodes were 96%, 100%, 98%, 94%, and 100%, respectively. In those patients who underwent staging of NSCLC, endoscopic US-guided FNAB had superior mediastinal lymph node staging accuracy compared with endoscopic US alone (79%) and CT alone (79%) (P =.01). The results of endoscopic US-guided FNAB prompted a change to nonsurgical management in 66 (80%) of 82 patients who underwent the procedure. One minor complication, postprocedural fever that resolved with oral antibiotics, occurred (1%; 95% CI: 0%, 6%). Endoscopic US-guided FNAB is accurate and safe for biopsy of mediastinal lymph nodes to stage NSCLC, establish a primary diagnosis, or examine patients with prior inconclusive biopsy results."}
{"id": "11272229", "title": "Endosonographic Features of advanced gastric carcinoma invading the colon: is it easy to differentiate from pancreatic invasion?", "content": "Endosonographic Features of advanced gastric carcinoma invading the colon: is it easy to differentiate from pancreatic invasion?"}
{"id": "11268992", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography features of calcified gastric cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography features of calcified gastric cancer. Calcifications are a rare finding described in benign and malignant tumors located in any site of the body. Their presence in stomach and colon carcinomas is very rare. Most of the cases described are mucinous adenocarcinomas. We present the case of one patient with this disease studied with endoscopic ultrasonography. There were punctate calcifications in the submucosa layer that tended to take on a crown-like shape in the outer-most area, producing an acoustic shadow. The pathological study of the surgical specimen showed amorphic calcifications inside some mucin lakes. More cases need to be studied with this technique in order to define their endosonographic characteristics."}
{"id": "11247887", "title": "Predictive value of endoscopic ultrasonography for regression of gastric low grade and high grade MALT lymphomas after eradication of Helicobacter pylori.", "content": "Predictive value of endoscopic ultrasonography for regression of gastric low grade and high grade MALT lymphomas after eradication of Helicobacter pylori. While a close association between gastric mucosa associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma and Helicobacter pylori infection has been established, there are still cases which do not respond to H pylori eradication. To investigate the clinicopathological factors which may help predict the therapeutic efficacy of H pylori eradication in gastric MALT lymphoma. Forty one patients with gastric MALT lymphoma, including low and high grade lesions. After endosonographic staging was determined, H pylori was eradicated in all patients, and the subsequent gastric pathological course was then investigated. Complete regression of MALT lymphoma was observed in 29(71%) patients, partial regression in five (12%), and no regression in seven (17%). Twenty six (93%) of 28 MALT lymphomas restricted to the mucosa but only three (23%) of 13 lymphomas which invaded the deep portion of the submucosa or beyond completely regressed. Kaplan-Meier analysis for the probability of complete regression of MALT lymphoma revealed a significant difference between tumours restricted to the mucosa and those invading the submucosa deeply or beyond (p<0.05). Neither the presence of a high grade component, perigastric lymphadenopathy, nor clinical staging prior to eradication correlated with the probability of lymphoma regression. Assessment of deep submucosal invasion by endosonography is valuable for predicting the efficacy of H pylori eradication in gastric MALT lymphoma."}
{"id": "11244254", "title": "Modern management of rectal cancer.", "content": "Modern management of rectal cancer."}
{"id": "11216433", "title": "[Staging laparoscopy with laparoscopic ultrasound--indications and value in the surgical oncological therapy concept].", "content": "[Staging laparoscopy with laparoscopic ultrasound--indications and value in the surgical oncological therapy concept]."}
{"id": "11216432", "title": "Staging laparoscopy for gastrointestinal malignancies: current indications.", "content": "Staging laparoscopy for gastrointestinal malignancies: current indications."}
{"id": "11213310", "title": "Metastatic carcinoma of the breast resembling early gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Metastatic carcinoma of the breast resembling early gastric carcinoma. We describe a case of gastric metastasis from a lobular carcinoma of the breast in a 45-year-old woman who had undergone a left mastectomy with axillary dissection 7 years earlier. At the current presentation, she had been experiencing progressive epigastric discomfort for 3 months. The initial diagnosis was early gastric carcinoma, diffuse type, based on gastric biopsy findings and ultrasonographic endoscopy. A definitive diagnosis of metastatic breast cancer was confirmed after subtotal gastrectomy of a presumed primary early gastric carcinoma. Although gastrointestinal metastases from breast cancer are not rare, the early stage of the gastric lesion and the absence of further disease dissemination make this case unusual. The onset of gastrointestinal symptoms in a patient with a history of breast carcinoma should prompt the physician to rule out the possibility of gastric metastases."}
{"id": "11204988", "title": "Diagnostic laparoscopy.", "content": "Diagnostic laparoscopy. The value of surgical laparoscopy for various therapeutic interventions has been well established. In recent years, the interest of gastroenterologists in this method has revived, since laparoscopy can provide additional information for the staging of oncological and liver diseases. The introduction of miniature lenses may have contributed to this process, and an increasing number of physicians are using minilaparoscopy due to its safety and easy handling. Surgical studies have mainly focused on the evaluation of laparoscopic ultrasound for the detection of liver and lymph-node metastases. In specialized centers, laparoscopic ultrasound is also used for the estimation of locoregional pancreatic tumor spread, but the diagnostic impact of the method, particularly in colorectal carcinoma, still remains to be determined. Remarkably, the number of publications from gastroenterology departments has tended to increase in comparison with last year's review."}
{"id": "11204980", "title": "Diagnosis of esophagogastric tumors.", "content": "Diagnosis of esophagogastric tumors. The incidence of esophageal tumors, and of adenocarcinoma in particular, has risen markedly in recent years in the developed countries. The use of a variety of histopathological and biological markers is now offering promising prospects for the future. Vertical tumor invasion, intratumoral microvessel density, antimucin monoclonal antibodies, flow cytometry, telomerase activity, and overexpression of cyclin D1 have been correlated with the staging and prognosis of esophageal carcinomas. By combining these markers with Lugol staining, a practical new method of staging esophageal tumors may become available in the coming years. As is well known, Barrett's mucosa is a preneoplastic condition. Discussions in the literature concerning short forms of Barrett's esophagus and their relationship to inflammation of the gastric cardia appear to describe two different scenarios--a gastroesophageal reflux condition for short forms of Barrett's esophagus, and an inflammatory phenomenon (perhaps unrelated to Helicobacter pylori infection) for inflammation of the gastric cardia. Cost-benefit studies of follow-up procedures in Barrett's esophagus have yet to be conducted, and considerable efforts--mainly using biological markers--are being made to identify those patients who are at greatest risk. Although the frequency of gastric tumors has declined in recent years, many as yet unclear aspects of these tumors have been studied. Technological progress has not led to substantial changes in the diagnostic procedures used, although autofluorescence methods and three-dimensional reconstruction have been analyzed. Laparoscopy, preferably combined with the use of ultrasound probes, may be a valuable tool for staging. The suggestion that endoscopy should be avoided in young patients (the \"treat but do not scope\" approach) has been seriously questioned, as it may lead to early cancer being overlooked. There is thought to be an intermediate stage of gastric cancer (between the early and advanced stages) in which the muscularis propria, but not the serosa, is invaded. Endoscopic ultrasonography is becoming increasingly established as a basic tool for the staging of gastric cancer. Gastric MALT lymphoma can be cured by H. pylori eradication therapy in many cases, but there is still uncertainty regarding the limitations of this approach."}
{"id": "11176337", "title": "Gastric adenocarcinoma mimicking achalasia in a 15-year-old patient: a case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Gastric adenocarcinoma mimicking achalasia in a 15-year-old patient: a case report and review of the literature. Although adenocarcinoma of the cardia is extremely rare in adolescent patients, the endoscopist should be alert to this disease in patients of any age with dysphagia, even if symptoms, and results of a barium study, upper endoscopy, and esophageal manometry are suggestive of primary achalasia, especially if family history is negative for achalasia. In addition, secondary achalasia should be suspected in patients who do not respond to therapy with botulinum toxin within 2 months. Because none of the mentioned tests can distinguish between primary achalasia and secondary forms due to carcinoma of the cardia, biopsy specimens should be obtained. It appears that, although there is a minimal risk for complications, a diagnostic procedure such as biopsy would be appropriate when the information obtained could be essential. In some cases EUS can be an additional diagnostic tool, because lesions of the submucosa and the surrounding area can be identified by EUS."}
{"id": "11171816", "title": "Predictive factors for regression of gastric MALT lymphoma after anti-Helicobacter pylori treatment.", "content": "Predictive factors for regression of gastric MALT lymphoma after anti-Helicobacter pylori treatment. Discrepant remission rates (41-100%) have been reported for patients with localised low grade gastric mucosa associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma after eradication of Helicobacter pylori. The aim of this study was to explain these discrepancies and to determine the predictive factors of gastric lymphoma regression after anti- H pylori treatment. Forty six consecutive patients with localised gastric MALT lymphoma (Ann Arbor stages I(E) and II(E)) were prospectively enrolled. All had gastric endoscopic ultrasonography and H pylori status assessment (histology, culture, polymerase chain reaction, and serology). After anti-H pylori treatment, patients were re-examined every four months. Histological regression of the lymphoma was complete in 19/44 patients (43%) (two lost to follow up). Median follow up time for these 19 responders was 35 months (range 10-47). No regression was noted in the 10 H pylori negative patients. Among the 34 H pylori positive patients, the H pylori eradication rate was 100%; complete regression rate of the lymphoma increased from 56% (19/34) to 79% (19/24) when there was no nodal involvement at endoscopic ultrasonography. There was a significant difference between the response of the lymphoma restricted to the mucosa and other more deep seated lesions (p<0.006). However, using multivariate analysis, the only predictive factor of regression was the absence of nodal involvement (p<0.0001). In H pylori positive patients with localised gastric MALT lymphoma, carefully evaluated and treated without any lymph node involvement assessed by endoscopic ultrasonography, complete remission of lymphoma was reached in 79% of cases."}
{"id": "11692932", "title": "[Indications for preoperative laparoscopic ultrasonography].", "content": "[Indications for preoperative laparoscopic ultrasonography]. 109 laparoscopic ultrasound examinations are performed for a period of 7 years (1993-1999). Laparoscope R. Wolf and 7.5 MHz linear probe \"Aloka\" are used. On the basis of the results analysis the following indications for laparoscopic ultrasonography (LUS) are recommended: 1. Uncertain diagnosis; 2. Contradictory results of imaging technics; 3. Assessment of tumour's stage; 4. Early diagnosis; 5. Negative data for liver lesion on laparoscopic examination and established or suspected tumour by imaging technics; 6. Negative data of laparoscopy and uncertain evidence of the imaging technics for liver lesion in cases with advanced locoregional stage of extrahepatic primary carcinoma and small chance for palliate surgical treatment; 7. Positive laparoscopic data insufficient to determine tumour resectability; 8. Suspicion for endocrine tumour of the pancreas. Laparoscopy and LUS are indicated for staging of hepatocellular carcinoma; gastric and colorectal carcinoma, especially in T3 and T4 stage; \"T4b\" stage of gastric carcinoma without liver metastases; all cases of carcinoma of the body of pancreas without data of liver metastases. LUS is irreplaceable nonsurgical diagnostic method in deep placed intrahepatic lesions. The main contribution to diagnosis of laparoscopy and LUS is not only to establish the liver lesion but to give differential diagnosis of the lesion and determine the tumour stage."}
{"id": "11525303", "title": "Modern staging in gastric cancer.", "content": "Modern staging in gastric cancer."}
{"id": "11326637", "title": "Diagnostic guided surgical therapy of gastrointestinal cancer.", "content": "Diagnostic guided surgical therapy of gastrointestinal cancer. Stage adapted treatment of gastrointestinal cancer including extended preoperative work-up, multimodal therapeutic options as well as complete tumor resection becomes more important in the last years. Besides conventional tumor staging, the performance of endosonography or surgical laparoscopy seems to be mandatory in planning limited surgical or endoscopic procedures with curative intent as well as preoperative therapy in locally advanced tumors or locoregional recurrences and metastases. Therefore, in modern surgical oncology, diagnostic guided treatment of the individual tumor situation represents the optimal therapy nowadays."}
{"id": "11324996", "title": "Prospectively performed modified D1 lymphadenectomy for clinically diagnosed mucosal, node negative gastric cancer: findings over the past decade.", "content": "Prospectively performed modified D1 lymphadenectomy for clinically diagnosed mucosal, node negative gastric cancer: findings over the past decade. Based on retrospective analyses demonstrating the low probabilities of both lymph node metastasis and recurrence of curatively resected mucosal gastric cancer, we have established criteria for modified D1 lymphadenectomy (lymphadenectomy in the perigastric region as well as along the left gastric artery) and performed this in a prospective manner. In this study, we evaluate our treatment strategy by reviewing the patients prospectively undergoing modified D1 lymphadenectomy. The clinicopathological characteristics and survival data of 138 patients who underwent modified D1 lymphadenectomy between 1987--when we first introduced endoscopic ultrasonography--and 1996 were analyzed. The criteria for modified D1 lymphadenectomy were mucosal, node negative gastric cancer by pre-operative and intra-operative examinations. Depth of invasion was correctly diagnosed in 80% of the patients. Among the resultant submucosal gastric cancer patients, the incidence of slight submucosal invasion was increased in the second half-period (78%) as compared with that in the first half-period (44%). Nodal involvement was observed in 4 patients (2.9%); all of them exhibited the depressed type with ulceration and a histologically high grade of gastric cancer. Because their metastasized lymph nodes were all confined to the perigastric region, surgical treatment resulted in no residual cancer macroscopically. No patients succumbed to gastric cancer within the median and mean follow-up periods of over 6 years. These results suggest that our modified D1 lymphadenectomy is an effective option for the pre-operatively and intra-operatively diagnosed mucosal, node negative gastric cancer which meets our criteria."}
{"id": "11110611", "title": "Primary gastric lymphoma of MALT: considerations of pathogenesis, diagnosis and therapy.", "content": "Primary gastric lymphoma of MALT: considerations of pathogenesis, diagnosis and therapy. Primary gastric lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) is a distinct entity with its own histological classification. Epidemiological, histomorphological, molecular biological and experimental data clearly underline that infection of the gastric mucosa by Helicobacter pylori plays an important role in both the development and progression of MALT lymphoma. Considering the histological grade of malignancy and dissemination (stage) of the disease as decisive prognostic factors, and therapeutic determinants, endoscopic bioptical diagnosis and endoscopic ultrasound are of particular importance. In cases of localized (stage 1), low grade lymphoma, eradication of H pylori offers a promising and fascinating therapeutic option. Surgical resection, radiotherapy or chemotherapy, and their combination, have proven to be effective treatment modalities. There is a need to clarify whether operative or conservative therapeutic strategies should be favoured in the future."}
{"id": "11088069", "title": "Histopathologic validation of lymph node staging with FDG-PET scan in cancer of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction: A prospective study based on primary surgery with extensive lymphadenectomy.", "content": "Histopathologic validation of lymph node staging with FDG-PET scan in cancer of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction: A prospective study based on primary surgery with extensive lymphadenectomy. To assess the value of positron emission tomography with 18fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) for preoperative lymph node staging of patients with primary cancer of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction. FDG-PET appears to be a promising tool in the preoperative staging of cancer of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction. Recent reports indicate a higher sensitivity and specificity for detection of stage IV disease and a higher specificity for diagnosis of lymph node involvement compared with the standard use of computed tomography and endoscopic ultrasound. Forty-two patients entered the prospective study. All underwent attenuation-corrected FDG-PET imaging of the neck, thorax, and upper abdomen, a spiral computed tomography scan, and an endoscopic ultrasound. The gold standard consisted exclusively of the histology of sampled nodes obtained by extensive two-field or three-field lymphadenectomies (n = 39) or from guided biopsies of suspicious distant nodes indicated by imaging (n = 3). The FDG-PET scan had lower accuracy for the diagnosis of locoregional nodes (N1-2) than combined computed tomography and endoscopic ultrasound (48% vs. 69%) because of a significant lack of sensitivity (22% vs. 83%). The accuracy for distant nodal metastasis (M+Ly), however, was significantly higher for FDG-PET than the combined use of computed tomography and endoscopic ultrasound (86% vs. 62%). Sensitivity was not significantly different, but specificity was greater (90% vs. 69%). The FDG-PET scan correctly upstaged five patients (12%) from N1-2 stage to M+Ly stage. One patient was falsely downstaged by FDG-PET scanning. FDG-PET scanning improves the clinical staging of lymph node involvement based on the increased detection of distant nodal metastases and on the superior specificity compared with conventional imaging modalities."}
{"id": "11088030", "title": "The utility of positron emission tomography for the diagnosis and staging of recurrent esophageal cancer.", "content": "The utility of positron emission tomography for the diagnosis and staging of recurrent esophageal cancer. To study the utility of whole-body positron emission tomography with (18)F-fluoro-deoxy-D -glucose (FDG-PET) for the evaluation of recurrence after curative resection of cancer of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction. Forty-one patients with a clinical or radiologic suspicion of recurrent disease underwent conventional diagnostic work-up, including a spiral computed tomographic scan, an endoscopic ultrasound, and a dedicated whole-body FDG-PET. PET lesions were classified as equivocal or suspicious recurrence. The conventional diagnostic work-up and PET findings were correlated with pathology or with radiologic and clinical follow-up. Equivocal lesions were classified as positive. Forty recurrences were found in 33 patients. The lesions were perianastomotic (n = 9), regional (n = 12), and at distant sites (n = 19). For the diagnosis of a perianastomotic recurrence, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of FDG-PET were 100%, 57%, and 74%, versus 100%, 93%, and 96% for conventional diagnostic work-up, respectively (P = not significant). False-positive PET lesions were found in patients with a progressive anastomotic stenosis requiring repetitive endoscopic dilatation. For the diagnosis of regional and distant recurrences, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of PET were 94%, 82%, and 87%, versus 81% (P = not significant), 82% (P = not significant), and 81% (P =.0771) for conventional diagnostic work-up. All false-positive PET lesions (n = 4) had been reported as equivocal. On a patient base, PET provided additional information in 11 of 41 (27%) patients. A major impact on diagnosis was found in 5 patients with equivocal or negative findings on complete diagnostic work-up in whom PET provided a true-positive diagnosis. In 5 other patients the diagnosis was staged upward from localized to extended recurrent disease, and in 1 patient with an equivocal complete diagnostic work-up, PET correctly excluded malignancy. FDG-PET allows a highly sensitive diagnosis and accurate whole-body staging of symptomatic recurrent esophageal cancer. Further studies in asymptomatic patients are needed to assess the potential benefit on survival."}
{"id": "11085028", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in the investigation of gastric tumors].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in the investigation of gastric tumors]. Preoperative staging has been considered to be of importance in gastric cancer. Recently, 133 patients were examined preoperatively using endoscopic ultrasound, and 77 of these had gastric cancer. Preoperative staging (T + M) using endoscopic ultrasound coincided with findings at surgery in 84% of the cases. The depth of penetration was accurate in 92% of the cases. It is concluded that endoscopic ultrasound is more reliable for preoperative staging than conventional ultrasound, computer tomography or magnetic resonance imaging for gastric cancer. Whether or not improved preoperative staging has a bearing on the treatment of patients with gastric cancer, depends largely on whether or not cytostatic therapy is used. We believe that centralizing diagnosis and treatment of gastric cancer is beneficial."}
{"id": "11084819", "title": "Miniprobe ultrasonography and gastrointestinal tract stenosis.", "content": "Miniprobe ultrasonography and gastrointestinal tract stenosis. Malignant and nonmalignant stenosis of the gastrointestinal tract are a significant diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. Malignant stenosis is difficult to stage because the endosonographic catheter cannot be passed through the stricture. The objective of this study was to stage tumoral stenosis using a miniprobe. We evaluated 30 patients (20 men, 10 women, average age 65 years). There were 9 nonmalignant cases and 21 malignant cases of stenosis of the gastrointestinal tract. Of the malignant cases, two were caused by extradigestive neoformations that infiltrated the wall of the digestive tract. Twelve of the remaining 19 cases were treated by surgery (63%). Echoendoscopy was done with a miniprobe through the working channel of the videoendoscope. The TNM classification was used to diagnose extension. The pathology study was used to confirm the final diagnosis after surgery for malignant lesions. Nonmalignant stenosis was confirmed in clinical follow-up. Sensitivity of the miniprobe in determining stage T and stage N were 83% and 64% respectively. Miniprobes provide valuable additional information in the study of stenosis of the digestive tract. Sensitivity is good in classifying tumoral T stage, and acceptable for classifying N stage, and may be improved by using low-frequency miniprobes."}
{"id": "11080410", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the preoperative staging of gastric cancer: accuracy and impact on surgical therapy.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the preoperative staging of gastric cancer: accuracy and impact on surgical therapy. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is a standard procedure in the preoperative staging of patients with gastric carcinomas. Herein we present our experience with EUS and discuss the results and their implications for surgical therapy. A total of 116 patients with histologically confirmed gastric adenocarcinoma were referred to EUS and classified prospectively by the TNM system. The results of the preoperative endosonographic staging were compared with the definitive histopathological results after the operation. The overall accuracy of EUS for determination of the T stage was 78%. The accuracy for the T1 and T2 stages was 80% and 63%, respectively. With 20% and 30%, there was a relatively high rate of overstaging in these cases. The accuracy for T3 and T4 tumors was 95% and 83%, respectively. The accuracy of EUS for determination of the N stage was 77%, with a sensitivity of 91% and a specificity of 84%. Resectability was predicted correctly with a sensitivity of 94% and a specificity of 83%. Generally accepted standards for the therapy of advanced gastric carcinomas do not exist. In cases where the therapeutic strategy is surgical exploration, no preoperative staging is necessary. In cases with differentiated treatment strategies, the accuracy of EUS is not sufficient for the selection of patients for endoscopic resection. Its accuracy for submucosal cancer invasion and for the detection of lymph node metastases needs to be further enhanced. If only multimodal therapy is considered, EUS staging seems to be absolutely mandatory. Patients classified preoperatively as T1 to T3 can be operated on primarily with sufficient security. In patients where radical resection of the tumor seems doubtful, we recommend that a diagnostic laparoscopy be performed to confirm the diagnosis."}
{"id": "11077579", "title": "[Combined laparoscopic-endoscopic procedure in stomach carcinoma].", "content": "[Combined laparoscopic-endoscopic procedure in stomach carcinoma]. The purpose of this review is to outline the laparoscopic-endoscopic procedures that we perform for early gastric cancer. These procedures were applied to 29 patients. Preoperative work-up included gastric endoscopy, barium X-ray examination, endoscopic ultrasonography, and histological examination, and surgery was performed in patients diagnosed as having mucosal gastric cancer for which endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) was difficult. Laparoscopic wedge resection of the stomach using the lesion-lifting method, by which a wedge resection is made while pulling up the full-thickness gastric wall, was carried out in the 16 patients with lesions of the anterior wall, lesser curvature, and greater curvature of the stomach. On pathological examination of resected specimens, the surgical margin and lymphatic or venous invasion were negative in all these patients. The histological depth of the lesions was m (mucosal cancer) in 15 patients and sm1 (slight cancer infiltration into the submucosal layer) in one. This one patient later underwent gastrectomy but no lymph node metastases were found. Oral nutrition was resumed for a mean (+/- SD) of 2.9 +/- 0.8 days after operation, and the duration of hospitalization after operation was 12.3 +/- 3.4 days. The 13 patients with lesions of the posterior wall of the stomach and near the cardia or the pylorus received laparoscopic intragastric mucosal resection. Laparotomy was required in 1 of these patients due to intraoperative hemorrhage. The surgical margins were negative in all 12 patients in whom laparoscopic intragastric mucosal resection was successful. Lymphatic or venous invasion was positive in 2, both of whom had sm1 cancer lesions of both of these patients were located in the cardiac region, total gastrectomy was avoided, and careful observation is continued. Oral nutrition was resumed 4.0 +/- 1.6 days after operation, and the duration of hospitalization after operation was 12.0 +/- 3.5 days. In addition, no postoperative complication was noted after either procedure, and all patients have been recurrence free for a follow-up period of 460 months. Selected properly, these laparoscopic endoscopic procedures are considered to be curative and minimally invasive treatments for early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "11041028", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the staging of tumours of the oesophagus and gastro-oesophageal junction.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the staging of tumours of the oesophagus and gastro-oesophageal junction. Modern management of upper gastro-intestinal cancer demands accurate pre-operative staging. In continental Europe and Japan, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is established as the investigation of choice for local staging of these cancers, but British experience with this technique is limited. A retrospective review of the medical records of patients with oesophageal or gastro-oesophageal junction tumours during our first 3.5 years' experience with EUS was undertaken and the findings at EUS correlated with the pathology of the resected specimen. A total of 124 patients (86 males), with a mean age of 64.5 years, underwent EUS: 84 had adenocarcinoma and 26 squamous cell carcinoma. There were 3 failed EUS examinations, 42 patients did not have surgery for a variety of reasons, and 10 patients had pre-operative chemoradiotherapy. In the remaining 69 patients, correlation for T stage showed an accuracy of EUS of 80% and for N staging of 54% overall. Comparison of the initial 2 years with the final 18 months showed no change in the T staging accuracy but an improvement in the N staging accuracy from 50% to 60%. Once initial experience has been gained, EUS is an accurate procedure for T and N staging of tumours of the oesophagus and gastro-oesophageal junction. It should be included with other imaging modalities, such as CT scanning, in the pre-operative assessment of these tumours."}
{"id": "11030075", "title": "Malignant tumors of the stomach. Gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma and Helicobacter pylori.", "content": "Malignant tumors of the stomach. Gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma and Helicobacter pylori. With the help of many clinical studies, the diagnosis and therapy of gastric MALT lymphoma have evolved. Major progress has been seen in this area, including improvement of biopsy diagnosis, better histologic classification, new information concerning pathogenesis, and, especially, the start of a revolution in the treatment of low-grade gastric MALT lymphomas by eradicating H. pylori. About 12 clinical studies with almost 400 patients and case reports have shown that cure of H. pylori infection is associated with complete remission in approximately 80% of patients with low-grade MALT lymphoma in an early clinical stage. To establish H. pylori eradication as the primary choice in low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma further, it is necessary to select patients before therapy who are most likely to benefit from this single treatment modality. An excellent histologic workup of obtained biopsy specimens and comprehensive clinical staging are necessary. Because of the supposition that H. pylori-related growth support may play a role only in the early stages of low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma, the importance of determining the depth of lymphoma infiltration in the gastric wall is evident. Examinations by endosonographic ultrasonography have been shown to be the most reliable method to differentiate the layers of the gastric wall and to determine the infiltration depth of lymphomas. Eradication of H. pylori has to be considered as a first-line and single treatment modality in patients with low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma in clinical stage EI1. As a therapy with fewer side effects than radiation, surgery, or chemotherapy and as a stomach-conserving treatment, eradication of H. pylori in patients with low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma should be the treatment of the choice within clinical trials because there are no long-term results available thus far. Besides pretreatment patient selection, careful follow-up with endoscopy, biopsies, and clinical staging including endoscopic ultrasonography is necessary. A 5- to 10-year follow-up is necessary before the definitive value of H. pylori eradication can be established, but long-term results are excellent thus far. There are many questions to be addressed: What are the exact mechanisms that lead to the malignant transformation of a reactive infiltrate? Why do approximately 20% of low-grade MALT lymphomas not regress after H. pylori eradication? Is there a molecular-genetic or immunologic point of no return? What is the biologic significance of the immunoglobulin rearrangement detected with PCR? What will be the 5- and 10-year relapse-free survival rates of patients suffering from low-grade MALT lymphoma treated with H. pylori eradication alone as first and only treatment? The wave of new data each year about the role of H. pylori in gastric MALT lymphoma may help many of these questions to be answered."}
{"id": "10986052", "title": "Utility of positron emission tomography for the staging of patients with potentially operable esophageal carcinoma.", "content": "Utility of positron emission tomography for the staging of patients with potentially operable esophageal carcinoma. A prospective study of preoperative tumor-node-metastasis staging of patients with esophageal cancer (EC) was designed to compare the accuracy of 18-F-fluoro-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) with conventional noninvasive modalities. Seventy-four patients with carcinomas of the esophagus (n = 43) or gastroesophageal junction (n = 31) were studied. All patients underwent attenuation-corrected FDG-PET imaging, a spiral computed tomography (CT) scan, and an endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). FDG-PET demonstrated increased activity in the primary tumor in 70 of 74 patients (sensitivity: 95%). False-negative PET images were found in four patients with T1 lesions. Thirty-four patients (46%) had stage IV disease. FDG-PET had a higher accuracy for diagnosing stage IV disease compared with the combination of CT and EUS (82% v 64%, respectively; P: =.004). FDG-PET had additional diagnostic value in 16 (22%) of 74 patients by upstaging 11 (15%) and downstaging five (7%) patients. Thirty-nine (53%) of the 74 patients underwent a 2- or 3-field lymphadenectomy in conjunction with primary curative esophagectomy. In these patients, tumoral involvement was found in 21 local and 35 regional or distant lymph nodes (LN). For local LN, the sensitivity of FDG-PET was lower than EUS (33% v 81%, respectively; P: =.027), but the specificity may have been higher (89% v 67%, respectively; P: = not significant [NS]). For the assessment of regional and distant LN involvement, compared with the combined use of CT and EUS, FDG-PET had a higher specificity (90% v 98%, respectively; P: =. 025) and a similar sensitivity (46% v 43%, respectively; P: = NS). PET significantly improves the detection of stage IV disease in EC compared with the conventional staging modalities. PET improves diagnostic specificity for LN staging."}
{"id": "10981018", "title": "Diagnosis and staging of islet cell tumors of the pancreas.", "content": "Diagnosis and staging of islet cell tumors of the pancreas. Pancreatic endocrine tumors arise from the amine precursor uptake and decarboxylation (APUD) cells of the pancreas and behave in a different fashion both biologically and clinically from pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Gastrinomas and insulinomas are the two most common pancreatic endocrine tumors. Unlike pancreatic adenocarcinoma, in which tumor stage, resectability, and prognosis are determined by the tumor, nodes, and metastasis (TNM) classification, the prognosis of pancreatic endocrine tumors is determined by the presence of liver but not regional lymph node metastasis. This review focuses predominantly on the different diagnostic tools available to the clinician and the relative merits of each modality. The sensitivities of computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, somatostatin receptor scintigraphy, endoscopic ultrasound, and angiography with venous sampling for diagnosing islet cell tumors are compared. A diagnostic algorithm for the management of these tumors is provided at the end of the discussion."}
{"id": "10968852", "title": "EUS, PET, and CT scanning for evaluation of pancreatic adenocarcinoma.", "content": "EUS, PET, and CT scanning for evaluation of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Preoperative diagnosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma can be difficult. Computed tomography (CT) is the standard, noninvasive imaging method for evaluation of suspected pancreatic adenocarcinoma, but it has limited sensitivity for diagnosis, local staging, and metastases. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and fluoro-deoxyglucose/positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) are imaging methods that may improve diagnostic accuracy. Thirty-five patients with presumed resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma were prospectively evaluated with helical CT, EUS, and FDG-PET. Sensitivity for the detection of pancreatic cancer was higher for EUS (93%) and FDG-PET (87%) than for CT (53%). EUS was more sensitive than CT for local vascular invasion of the portal and superior mesenteric veins. EUS diagnosis of vascular invasion was associated with poor outcome after surgery. EUS-guided, fine-needle aspiration allowed tissue diagnosis in 14 of 21 attempts (67%). FDG-PET diagnosed 7 of 9 cases of proven metastatic disease, 4 of which were missed by CT. Two of three metastatic liver lesions suspected by CT were indeterminate for metastases. FDG-PET confirmed metastases. EUS and PET improve diagnostic capability in pancreatic adenocarcinoma. EUS is useful in determining local vascular invasion and obtaining tissue diagnosis. FDG-PET is useful in identifying metastatic disease. Both techniques are more sensitive than helical CT for identification of the primary tumor. (Gastrointest Endosc 2000;52:367-71)."}
{"id": "10967752", "title": "Surgical staging of esophageal cancer.", "content": "Surgical staging of esophageal cancer. The rising incidence of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and the poor overall 5-year survival using current treatment regimens make it essential that clinical trials continue to search for more effective regimens for specific stages of esophageal cancer. It is clear from work in non-small cell lung cancer that clinical efficacy for platinum-based chemotherapeutic regimens has shown promise only in specific subsets of patients, such as those with stage IIIa tumors, but no benefit at all for earlier stages. In lung cancer, mediastinoscopy has been shown to be the most accurate method to stage locoregional lymph nodes and is considered to be the gold standard for clinical trials. In esophageal cancer, accurate surgical staging of all locoregional lymph nodes is more complex and may involve abdominal, thoracic, and cervical areas. Molecular evidence of lymph node involvement in esophageal cancer suggests that even histologically negative nodes may harbor micrometastases in a significant number of cases. Laparoscopy and thoracoscopy now offer a more accurate alternative to conventional staging of esophageal cancer. For distal esophageal cancers near the gastroesophageal junction, laparoscopic staging alone may suffice in most cases. Associated costs and the requirement for a surgical procedure should encourage the continued evaluation of new noninvasive modalities and the further evolution of endoscopic ultrasound. Currently, we recommend the application of minimally invasive surgical staging to assess new noninvasive technologies, such as PET scanning, and for use in clinical trials until the definitive approach to staging esophageal cancer is established. We are currently participating in an ongoing multicenter study of thoracoscopic and laparoscopic staging for esophageal cancer."}
{"id": "10936934", "title": "[Regression of gastric MALT lymphoma after eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection followed by endoscopic ultrasound].", "content": "[Regression of gastric MALT lymphoma after eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection followed by endoscopic ultrasound]. The authors report a case of a 42 year-old female patient, who was admitted with epigastric pain and weight loss to our department. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy two ulcerated lesions revealed in the stomach at the corpus-antrum border. Histologically the lesion proved to be a low grade, malignant B cell MALT lymphoma. Coexistent Helicobacter pylori infection was detected with modified Giemsa staining. Endoscopic ultrasonography was performed to determine the depth of tumorous infiltration of the gastric wall: the tumor was confined to the mucosa and submucosa. No regional lymph node was observed. As a result of successful Helicobacter pylori eradication the regression of MALT lymphoma occurred. The follow-up examinations showed the regression of the tumour and the patient became asymptomatic. A control ultrasonographic examinations demonstrated the normal five layers structure of the gastric wall without any alteration. In our patient Helicobacter pylori eradication was an effective therapy for gastric MALT lymphoma as well. Our results similar as are published in the literature. Endoscopic ultrasonography is very useful in the assessment of the tumours involvement of the gastric wall. In the proper follow-up examinations of the patient endoscopy, histology and endoscopic ultrasound together are the methods to apply including Helicobacter pylori control."}
{"id": "10919057", "title": "Video-endoscopic ultrasonography in staging gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Video-endoscopic ultrasonography in staging gastric carcinoma. Clinical staging of gastric carcinoma is important in designing the strategy of treatment. Early gastric carcinomas can be treated by minimally invasive therapy, whereas advanced gastric carcinomas should be treated by surgery with or without combined chemotherapy. This study was undertaken to evaluate the accuracy and limitations of video type endoscopic ultrasound in preoperative staging of gastric cancer and assessing lymph node metastasis. Seventy-four patients with gastric carcinoma were preoperatively staged using video-endoscopic ultrasonography, performed by the same gastroenterologist. Sixty-three out of the 74 (85%) patients were correctly staged by endoscopic ultrasonography. The diagnostic accuracy rate was 100% for T1, 74% for T2, 87% for T3, and 86% for T4. Overstaging occurred in 11% due to peritumoral inflammation. Understaging occurred in 4% due to microinvasion of carcinomatous tissue or deeper organ invasion. The diagnosis of lymph node metastasis was confirmed in 72% of cases. Sensitivity and specificity was 74% and 86%, respectively. Endoscopic ultrasonography has a high accuracy rate in staging gastric carcinoma but still has its limitations in evaluating regional lymph node metastasis, despite using a new generation video-endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "10896488", "title": "A blind comparison of the effectiveness of endoscopic ultrasonography and endoscopy in staging early gastric cancer.", "content": "A blind comparison of the effectiveness of endoscopic ultrasonography and endoscopy in staging early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "10891775", "title": "[Staging superficial neoplastic lesions of the digestive tract: contribution of endoscopic ultrasonography].", "content": "[Staging superficial neoplastic lesions of the digestive tract: contribution of endoscopic ultrasonography]."}
{"id": "10867453", "title": "Accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography in preoperative staging of esophageal carcinoma.", "content": "Accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography in preoperative staging of esophageal carcinoma. With the advent of stage-adapted multimodal regimens for many gastrointestinal malignancies, accurate staging has become of utmost importance. In esophageal cancer, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) emerged as standard to determine T and N stage. Since growth patterns of squamous carcinoma (SC) differs from adenocarcinoma (AC) and lymph nodes are located at various distances from the esophagus in a horizontal plane, we studied the accuracy of esophageal EUS as a function of tumor type and localization of the tumor within the esophagus. Overall staging accuracy was 79% for T and for N staging. Staging was more accurate for T3/4, when compared to T1/2 tumors, and for SC when compared to AC. Histological T1/2 stages were overstaged by EUS in 8/17 patients, mostly in patients with AC (6/10). The sensitivity of retrosternal pain and of dysphagia for extramural disease was 57 and 92% respectively, the specificity of pain for extramural disease was 73%, and of dysphagia 36%. Preoperative weight loss in this series correlated linearly with tumor stages. The accurate preoperative staging of T2 esophageal endodermal malignancies is crucial for treatment stratification but difficult to achieve by visual analysis of endosonography alone. Postacquisition processing of echoendosonographic images might further increase the accuracy of echoendosonography and aid in the critical differentiation of T2 versus T3 esophageal malignancies. Preoperative weight loss and retrosternal pain are good clinical indicators of extramural disease."}
{"id": "10863932", "title": "Endosonographic features of solitary gastric hamartomatous polyp.", "content": "Endosonographic features of solitary gastric hamartomatous polyp."}
{"id": "10861417", "title": "Morphometric analysis of regional lymph nodes with and without metastasis from early gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Morphometric analysis of regional lymph nodes with and without metastasis from early gastric carcinoma. To the authors' knowledge detailed morphometric changes in lymph nodes with and without metastasis in patients with early gastric carcinoma remain undocumented. Histologic slides of 1847 lymph nodes dissected from 115 consecutive patients who underwent gastrectomy for early gastric carcinoma were examined histologically and measured using computer morphometry with the public domain National Institutes of Health Image program. Quantitative data were analyzed in relation to preoperative and intraoperative clinical assessments and postoperative pathologic diagnosis. Metastasis was found in 11 lymph nodes (0.6%) from 8 patients (7.0%). Metastatic lymph nodes showed a mean maximum dimension of 4.8 mm, a mean area of 14.4 mm(2), and a mean ratio of maximum/minimum dimension of 1.36; the corresponding values for nonmetastatic lymph nodes were 4.7 mm (P = 0.45), 13.2 mm(2) (P = 0. 13), and 1.66 (P = 0.10), respectively. The lymph node with a metastasis was not necessarily the largest of the dissected lymph nodes from each patient, and histologically each lymph node with a metastasis showed pericancerous fibrosis in > 10% of its area. The sensitivities of preoperative computed tomography, abdominal ultrasonography (US), endoscopic US, and intraoperative assessments to diagnose metastasis were 0%, 13%, 0%, and 13%, respectively, and the sensitivities of these modalities to detect lymph nodes > 10 mm in dimension were 18%, 10%, 3%, and 10%, respectively. Digital quantitative analysis is useful and widely applicable to clinicopathologic evaluation. The diagnostic sensitivity of lymph node metastasis in patients with early gastric carcinoma in the current study was very low with preoperative and intraoperative assessments because lymph node metastases were small and showed subtle histologic changes of pericancerous fibrosis."}
{"id": "10855851", "title": "Preoperative endoscopic ultrasonography in patients with gastric cancer.", "content": "Preoperative endoscopic ultrasonography in patients with gastric cancer. There is a need to assess the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in the diagnosis and staging of gastric cancer, especially in the early and very advanced stages of the disease when the therapeutic approach is still controversial. A retrospective study was performed on 79 patients with gastric cancer in order to compare the stage defined by preoperative EUS with that assessed histopathologically. All patients underwent laparotomy for final diagnosis, staging, and eventually treatment. The results of EUS were correlated with the histologic findings of the resected specimens. In the uT1 group, which corresponds to early gastric cancer, the diagnosis was histologically confirmed in 85.7% of the cases. In patients with advanced tumors defined as uT3-uT4, i.e., tumors infiltrating the serosa or neighboring structures, the diagnostic concordance was 91.1%. In contrast, concordance for less advanced lesions confined to the muscular layer was only 31.2%. As regards the lymph nodes, they were defined metastatic in 31 patients and confirmed to be histologically involved in 77.4%. In contrast, when the lymph nodes were assessed as negative at EUS, they proved to be metastatic in more than half the cases. From the data it appears that EUS has proven to be valuable in correctly staging most of the patients. EUS shows not only tumor depth and local spread but also the passage from a pathologic to a normal wall and lymph node metastasis. EUS appears to represent an important advance in the staging and follow-up of patients with gastric cancer. Instruments and techniques will continue to evolve, but the next level of research should be designed to show that the improved staging provided by EUS has clinical utility and can affect patient outcome. It is noteworthy that the highest accuracy of EUS has been shown in those conditions (uT1 and uT3-4) which currently are under consideration for a therapeutic approach that differs from the standard one."}
{"id": "10832678", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for determining the depth of cancer invasion in gastric cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for determining the depth of cancer invasion in gastric cancer."}
{"id": "10832666", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for diagnosis of submucosal invasion in early gastric cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for diagnosis of submucosal invasion in early gastric cancer. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is considered to be useful for deciding the treatment course for early gastric cancer. To determine reliable indications suggesting submucosal tumor invasion, we retrospectively analyzed EUS images of the hyperechoic third layer, which corresponds to the submucosa. The subjects enrolled in this study were 75 patients, with 78 gastric cancers (diagnosed as mucosal cancer without ulcerous changes on endoscopy and as histologically differentiated adenocarcinoma on biopsy), who were also examined by EUS. We retrospectively classified EUS features of the third layer (submucosa) into five groups: (1) irregular narrowing, (2) budding sign, (3) multiple echo-free spots, (4) unclear, and (5) no changes. In endoscopically diagnosed gastric mucosal cancer, 16 of the 78 lesions were associated with histologic submucosal invasion. EUS features that were associated with a high incidence of histological submucosal tumor invasion were irregular narrowing (submucosal invasion, 60.0%) and the budding sign (85.7%), and 90.9% of lesions with either of these features had submucosal invasion of tumors when tumorous changes in the third layer exceeded 1 mm in depth. Endosonographic irregular narrowing and a budding sign of more than 1 mm in depth in the third layer are useful for the diagnosis of submucosal invasion in gastric cancers that are diagnosed as mucosal cancers without ulcerous change on endoscopy."}
{"id": "10802871", "title": "Relapse of low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma after Helicobacter pylori eradication: true relapse or persistence? Long-term post-treatment follow-up of a multicenter trial in the north-east of Italy and evaluation of the diagnostic protocol's adequacy.", "content": "Relapse of low-grade gastric MALT lymphoma after Helicobacter pylori eradication: true relapse or persistence? Long-term post-treatment follow-up of a multicenter trial in the north-east of Italy and evaluation of the diagnostic protocol's adequacy. The effect of eradication of Helicobacter pylori on early stage gastric low-grade MALT lymphoma in 76 patients with follow-up of at least 1 year (12-63 months, mean 28) is reported. No regression was found in five cases after 12-48 months. In one case surgical resection detected the involvement of perigastric lymph nodes overlooked by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). Neither progression of the disease nor a high-grade component was documented by repeated gastric mappings, EUS and complete stagings in the other four cases. After histological remission five relapses of low-grade and one relapse of high-grade MALT lymphoma were found 12-48 months after eradication. Subsequent histological remission, without any additional therapy, was found in three relapsed cases. A rapid and persistent histological remission was obtained in 56 patients (73%). A late remission was observed in six cases. Monoclonal remission was found in half of the patients and was frequently delayed. Persistent monoclonality was associated with histological remission in the vast majority of patients. Our data confirm H. pylori eradication as the first choice therapy for early stage gastric low-grade MALT lymphoma and recommend extensive bioptic mapping and endoscopic sonography both in the local staging and in the regression evaluation. The rare cases of late remission encourage us to wait for at least 1 year after eradication of H. pylori. Longer follow-up studies will clarify the meaning of histological relapse/persistence and late remission. The study of non-responder cases could show us a step in lymphomagenesis."}
{"id": "10802864", "title": "Primary gastric non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: requirements for diagnosis and staging.", "content": "Primary gastric non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: requirements for diagnosis and staging. Tumor stage and histological grading (low grade vs. high grade) determine the prognostic outcome of primary gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT)-type non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Any diagnostic uncertainty of clinical staging may have potentially important therapeutic implications, especially if a non-surgical approach is favored. Diagnostic procedures for evaluation of gastric lymphoma include gastrointestinal endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasound of the upper gastrointestinal tract, conventional abdominal and cervical ultrasound, thoracic and abdominal computed tomography (CT) scans and bone marrow biopsy. In the present overview, the value of clinical diagnostic procedures is discussed with respect to clinical and endoscopic criteria which may be helpful for evaluation of gastric NHL. Furthermore, clinical staging methods such as endoscopic ultrasound are assessed which may allow pre-operative determination of tumor and lymph-node stage. These novel approaches are compared with the gold standard of pathohistological analysis. In conclusion, the diagnostic procedures presented appear to be helpful for establishing an early diagnosis, however, innovative methods such as endoscopic-bioptic mapping of the stomach and ultrasound-guided fine-needle biopsy techniques may improve pre-therapeutical work-up."}
{"id": "10777153", "title": "Recent advances in endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Recent advances in endoscopic ultrasonography. Endoscopic ultrasonography is recognized as an important tool in the diagnosis and staging of esophageal, gastric, colorectal, pancreatic, and biliary tumors. It also is a reliable method for the evaluation of submucosal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract, the differentiation between benign and malignant giant gastric folds, the evaluation of gastric ulcer healing, and the detection of common bile duct stones. The recent introduction of endoscopic ultrasonographic fine-needle aspiration provides for the cytologic and histologic diagnosis of gastrointestinal submucosal and extraluminal tumors and regional lymph nodes. This new technique may also be used for the intrasphincteric injection of botulinum toxin in the treatment of achalasia, for the steroid injection treatment of refractory esophageal strictures, for celiac nerve block, for pseudocyst drainage, and for drug delivery into pancreatic tumors. High-frequency thin ultrasonic probes can be used to make a more accurate diagnosis of superficial carcinomas of the gastrointestinal tract and for intraductal ultrasonography of the extrahepatic bile duct and pancreatic duct. In the future, three-dimensional imaging of gastrointestinal tumors will provide more accurate information regarding cancer extent. Endoscopic ultrasonography is a powerful tool which can be used in the diagnosis and treatment of a variety of gastrointestinal diseases."}
{"id": "10776880", "title": "Laparoscopic ultrasound enhances diagnostic laparoscopy in the staging of intra-abdominal neoplasms.", "content": "Laparoscopic ultrasound enhances diagnostic laparoscopy in the staging of intra-abdominal neoplasms. Routine laparoscopy and laparoscopic ultrasound (LUS) for staging intra-abdominal malignancies remains controversial. Thus, we undertook a prospective study to assess the value of preoperative laparoscopy with LUS for patients with intra-abdominal tumors judged resectable by preoperative studies. Laparoscopy was successfully performed in 76 of 77 patients, and 60 underwent LUS. Of 33 patients with presumed pancreatic cancer, laparoscopic findings changed the operative management of 11 patients, and LUS altered the management of an additional 6 patients. Laparotomy was avoided in 9 patients (27%). Among 14 patients with hepatobiliary tumors, laparotomy was avoided in 9 patients in whom laparoscopy and/or LUS revealed either benign or advanced disease. Operative management was altered in 4 of 18 patients with gastric or esophageal cancer by laparoscopic findings. LUS did not add to the management of these patients. Of 12 patients with presumed intra-abdominal lymphoma, 9 were diagnosed with lymphoma and 3 with benign disease, without laparotomy in all but 1 case. Laparoscopy and LUS are valuable tools for evaluating the resectability of pancreatic and hepatobiliary tumors. Laparoscopy, and to a lesser degree LUS, greatly facilitates diagnosing patients with intra-abdominal lymphomas and spares an occasional patient with esophagogastric carcinoma from undergoing laparotomy."}
{"id": "10751531", "title": "[Study on the p53 gene mutation and microsatellite instability of gastric carcinoma].", "content": "[Study on the p53 gene mutation and microsatellite instability of gastric carcinoma]. To observe the relationship between p53 gene mutation and microsatellite instability (MSI) of the preoperative staging of gastric carcinoma by endoscopic ultrasonography(EUS). A total of 73 cases of gastric carcinoma were taken for the preoperative staging with EUS. Silver staining PCR-SSCP method was used to detect mutations in exons 5, 6, 7, 8 of p53 gene and MSI at 4 loci on chromosomes 2, 5, 17 in the 73 paraffin-embedded biopsy specimens, and the relationship between them was studied further. The overall mutated rate of p53 gene was 54.8%, with 6.8%, 15.1%, 19.2% and 13.7% in exons 5 to 8, respectively. Analysis of the relation of the mutation with the preoperative staging by EUS showed that it was significantly higher in T3(64.3%) and T4(67.9%) than in T1(0) or T2(25.0%)(P<0.05), and it was 67.6% in cases with lymph node metastasis, which was significantly higher than that without metastasis (41.7%)(P<0.05). The overall detective rate of MSI was 37.0%. The detective rate of MSI had no relation with the depth of invasion, which was 40.0%, 33.3%, 39.3% and 34.5% at T1 to T4 stages (P<0.05), respectively, but it was significantly higher in cases with lymph node metastasis(51.4%) than those without metastasis(22.2%)(P<0.05). Although the detective rate of MSI showed an increasing trend in the mutated cases of p53 gene as compared with the no mutation cases, there was no relationship between MSI and p53 gene mutation (P<0.05). These results suggest that the gene mutation of p53 and MSI may represent the different mechanisms of carcinogenesis. They can reflect the cytobiologic malignant behavior of gastric carcinoma in varying degrees, which may be of reference significance in analysing the prognosis of the patients in clinics."}
{"id": "10725618", "title": "Low-grade MALT lymphoma of the stomach: a review of treatment options.", "content": "Low-grade MALT lymphoma of the stomach: a review of treatment options. Low-grade mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma of the stomach (MLS) is often associated with the presence of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria. Eradication of the infection with antibiotic therapy may result in regression of the lymphoma. But when antibiotic treatment fails to reverse the malignant process or if H. pylori is absent, other treatment options should be considered. Because MLS is often confined to the stomach and regional lymph nodes, it is potentially curable with local therapy. Endoscopy and improved imaging, with endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and computerized tomography (CT), have reduced the prior dependence on surgery for diagnosis and staging of gastric lymphomas. This review details the advances in the diagnosis, classification, and imaging of MLS. We also describe the experience that supports the use of radiation therapy as the preferred treatment of MLS in patients who have not responded to antibiotic therapy or have not had evidence for H. pylori infection. Radiation therapy for MLS is not only effective and safe, but offers the significant advantage of low morbidity and gastric function preservation."}
{"id": "10721175", "title": "[Signet ring cell carcinoma of the stomach--a case of diagnostic dilemma].", "content": "[Signet ring cell carcinoma of the stomach--a case of diagnostic dilemma]. Inguinal lymphonodal metastases of an adenocarcinoma were diagnosed in a 40-year-old patient by ultrasound guided puncture. The leading symptom was elephantiasis preferentially of the right lower extremity. In addition, atypical mycobacteriosis was detected later on. The causal gastric cancer had not been identified during two years until the fourth gastroscopy assisted by endoscopic ultrasonography revealed the lesion. No regional lymph node metastases were found while distant metastases in terms of inguinal lymph nodes were already present."}
{"id": "10717613", "title": "Phase I clinical trial of allogeneic mixed lymphocyte culture (cytoimplant) delivered by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle injection in patients with advanced pancreatic carcinoma.", "content": "Phase I clinical trial of allogeneic mixed lymphocyte culture (cytoimplant) delivered by endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle injection in patients with advanced pancreatic carcinoma. To the authors' knowledge, there are no other published clinical studies that have employed either systemic or local biologic response modifiers in the treatment of patients with pancreatic carcinoma. The purpose of this study was to determine the feasibility and safety of allogeneic mixed lymphocyte culture (cytoimplant) delivered by endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided fine-needle injection (FNI) in patients with advanced pancreatic carcinoma. Eight patients with unresectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreas were enrolled: 4 patients in Stage II, 3 in Stage III, and 1 in Stage IV. Cytoimplants were delivered locally into the tumor using a novel EUS-guided FNI technique. Escalating doses of 3, 6, or 9 billion cells were implanted into the pancreatic tumor by a single EUS-guided FNI. Toxicity (modified National Cancer Institute criteria) was assessed at Day 1, Week 1, and Months 1 and 3. Clinical endpoints included Karnofsky performance status (KPS), CA 19-9, tumor response (computed tomography and/or EUS), and survival with follow-up examinations and imaging tests on months 3, 6, 9, 12, and 24. There were no bone marrow, hemorrhagic, infectious, renal, cardiac, or pulmonary toxicities. There were 3 transient Grade 3 gastrointestinal toxicities, and 3 patients had transient episodes of hyperbilirubinemia that were reversed by replacement of biliary stents. Seven of 8 patients (86%) experienced low grade fever that responded to acetaminophen, and all fever was resolved within the first 4 weeks. There were no procedure-related complications. There were 2 partial responses and 1 minor response, with a median survival of 13.2 months. A single injection of cytoimplant immunotherapy by EUS-guided FNI appears to be feasible and is not associated with substantial toxicity."}
{"id": "10717512", "title": "Endosonography in gastric lymphoma and large gastric folds.", "content": "Endosonography in gastric lymphoma and large gastric folds. To establish a correct preoperative differential diagnosis between gastric lymphoma and cancer is essential but can be difficult as endoscopic biopsies can sometimes provide a low diagnostic yield. By EUS, infiltrative carcinoma tends to show a vertical growth in the gastric wall, while lymphoma tends to show mainly a horizontal extension. EUS provides an accurate staging of gastric lymphoma, showing the exact level of infiltration and the presence of perigastric lymph nodes, thus the physician can obtain an accurate prognosis for each patient and select the best form of treatment accordingly. The response to chemoradiotherapy can also be investigated very accurately by EUS. Large gastric folds are seen in a great number of benign and malignant conditions. Diagnosis represents a clinical challenge because etiology may be extremely varied and standard biopsies are often inconclusive. Different diseases show different levels of infiltration of the gastric wall, thus a characteristic echo-pattern helps for the differential diagnosis. Endosonography, used always in combination with biopsy, allows to rule out malignancies and to select the most appropriate treatment for each patient (medical or surgical)."}
{"id": "10696893", "title": "Learning curve of transrectal ultrasound.", "content": "Learning curve of transrectal ultrasound. Transrectal ultrasound is the most accurate means of assessing the degree of invasion for rectal neoplasms. A learning curve for performing and interpreting these studies exists, but it is unknown how long or steep it is. We reviewed our initial results with transrectal ultrasound to determine our accuracy and to define the learning curve. All patients undergoing transrectal ultrasound during our initial 30 months of experience were included. Each patient was staged with transrectal ultrasound and, after resection, the histopathologic stage was compared with transrectal ultrasound staging. The accuracy of transrectal ultrasound was calculated at intervals as experience was gained. A total of 42 examinations were performed on 41 neoplasms in 41 patients. Comparison between transrectal ultrasound and the pathologic stage could be made in 36 studies. Overall accuracy of degree of wall invasion was 78 percent. Overstaging occurred with eight neoplasms, and one lesion was understaged. Accuracy of transrectal ultrasound staging improved with time: 58 percent of the initial 12 studies were staged correctly compared with 87.5 percent accuracy in the remaining 24 examinations (P = 0.048). A definite learning curve was apparent. We conclude that transrectal ultrasound is a relatively simple procedure to learn and, once a moderate degree of experience is gained, should be routinely incorporated into the evaluation of rectal neoplasms."}
{"id": "10696843", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography. Endosonography is primarily a diagnostic imaging modality, but new therapeutic applications are being developed. Miniprobe technology (ultrasound catheter probes) has led to new clinical applications. The staging of gastrointestinal cancers remains the major accepted indication for endosonography. Other conditions, such as chronic pancreatitis, portal hypertension, and inflammatory bowel diseases, are also being evaluated with endosonographic imaging."}
{"id": "10690599", "title": "Gastric pseudotumor.", "content": "Gastric pseudotumor. The authors present a case report of a pseudotumor of the stomach and a brief discussion about this very unusual entity. A 75-year-old female patient was admitted with melena and a large epigastric tumor; she underwent upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, abdominal ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, guided needle aspiration and angiography. Preoperative diagnostic hypothesis included a partially thrombosed aneurysm of the splenic artery, pancreatic cystic neoplasm with gastric invasion and pancreatic pseudocyst complicated with hemorrhage. Laparotomy revealed a gastric tumor and the patient was submitted to a radical subtotal Billroth II gastrectomy. Only the pathologic examination revealed the unexpected definitive diagnosis of an organized intramural gastric hematoma. There were no postoperative complications and she remains asymptomatic 10 months after surgery."}
{"id": "10679699", "title": "Demonstration of gastric submucosal lesions by high-resolution transabdominal sonography.", "content": "Demonstration of gastric submucosal lesions by high-resolution transabdominal sonography. We evaluated the accuracy of high-resolution transabdominal sonography (TAUS) in identifying and characterizing gastric submucosal masses previously detected by endoscopy. Patients given endoscopy for suspected submucosal gastric lesions and 2 patients with gastric wall cysts were enrolled. Patients underwent TAUS and then endoscopic sonography (EUS) on the same day, and the sonographic results were compared with endoscopic and histologic findings. Among 101 patients with gastric submucosal masses on endoscopy, TAUS revealed a mass in 94 (93%); of these 94 patients, 60 underwent EUS. The final diagnoses were 31 leiomyomas, 10 leiomyosarcomas, 13 ectopic pancreases, 2 cysts, and 1 glomus tumor, 1 carcinoid tumor, 1 lipoma, and 1 fibroma. Leiomyomas (mean size, 3.2 cm) and leiomyosarcomas (mean size, 7.1 cm) were shown sonographically to originate from the muscular layer. Ectopic pancreases (mean size, 1.2 cm) were shown to originate from the submucosal layer and had a homogeneously echogenic pattern. Gastric cysts were found in the submucosal layer and were anechoic. The glomus tumor and the carcinoid tumor were found in the muscular layer and were hypoechoic. The lipoma and the fibroma were located in the submucosal layer and were echogenic on TAUS. TAUS had a detection rate of 93% in visualizing submucosal gastric masses previously identified by endoscopy. TAUS is less invasive than EUS and can be used to follow submucosal gastric masses that are not excised."}
{"id": "10618460", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound. Endoscopic ultrasound was introduced in the early 1980s. Today, endoscopic ultrasound remains the most accurate modality for local staging of gastrointestinal cancers but the emphasis is now on what findings will impact patient care. At the same time, a new era of interventional endoscopic ultrasound that might also be called image-directed therapies is emerging. The future looks bright for the further application of endoscopic ultrasound in gastrointestinal endoscopy. This article provides the current status and a glimpse into the future of endoscopic ultrasound."}
{"id": "10770359", "title": "Endosonographic staging of 100 consecutive patients with esophageal carcinoma: introduction of the 8-mm esophagoprobe.", "content": "Endosonographic staging of 100 consecutive patients with esophageal carcinoma: introduction of the 8-mm esophagoprobe. Endoscopic ultrasound of esophageal carcinoma is conventionally performed using the 13-mm fiberoptic/ultrasound echoendoscope. However, the large diameter results in an inability to negotiate the primary tumor in 25% of patients. The aim of this study was first to determine whether use of the 8-mm esophagoprobe would overcome this problem and second to evaluate the accuracy of the smaller diameter instrument. One hundred consecutive patients with esophageal cancer underwent initial gastroscopy. Based upon the degree of luminal stenosis, patients were staged with either the conventional echoendoscope (luminal diameter > or = 15 mm) or the esophagoprobe (luminal diameter < 15 mm). The primary tumor was successfully negotiated in all subjects (echoendoscope 30, esophagoprobe 70) so that T- and N-staging was accomplished in every patient. Esophageal dilatation was performed in 12 patients (12%). The procedure was well tolerated and there were no complications, in particular no patient suffered esophageal perforation. The accuracy of the esophagoprobe for T-staging was 90% (19 out of 20) and that for N-staging was 75% (15 out of 20). This was similar to the accuracy of staging with the conventional echoendoscope, 90% (9 out of 10) for T-stage and 90% (9 out of 10) for N-stage. The esophagoprobe can safely and accurately stage patients with esophageal carcinoma, including those with high-grade stenoses."}
{"id": "10745744", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound: combining sight and sound for cancer and benign disorders.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound: combining sight and sound for cancer and benign disorders. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is one of the most significant advances in the history of gastrointestinal endoscopy. It is unsurpassed in local and regional staging of cancer of the esophagus, stomach, pancreas, and rectum. Recently, EUS has been applied to a number of benign conditions such as achalasia, difficult-to-diagnose gallbladder disease, and submucosal tumors. As EUS gains in popularity and increased clinical application in the United States, it is imperative that gastroenterology nurses and associates be aware of this ground-breaking technology and its indications."}
{"id": "10636063", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the preoperative staging of adenocarcinoma of the distal oesophagus and oesophagogastric junction.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the preoperative staging of adenocarcinoma of the distal oesophagus and oesophagogastric junction. Endoscopic ultrasonography is considered to be the most accurate procedure in the preoperative staging of oesophageal carcinoma. Its accuracy was evaluated in the preoperative staging of adenocarcinoma of the distal oesophagus and oesophagogastric junction. Thirty-two consecutive patients with adenocarcinoma of the distal oesophagus and oesophagogastric junction were preoperatively examined and staged by means of endoscopic ultrasonography. All patients underwent radical en bloc resection of the oesophagus and proximal stomach (or total gastrectomy) with standard lymphadenectomy including thoracic duct and mediastinal fat tissue. The postoperative histopathologic TNM stage was taken as reference. An endoscopic ultrasonography examination could be completed in 26 of the patients; the other 6 had obstructive tumour. In two patients infiltration of the tumour into the vital organs (in one patient aortic infiltration and in a second patient pericardial infiltration) was incorrectly suspected. The ability to predict T stage was 65.6%. T stage was overstaged in 31.2% and understaged in 3.1% of the cases. The ability to predict N stage was 71.9%. N stage was overstaged in 25.0% and understaged 3.1% of the cases. In adenocarcinoma of the oesophagus and oesophagogastric junction endoscopic ultrasonography helps in predicting resectability, but the exact TN staging is not accurate. Since early detection of tumour and aggressive surgical intervention constitute the only curative treatment, caution must be exercised when judging a patient to be inoperable solely on the basis of endoscopic ultrasonography findings without proven distant metastases."}
{"id": "10604099", "title": "Relation between endoscopic ultrasound evaluation and survival of patients with inoperable thoracic squamous cell carcinoma of the oesophagus treated by combined radio- and chemotherapy.", "content": "Relation between endoscopic ultrasound evaluation and survival of patients with inoperable thoracic squamous cell carcinoma of the oesophagus treated by combined radio- and chemotherapy. Purpose of this study was to assess prognostic value of endoscopic ultrasound in patients with inoperable squamous cell carcinoma of oesophagus treated by radio-chemotherapy. Between January 1993 and March 1996, 89 patients (77 males and 12 females, mean age 60.3 years) with squamous cell carcinoma of the oesophagus were treated exclusively by radio-chemotherapy consisting of 3 courses of chemotherapy using 5FU-Cis-platyl and 3 courses of radiation therapy (3 x 15 Gy). Endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasound (Pentax FG 32 UA) were performed before beginning treatment and two weeks after last cycle of radio-chemotherapy. Classical criteria for endoscopic ultrasound lymph node metastases were used after irradiation; response was considered as complete only if endoscopic ultrasound indicated that integrity of oesophageal wall was fully restored. Complete endoscopic ultrasound assessment was achieved in 73 cases (84.9%). Tumours were classified as T1N1 in 1 case, T2N1 in 7, T3N0 in 4, T3N1 in 24, T4N0 in 1 and T4N1 in 49. For patients with a non-invasive tumour (usT1 or T2), malignancy of lymph nodes was proved by endoscopic ultrasound guided biopsy. Eighty-two patients presented one or more suspicious lymph nodes. Metastatic lymph nodes were located in posterior mediastinum in 43 cases, at distant sites in 27 (laterotracheal in 16 and coeliac in 11) and in 16 lymph nodes were located simultaneously in mediastinum and at distant sites. Median overall survival in these 89 patients was 16 months. There was no significant difference in median survival between patients in stage T3 and T4. Conversely, there was a significant difference between patients with more or less than 4 metastatic lymph nodes (9 vs 36 months, respectively, p = 0.005). Site of lymph node metastasis was also a prognostic factor with better survival in patients presenting mediastinal nodes than those presenting coeliac nodes (30 vs 9 months, respectively, p < 0.0001). Median survival was also significantly better in patients considered as having achieved a complete response by both gastroduodenal fibrescopy and endoscopic ultrasound than in those considered to have a complete response by gastroduodenal fibrescopy but not by endoscopic ultrasound (49 vs 10 months). Conversely, there was no difference in survival in function of treatment response assessment by thoracic chemotherapy-scan. Endoscopic ultrasound findings regarding number and site of suspicious lymph nodes and degree of treatment response are significant prognostic factors in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of oesophagus treated exclusively by radio-chemotherapy."}
{"id": "10592878", "title": "[Preoperative staging of pancreatic adenocarcinoma: a practice survey of French gastroenterologists and digestive surgeons. Ordering of supplemental examinations and preoperative criteria of loco-regional spread].", "content": "[Preoperative staging of pancreatic adenocarcinoma: a practice survey of French gastroenterologists and digestive surgeons. Ordering of supplemental examinations and preoperative criteria of loco-regional spread]. Means used by physicians to perform preoperative staging of pancreatic adenocarcinoma are not well known. Therapeutic strategy used relies on knowledge of loco-regional spread criteria. To assess the frequency of prescription of imaging procedures in patients with suspected pancreatic head adenocarcinoma; the use by French gastroenterologists (GE) and digestive surgeons (S) of criteria which lead to suspect lymph node invasion or vascular involvement; the frequency of histological determination in patients with unresectable tumor; if there is a difference between GE and S. All the French GE (n = 3466) and S (n = 687) were sent a survey asking them about their habits. 615 answers were received (GE = 426, S = 189). There was no significant difference between GE and S for the prescription of ultrasonography and CT scan. Endosonography and upper digestive endoscopy were more systematically performed by GE than S (44 vs 35% and 50 vs 35%, respectively). Celio-mesenteric angiography was less often used by GE (6 vs 13%). Laparoscopy was electively used by 35% GE and 52% S. None of vascular involvement criteria was used by more than 75% of GE and S. Tumor-vessel interface loss was used by 46% GE and 16% S (P < 0.001). Intravascular thrombosis and truncular portal hypertension signs were used more often by S than GE (84 vs. 71%: P < 0.001; 65 vs. 51%: P < 0.001). None of nodal involvement criteria was used by more than 50% of physicians. All these nodal criteria were used more often by GE than S (P < 0.001). Percentage of physicians requiring histological confirmation in case of unresectable tumor was 41%. Preoperative staging of suspected pancreatic head adenocarcinoma is performed with grossly the same manner by GE and S. Histological proof is searched for in a low percentage of cases. Imaging criteria of loco-regional spread of pancreatic adenocarcinoma are heterogeneously used by GE and S, the former using them more frequently than the latter. A better use of imaging criteria is necessary to optimise the treatment of patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma."}
{"id": "10586017", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in patients with gastro-esophageal cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in patients with gastro-esophageal cancer. For patients with gastro-esophageal cancer ultrasonography (EUS) is superior to any other imaging modality in the assessment of local tumor infiltration and local lymph nodes status. EUS is especially important in the preoperative staging of patients with esophageal cancer and patients with proximal gastric cancer. Here it allows for the identification of those patients with advanced disease who are unlikely to benefit from surgery and in whom a conservative palliative treatment is indicated. In advanced gastric cancer the clinical implications of EUS less clear. Still preoperative EUS is indicated in every patient with cancer of the proximal stomach to assess tumor infiltration in the esophagus. Relatively new is the use of EUS in staging early cancers in order to select patients for local endoscopic treatment. High-frequency miniprobes are the instruments of choice for imaging these lesions. Strict criteria should be applied in the selection of patients for local endoscopic treatment of early gastro-esophageal cancers. EUS guided fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) is currently only indicated in patients with esophageal cancer and suspicious celiac lymph nodes. It may become more important if new treatment protocols demand more objective and reliable assessment of lymph node status."}
{"id": "10561303", "title": "Enhanced staging and all chemotherapy preoperatively in patients with potentially resectable gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Enhanced staging and all chemotherapy preoperatively in patients with potentially resectable gastric carcinoma. Patients with local-regional gastric carcinoma have a low rate of curative resection (R0) because of the advanced stage at diagnosis and suboptimal clinical staging. This study was designed to improve clinical staging with the use of laparoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and to improve R0 resection rates and tolerance by delivering all chemotherapy preoperatively in patients with potentially resectable gastric carcinoma. All patients with histologic proof of localized adenocarcinoma of the stomach underwent a staging laparoscopy before registration. EUS was performed when feasible. The intention was to administer up to five courses of preoperative chemotherapy consisting of fluorouracil (500 mg/m(2)/d as a continuous infusion on days 1 through 5 and as a bolus on days 12 and 19), interferon alfa-2b (3 million units subcutaneously three times a week for 3 weeks), and cisplatin (15 mg/m(2)/d as a bolus on days 1 through 5). After chemotherapy, surgery was attempted to remove the primary and regional lymph nodes. Clinical response and EUS staging were correlated with surgical pathology. The feasibility of this approach, resection rates, patient survival, and patterns of failure also were assessed. All 30 patients enrolled were assessed for toxicity, response, and survival. Nineteen men and 11 women were enrolled. The median number of courses delivered per patient was three (range, one to five courses). Fourteen patients (47%) received all five preoperative courses of chemotherapy. The overall clinical response rate was 34%. Twenty-nine patients (97%) underwent attempted resection. Twenty-five (83%) had an R0 resection. Two patients (7%) had no evidence of carcinoma in the surgical specimen, and three had only microscopic carcinoma (>/= 90% necrosis). Posttreatment EUS findings did not correlate well with surgical pathology. The median duration of follow-up was 30 months (range, 5 months to 65+ months). The median survival time for 30 patients, calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method, was 30 months (range, 5 months to 65+ months). There were no cases of grade 4 toxicity. It is feasible to administer prolonged preoperative therapy in patients with potentially resectable gastric carcinoma. Enhanced staging with laparoscopy and EUS helped in proper selection of patients and better characterization of the stage."}
{"id": "10556006", "title": "Experience of endoscopic ultrasound in staging adenocarcinoma of the cardia.", "content": "Experience of endoscopic ultrasound in staging adenocarcinoma of the cardia. The introduction of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has generally resulted in a more accurate assessment of gastrointestinal regional tumour stage. Knowing the stage and the extent of oesophageal involvement is extremely important as a guide to the choice of surgical approach in cardia cancer. The aim of this study was to evaluate the ability of EUS to accurately predict depth of tumour invasion (T), node involvement (N) and the tumour's invasion length along the oesophagus. Thirty-five patients with adenocarcinoma of the cardia were studied by EUS and the EUS pre-operative findings were compared with the pathology findings. The overall accuracy in T staging was 55.2% (16/29 cases). The sensitivity in evaluating T1, T2 and T3 classes was 80%, 38.5% and 70%, respectively. The sensitivity was excellent in evaluating N0 class (100%) (5 cases), but it fell to 66.7% in N1 cases. EUS correctly determined the extent of oesophagus invasion in 75.9% (22/29) of cases; moreover, it had a very high accuracy in distinguishing between tumours with an oesophageal invasion greater or lower than 2 cm (93.1%) (27/29 cases). EUS proved to be useful in pre-operative staging of cardia adenocarcinoma and, in particular, in the pre-operative identification of the extent of oesophageal invasion."}
{"id": "10555667", "title": "Unusual gastric tumors: radiologic-pathologic correlation.", "content": "Unusual gastric tumors: radiologic-pathologic correlation. The overlap of radiologic findings in many gastric tumors makes differentiation difficult. However, some unusual gastric tumors have characteristic radiologic features that may suggest a specific diagnosis. At barium study, lipomas typically manifest as a smooth submucosal mass or an ulcerated lesion with a \"bull's-eye\" appearance that is indistinguishable from other mesenchymal tumors. At computed tomography (CT), lipomas usually manifest as well-circumscribed submucosal masses with fat attenuation. At radiology, glomus tumors appear as smooth submucosal masses with or without ulceration and may contain tiny flecks of calcification. These tumors frequently demonstrate strong enhancement on early-phase contrast material-enhanced images. At barium study, lymphangiomas may appear as smooth intramural masses that are indistinguishable from other mesenchymal tumors. At CT, they manifest as non-enhancing extramucosal masses with homogeneous low attenuation. Diffuse lesions in Brunner gland hamartoma manifest as multiple small nodules, producing a characteristic \"cobblestone\" appearance. Lymphomas may have typical imaging features (eg, more pronounced and homogeneous mural thickening) that can help differentiate them from adenocarcinoma. In addition, adenocarcinomas may demonstrate unusual findings such as transpyloric spread, unusually large polyps, or intratumoral calcifications. Familiarity with these radiologic features of gastric tumors can help ensure correct diagnosis and proper management."}
{"id": "10549734", "title": "Staging laparoscopy and laparoscopic ultrasonography in more than 400 patients with upper gastrointestinal carcinoma.", "content": "Staging laparoscopy and laparoscopic ultrasonography in more than 400 patients with upper gastrointestinal carcinoma. Resection offers the only chance of cure to patients with esophageal, gastroesophageal junction, and hepatopancreatobiliary tumors. Staging is essential to select patients who will benefit from operation because palliation can also be performed nonoperatively. Several studies, including limited numbers of patients, have shown that laparoscopic staging prevents unnecessary laparotomies, but it is doubtful whether general application of this staging method can be advised. The aim of this study was to assess the benefit of diagnostic laparoscopy for staging patients with esophageal, gastroesophageal junction, and hepatopancreatobiliary tumors. Between June 1992 and December 1996, 420 patients with a resectable tumor after conventional staging underwent diagnostic laparoscopy combined with laparoscopic ultrasonography. Histologic proof of metastases or ingrowth was used to cancel laparotomy. Laparoscopic staging avoided laparotomy in 20% of patients (sensitivity 0.70): 5% with an esophageal tumor, 20% with a gastroesophageal junction tumor, 15% with a periampullary tumor, 40% with a proximal bile duct tumor, 35% with a liver tumor, and 40% with a pancreatic body or tail tumor. Complications and port-site metastases were seen in 4% and 2% of patients, respectively. Laparoscopic staging is a safe procedure with low morbidity and without mortality in this series. It has shown no benefit in esophageal cancer, but seems beneficial for staging tumors located at the gastroesophageal junction, proximal bile duct tumors, liver tumors, and pancreatic body and tail tumors. The value of laparoscopic staging for patients with periampullary tumors is not as great as stated in previous studies and is still the subject of investigation."}
{"id": "10549014", "title": "[Laparoscopy in the staging of cancer of the stomach].", "content": "[Laparoscopy in the staging of cancer of the stomach]. Prognosis of gastric carcinoma is closely related to extension. Laparoscopic staging of digestive cancers is proposed to evaluate the regional cancer spreading (TNM). The aim of this procedure is to avoid unnecessary laparotomy, and to reduce mortality and morbidity of these procedures. Laparoscopic staging can also make easier the selection of patients of preoperative treatment. In most of the series about laparoscopic staging, efficacy of the usual staging tools (computed tomography, ultrasonography, endoscopic ultrasonography) is weak and before operation 20 to 30% of the metastases, particularly peritoneal and hepatic, are missed. Laparoscopic staging is technically easy: no more than 3 trocars are necessary, laparoscopic ultrasonography may be performed during the same procedure, as well as peritoneal cytology. Feasibility is about 100%. Usual contraindications of the laparoscopy are contraindications of laparoscopic staging. The main difficulty is its utility. Staging of advanced lesions remains the best indication of laparoscopic staging in gastric cancer. Metastatic spread, particularly to the peritoneum, and resectability may be evaluated with sensitivity and specificity close to 90%. Morbidity (1 to 3%) is usually low and mainly represented by wound complications."}
{"id": "10505006", "title": "Pre-operative staging of ampullary tumours by endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Pre-operative staging of ampullary tumours by endoscopic ultrasound. Ampullary carcinomas have a significantly higher resectability rate and better prognosis than other periampullary carcinomas, although the prognosis is poor with advanced disease. Accurate tumour staging is therefore important in surgical planning. Our objective was to evaluate the usefulness of, and problems associated with, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in the pre-operative staging of ampullary tumours. 35 patients with ampullary tumours were pre-operatively examined with EUS. The imaging results were compared with histopathological findings of the resected specimen according to the TNM staging classification. The overall accuracy of tumour (T) staging was 74% (26/35) for all tumours, and 67% (6/9), 71% (10/14) and 83% (10/12) respectively for T1, T2 and T3 tumours. The overall accuracy of nodal (N) staging was 63%. In diagnosing pancreatic invasion, EUS had an accuracy of 86% (30/35), a sensitivity of 83% (10/12), and a specificity of 87% (20/23). In conclusion, EUS provides an accurate method of evaluating the stage of ampullary tumours, especially infiltration into the pancreas. This modality is useful to surgeons in deciding on an appropriate therapeutic approach and in giving a prognosis."}
{"id": "10486372", "title": "The utility of endoscopic ultrasonography and endoscopy in the endoscopic mucosal resection of early gastric cancer.", "content": "The utility of endoscopic ultrasonography and endoscopy in the endoscopic mucosal resection of early gastric cancer. To clarify the usefulness of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and endoscopy in the endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) of early gastric cancer. Patients/Methods-EMR was performed in 61 patients with early gastric cancer over the past five years. The accuracy of the assessment of the depth of cancerous invasion was studied in 49 patients who had EUS before EMR. Forty eight patients were treated with endoscopy alone; in these patients, EUS and endoscopic findings correlated with the clinical course. Forty six patients showed no changes in the submucosal layer or deeper structures on EUS. Pathologically these included 37 patients with mucosal cancer and nine with submucosal cancer showing very slight submucosal infiltration. Three patients showed diffuse low echo changes in the submucosal layer on EUS; pathologically, these included two with submucosal cancer and one with mucosal cancer with a peptic ulcer scar within the tumour focus. Of 48 patients receiving endoscopic treatment alone, 45 showed no tumour recurrence or evidence of metastases on EUS and endoscopy. Three cases of recurrence were observed. Two of these patients had a surgical gastrectomy, and one was re-treated endoscopically. In the former cases, the surgical results correlated well with assessment by EUS and endoscopy. In addition, the latter patient who was re-treated endoscopically after evaluation with EUS and endoscopy has so far had no recurrence. The combined use of EUS and endoscopy is effective in diagnosing the depth of cancerous invasion in patients undergoing EMR as well as in clarifying changes both within and between anatomic levels during follow up."}
{"id": "10475924", "title": "Three-dimensional endoluminal ultrasound: a new method for the evaluation of gastrointestinal tumors.", "content": "Three-dimensional endoluminal ultrasound: a new method for the evaluation of gastrointestinal tumors. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the feasibility of three-dimensional endoluminal ultrasound of gastrointestinal tumors. Sixteen patients with esophageal, gastric, or colorectal tumors underwent endoscopic ultrasound. Three-dimensional ultrasound data were obtained from multiple serial images of a miniprobe (360 degrees, 12.5 MHz) and processed on a PC-based 3D workstation. Adequate three-dimensional ultrasound scans were obtained in eight patients with esophageal cancer and five patients with colorectal cancer. Three-dimensional image processing enabled visualization of the data as a multiplanar display or as a life-like three-dimensional view. The availability of arbitrary scan planes improved the assessment of local tumor spread and the spatial relation of the tumor to relevant adjacent structures (e.g., major vessels). Three-dimensional presentations provided realistic views of the anatomy and facilitated the interpretation of the ultrasound images. Three-dimensional display and the ability to review endoluminal ultrasound data interactively may improve the staging of gastrointestinal tumors. These preliminary data encourage further evaluation of this technique."}
{"id": "10472083", "title": "[Staging of carcinomas of the upper gastrointestinal tract. The current status of diagnostic imaging].", "content": "[Staging of carcinomas of the upper gastrointestinal tract. The current status of diagnostic imaging]. Esophageal carcinoma: CT and endosonography are complementary and the most important imaging modalities at present for staging. After endoscopic and histological diagnosis, CT of the thorax and the abdomen is used. With the proof of local infiltration of a neighbouring organ or in the presence of distant metastasis, palliative therapy can be started. If CT is not conclusive or no local infiltration or distant metastasis is proven, endosonography should be performed. Gastric carcinoma: At present endosonography shows the highest accuracy for diagnosis of the T stage. For differentiation between T3 and T4 tumors the accuracy of CT is not sufficient to predict resectability. The N stage can be determined at present by no modality with sufficient accuracy. Distant metastasis can be diagnosed by CT with high sensitivity and specificity. Small bowel carcinoma: These rare tumors are diagnosed with high accuracy by enteroclysis, whereby the diagnosis takes place at a late stage due to the nonspecific clinical findings."}
{"id": "10462656", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA) of liver lesions.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA) of liver lesions. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is not traditionally thought to be clinically applicable in liver imaging. EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration of the liver has not been well described. A prospective study was conducted in which 574 consecutive patients with a history or suspicion of gastrointestinal or pulmonary malignant tumor undergoing upper EUS examinations underwent EUS evaluation of the liver. Fourteen (2.4%) patients were found to have focal liver lesions and underwent EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration. The median largest diameter of the liver lesions was 1.1 cm (range 0.8 to 5.2 cm). The mean number of passes was 2.0 (range 1 to 5 passes). All fine-needle passes yielded an adequate specimen. One of the 14 patients underwent EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration of 2 liver lesions. Fourteen of the 15 liver lesions sampled by means of EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration were malignant and one was benign. Before EUS, computed tomography (CT) depicted liver lesions in only 3 of 14 (21%) patients. Seven of 14 patients had a known cancer diagnosis. For the other 7, the initial diagnosis of cancer was made by means of EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration of the liver. There were no immediate or late complications. EUS can detect small focal liver lesions that are not detected at CT. Findings of EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration can confirm a cytologic diagnosis of liver metastasis and establish a definitive M stage that may change clinical management."}
{"id": "10449847", "title": "The examiner's learning effect and its influence on the quality of endoscopic ultrasonography in carcinoma of the esophagus and gastric cardia.", "content": "The examiner's learning effect and its influence on the quality of endoscopic ultrasonography in carcinoma of the esophagus and gastric cardia. The preoperative diagnosis of tumors of the esophagus and the gastric cardia is an important element in their stage-oriented therapy. The goal of the present study was to evaluate the accuracy of endosonographic ultrasound (EUS) and to test its usefulness in tumor staging and the assessment of operability. A total of 139 tumors were scanned via EUS by one examiner </=14 days prior to resection (TNM staging per UICC, 1987). The accuracy for completely traversable tumors was 60.8% for T1, 82.1% for T2, 77.5% for T3, and 33% for T4 stages. This accuracy was somewhat reduced in cases of nontraversable tumor stenosis (51.9%). In T staging, a significant case-dependent improvement in accuracy to 89.5% was found; this was regarded as a learning effect. In N staging, we considered only those tumors that were resected by the transthoracic approach with systematic node dissection and complete EUS (n = 80). N-stage accuracy (T1-T4) was 71.3%, and no improvement could be shown. To assess operability, discrimination between T1/T2 and T3/T4 tumors is crucial. Accuracy, sensitivity, and specifity can thus be improved significantly. The quality of EUS depends on the experience of the examiner. Reliable results can be obtained after >75 examinations have been done. EUS is a valuable tool in tumor staging when it is performed by an experienced examiner or under the direct supervision of such a person."}
{"id": "10449680", "title": "Imaging diagnosis for staging of gastric cancer.", "content": "Imaging diagnosis for staging of gastric cancer. A more differentiated therapy regimen concept for gastric cancer requires more precise pre-operative diagnostic imaging. There are several methods for pre-operative locoregional tumor staging in gastric cancer: percutaneous abdominal ultrasound with hydrotechnique (HUS), endoluminal ultrasound in the stomach (EUS), computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The advantages and indications for each method are described and an overview of the medical literature is given. The results in the literature are compared to our own findings, which were obtained in prospective studies comparing the four different imaging methods. On the basis of our experience and the literature, we conclude that the indication for the different diagnostic imaging methods primarily depends on the type of therapy concept followed in the respective surgical department. Endoscopy with biopsy remains the primary diagnostic procedure. Endosonography (EUS) is another diagnostic procedure, which can be performed simultaneously with endoscopy. Only special questions or reasons warrant the use of other imaging methods."}
{"id": "10445558", "title": "Gastric carcinoma confined to the muscularis propria: how can we detect, evaluate, and cure intermediate-stage carcinoma of the stomach?", "content": "Gastric carcinoma confined to the muscularis propria: how can we detect, evaluate, and cure intermediate-stage carcinoma of the stomach? The most important surgical strategy for advanced gastric cancer is its detection at the curative stage. The aim of this study was to characterize the curable intermediate-stage gastric carcinomas. Of 1120 consecutive patients who underwent gastric resection for primary gastric cancer from 1979 through 1996, 94 patients were histologically diagnosed as having cancer confined to the muscularis propria (mp cancer), analyzed clinicopathologically, and compared with patients with early and serosal cancers. The operative incidence of mp cancer was around 8% among cases of gastrectomy, and the ratio of mp cancer to advanced cancer began to increase in 1991. Mp cancer was at a statistically intermediate stage, between early and serosal cancers in terms of symptoms, surgical curability (96%), size and histology of the tumor, and the rate of lymph node metastasis (46%). Preoperative assessments of tumor depth were unclear using radiology and endoscopy; however, 35% of 31 cases studied were diagnosed precisely by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). Accuracy of lymph node metastasis diagnosis was the same (65%) by preoperative EUS and by surgeon; however, sensitivity of the surgeon's assessment was higher (69% vs 38%) and specificity of EUS was higher (83% vs 39%). The 5-yr survival rate was 85%, which was significantly better than that of serosal cancer and similar to that of early cancer. Patient outcome was not affected by lymph node metastasis or macroscopic type of tumor. Mp cancer should be considered an intermediate-stage cancer. Surgery with level 2 lymph node dissection should provide a cure rate similar to that for early cancer."}
{"id": "10433044", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis, staging, and follow-up of anal carcinomas.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis, staging, and follow-up of anal carcinomas. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is a technique that is well established in gastroenterology for tumor staging, but so far very few data have been reported concerning the staging of anal carcinomas using EUS. The aim of this study is to underline the value of EUS in the staging and follow-up of anal carcinoma. In this retrospective study, 30 consecutive patients with carcinoma of the anal canal (nine men, 21 women) were examined using EUS, and the tumors were classified according to the 1985 TNM classification. EUS was carried out either before the start of treatment (15 patients); after the initial treatment in order to plan further treatment; or during follow-up examinations (15 patients). The treatment given was based on the results of the EUS examination. The following tumor stages were diagnosed: four lesions in stage uT0, seven in stage uT1, seven in stage uT2, nine in stage uT3, and three in stage uT4. In seven patients, suspect lymph nodes were also detected by EUS. In all but three of the patients (lost to follow-up), EUS had a direct impact on the treatment selected. Depending on the tumor stage, patients either underwent surgery (four patients: one uT1, one uT2, two uT3); received radiotherapy alone (five patients: three uT2, two uT3); combined chemoradiotherapy (eight patients: three uT2, three uT3, two uT4); interstitial booster radiotherapy (four patients: three uT1, one uT3); or no therapy at all (six patients: four uT0, one uT3, one uT4), respectively. In two patients, the tumor was understaged at EUS: in one, a uT1 tumor proved to be a pT2 tumor, and in the other, a uT3 tumor proved to be a pT4 tumor. The advantage of EUS in the staging of anal cancer is that it allows precise assessment of the depth of infiltration and tumor spread into adjacent tissue, facilitating the choice of stage-dependent treatment decisions-particularly in determining the extent of interstitial booster radiotherapy needed. It also allows follow-up examinations after the initial treatment, with fine-needle aspiration biopsies of suspicious areas. Wider acceptance of this method might further decrease the performance of extensive surgery, with the impaired quality of life associated with rectal amputation. In addition, it might allow improved quality control of the various treatment modalities."}
{"id": "10433041", "title": "Pretherapeutic laparoscopic staging in advanced gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Pretherapeutic laparoscopic staging in advanced gastric carcinoma. Direct visualization of the abdominal cavity by laparoscopy prior to multimodal treatment may be capable of improving the diagnostic precision of gastric cancer staging. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether diagnostic laparoscopy can influence treatment strategies in gastric cancer staged T3 and T4 by preoperative diagnostic tests. Extended diagnostic laparoscopy (EDL) was carried out in 111 patients with advanced gastric cancer staged T3 or T4 by computed tomography (CT) and endoluminal ultrasound (EUS). On Lauren's classification of gastric cancer, 46% of the lesions were of the intestinal type and 54% of the nonintestinal type. EDL was carried out with the patients under general anesthesia, and included visual inspection of the abdomen, with surgical exploration of initially inaccessible regions, laparoscopic ultrasound examination, peritoneal lavage, and biopsies. The information provided by laparoscopy was classified as 1) no additional information, 2) important additional findings independent of the tumor stage, 3) downgrading of the tumor to a more favorable stage, and 4) upgrading of the tumor to a less favorable stage. The results of EDL were then compared with those obtained by sonography, CT and EUS in combination. EDL was performed successfully in 107 patients. In 56 of the 111 patients (50.5%), no additional findings were obtained. In 5.4% of cases, additional unforeseen information was found, not connected with the tumor but altering the management. EDL altered the preoperative diagnosis in 51 of the 111 patients (46.0%), leading to changes in management in 45 of them (40.5%). EUS provided additional information in eight cases (7.2% of the whole group, or 15.7% of those in whom the diagnosis had to be changed). Four metastases were detected using EDL. It was possible to rule out peritoneal spread in four patients, but it was newly detected in 26. Additional information by EDL about the tumor stage in gastric cancer led to a modification of the therapeutic strategy in 40% of patients, in spite of earlier comprehensive diagnostic work-up using modern imaging procedures. EDL should therefore be mandatory if neoadjuvant treatment is planned, in order to avoid either undertreatment or overtreatment of this type of tumor."}
{"id": "10430268", "title": "Expression of p53 protein and resistance to preoperative chemotherapy in locally advanced gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Expression of p53 protein and resistance to preoperative chemotherapy in locally advanced gastric carcinoma."}
{"id": "10413842", "title": "[Endosonographically controlled fine needle aspiration cytology--indications and results in routine diagnosis].", "content": "[Endosonographically controlled fine needle aspiration cytology--indications and results in routine diagnosis]. The usefulness and clinical utility of routine EUS-guided fine needle aspiration cytology (FNA) in the diagnosis of lesions adjacent to the upper gastrointestinal tract was prospectively studied. EUS/FNA was performed in 122 patients for 125 lesions: Mediastinal lymph nodes (n = 56), pancreatic lesions (n = 45), paragastric masses (n = 12), submucosal tumors (n = 4) and small hepatic lesions (n = 2) were successfully punctured for cytological diagnosis. Adequate material was gained in 119 out of 125 punctures (95%). Overall sensitivity, specifity, positive and negative predictive value were 90%, 98%, 98% and 89%. Results of EUS/FNA in mediastinal lymph nodes were superior (95%, 100%, 100%, 90%) to those in pancreatic lesions (80%, 100%, 100%, 80%). In paragastric masses sensitivity was 100% whereas specifity was only 67%--due to one false-positive result. Out of four submucosal tumors diagnosis was revealed in three. Two liver metastasis were successfully punctured. 35 out of 56 mediastinal nodes showed malignancy. 27 metastases of lung-, three of gastric-, two of renal cancer and three Non-Hodgkins's lymphoma were diagnosed. The cytological results of 45 pancreatic lesions showed cancer in 19 and chronic inflammation in 21, two abscesses and three benign cysts. There were no complications. 37 patients were treated on outpatient's basis. EUS-guided FNA is an accurate and safe technique to sample cytology from lesions adjacent to the wall of the upper gastrointestinal tract. New indications may be established for the diagnosis of lung cancer or metastases of other spreading out into the mediastinum or the celiac axis."}
{"id": "10408157", "title": "The utility and limitations of an ultrasonic miniprobe in the staging of gastric cancer.", "content": "The utility and limitations of an ultrasonic miniprobe in the staging of gastric cancer. To determine the utility and limitations of an ultrasonic miniprobe (UMP) in the staging of gastric cancer, we evaluated 46 patients who underwent endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) using an UMP and who were histologically determined to have gastric cancers. In every case, UMP findings were compared with histopathological findings after treatment. The total accuracy of UMP relative to the depth of tumor invasion was 71.7% (33/46 cases). Accuracy with respect to T1-m tumor diagnosis was 75.7% (22/29 cases), and for T1-sm, 76.9% (10/13 cases), but accuracy for T2 tumor diagnosis was low, due to ultrasound attenuation. When the analysis was carried out based on the size of tumor, the accuracy for UMP was 50.0% (9/18 cases) for all tumors over 20 mm and 85.7% (24/28 cases) for all tumors smaller than 20 mm. We conclude that UMP is suitable for investigation of tumor extension when the lesion is superficial and/or small gastric cancers which do not cause ultrasonic attenuation, but not when the tumor is large or located in certain sites, although conventional EUS is useful in some of these cases."}
{"id": "10376454", "title": "Preoperative staging of esophageal carcinoma: miniprobe sonography versus conventional endoscopic ultrasound in a prospective histopathologically verified study.", "content": "Preoperative staging of esophageal carcinoma: miniprobe sonography versus conventional endoscopic ultrasound in a prospective histopathologically verified study. Endosonographic staging of esophageal carcinoma may be limited by non-traversable tumor stenoses. Dilation of malignant esophageal strictures carries a significant risk of esophageal perforation. We therefore evaluated the use of ultrasonic miniprobes in the staging of stenotic esophageal carcinoma compared with conventional endoscopic ultrasound. In a blinded, prospective study, which included histopathological evaluation, 53 consecutive patients (43 male, 10 female, mean age 61 years) with stenosing esophageal carcinomas were examined preoperatively. Endosonography was done using the optical GF-UM3 echo endoscope. If tumor strictures were not traversable with this instrument, a blind esophagoprobe, the MH-908 was used for endosonography. Miniprobe sonography (MPS) was done during esophagoscopy in all patients. The various imaging modalities were assessed in terms of complete tumor traversability and correct tumor staging. Every patient underwent surgical tumor resection. MPS of the esophagus and proximal parts of the stomach was possible in all 53 patients without prior dilation of tumor stenoses. Endosonography with the GF-UM3 instrument was precluded in 23 patients (43.4%) while in 20 of the latter patients the MH 908 esophagoprobe could be passed through tumor stenoses. The overall accuracy rates for depth of tumor infiltration (T) staging were: 62% (31/50) for endosonography (GF-UM3 plus esophagoprobe) and 86.8% (46/53) for MPS. The accuracy rates for T staging in tumors traversable both with the GF-UM3 echo endoscope and with miniprobes were 56.7% (17/30) for GF-UM3 and 80% (24/30) for MPS. The accuracy rates for T staging in tumors traversable only with the MH-908 esophagoprobe and with miniprobes were 70% (14/20) for the MH-908 and 95% (19/20) for MPS. With regard to the presence or absence of peri-esophageal metastatic lymph nodes (N staging), the accuracy rates were 83% (25/30) for MPS and 70% (21/30) for the GF-UM3, and 80% (16/20) for MPS and 70% (14/20) for the MH-908. Compared with conventional endosonography using 7.5-MHz large diameter instruments, MPS enables: a) safe passage through high-grade malignant esophageal strictures, achieving b) higher accuracy rates for T staging, and c) similar rates for N staging. The use of MPS can also represent an improvement in the comfort and safety of patients. Moreover, miniprobe sonography is highly cost-effective compared with conventional endosonography. Thus, MPS appears to be a valuable addition to the armamentarium for staging esophageal carcinoma."}
{"id": "10370633", "title": "Pre-operative staging of recto-sigmoid colon carcinoma by upper gastrointestinal endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Pre-operative staging of recto-sigmoid colon carcinoma by upper gastrointestinal endoscopic ultrasonography. To assess the accuracy of a new generation endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS)(GF-M200) in pre-operative staging of recto-sigmoid colon carcinoma invasion and lymph node metastasis. Seventy-three patients with biopsy proven colon cancer were included in this study. These comprised 60 patients with rectal carcinoma and 13 patients with sigmoid carcinoma. All patients were pre-operatively examined by EUS. Pathological findings of the depth of tumor invasion and presence of lymph node metastasis were correlated with EUS. EUS has an overall accuracy rate of 89% in staging of recto-sigmoid cancer. The diagnostic accuracy rate was 83% for T1, 83% for T2, 93% for T3, and 71% for T4. Understaging and overstaging occurred in 6% and 6%, respectively. In determining lymph node metastasis, the overall accuracy rate was 77%, with a sensitivity and specificity rate of 77% and 76%, respectively. EUS is a valuable staging modality in the staging of the depth of tumor invasion, not only for rectal carcinoma but also for tumors located at the sigmoid colon."}
{"id": "10363201", "title": "What is the current role of endoscopic ultrasonography in oesophageal cancer?", "content": "What is the current role of endoscopic ultrasonography in oesophageal cancer? Endoscopic ultrasonography is, probably, the most significant progress in gastrointestinal endoscopy of the last few years, and it is on the way to becoming the gold standard for pre-treatment staging of oesophageal carcinoma. Once computed tomography scan has ruled out distant metastases or evident local invasion, endoscopic ultrasonography plays a key role in an adjunctive evaluation and planning of treatment. The diagnostic accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography in oesophageal cancer is excellent. Its main limitations are: poor differentiation between early mucosal and submucosal cancer, insufficient accuracy in detecting early lymph node invasion, and lack of complete tumour evaluation in cases of high-grade strictures. The role of endoscopic ultrasonography in post-treatment assessment is still limited by some artifacts. However, all these limitations will soon be overcome by some technical improvements."}
{"id": "10231312", "title": "[Echo-endoscopy: the clinical implications after a period of more than 16 years of its existence].", "content": "[Echo-endoscopy: the clinical implications after a period of more than 16 years of its existence]. Endosonography is an imaging diagnostic technique recently introduced in our country. It allows us to perform an ultrasound from within the digestive tube. Because of the transducer proximity to the gut wall and the high frequency of emission we are able to visualize with great resolution small lesions as well as differentiate the five layers of the gastric wall and examine structures close to the digestive lumen with a 7 to 8 cm penetration. This is a brief introduction to the basic pillars of endosonography and its main indications, well defined after sixteen years of clinical practice."}
{"id": "10206216", "title": "Role of endosonography in the evaluation of gastric malignancies.", "content": "Role of endosonography in the evaluation of gastric malignancies. The aims of this study were to stage gastric malignancies and differentiate between carcinomas and lymphomas. Twenty-two patients were evaluated with endosonography. Tumoral infiltration depth (T stage) and presence of metastatic lymph nodes (N stage) were investigated. Five percent of the cases were staged as T2, 36% as T3, and 59% as T4. According to the endosonographic examination, 14% were NO, 68% were N1, and 18% were N2 malignancies. When compared with results of surgery and histopathologic examination, the accuracy was 82% for both T and N stages. It can be concluded that endosonography is a valuable imaging modality for the local staging of gastric malignancies. Early stage lymphomas can be differentiated from carcinomas, but in advanced stages both have similar appearance."}
{"id": "10197647", "title": "Esophageal cancer staging: improved accuracy by endoscopic ultrasound of celiac lymph nodes.", "content": "Esophageal cancer staging: improved accuracy by endoscopic ultrasound of celiac lymph nodes. Clinical staging of esophageal cancer is required for optimal therapy but remains imprecise. Pathologic verification of involved lymph nodes could potentially direct treatment allocation. With the rising incidence of distal and gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinomas, assessment of the celiac axis lymph nodes (CLNs) becomes important because it is a common nodal drainage basin. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) permits evaluation of CLNs and biopsy by fine-needle aspiration. This study examined the usefulness of this staging tool. A consecutive series of 62 patients with esophageal cancer considered resectable by computed tomographic scan underwent EUS for T and N staging and were retrospectively studied. A CLN visualized by EUS as greater than 5 mm was considered positive. Fine-needle aspiration of the CLN was performed routinely. Endoscopic ultrasound and computed tomographic staging were compared on the basis of pathologic verification of CLNs. It was possible to evaluate CLNs by EUS in 59 (95%) of 62 patients: positive in 19, negative in 40. In EUS-positive patients, fine-needle aspiration was positive in 15, falsely negative in 2, and not done in 2. By computed tomographic scan, CLNs were negative in 57 patients and positive in 2. The CLNs were positive in 23 of 54 patients eligible for CLN pathologic verification. All positive CLNs not identified by EUS (7 false-negative EUS) were microscopic foci in one or two nodes and were associated with T3 tumors. Sensitivity and specificity of EUS were 72% and 97%, respectively, compared with 8% and 100% for computed tomographic scan. When EUS identified CLNs, fine-needle aspiration confirmed positivity in 88% of cases. Endoscopic ultrasound with fine-needle aspiration is useful in the detection and confirmation of CLN metastasis. In T3 tumors of the distal esophagus, a negative EUS result does not substantiate absence of CLN disease. Endoscopic ultrasound with fine-needle aspiration may be important in guiding treatment for patients with distal adenocarcinoma and documenting disease before neoadjuvant therapy."}
{"id": "10193939", "title": "An early gastric carcinoma treatment strategy based on analysis of lymph node metastasis.", "content": "An early gastric carcinoma treatment strategy based on analysis of lymph node metastasis. Newly developed therapies for early gastric carcinoma attempt to consider patients' quality of life, but the applicability and effectiveness of these treatments remain undetermined. Clinicopathologic data of 612 consecutive patients with early gastric carcinoma, all of whom were treated by D1 and D2 gastrectomy, were analyzed. Patients with and without lymph node metastases were compared in relation to age and gender distributions, surgical procedures, histopathology of the tumors, 5-year prognosis, and in reference to the preoperative and intraoperative assessments. The overall incidence of lymph node metastases was 5.7%. Tumor depth and size were related to lymph node metastases judged by univariate and multivariate analyses. Patients with mucosal tumors showed no relation between metastatic rate and tumor size, whereas those with submucosal tumors showed an increasing metastatic rate with tumor size. In all cases but one, lymph node metastases were confined to lymph node stations defined as Group 1 locations. Preoperative endoscopic ultrasonography showed a 55% diagnostic accuracy in determining tumor depth and a 15% sensitivity in diagnosing lymph node metastases. Patients with early gastric carcinoma may be candidates for endoscopic mucosal resection if their tumor is confined to the mucosa and measures < 1 cm in greatest dimension. Other limited resections including D1 gastrectomy or standard D2 gastrectomy based on tumor depth and size are appropriate. Based on the current study findings, the authors propose a useful algorithm for managing such patients."}
{"id": "10026321", "title": "A blind comparison of the effectiveness of endoscopic ultrasonography and endoscopy in staging early gastric cancer.", "content": "A blind comparison of the effectiveness of endoscopic ultrasonography and endoscopy in staging early gastric cancer. Endoscopic ultrasonography is expected to be useful for invasion depth staging of early gastric cancer. A prospective blind study of the staging characteristics of endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography for early gastric cancer was performed. Findings of endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography using a 20 MHz thin ultrasound probe were independently reviewed and the results of 52 early gastric cancer lesions analysed. The overall accuracy rates in invasion depth staging of early gastric cancer were 63% for endoscopy and 71% for endoscopic ultrasonography. No statistically significant differences were observed in overall accuracy. Endoscopic ultrasonography tended to overstage, and lesions that were classified as mucosal cancer by endoscopic ultrasonography were very likely (95%) to be limited to the mucosa on histological examination. All 16 lesions staged as mucosal cancer independently but coincidentally by both methods were histologically limited to the mucosa. Endoscopic ultrasonography is expected to compensate for the understaging of lesions with submucosal invasion that are endoscopically staged as mucosal cancer."}
{"id": "10326672", "title": "New trends in gastrointestinal surgical oncology.", "content": "New trends in gastrointestinal surgical oncology."}
{"id": "10096035", "title": "Systematic review of endoscopic ultrasound in gastro-oesophageal cancer.", "content": "Systematic review of endoscopic ultrasound in gastro-oesophageal cancer."}
{"id": "10077759", "title": "Helicobacter pylori and lymphoproliferative disorders.", "content": "Helicobacter pylori and lymphoproliferative disorders. Primary gastric lymphoma of mucosa associated lymphoid tissue represent a distinct entity which is documented by their own histological classification. Our knowledge about all aspects of these lymphoma has substantially increased during the last few years. Epidemiological, histomorphological, molecular-biological and experimental data clearly underline that Helicobacter pylori infection of the gastric mucosa without doubt plays an important role both in the development and progression of MALT lymphoma. Considering histological malignancy (low grade and high grade lymphoma) and dissemination of the disease (stage) as decisive prognostic factors and therapeutical determinants, endoscopic bioptic diagnosis as well as endoscopic ultrasound are of major importance in establishing diagnosis and clinical stage. In the case of localized low grade lymphoma, eradication of Helicobacter pylori offers a promising therapeutic option. Surgical resection and radiochemotherapy have proven to be effective treatment modalities. There is a need for randomised trials to establish whether operative or conservative therapeutic strategies have to be favoured in the future."}
{"id": "10068723", "title": "[Endoscopic resection of the digestive tract mucosa].", "content": "[Endoscopic resection of the digestive tract mucosa]. The endoscopic resection of the mucosa of the digestive tract (ERM) is a set of techniques that have as their end the remotion of the mucosa for the diagnosis and treatment of localized diseases. The technique consists of the elevation of the mucosa with a submucosa injection of liquid or with suction in the interior of a transparent overtube. The procedure is indicated in the treatment of incipient malignant tumors of the esophagus, stomach, and colon, with a success rate that vacillates between 60 and 95%. An indispensable condition is the precise selection of patients through endoscopy and high-frequency endoscopic ultrasound. Other indications are the resection of flat and sessile polyps, the biopsies of submucosa tumors, and the taking of biopsies of great volume for the study of infiltrating and inflammatory neoplastic diseases. Based on the literature, principally descriptive and not comparative, the treatment of incipient digestive tract carcinomas with ERM has encountered serious difficulties in the Western world because of the rarity of the diagnosis, the scarce availability of endoscopic ultrasound, and lack of information of long-term results. On the other hand, in the diagnostic field of mucosa diseases, and in the treatment of polyps, its utility is evident. In conclusion, ERM is added to the new endoscopic techniques for the obtaining of specimens of great volume and for the resection of sessile polyps. In the treatment of malignant tumors, ERM should be used with caution."}
{"id": "9932768", "title": "Cytomegalovirus gastritis simulating cancer of the linitis plastica type on endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Cytomegalovirus gastritis simulating cancer of the linitis plastica type on endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "9932752", "title": "Local staging of esophageal cancer using endoscopic magnetic resonance imaging: prospective comparison with endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Local staging of esophageal cancer using endoscopic magnetic resonance imaging: prospective comparison with endoscopic ultrasound. The magnetic resonance endoscope consists of a non-ferrous endoscope with a radiofrequency receiver coil incorporated into its tip. The aim of this study was to assess the accuracy of endoscopic magnetic resonance imaging for the local staging of esophageal cancer. Prospectively, 15 patients with biopsy-proven cancer of the esophagus (n = 9) or gastroesophageal junction (n = 6) underwent endosonography followed by imaging by the magnetic resonance endoscope. The results of endoscopic magnetic resonance imaging were assessed blindly, then compared with those of endosonography, which served as the gold standard. Endoscopic magnetic resonance imaging of transmural tumor invasion agreed with ultrasonography in 11/15 cases and of nodal state in 12/15 cases. Endoscopic magnetic resonance images were inadequate in four cases as a result of motion artifacts. Endoscopic magnetic resonance imaging of esophageal cancer diagnoses local staging that is comparable to endosonography. In future, the combination of endoscopic and conventional magnetic resonance scanning may provide comprehensive staging of esophageal cancer."}
{"id": "9931884", "title": "[Value of magnetic resonance tomography in preoperative staging of stomach carcinoma].", "content": "[Value of magnetic resonance tomography in preoperative staging of stomach carcinoma]. The value of MRI as a preoperative staging procedure in stomach carcinomas compared to CT and endosonography was examined in a prospective study and correlated with the pathohistological results. MRI showed better correlation with the pathohistological evaluation at the T3, T4, N and M stage than the other two test procedures. MRI is thus a suitable staging procedure for stomach carcinomas."}
{"id": "9931709", "title": "[The German EORTC Study of neoadjuvant therapy of stomach carcinoma].", "content": "[The German EORTC Study of neoadjuvant therapy of stomach carcinoma]. The improvement of the prognosis of gastric cancer after neoadjuvant therapy was shown in a phase II study with etoposide, adriamycin and cisplatinum (EAP). Due to high-grade toxicity with EAP, the verification of this therapeutic concept in a randomized phase III study with a less toxic regimen had to be demonstrated in a second phase II study. A combination with cisplatinum, leucovorin and 5-FU in comparison to EAP was less toxic, but clinical response after chemotherapy was shown to be identical. Of 41 patients, 36 patients underwent surgery with a R0-resection rate of 73.2% (n = 26). After a median follow-up of 18.3 months, 23 patients with R0 resection were alive, 19 patients (73%) showed no evidence of recurrent disease. There was no major morbidity and no postoperative mortality observed. Thus, chemotherapy with cisplatinum, 5-FU and leucovorin seems to be suitable for a randomized multicenter trial sponsored by the EORTC. For entrance into the study the following requirements should be met: prospective diagnostic procedures including endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and surgical laparoscopy; standardised surgery (gastrectomy with D2-lymphadenectomy): prospective histopathological work up of the resected specimen including ypTNM category, ypUICC stages and R classification; prospectively scheduled follow-up intervals. Aim of the study, including 198 patients per treatment arm with a recruitment of 3 years and a minimum follow-up of 2 years, is the verification of the positive prognostic impact of neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by surgery compared with surgery alone in locally advanced gastric cancer (cuT 3cN1-3cM0)."}
{"id": "9931629", "title": "[Obligatory and facultative measures in diagnosis and staging of stomach carcinoma].", "content": "[Obligatory and facultative measures in diagnosis and staging of stomach carcinoma]. A differential therapeutic regimen in gastric cancer requires exact staging. Criteria for accurate staging include exact localization of the tumor, the tumor depth, as well as the definition of local spread (lymph node metastases) and distant metastases (liver metastases, peritoneal carcinosis). Endoscopy, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), laparoscopy and laparoscopic ultrasound provide the most precise information concerning T-, N- and M-categories in preoperative staging."}
{"id": "9891769", "title": "Surgical treatment for gastric leiomyosarcoma.", "content": "Surgical treatment for gastric leiomyosarcoma. Gastric leiomyosarcoma is an uncommon disease, and the optimal treatment has not been established. In order to better define the optimal surgical treatment, we retrospectively analyzed our experience with these tumors. Records of 103 patients, who underwent surgery between 1972 and 1997 were reviewed. The upper third of stomach was the most frequent site of disease (66 cases). Seventy one tumors were smaller than 50 mm. Forty patients had ulcerated tumors. Twenty nine of 33 tumors had an inhomogeneous pattern on endoscopic ultrasonography. Nodal involvement was not observed in our series. The most common surgery was wedge resection, performed in 68 patients. The 5-year disease-specific survival rate after curative resection was 93.0% overall, 87.5% after gastrectomy, and 95.0% after wedge resection. 5 year survival rate was worse in patients with ulcer than those without ulcer (87.1% vs. 96.3%, p < 0.01). No patient with a tumor smaller than 3 cm died from the disease. The dominant mode of recurrence was liver and peritoneal metastasis. No lymph node recurrence was observed. Surgery is indicated for tumors larger than 3 cm, with rapid growth, with inhomogeneous US pattern, or with ulceration. Wedge resection is the preferred treatment."}
{"id": "9856667", "title": "Low sensitivity of computed tomography in the staging of gastric lymphomas of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue: impact on prospective trials and ordinary clinical practice.", "content": "Low sensitivity of computed tomography in the staging of gastric lymphomas of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue: impact on prospective trials and ordinary clinical practice. The natural history and management of gastric lymphomas of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALTomas) are not completely understood. Most stage I cases are now entered into prospective trials to confirm the excellent results obtained with conservative treatment, whereas current therapeutic policies are based on accumulated experience. The limits of staging work-ups may have a significant impact on prospective trials and ordinary clinical practice. The authors explore the sensitivity of computed tomography scanning in detecting perigastric adenopathy in 20 patients with gastric MALToma treated by gastrectomy. Clinical staging identified 17 patients as having stage I MALTomas and three patients as having stage II1 MALTomas. Histopathologic staging showed that 8 of 17 patients formerly diagnosed with stage I MALToma had perigastric nodal involvement, whereas the three patients with clinical stage II1 were confirmed as such. Computed tomography scanning has low sensitivity in detecting perigastric lymphadenopathy in gastric MALTomas. This leads to understaging, with a significant impact on therapeutic decision, and distorts newly acquired knowledge about the disease's natural history and management, introducing a bias in prospective clinical trials. Endoscopic ultrasonography should be tested as a staging procedure both in prospective trials and in ordinary clinical practice."}
{"id": "9853223", "title": "Laparoscopic ultrasonography for abdominal tumor staging.", "content": "Laparoscopic ultrasonography for abdominal tumor staging. In recent years, laparoscopic ultrasonography has been introduced as an adjunct to diagnostic laparoscopy for staging of tumors of the upper gastrointestinal tract, liver, biliary tree, and pancreas. It has proved feasible to visualize most anatomic structures in the upper abdomen consistently and in detail with laparoscopic ultrasonography. Recent publications indicate that laparoscopic ultrasonography may be useful for detecting small liver metastases, lymph node metastases, small primary tumors of the pancreas and bile ducts, and for the assessment of the local extension of tumors of the pancreas and stomach. The ongoing improvements in US technology and the results of larger studies will in the near future determine the precise place of this new imaging modality for staging of abdominal tumors."}
{"id": "9842543", "title": "[Surgical treatment of carcinoma of the cardia with special references to mediastinal extension and lymph node metastasis].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of carcinoma of the cardia with special references to mediastinal extension and lymph node metastasis]. We retrospectively analyzed the clinicopathological findings in 141 patients with advanced cardiac cancer. According to histological type, 117 patients had an adenocarcinoma and 24 patients a squamous cell carcinoma. Curative resection was performed in 114 patients, whereas the remaining 27 patients underwent palliative resection. Preoperative endoscopic ultrasonography and abdominal ultrasound were useful for the diagnosis of esophageal invasion and lymph node metastases. Particularly, the classification of paraaortic lymph node metastasis by ultrasound was important in deciding on the surgical method. Mediastinal lymph node metastases were found histologically in 19 of 68 patients. The survival of patients with mediastinal lymph node metastasis was poor. However, among them, a favorable outcome was expected for patients with few involved nodes and if only perigastric node involvement in abdominal nodes was found. Paraaortic lymph node metastasis was found histologically in 15 of 48 patients (27.9%). Two of 35-year survivors had 5 or fewer lymph node metastases, and showed only perigastric and paraaortic node involvement. It is equally important that tumor extension and lymph node metastases in the mediastinum and abdomen should be determined in the surgical treatment of advanced carcinoma of the cardia."}
{"id": "9842541", "title": "[The role of endoscopic ultrasonography for gastric cancer in the cardiac area].", "content": "[The role of endoscopic ultrasonography for gastric cancer in the cardiac area]. In order to select the most appropriate treatment for gastric cancer in the cardiac area, precise staging by determining the depth of cancer invasion, and esophageal invasion, and lymph node metastases is important. In this paper, diagnosis of these factors using endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and its accuracy are discussed. In 121 cases of gastric cancer in the cardiac area, EUS was performed and the findings compared with the pathological diagnosis. The depth of cancer invasion was accurately determined in 60% of mucosal cancer cases, 83% of cancer invading the submucosa, 50% of cancer invading the muscularis propria or the subserosa, 86% of cancer invading the serosa, 45% of cancer invading other organs, and overall accuracy was 77%. In cases of esophageal invasion sensitivity was 98%, specificity 93%, and overall accuracy 94%. In cases of lymph node metastasis specificity was 78%: 86% for N1 and 72% for N2. EUS therefore has an important role in diagnosis and selection of treatment."}
{"id": "9841073", "title": "Gastrointestinal cancer staging by endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Gastrointestinal cancer staging by endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "9840517", "title": "Staging of oesophageal carcinoma with high resolution endoluminal ultrasonography.", "content": "Staging of oesophageal carcinoma with high resolution endoluminal ultrasonography. Oesophageal carcinoma is a disease with poor prognosis despite improved treatment and diagnostic methods. The most important prognostic features are the degree of wall invasion and the presence of lymph node metastasis. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in the region of 7.5-12 MHz has improved the accuracy of tumour staging. In the course of 1 year, 21 patients with oesophageal carcinoma were examined with 20 MHz high-resolution intraluminal ultrasonography (HRES). In 11 (52%) patients, both ultrasound catheter and fiber gastroscope could pass the tumour, in 5 (23%) only the ultrasound catheter could pass. In the remaining patients the ultrasound catheter could only partially pass without prior dilatation. One patient was classified as having a stage T2 tumour, 14 (67%) had T3 and 4 (19%) had T4. In 2 patients the tumour could not be fully classified but was at least T3 When comparing our results with findings at computed tomography (CT), the T stage coincided in 9 patients (42%), in 9 patients (42%) CT could not differentiate between T2 and T3 and in 3 investigations HRES showed a higher T stage than CT. In 3 patients (14%) ultrasonography found N1 stage where CT staged N0. In one patient, CT found lymph nodes not seen with HRES. Further studies comparing EUS, HRES and surgical findings are planned to assess our view that HRES is a useful method in preoperative staging of oesophageal carcinoma."}
{"id": "9840099", "title": "Early gastric cancer with psammomatous calcification.", "content": "Early gastric cancer with psammomatous calcification. We describe a 51 year-old man with calcified early gastric cancer. The calcification was not displayed by abdominal X-ray, CT, or conventional ultrasound. Only endoscopic ultrasonography displayed the distribution of calcification in vivo. Endoscopic ultrasonography revealed a slightly hypoechoic lesion with a high echoic line, without involvement of the fourth layer. Histopathologically, it was a IIc type early gastric cancer. The depth of cancer invasion was limited to the mucosa and a mucin pool was not observed. Psammomatous calcification was observed in the lumen of the carcinomatous glands. This seems to be the first case reported in which psammoma bodies were observed in early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "9779628", "title": "Role of laparoscopic ultrasound in cancer management.", "content": "Role of laparoscopic ultrasound in cancer management. Laparoscopic ultrasound (LUS) has become an important tool in the staging of hepatic, pancreatic, and gastrointestinal malignancies. It also plays an important role in the palliation and treatment of these malignancies. The use of laparoscopy and LUS in diagnosis, staging, palliation, and treatment of intra-abdominal malignancies is discussed, with a focus on the literature and our own experience."}
{"id": "9779627", "title": "Laparoscopic evaluation in pancreatic cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic evaluation in pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic cancer continues to carry a poor overall prognosis. The majority of patients have advanced disease at the time of presentation. Dynamic, contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) has become the radiographic study of choice in the pre-operative staging of patients with pancreatic cancer. While it has been shown to be highly sensitive in determining unresectability of peri-ampullary tumors, the ability of CT to predict accurately which tumors can be safely resected is still limited. Laparoscopic staging of peri-ampullary tumors is superior to dynamic CT in visualizing small liver and peritoneal metastases. The addition of laparoscopic ultrasound during laparoscopic staging enhances the ability of laparoscopy to determine resectability of these tumors and approaches the accuracy of open exploration without increasing significant morbidity or mortality. Patients who are deemed unresectable at the time of laparoscopy can undergo palliative biliary and/or gastric bypass procedures laparoscopically and further minimize the morbidity of laparotomy."}
{"id": "9772061", "title": "Multimodality treatment for gastric carcinoid tumor with liver metastases.", "content": "Multimodality treatment for gastric carcinoid tumor with liver metastases. Carcinoid tumors are the most common neuroendocrine tumors in the gastrointestinal tract, and between 10% and 30% of these tumors are gastric in origin. Three types of gastric carcinoid tumors are recognized: type I, associated with chronic atrophic gastritis type A; type II, associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia; and type III, sporadic and the most malignant. We present a patient with an aggressive, sporadic-type gastric carcinoid that metastasized to the liver. Her symptomatic treatment included the somatostatin analog octreotide. Octreotide scintigraphy demonstrated that this tumor avidly bound the peptide. The patient's gastric carcinoid (assessed by endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasound) regressed and she underwent hepatic artery embolization for her liver metastases. After initial partial CT resolution the tumor grew, compressing the inferior vena cava. The patient underwent orthotopic liver transplant with excellent recovery, although she was subsequently found to have two small lung metastases. She has responded well to adjuvant Indium-111 octreotide receptor targeted therapy. This case highlights the therapeutic options for metastatic neuroendocrine tumors, including liver transplantation and adjuvant receptor targeted therapy."}
{"id": "9765090", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in large gastric folds.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in large gastric folds. Large gastric folds are seen in a great number of benign and malignant conditions. Diagnosis is a clinical challenge because the etiology may be extremely varied and standard biopsies are often inconclusive. The gastric wall is considered thickened at endosonography when it is more than 3.6 mm in width. Different diseases show different levels of infiltration of the gastric wall. When abnormalities involve the second layer only, benign conditions can be considered and standard endoscopic biopsies are often diagnostic. When abnormalities involve layers two and three, different diseases can be suspected, including Helicobacter pylori infection and lymphoma; in this case large-particle biopsy should be considered. When abnormalities involve layer four, malignancy should be strongly suspected even if standard or large-particle biopsies are negative. Endosonography, always in combination with fine-needle or guillotine-needle biopsy, should be able to rule out malignancies and to select the most appropriate treatment for each patient."}
{"id": "9765089", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography diagnosis in submucosal tumor of stomach.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography diagnosis in submucosal tumor of stomach."}
{"id": "9765088", "title": "Staging of gastric cancer with endoscopic ultrasonography and endoscopic mucosal resection.", "content": "Staging of gastric cancer with endoscopic ultrasonography and endoscopic mucosal resection. Since it was found that the gastrointestinal wall is visualized as a five-layered structure corresponding to the histological layers of the wall, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has become recognized clinically as the most accurate method for diagnosing and assessing the local staging of gastric cancer. However, some problems have remained, including how to differentiate between cancer invasion and ulcer fibrosis, how to detect microinvasion, and how to recognize malignant lymph nodes. Using the pattern analysis for depressed-type gastric cancer, it is usually possible to distinguish between cancer invasion and ulcer fibrosis, except in cases of microinvasion into ulcer fibrosis or inadequate scanning. However, the sensitivity of EUS for evaluating metastatic lymph nodes is still problematic. Endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) for early gastric cancer has been widely accepted as a standard treatment in Japan due to its minimal invasiveness. According to our data, the overall rate of radical resection was 68.3% (168 of 246), and 31.7% of the remaining patients additionally received laser treatment, surgery, or heater-probe treatment. There were no deaths owing to gastric cancer. Some lesions in which there was microinvasion of the submucosa were incorrectly diagnosed by EUS. It may be possible to solve this problem using three-dimensional EUS (3D-EUS) in the near future."}
{"id": "9765086", "title": "Role of endoscopic ultrasonography for gastric lesions.", "content": "Role of endoscopic ultrasonography for gastric lesions."}
{"id": "9755399", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for preoperative locoregional staging and assessment of resectability in gastric cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for preoperative locoregional staging and assessment of resectability in gastric cancer. We performed a prospective study from November 1989 to December 1996 to assess the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in the locoregional staging and resectability of patients with gastric carcinoma. One hundred and nineteen patients with gastric cancer who received preoperative assessment by EUS underwent subsequent surgery. The endosonographic tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) classification was used for comparison with the histopathologic findings of the resected specimens. The ability of EUS to accurately predict the T stage (depth of tumor invasion) and N stage (involvement of lymph node) was 70% and 65%, respectively. EUS displayed a tendency to overestimate T stage and underestimate N state. The differentiation of early gastric cancer from advanced gastric cancer showed a concordance rate of 89% and underestimation rate of 8% and underestimation rate of 3%. The accuracy of EUS in predicting the stage T1 to T3, which correspond to D0 resectability (no macroscopic or microscopic tumor remains), was 91%. In conclusion, these results revealed EUS as a valuable tool for evaluating the local staging and resectability of gastric cancer. We suggest that EUS should be introduced in the preoperative assessment of patients with gastric cancer."}
{"id": "9716038", "title": "Positron emission tomography for staging of oesophageal and gastroesophageal malignancy.", "content": "Positron emission tomography for staging of oesophageal and gastroesophageal malignancy. Positron emission tomography (PET) with [18F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) was prospectively investigated as a means of detecting metastatic disease in patients with oesophageal tumours and compared with computerized tomography (CT), with the surgical findings as a gold standard. Twenty-six patients with a malignant tumour of the oesophagus or gastroesophageal junction underwent CT and PET of the chest and the abdomen. Seven patients underwent laparoscopy to establish resectability. Fifteen patients underwent laparotomy without prior laparoscopy. Four patients did not undergo surgery. The primary tumour was visualized in 81% of patients with CT and in 96% with PET. Neither CT nor PET were suited to assess the extent of wall invasion. Surgically assessed nodal status corresponded in 62% with CT and in 90% with PET. Distant metastases were found in five patients with CT and in eight with PET. The diagnostic accuracy of CT in determining resectability was 65% and for PET 88%. For CT and PET together this was 92%. The present study indicates that FDG-PET can be of importance for staging patients with oesophageal tumours. PET has a higher sensitivity for nodal and distant metastases and a higher accuracy for determining respectability than CT. PET and CT together would have decreased ill-advised surgery by 90%."}
{"id": "9715400", "title": "Case report: hypoechoic submucosal nodules: a sign of Epstein-Barr virus-associated early gastric cancer.", "content": "Case report: hypoechoic submucosal nodules: a sign of Epstein-Barr virus-associated early gastric cancer. The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) has been reported to be detectable in about 10% of gastric carcinomas. We performed a comparative study of endosonographic findings of EBV-positive and -negative early gastric carcinomas. Epstein-Barr virus was detected in 11.8% (four of 34) of endosonographically observed early gastric carcinoma lesions. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) revealed a hypoechoic mass in the third layer, which reflected submucosal nodules, in 75% (three of four) of EBV-associated lesions. Endoscopically, in 66.7% (two of three) of EBV-associated carcinomas, the depressed lesion was surrounded by a raised margin covered with normal mucosa and was similar to a submucosal tumour (P < 0.05). Histologically, all three cases of EBV-associated lesions with submucosal tumour invasion had submucosal nodules of carcinoma with lymphoid stroma and 75% (three of four) were located in the gastric body. The ratio of maximal thickness to width of EBV-associated lesions was significantly larger than that of EBV-negative lesions, and this tendency was marked in lesions with submucosal tumour invasion (P < 0.05). This study indicated that EUS and endoscopy are of great use for the determination of EBV association with early gastric carcinoma."}
{"id": "9692582", "title": "Oesophageal cancer staging using endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Oesophageal cancer staging using endoscopic ultrasonography. Despite encouraging results from Europe and the USA, endoscopic ultrasonography has yet to become established in the UK for imaging gastrointestinal lesions. The aim of this prospective study was to investigate the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography for local tumour (T) and lymph node (N) staging of oesophageal cancer. Endoscopic ultrasonography was performed in 50 consecutive patients with operable oesophageal cancer. Its accuracy for locoregional tumour staging was assessed and a detailed analysis of the distribution of ultrasonographically detected lymph nodes performed. Endoscopic ultrasonography was highly accurate for both local tumour (92 per cent correct T stage prediction) and lymph node (86 per cent correct N stage prediction) staging compared with final histology. The procedure was also superior to open surgical staging performed by the surgeon; it had a tendency to overestimate malignant involvement of individual lymph nodes and had only limited ability to identify small benign lymph nodes, particularly in the abdomen. Endoscopic ultrasonography was reliable for both local tumour and lymph node staging of oesophageal cancer."}
{"id": "9681605", "title": "Rational lymphadenectomy for early gastric cancer with submucosal invasion: a clinicopathological study.", "content": "Rational lymphadenectomy for early gastric cancer with submucosal invasion: a clinicopathological study. Among all the patients who underwent gastrectomy for primary solitary gastric cancer at our department from 1979 to 1994, 228 patients had gastric cancer that invaded the submucosal layer. These cases were thus examined clinicopathologically, including the extent of submucosal invasion. No lymph node metastasis was found in any of the cancers measuring less than 2 cm in diameter. Macroscopic type I lesions or various combined types (IIa + IIc, IIc + IIa, IIc + III) were more likely to infiltrate deeply and were also associated with a high incidence (18%-25%) of lymph node metastasis. No lymph node metastasis or vascular invasion was found in any simple type IIa lesions. The incidence of lymph node metastasis was 3% in simple type IIc cancers measuring 3 cm or less. In addition, submucosal microinvasion (sm1) simple type IIc cancers showed no accompanying lymph node metastasis or vascular invasion. We thus conclude that a full-thickness partial resection of the stomach, such as a laparoscopic local resection, is applicable to cancers measuring 3 cm or less provided that they are either simple macroscopic type IIa or simple type IIc sm1 cancers."}
{"id": "9652524", "title": "Laparoscopic and intraoperative ultrasound.", "content": "Laparoscopic and intraoperative ultrasound. Intraoperative ultrasound has gradually expanded in the last two decades to a variety of surgical specialties and has gained an established role in many surgical procedures. Laparoscopic and thoracoscopic ultrasound are the latest modes of intraoperative sonography. They have been introduced mainly to overcome the two major drawbacks of laparoscopy, i.e. the capability of showing only the surface of the organs and the lack of manual palpation of the anatomical structures. We review and discuss the established and the most recent applications of intraoperative and laparoscopic ultrasound. The technology, new indications and results of intraoperative and laparoscopic ultrasound are reviewed. This review is based on the experience gained in our Institution during more than 500 surgical procedures and the analysis of the literature on the subject. The yield of intraoperative and laparoscopic ultrasound consists in confirming preoperative studies and acquiring new data which would not be available otherwise. An important role of these techniques is determining the anatomy of the involved organs, thus providing a guidance for surgery. Both techniques have an important role in surgical decision-making, particularly with respect to hepatic, biliary and pancreatic malignancies. In some series the rate of major changes in the surgical strategy can be as high as 38%. A relatively new application of intraoperative ultrasound is the possibility to perform interstitial therapy of tumors at the time of the initial surgery. This can be useful, for example, in patients undergoing liver resection, when other unresectable lesions are found in a different segment or in the contralateral lobe. Finally, laparoscopic sonography has an important role in staging abdominal neoplasm, providing more information than preoperative imaging and laparoscopic exploration. This feature can be used to effectively stage gastrointestinal malignancies, pancreatic carcinoma, and abdominal lymphomas. The application of intraoperative ultrasound will increase in the era of minimally access surgery and this will be dependent not only on technical improvements in ultrasound technology. Indeed, it may be expected that a variety of open procedures will be performed with videolaparoscopic monitoring and will need the guidance of laparoscopic sonography. In the future, the staging of abdominal neoplasm may be markedly improved by laparoscopy combined with laparoscopic ultrasound; however a cost-benefit analysis of these techniques and a comparison with preoperative tests should be carried out."}
{"id": "9625118", "title": "Treatment of gastric MALT lymphoma by Helicobacter pylori eradication: a study controlled by endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Treatment of gastric MALT lymphoma by Helicobacter pylori eradication: a study controlled by endoscopic ultrasonography. Previous studies have demonstrated a link between Helicobacter pylori infection and low grade B-cell gastric MALT lymphoma. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of Helicobacter pylori eradication in 17 patients with low grade B-cell gastric MALT lymphoma stage EI. For disease staging EUS and CT scan were systematically performed. Eight patients were excluded from the present series because stage EII disease was diagnosed. To demonstrate B-cell monoclonality, immunohistochemistry and polymerase chain reaction were used. H. pylori eradication was performed with triple therapy. H. pylori was eradicated in all patients after first (n = 15) or second line (n = 2) treatment. Histologic regression of lymphoma was observed in all patients after a median period of 2 mo. Disappearance of monoclonality according to polymerase chain reaction took significantly longer (7 mo). At the end of the study, four of 16 patients still exhibited persistent monoclonal bands. Relapse of lymphoma occurred in two patients associated with H. pylori reinfection/recrudescence. Eradication of H. pylori seems to be an effective therapy in patients with stage EI gastric MALT lymphoma, although long-term results are still uncertain. Endoscopic ultrasonography is useful for a more accurate staging of the disease. The clinical significance of detecting monoclonality by polymerase chain reaction remains to be determined."}
{"id": "9612929", "title": "[Current aspects of pathogenesis, diagnosis and therapy of primary MALT stomach lymphomas].", "content": "[Current aspects of pathogenesis, diagnosis and therapy of primary MALT stomach lymphomas]. Primary gastrointestinal lymphoma of MALT occupy a special position which is documented in their own histological classification. Our knowledge about pathogenesis, biological and therapeutical behaviour of this lymphoma entity has increased substantially during recent years. Considering epidemiological, histomorphological and experimental data Helicobacter pylori infection undoubtless plays an important role in the development and progression of gastric MALT-lymphoma. In view of histological malignancy (low or high grade) and dissemination of the disease (stage) as decisive prognostic factors and therapeutical determinants endoscopic-bioptical diagnosis as well as endoscopic ultrasound are of major importance. In case of localized low-grade lymphoma eradication of Helicobacter pylori offers a promising therapeutic option. Surgical resection and radiochemotherapy have proven to be effective treatment modalities. There is a need for randomized trials to clarify if operative or conservative therapeutic strategies have to be favored in the future."}
{"id": "9612630", "title": "[Hydrosonography as an alternative or supplement to endosonography in stomach carcinoma].", "content": "[Hydrosonography as an alternative or supplement to endosonography in stomach carcinoma]. Transabdominal ultrasound in the hydrotechnique (hydrosonography) was compared with endosonography for the locoregional staging of gastric cancer. For this purpose 52 consecutive patients were examined by endosonography (7.5 and 12 MHz) and hydrosonography (3.75 MHz). Forty-nine of the 52 tumors could be examined by endosonography and 41 by hydrosonography. The T-staging accuracy rate of endosonography was 74% and 46% for hydrosonography. Carcinoma of the cardia are often classified as uT3 and hT3 preoperatively and pT2 postoperatively due to infiltration of the subserosal fat. The N-staging accuracy rate of endosonography was 86% and 61% for hydrosonography. Based on these results, transabdominal ultrasound in the hydrotechnique (hydrosonography) cannot replace endosonography in gastric cancer staging. However, when performed in conjunction with conventional ultrasound, hydrosonography provides useful information about the local tumor stage, especially in cases of advanced and stenotic tumors."}
{"id": "9607290", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography in the staging of esophageal cancer. Therapeutic implications].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography in the staging of esophageal cancer. Therapeutic implications]. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) provides accurate visualization of the different layers of the gastrointestinal wall and surrounding structures, allowing TN staging of tumors prior surgery. The aim of this study was to evaluate the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of EUS in the staging of esophageal carcinoma as well as its applicability and usefulness in tumors with nontraversable stenoses. EUS was performed in 43 patients with esophageal carcinoma. The technique was carried out with a radial echoendoscope under sedation with i.v. midazolam. Both, the infiltration of the tumor through the layers of the esophageal wall (T staging) and the presence of lymph nodes in different areas (N and M staging) were determined. In cases with nontraversable stenoses, only the proximal tumor margin was assessed by means of EUS. EUS showed T1 stage in only one case and more advanced stages in the remaining patients: T2 (n = 12), T3 (n = 22) and T4 (n = 4). We know the outcome of 28 patients, 14 of whom underwent surgery. In these patients, the sensitivity for T and N staging was 86% and 92% respectively, and the accuracy 86% in both. Both, T and N, were overstaged in one case (7%) and understaged in another (7%). The tumor caused nontraversable stenoses in 59% of patients (n = 26). In 4 patients the staging could not be assessed with sufficient reliability. In the subgroup of patients with nontraversable stenoses who underwent surgery, the accuracy of EUS when comparing with histopathology was 80%. Endoscopic ultrasonography has a high sensitivity and accuracy in the staging of esophageal tumors even in cases with nontraversable stenoses."}
{"id": "9592662", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "9584570", "title": "[Stage-adapted radical principles in gastric carcinoma].", "content": "[Stage-adapted radical principles in gastric carcinoma]. The aim of any surgical approach to gastric carcinoma should be a complete resection with no residual tumor left behind, that is, a R0-resection according to UICC. Complete tumor resection in this respect refers to the primary tumor as well as to the lymphatic drainage and requires an adequate safety margin. The indications for surgical therapy of gastric cancer and the choice of procedure should consequently be guided by the tumor stage. This requires accurate preoperative staging, which can today be achieved with endoscopic ultrasonography and surgical laparoscopy. Gastric carcinoma stage IA (mucosa carcinoma) can be cured by local excision. In patients with tumor Stages IB (submucosa carcinoma), II, and IIIA, lymph node metastases are common. Based on the available data, this group of patients benefits from radical resection and D2 lymph node dissection. The overall 5-year survival rate of 50% for the large number of patients undergoing gastric resection for cancer seems to demonstrate convincingly the value of extended lymphadenectomy. In patients with advanced gastric carcinoma, that is, tumor stages IIIB and IV, a complete tumor removal usually can not be achieved by surgical dissection. Neoadjuvant therapeutic modalities should consequently be assessed in these patients. Based on tumor location and growth pattern, a total gastrectomy is the procedure of choice in patients with middle and proximal third gastric cancer. A subtotal gastrectomy may be performed in patients with tumors of the distal third and \"Laurens intestinal type\" growth pattern. The distal site of the main lesion must be investigated carefully to ensure that incidental concomitant lesions are not overlooked. Depending on the individual tumor situation, the gastrectomy can be extended toward varying portions of the distal esophagus or the pancreas, preserving splenectomy and resection of the retroperitoneal lymph nodes. The high incidence of locoregional recurrences and distant metastases after curative surgery for gastric cancer calls for improved locoregional control and systemic adjuvant treatment."}
{"id": "9584569", "title": "[How accurate is preoperative staging as a basis for treatment decisions in gastric carcinoma?].", "content": "[How accurate is preoperative staging as a basis for treatment decisions in gastric carcinoma?]. The treatment of advanced gastric carcinoma by various neoadjuvant and adjuvant multimodal therapy regimes is under current investigation to improve the poor outcome of these patients. Therefore, pretherapeutic tumor staging according to the TNM classification is essential for the optimal application of various therapeutic modalities. According to recent studies, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is the most sensitive technique in measuring tumor infiltration (T-staging). In addition, although less reliable compared to the T-staging, the sensitivity of EUS in assessing lymph node status (N-staging) is superior to computed tomography and conventional ultrasound. Pretherapeutic laparoscopic investigation may give additional important information about tumor stage. This overview describes the significance of various diagnostic techniques that can be applied in tumor staging investigations."}
{"id": "9581994", "title": "Upper gastrointestinal bleeding due to a malignant Schwannoma of the stomach.", "content": "Upper gastrointestinal bleeding due to a malignant Schwannoma of the stomach. A case history of a patient showing signs of upper gastrointestinal bleeding is described. Extensive analysis showed that the bleeding was due to a malignant Schwannoma of the stomach with several lymph node metastases. The patient was operated on and is doing well 5 years after surgery. The literature on this rare malignant tumour is reviewed."}
{"id": "9569294", "title": "Secondary renal neoplasms.", "content": "Secondary renal neoplasms."}
{"id": "9563443", "title": "Gastric cancer in Asia: progress and controversies in surgical management.", "content": "Gastric cancer in Asia: progress and controversies in surgical management. Considerable controversy surrounds the management of gastric cancer and this has largely overshadowed recent progress in our understanding of the epidemiology and molecular pathogenesis of the disease, and improvements in diagnostic and staging techniques. Differences identifiable in the molecular pathogenesis of the 'intestinal' and 'diffuse' types of gastric cancer may help to unravel the biological behaviour of variants and ultimately influence therapeutic strategies. Endoscopic ultrasound is well established as being accurate for T staging and the introduction of laparoscopy, with or without ultrasound, is obviating unnecessary laparotomy in non-bleeding, non-obstructed patients. Controversies in surgery encompass the role of laparoscopic surgery in early gastric cancer, the extent of lymphadenectomy including para-aortic nodal dissection, resection of en bloc contiguous organ involvement, pancreatosplenectomy, left upper abdominal evisceration, and modes of reconstruction (pylorus-preserving gastrectomy, pouch formation) to enhance quality of life. Whereas adjuvant chemotherapy does not impact favourably on survival, emphasis has now shifted to neoadjuvant (induction) chemotherapy to downstage the disease. Preoperative regional chemotherapy and intra-operative hyperthermic chemotherapy or irradiation may prove to be of benefit in patients with resectable disease, but some scepticism still exists as to the usefulness of biological response modifiers (e.g. OK432, PSK) for adjuvant treatment. Ethical issues relating to cultural differences in Asia sometimes mitigate against adequate trial design (e.g. a surgery-alone control group or a no adjuvant therapy treatment group may be considered inappropriate) and this has understandably hindered acceptance in Western countries of the value of current management practices in Asia. These issues and the need for ongoing well-conducted randomized trials with prospective subset analysis are now being addressed."}
{"id": "9544498", "title": "[Value of endosonography in diagnosis of diffusely growing stomach carcinomas].", "content": "[Value of endosonography in diagnosis of diffusely growing stomach carcinomas]. The diagnosis of diffuse type gastric carcinoma is very difficult. The delay of diagnosis is often due to false-negative endoscopic and histologic evaluation. The architecture of the stomach can be clearly visualized by endosonography. Therefore, already minor destructions of the gastric layers can be found. The endosonographic picture includes the presence of the layers, which are larger and of irregular contour. In infiltrating gastric cancer typically the submucosal layer and the muscularis are concentrically enlarged and appear folded. Based on the endosonographic picture diffuse type gastric carcinoma has been diagnosed in 32 patients. When compared to the histologic diagnosis after gastrectomy or autopsy the accuracy of the endosonographic diagnosis was 87.5%, (28 out of 32 patients). From the remaining four patients diagnosed to have diffuse type gastric cancer by endosonography three patients turned out to have malignant infiltrating tumors of different histologies. Therefore, the positive predictive value of endosonography in detection of infiltrating malignant tumors was 96.8% in our group. In contrast the accuracy of preoperative histologic diagnosis by biopsies was only 58%. Suspicious results of gastroscopy, especially in combination with a negative biopsy, should lead to further evaluation by endosonography to detect diffuse type gastric cancer earlier."}
{"id": "9509849", "title": "Laparoscopic subtotal gastrectomy with lymphadenectomy in a patient with early gastric cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic subtotal gastrectomy with lymphadenectomy in a patient with early gastric cancer. Laparoscopic surgery is rapidly gaining in popularity among general surgeons. It is not widely used to treat abdominal malignancies because of technical difficulties and the fear of peritoneal dissemination. We describe the use of laparoscopic surgery to treat early gastric cancer. A 66-year-old man was diagnosed with early gastric adenocarcinoma by endoscopic ultrasonography and biopsy. Subtotal gastrectomy along with removal of the perigastric (D1) and selective extraperigastric lymph nodes over the celiac trunk was accomplished laparoscopically, through five punctures and a minilaparotomy. The patient's convalescence was uneventful. Bowel sounds were heard on postoperative day 1. On postoperative day 3, he passed flatus. The patient was started on a clear liquid diet on postoperative day 5. There was neither leakage nor obstruction after oral intake. He was discharged on postoperative day 11. No local recurrence or distant metastasis was found during 16 months' follow-up. This is the first report of successful laparoscopic resection of early gastric cancer with lymph node dissection in Taiwan."}
{"id": "9449596", "title": "The prognosis of esophageal carcinoma staged irresectable (T4) by endosonography.", "content": "The prognosis of esophageal carcinoma staged irresectable (T4) by endosonography. Endosonography is an accurate preoperative staging technique for esophageal carcinoma. We retrospectively investigated a cohort of patients with carcinoma of the esophagus or gastric cardia that was endosonographically staged to be irresectable and studied whether their survival was influenced by the treatment received. Between April 1992 and July 1995, 654 patients were referred for endosonographic staging. We retrospectively searched our database for patients staged T4 and collected followup. Kaplan-Meier survival and Cox proportional hazards model were used to study the effect of treatment and various other factors on survival. Fifty-one patients (median age, 62 years; range, 44-87; 37 male) were staged T4 by endosonography. Followup was collected of all patients. Explorative surgery was chosen in 24 patients (47%), and the tumor was resected in 13 patients. Median survival in the surgical group was 9.67 months (95% confidence interval [CI] 6.03, 13.31) and 7.06 months (95% CI: 5.68, 8.44) in the nonsurgical group (not significant). Patients with infiltration in the respiratory tract had a 2.5 times higher risk of death than patients without (adjusted hazard ratio: 2.54; 95% CI: 1.30, 4.96). Patients staged irresectable by endosonography (T4 stage) have a very poor prognosis, regardless of further therapy. Survival of this group of patients was not influenced by surgery."}
{"id": "9574184", "title": "[Preoperative staging of stomach carcinoma with endosonography--fact or fancy?].", "content": "[Preoperative staging of stomach carcinoma with endosonography--fact or fancy?]. From January 1993 till December 1995, a total of 116 consecutive patients with gastric carcinoma were evaluated with endosonography and the results were compared with the histology of the resected specimen. The accuracy rate of the endosonography was 80% for T1 tumors an 83% for T4 tumors, and the sensitivity and specificity in the detection of regional involved lymph nodes were 91% and 84% respectively. Therefore endosonographic staging alone ist not a valuable pretherapeutic procedure to decide about endoscopic therapy in limited and neoadjuvant chemotherapy in extended gastric carcinoma."}
{"id": "9574183", "title": "[Value of endosonography in tumors of the upper GI tract in comparison with different scanners (Radial 360 degrees and Sector Scanner 120 degrees].", "content": "[Value of endosonography in tumors of the upper GI tract in comparison with different scanners (Radial 360 degrees and Sector Scanner 120 degrees]. This comparative study was performed to determine the value of two endosonography devices, i.e, the radial and the longitudinal transducer, for staging upper GI tract cancer. The accuracy of both methods was comparable in esophageal cancer, whereas radial scanning was superior in gastric cancer. Generally radial scanning provided better spatial orientation and was easier to assess. An advantage of the longitudinal curved array scanner is the feasibility of EUS-guided biopsy."}
{"id": "9451678", "title": "Diffuse cystic malformation and neoplasia-associated cystic formation in the stomach. Endosonographic features and diagnosis of tumor depth.", "content": "Diffuse cystic malformation and neoplasia-associated cystic formation in the stomach. Endosonographic features and diagnosis of tumor depth. We have evaluated the endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) features of cystic malformation of the stomach and the depth of associated neoplasia. We included 15 patients with multiple cystic components identified on EUS: 6 patients with multiple cysts restricted focally to gastric neoplasia and 9 patients with diffusely distributed cysts. We categorized the former findings as focal cystic malformation (FCM), and the latter as diffuse cystic malformation (DCM) of the stomach and reviewed the endosonographic features. Both FCM and DCM tended to show male preponderance and develop in older patients. Cystic changes in FCM extended from the neoplastic lesion to the submucosa regardless of the location in the stomach. Diffuse cystic malformation was located predominantly in the gastric body and mainly was shown as the thickened submucosa and/or deep mucosa with multiple cystic components. The boundary between the mucosal layer or the tumor echo and the submucosal layer was indistinct in eight patients, which led to a lower accuracy in EUS diagnosis of tumor depth. Diffuse cystic malformation has characteristic EUS features and occasionally is accompanied by gastric neoplasia. Endoscopic ultrasonography is inaccurate in determining tumor depth when multiple submucosal cysts are present."}
{"id": "9383346", "title": "The use of laparoscopic ultrasound in the assessment of pancreatic cancer.", "content": "The use of laparoscopic ultrasound in the assessment of pancreatic cancer. 26 consecutive cases of obstructive jaundice due to a carcinoma of the head of the pancreas were studied prospectively with ultrasound (US), computerized tomography (CT), endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and laparoscopic ultrasound (LUS). Sensitivity of US, CT were comparable, although CT seems better to evaluate the size of the tumor and for lymph node detection. 50 percent of patients had a criterion for noncurative resection. EUS (16 cases) had the best sensitivity (100 percent) for the staging of small tumors (less than 20 mm), detection of adjacent nodes and the relation between tumors- and mesenteric and portal vein. EUS was not able to detect peritoneal and/or liver micro-metastases. The criterion for noncurative resection was 57.6%. LUS exactly assessed all tumors larger than 2 cm. The accuracy compared with EUS was not as good for small tumors, but better concerning micro-peritoneal or hepatic metastasis. The criterion for noncurative resection was 80.7 percent. These results suggest to use of US and CT as first-line procedures in the preoperative staging and assessment of resectability of pancreatic cancers. When the patient does not appear to have disseminated lesions, EUS gives a good estimation of the size of the tumor, node assessment and vascular relations. LUS could be the first step for a curative surgical treatment. LUS revelated to discover 15 to 30 percent of unknown micro-metastases and avoided useless laparotomy in these patients."}
{"id": "9381100", "title": "[Initial experiences with magnetic resonance endoscopy].", "content": "[Initial experiences with magnetic resonance endoscopy]. In contrast to endorectal surface coils used to assess pelvic tumors, the magnetic resonance endoscope (MR) has all the features of a standard endoscope. In ex-vivo imaging of the porcine gastrointestinal tract, endoscopic MR demonstrates distinct histological layers of the gastrointestinal wall. The aim of this study was to assess the feasibility and the accuracy of endoscopic MR in local staging of patients with esophageal and rectal cancer. From April to August 1996, 12 patients (5 female and 7 male, mean age 63 [range 44-84] years) with histologically proven esophageal (n = 6) and rectal (n = 6) cancer prospectively underwent endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) followed by endoscopic MR. The two radiologists reviewing the endoscopic MR images were blinded to the EUS results. Assessment of T and N stages was compared to EUS and histology. Endoscopic MR was well tolerated in all patients and there were no complications. Image quality was sufficient in 75%. Endoscopic MR T-staging correlated with EUS and histology in 7/12 and 5/7 patients respectively. Discordance was due to overstaging by endoscopic MR. N-staging correlated with EUS and histology in 10/12 and 6/8 cases respectively. Non-correlation was due to a number of false negative results at endoscopic MR. These early results demonstrate endoscopic MR to be feasible and to produce comparable local staging to EUS in patients with esophageal and rectal cancer. The ultimate goal will be to combine endoscopic MR with body coil MR imaging (for the assessment of distant metastases) in order to provide \"one-step staging\" for the entire evaluation of gastrointestinal tumors."}
{"id": "9378206", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography and endoscopy for staging depth of invasion in early gastric cancer: a pilot study.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography and endoscopy for staging depth of invasion in early gastric cancer: a pilot study. We compared the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) for staging depth of invasion of early gastric cancer with that of conventional endoscopy. We assessed the depth of invasion of 108 lesions (104 patients) using EUS with a thin 20 MHz probe and compared the results with those of conventional endoscopy and of histologic examination of endoscopically or surgically resected specimens. The overall accuracy rates for staging depth of invasion for conventional endoscopy and EUS were 72.2% and 64.8%, respectively. Lesions that were classified as limited to the mucosa on both conventional endoscopy and EUS were very likely (92.2%) to be limited to the mucosa on histologic examination. The rates for understaging and overstaging were 16.7% and 11.1%, respectively, for conventional endoscopy; and 7.4% and 24.1%, respectively, for EUS. The highest rate for understaging based on conventional endoscopy occurred for lesions in the gastric body (including cardia, 23.9%). EUS appears to be useful in combination with conventional endoscopy for staging depth of invasion of early gastric cancer. In particular, the two techniques in tandem may accurately predict that a lesion is limited to the mucosa, and EUS may be useful to overcome the potential for understaging by conventional endoscopy, particularly in the gastric body."}
{"id": "9361583", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "9360870", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography: a promising method for assessing the prospects of endoscopic mucosal resection in early gastric cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography: a promising method for assessing the prospects of endoscopic mucosal resection in early gastric cancer. A recent challenge that is increasingly being faced in endoscopy is the use of endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) to treat differentiated intramucosal gastric cancers smaller than 2 cm. The usefulness of pretherapeutic endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in assessing whether this form of treatment is possible remains controversial. We retrospectively investigated the value of pretherapeutic EUS evaluation in 58 patients with macroscopically early gastric cancer that was histologically differentiated and less than 2 cm in diameter. The patients were classified as negative for endoscopic mucosal resection if EUS showed modifications of the third layer, and as positive if such modifications were not seen. All patients underwent radical surgery and the preoperative EUS findings were compared with the histological findings. The prevalence of metastatic adenopathy was 3% (two of 58). In the lymph-node staging, endosonography had a sensitivity of 0% (neither of two cases), and a specificity of 93% (52 of 56). In assessing the indication for EMR, EUS had a sensitivity of 93% (27 of 29), and a specificity of 86% (25 of 29). These results suggest that EUS is a promising method of evaluating the indication for endoscopic mucosal resection in early gastric cancer. EUS may improve pretherapeutic prediction of tumor curability by EMR, and may reduce the need for standard gastrectomy."}
{"id": "9358093", "title": "Prognostic study of gastric cancer without serosal invasion: reevaluation of the definition of early gastric cancer.", "content": "Prognostic study of gastric cancer without serosal invasion: reevaluation of the definition of early gastric cancer. Early gastric cancer, a term defined by Japanese researchers in the 1960s, is equivalent to pT1 tumor stage regardless of nodal status. Recently, there were suggestions to exclude node-positive pT1 gastric cancer from this entity and to consider node-negative pT2 gastric cancer as early gastric cancer. A survival analysis was conducted of 294 patients who underwent resection for gastric cancers confined within the gastric wall (pT1, n = 164; pT2, n = 130) between 1986 and 1992. The cumulative 5-year survival rate was 93.5% for pT1 patients and 67.9% for pT2 patients, with an overall survival of 82.5%. There was a significant difference in the 5-year survival rate between node-positive and node-negative pT1 patients (72.8% versus 95.6%; p = 0.0095). The 5-year survival rate of node-negative pT2 patients (80.4%) was significantly worse than that of node-negative pT1 patients (p = 0.011) but was not significantly better than that of node-positive pT1 patients (p = 0.4). If excellent prognosis is a prerequisite for the definition of early gastric cancer, then node-positive pT1 cancer and node-negative pT2 cancer should not be considered early gastric cancer. In the 1990s, now that new imaging techniques such as endoscopic ultrasonography has been introduced, the preoperative staging of gastric cancer can be made more accurately than in the 1960s, when the term \"early gastric cancer\" was defined. Because the prognosis of early gastric cancers, if subcategorized by nodal status, is not homogeneously excellent, a reevaluation of the definition of early gastric cancer may be necessary."}
{"id": "9322502", "title": "Regression of gastric MALT lymphoma after eradication of Helicobacter pylori is predicted by endosonographic staging. MALT Lymphoma Study Group.", "content": "Regression of gastric MALT lymphoma after eradication of Helicobacter pylori is predicted by endosonographic staging. MALT Lymphoma Study Group. Recent studies suggest that eradication of Helicobacter pylori may result in complete regression of low-grade lymphoma of the gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT). Which patients benefit from this treatment is unknown. The aim of this study was to prospectively study whether staging by echoendoscopy predicts the outcome of treatment of MALT lymphoma by eradication of H. pylori. Twenty-two patients positive for H. pylori with low-grade gastric B-cell MALT lymphoma were examined by echoendoscopy at the time of diagnosis. Treatment for H. pylori consisted of a 2-week course of oral omeprazole and amoxicillin. Patients were followed up by endoscopy and biopsy. H. pylori was eradicated in all patients. Complete regression of MALT lymphoma was observed in 12 patients (54%), partial regression in 5 patients (23%), and no response in 5 patients (23%) during follow-up. Twelve of 14 patients with lymphoma restricted to the mucosa or submucosa (stage E-I1) at echoendoscopy, but none of the 10 patients with higher stage (P < 0.01), showed complete regression of MALT lymphoma. In stage E-I1 patients, the probability of complete regression of lymphoma was 60% at 6, 79% at 12, and reached 100% at 14 months, respectively. Staging of gastric low-grade MALT lymphomas by endoscopic ultrasonography allows prediction of the response to therapy by eradication of H. pylori."}
{"id": "9316754", "title": "Conjoined gastric and mediastinal benign cystic teratomas. Case report of a rare occurrence and review of literature.", "content": "Conjoined gastric and mediastinal benign cystic teratomas. Case report of a rare occurrence and review of literature. Teratomas are embryonal neoplasms which arise from totipotential cells and contain elements from all three germ layers (ectoderm, mesoderm, and the endoderm). Simultaneous occurrence of mediastinal and gastric teratomas in infants has not been reported, although gastric teratomas extending into the mediastinum have been reported twice in literature. We report here a case in which a gastric cystic teratoma was connected to its mediastinal counterpart with a pedicle. The pertinent literature is reviewed."}
{"id": "9260706", "title": "Gastric inflammatory fibroid polyps: endoscopic ultrasonographic analysis in comparison with the histology.", "content": "Gastric inflammatory fibroid polyps: endoscopic ultrasonographic analysis in comparison with the histology. Histologic diagnosis of inflammatory fibroid polyp is usually difficult on routine endoscopic examinations. The aim of this study was to describe endoscopic ultrasonographic features of gastric inflammatory fibroid polyps. Endoscopic ultrasonography was performed in 10 patients with gastric inflammatory fibroid polyps before resection. All lesions were resected by either endoscopic removal or gastrectomy and then confirmed histologically as inflammatory fibroid polyps. To evaluate the diagnostic value of endosonography, endoscopic ultrasonographic images of the lesions were analyzed and compared with resected specimens retrospectively. All lesions were located in the second and/or third sonographic layer of the gastric wall without involvement of the fourth layer. The most frequent endoscopic ultrasonographic features were an indistinct margin (90%), and a hypoechoic (80%), homogeneous (90%) echo pattern. Histologically, inflammatory fibroid polyps developed in the deep mucosa and/or submucosa by proliferation of fibrous tissue, but did not have a capsule. The characteristic endoscopic ultrasonographic attributes of gastric inflammatory fibroid polyps are indistinct margin, hypoechogenicity, homogeneous appearance, and location within the second and/or third layer. These findings correlate very closely to the histologic findings."}
{"id": "9247433", "title": "Portal vein thrombosis in the adult: surgical implications in an era of dynamic imaging.", "content": "Portal vein thrombosis in the adult: surgical implications in an era of dynamic imaging. Extrahepatic portal vein thrombosis (EHPVT) is the leading cause of variceal hemorrhage in patients with healthy livers; however, in an era of dynamic imaging, the incidental discovery of EHPVT places a special burden on the surgeon to understand the surgical implications of the disease in this setting. During the period 1989 to 1995, 23 patients (12 males and 11 females) were found to have EHPVT. In 20 (87%), this was an unexpected finding on ultrasound (11 of 23), abdominal CT scan (9 of 23), or both (9 of 23). In two patients, the diagnosis was suspected and confirmed with angiography, whereas in the other, the lesion was discovered at surgery. Only seven (30%) had hemorrhage as a presenting complaint. More typically (61%), abdominal pain alone or pain with sepsis was the indication for evaluation. In 20 patients (87%), there was an identifiable etiology for the EHPVT. A total of 15 operations were performed on 12 patients (52%), in 7 (4, variceal hemorrhage, and 3, bowel ischemia) as a direct consequence of the EHPVT and in five, for conditions not directly related to the EHPVT. Three of the 23 patients (13%) died, two (17%) following surgery and one (9%) from advanced malignant disease. No patients with hemorrhage (seven), even those who required a shunt for decompression (three) or devascularization (one), died. We found that the diagnosis of EHPVT is usually not related to variceal hemorrhage, but rather, abdominal symptoms that serve as an indication for the imaging study. Three subsets of patients emerged: (1) those requiring no surgery (11 patients), (2) those requiring surgery related to hemorrhage (4 patients), and (3) those requiring surgery for conditions other than varices (8 patients). In any of these circumstances, mortality (13%) was related to the underlying disease process rather than EHPVT. Given the earlier recognition of EHPVT, the natural history of the disease has been altered, with outcome reflecting the underlying disease rather than the sequelae of portal hypertension."}
{"id": "9245882", "title": "Pre-operative TN staging of gastric cancer using a 15 MHz ultrasound miniprobe.", "content": "Pre-operative TN staging of gastric cancer using a 15 MHz ultrasound miniprobe. The aim of the study was to evaluate the usefulness of and problems associated with a new endoscopically guided ultrasound miniprobe, used for pre-operative staging of gastric cancers. 59 cases of gastric cancer were prospectively examined with a 15 MHz ultrasound miniprobe. The results of the ultrasound imaging were compared with the histological findings of the resected specimens. The accuracy of the miniprobe for depth of invasion (T category) was 61% for all tumours, and 72% and 40%, respectively, for T1 and T2 to T4 lesions. If indeterminate cases due to ultrasound attenuation were excluded, the accuracy was improved to 82% for T1 and 57% for T2 to T4 tumours, respectively. The accuracy of the miniprobe for nodal staging (N category) was 69% overall, and 86%, 25% and 14% for stages N0, N1 and N2, respectively. In tumours classified on the basis of endoscopic types, the miniprobe staged early type gastric cancers (T category = 73%, N category = 80%) significantly (p < 0.01) more accurately than advanced ones (T category = 21%, N category = 36%). This study suggests that the miniprobe is indicated for pre-operative TN staging when endoscopy reveals an early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "9245881", "title": "Relationship between histological type and endosonographic detection of regional lymph node metastases in gastric cancer.", "content": "Relationship between histological type and endosonographic detection of regional lymph node metastases in gastric cancer. The aim of the study was to compare the ability of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in detecting lymph node metastases in differentiated and undifferentiated gastric adenocarcinoma. EUS was performed in 149 patients with differentiated or undifferentiated gastric cancer. Histopathological findings were compared with pre-operative EUS findings in a total of 2961 resected lymph nodes. The EUS detection rates of metastasis to individual nodes in relation to node size, the ratio of the metastasized area to the cross-sectional area of the node and to the depth of primary tumour invasion, were also investigated. The accuracy and negative predictive values of EUS for detecting metastatic lymphadenopathy in each patient were significantly higher for differentiated (87%, 94%) than for undifferentiated (71%, 71%) tumours. The detection rate of individual node metastasis was higher for differentiated (31%) than for undifferentiated (21%) tumours. For differentiated lesions, EUS detected more small nodal metastases (< 5 mm in diameter) (p < 0.01) and more nodes involved with a relatively small proportion of the metastasized area to the cross-sectional area of the node (< 1/3 involvement) (p < 0.05). In relatively superficial lesions, such as pT1 and pT2, the pre-operative EUS detection rate of metastatic nodes was higher for differentiated than for undifferentiated tumours. In conclusion, the ability of EUS to detect nodal metastases is related to the histological type of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "9206626", "title": "[Surgical relevance of preoperative diagnosis of tumors of the gastrointestinal tract--decision making in esophageal, stomach, colon and rectal carcinoma].", "content": "[Surgical relevance of preoperative diagnosis of tumors of the gastrointestinal tract--decision making in esophageal, stomach, colon and rectal carcinoma]. The increasing spectrum of therapeutic options for tumors of the gastrointestinal tract has resulted in a refinement of the pretherapeutic diagnostic strategies. The diagnostic approach in surgical institutions that are focused on primary surgical resection will therefore be much less sophisticated than in institutions who propose a selective therapeutic approach based on the pretherapeutic tumor stage and prognostic parameters. Pretherapeutic assessment of the depth of tumor infiltration, i.e. the T-category, is essential because most further diagnostic and therapeutic decisions are based on this information. This can today be achieved with a high degree of accuracy by endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography. Early T-stages (T1-2) are usually an indication for primary surgical resection and, after exclusion of distant metastases, no further diagnostic studies are required. In patients with locally advanced esophageal, gastric or rectum tumors (T3-4) multimodal therapeutic concepts should be considered. This usually requires additional diagnostic studies. None of the available diagnostic imaging modalities today allows satisfactory pretherapeutic assessment of lymph node metastases. The assumed nodular status should therefore currently not influence therapeutic decisions. Essential is, however, the assessment of distant metastases, since the documentation of distant tumor spread will change the therapeutic approach to a palliative situation. Detailed histologic and molecular-biologic assessment of tumor characteristics is growing in importance. This not only provides therapeutically relevant information regarding tumor grading, but opens the door towards a modern molecular diagnostic approach. It can be expected that in the near future a vast amount of relevant prognostic information can be obtained from endoscopic tumor biopsies, which may soon alter our therapeutic concepts."}
{"id": "9173558", "title": "[1996 literature review: imaging the intestines].", "content": "[1996 literature review: imaging the intestines]."}
{"id": "9173556", "title": "[Krukenberg tumor: a clinical case report].", "content": "[Krukenberg tumor: a clinical case report]."}
{"id": "9164183", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the evaluation of gastric small lymphocytic mucosa-associated lymphoid tumors.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the evaluation of gastric small lymphocytic mucosa-associated lymphoid tumors. Low-grade, small lymphocytic lymphomas of the mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) have recently been shown to be associated with Helicobacter pylori infections. Regression of these tumors has been reported with antibiotic therapy. Here we evaluate endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) as on objective method to evaluate pretreatment disease and posttherapy response. We retrospectively reviewed 20 patients initially diagnosed elsewhere with MALT lymphoma. All patients had their initial endoscopic biopsies (EGDs) reviewed at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC). All patients had EUS performed at the time of consultation and on completion of therapy if treated at our center. Antral biopsies were stained with a modified Steiner preparation to determine infection by H pylori. Gastric low-grade lymphoma was confirmed in 16 of 20 patients; 11 of 16 had previously received antibiotic therapy for biopsy-positive H pylori infection. All gastric lymphomas had an abnormal EUS: eight with discrete tumor masses and eight with gastric wall infiltration (submucosa, n = 4; muscularis propria, n = 3; serosa, n = 1). On completion of lymphoma treatment with chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or surgery, 11 of 16 patients underwent follow-up EUS. Five patients received care elsewhere and did not return for posttreatment EUS. The gastric wall was normal with no evidence of disease on EUS-guided biopsy in eight of 11 patients. The remaining three patients had abnormal gastric walls. One was biopsy-negative and two had residual lymphoma. Four patients were found to have benign lymphoid aggregates in association with H pylori on initial EGD and EUS biopsies. All four patients were previously untreated with antibiotics. EUS showed prominent mucosa, but no significant findings within the gastric wall. EUS appears useful to stage objectively and evaluate therapeutic outcome in the management of gastric, low-grade MALT lymphomas. It also helps to distinguish benign lymphoid aggregates from lymphoma associated with H pylori infection. EUS findings may have a significant impact on assessment and therapeutic recommendations."}
{"id": "9112924", "title": "Accuracy of laparoscopic ultrasonography in the staging of upper gastrointestinal malignancy.", "content": "Accuracy of laparoscopic ultrasonography in the staging of upper gastrointestinal malignancy."}
{"id": "9106981", "title": "Gastrointestinal lymphomas in patients with AIDS.", "content": "Gastrointestinal lymphomas in patients with AIDS. Non-Hodgkin-lymphoma (NHL)-most frequently high grade B-cell lymphoma-occurs in 5-10% of individuals with HIV-infection. The gastrointestinal tract (GIT) is the most frequent extranodal site of the disease. The optimal therapy for HIV-related lymphoma remains a matter of controversy. In a retrospective analysis we found gastrointestinal lymphoma in ten of 306 HIV-infected patients (3.3%) with a median CD4-count of 92/microliter at time of diagnosis. Median survival for the chemotherapy treatment group was 15 months. The high incidence of gastrointestinal NHL prompted us to commence a prospective survey on diagnostic procedures, therapy and outcome of patients with HIV-infection and gastrointestinal symptoms. 93 of 341 HIV-infected patients with gastrointestinal symptoms were examined by endoscopy. In selected patients we used in addition endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) for visualization and staging before and after chemotherapy. NHL of the GIT was detected in seven of 93 endoscopically examined patients (7.5%). All patients were treated with CHOP initially. Mean survival time was ten months, mean CD4-count at diagnosis 193/microliter (range 0-417). Our results indicate that the diagnosis of gastrointestinal lymphoma should be considered in any HIV-infected patient presenting with unexplained gastrointestinal symptoms. In this group of patients NHL was detected in 7.5% of cases. The use of EUS improves the staging procedure before therapy. Treatment with CHOP resulted in relatively high remission rates and was associated with a low rate of treatment-induced myelosuppression."}
{"id": "9087207", "title": "Gastric cancer. Radiologic staging.", "content": "Gastric cancer. Radiologic staging. CT scan and EUS play complementary roles in staging gastric cancer. CT scan is initially performed to detect local and distant metastases. Depending on institutional expertise, EUS may be considered for local staging. Laparoscopic staging may also be helpful in select patients. It is hoped that further improvements in these techniques will improve the ability to stage gastric cancer and thereby optimize patient treatment and outcome."}
{"id": "9085164", "title": "Histochemical and immunohistochemical study of human gastric carcinoma differentiation with special reference to supplementary role for endosonography in evaluating depth of invasion.", "content": "Histochemical and immunohistochemical study of human gastric carcinoma differentiation with special reference to supplementary role for endosonography in evaluating depth of invasion. The aim of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of gastric and intestinal epithelial phenotypic expression of gastric cancer cells, shown by mucin histochemical staining (paradoxical concanavalin A, galactose oxidase Schiff [GOS] and sialidase-GOS) and immunohistochemical reactivity (pepsinogens, SH-9, and TKH-2), as an adjunct to the assessment of depth of invasion of gastric carcinomas by endosonography (ES). In 110 resected adenocarcinomas, the proportion of intestinal-type cells increased with progression, as assessed by depth of invasion. The coincidence rate for gastric and intestinal phenotypic expression in biopsied and resected specimens was 96.3%. The positive predictive value of assessment of depth of invasion by ES was 73%. A low positive predictive value (45%) was achieved with type II-3 cases (according to our classification). However, the predictive value improved to 68% when depth of invasion was evaluated as the submucosal layer or deeper in cases in which more than 10% of cancer cells were of intestinal-type, although statistical analysis showed no significant difference between these predictive values. The sensitivity of diagnosis of submucosal invasion by cell differentiation in the type II-3 cases was significantly higher than that for the other types (89.5% versus 59.1%; P = 0.037). Phenotypic expression in biopsied specimens of gastric carcinomas proved helpful for evaluating the depth of invasion of gastric carcinoma by ES."}
{"id": "9074915", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for esophageal and gastric mass lesions.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for esophageal and gastric mass lesions. Endoscopic ultrasonography is a relatively new and evolving imaging modality incorporating endoscopy and ultrasonography into one comprehensive examination of the gut wall. Its principal indication has been the locoregional staging (T and N) of gastrointestinal tumors, particularly of the esophagus and stomach. Accuracy of conventional radiographic modalities (computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging) has been disappointing (50-60%). Alternatively, the staging accuracy of the depth of tumor penetration (T stage) approaches 85-90% in most series, whereas that for lymph node assessment (N stage) has been in the 70-80% range. The precise stage of upper gastrointestinal neoplasms provides accurate pretreatment assessment of the patient's prognosis and may influence therapeutic decisions. Endosonography is also the diagnostic modality of choice in the evaluation of submucosal tumors. It can demonstrate size, layer of origin, and, by its echo texture, can accurately predict etiology of the neoplasm. The only limitation may be in the differentiation of benign from malignant smooth muscle tumors."}
{"id": "9064796", "title": "[Possibilities and limitations in endosonography of the gastrointestinal tract].", "content": "[Possibilities and limitations in endosonography of the gastrointestinal tract]. In addition to the endoscopic assessment of the mucosa, endoscopic ultrasonography allows the characterization of the gastrointestinal tract wall and the neighbouring structures. Due to the high ultrasonic frequencies employed, endoscopic images have a high resolution. Malignant tumours of the esophagus, stomach, periampullary region, and rectum are usually investigated both by computer tomography and endoscopic ultrasonography. The local T-N tumour stage is predominantly assessed by endoscopic ultrasonography. In contrast, the M stage is assessed predominantly by computed tomography. The local T-N stage, which ist decisive for the local tumour resectability, can only be assessed with sufficient accuracy by endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "9045462", "title": "[Pre-therapeutic assessment of resectability in patients with upper gastrointestinal cancer. Combined use of endoscopic ultrasonography and laparoscopy].", "content": "[Pre-therapeutic assessment of resectability in patients with upper gastrointestinal cancer. Combined use of endoscopic ultrasonography and laparoscopy]. The combined use of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and laparoscopy for the assessment of resectability in patients with upper GI tract cancer was prospectively evaluated in 57 patients. Laparoscopy was able to fill the informational gap in all the patients (n = 6) where EUS failed to give a complete assessment of resectability. This study suggests that the combination of EUS and laparoscopy can reduce the need for \"necessary\" laparoscopies to about 10%."}
{"id": "9013519", "title": "Laparoscopic ultrasonography for abdominal tumor staging: technical aspects and imaging findings.", "content": "Laparoscopic ultrasonography for abdominal tumor staging: technical aspects and imaging findings. Since 1992 diagnostic laparoscopy combined with laparoscopic ultrasonography has been performed in our center in more than 300 patients for staging of tumors of the liver, bile ducts, pancreas, esophagus, and gastric cardia. In this article our experience with laparoscopic ultrasonography for abdominal tumor staging is described, with particular attention for the technical aspects, imaging findings, limitations, and pitfalls."}
{"id": "9001545", "title": "Laparoscopic ultrasonography for staging gastroesophageal cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic ultrasonography for staging gastroesophageal cancer. TNM staging of gastroesophageal cancer is improved by the use of laparoscopy for the detection of occult metastases and endoscopic ultrasonography for T and possibly N staging. Laparoscopic ultrasonography may combine the strengths of both of these techniques. The purpose of this study was to compare TNM staging by means of laparoscopic ultrasonography (Lap US), laparoscopy, and conventional computed tomography (CT). TNM stage was determined by using Lap US, laparoscopy, and CT scanning in 26 surgical candidates with gastric or esophageal cancer in a blinded fashion. CT scans were also reviewed separately by an expert radiologist. Validation of findings was by means of final pathologic examination. Resectability for potential cure was determined by means of Lap US with a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 91% versus 100% and 73% for laparoscopy and 75% and 60% for CT, respectively. Overall TNM staging was 82% accurate for Lap US versus 67% for laparoscopy and 47% for CT (chi-squared, 8.64, p < 0.005, and 10.4, p < 0.005, respectively). Accuracies for Lap US versus laparoscopy versus CT for N stage were 92% versus 84% versus 70%, respectively, for T stage were 92% versus 42% versus 60%, respectively, and for M stage were 89% versus 44% versus 62%, respectively. T and N staging by Lap US were comparable to published results for endoscopic ultrasonography, and overall TNM staging was better. Lap US may provide the optimal preoperative staging for gastric cancer and has the potential to complement endoscopic ultrasonography in staging esophageal cancer."}
{"id": "8995931", "title": "Evaluation of pancreatic disease by endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Evaluation of pancreatic disease by endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "9264913", "title": "[Gastric neoplasms: their characterization, assessment of the degree of parietal infiltration and check on recurrence. The potentials and limits of CT, endoscopic US and MR].", "content": "[Gastric neoplasms: their characterization, assessment of the degree of parietal infiltration and check on recurrence. The potentials and limits of CT, endoscopic US and MR]. In this report we reviewed the role of CT, of endoscopic ultrasonography and of MR in the study of the gastric wall, to assess the degree of parietal infiltration to characterize gastric neoplasms. Finally we assess the CT role to check gastric carcinoma recurrences."}
{"id": "9101980", "title": "[Endosonography of tumors of the upper gastrointestinal tract: is routine use justified?].", "content": "[Endosonography of tumors of the upper gastrointestinal tract: is routine use justified?]. Major indications of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) are staging of carcinomas of the oesophagus, stomach, and pancreas, lymphomas of the stomach and the diagnosis of submucosal tumors. Based on a meta-analysis, the accuracy of EUS is 84% in the T-stage of oesophagus carcinoma (1154 patients) and 77% (1035) in the N-stage, and of stomach carcinoma 80% (2699) and 70% (1207), respectively. Drawbacks of EUS: tumor stenosis which cannot be passed by the endoscope; the inability to distinguish between benign and malignant stomach ulcera and the diagnosis of lymph nodes."}
{"id": "9101932", "title": "[Magnetic resonance tomography, endosonography and hydrosonography in staging stomach carcinoma].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance tomography, endosonography and hydrosonography in staging stomach carcinoma]. Endosonography (EUS) results in greater accuracy in small gastric cancers (T1, T2) than MRI. The accuracy rate in correct lymph node staging is 82% (EUS) and 76% (MRI). Hydrosonography provides information but no significant staging."}
{"id": "9064575", "title": "[Primary gastric lymphoma. Personal experience].", "content": "[Primary gastric lymphoma. Personal experience]. The authors report their experience regarding primary gastric lymphoma. The series presented consists of 5 cases: a correct preoperative diagnosis of primary gastric lymphoma was made in one case, whereas pseudolymphoma was hypothesised in a second patient. The remaining three cases were all maltomas. After examining the histological characteristics and classification of primary gastric lymphomas, the authors underline the importance of an early preoperative diagnosis of gastric lymphoma. The repeated use of endoscopic techniques with biopsy compared to radiological examination increases the possibility of diagnosing lymphoma from 20% to 85%. The success rate is further increased if ultrasonic endoscopy is used instead of endoscopy alone, thus making it possible to achieve a 97% diagnostic success rate. The authors then emphasise the fundamental role played by surgery in the treatment of gastric lymphoma. Depending on the depth of neoplastic infiltration, the dimensions of the neoplasia and its multifocality, in localised forms of the antrum (IE, IIE with a low degree of malignancy) surgery consists of resection with partial gastrectomy, provided the resection margins are undamaged, or total gastrectomy in those forms involving the fundus and body of the stomach."}
{"id": "9007428", "title": "Assessment of tumor invasion of the distal esophagus in carcinoma of the cardia using endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Assessment of tumor invasion of the distal esophagus in carcinoma of the cardia using endoscopic ultrasonography. Esophageal invasion by carcinoma of the cardia may affect the surgical approach. Accurate assessment of esophageal invasion is difficult using endoscopy, computed tomography, or barium contrast radiography. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the use of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in the prediction of esophageal invasion by carcinoma of the cardia. EUS (using a linear-array scanner) was carried out prospectively in 47 patients with carcinoma of the cardia who underwent subsequent surgical resection. The findings were correlated with the histopathological assessment of tumor infiltration in the esophagus in the resected specimen. An absence of esophageal invasion was correctly predicted by EUS in 12 of 13 patients. Histopathologically confirmed invasion of the esophagus was correctly predicted in 32 of 34 patients. With a margin of error of 10 mm, the accuracy of EUS in predicting or excluding histologically confirmed invasion of the esophagus was 85.1% (40 of 47 patients). False-positive results with EUS occurred in patients with prominent edematous or fibrous changes in the distal esophagus; false-negative results with EUS were seen in patients with scattered infiltration of a small number of tumor cells into the mucosal or submucosal layer. EUS can provide the surgeon with additional information on the extent of esophageal infiltration in patients with carcinoma of the gastric cardia, and can therefore assist in the selection of the surgical approach."}
{"id": "8992059", "title": "[Laparoscopy and laparoscopic echography in the diagnosis and staging of gastrointestinal carcinomas].", "content": "[Laparoscopy and laparoscopic echography in the diagnosis and staging of gastrointestinal carcinomas]. The clinical relevance of laparoscopy (LS) and laparoscopic echography (LSEG) in diagnosing and staging gastrointestinal carcinomas is assayed in the light of diagnostic methods in current use. The study covers 257 patients undergoing LS, and 23-LSEG. For the purpose a rigid 7.5 MHz echolaparoscopic probe is used. In 16 per cent of the cases LS fails to resolve the basic diagnostic problems faced, whereas in 35 per cent it alters completely the preliminary clinical diagnosis. In over 90 per cent of cases LSEG supplements or modifies the laparoscopic diagnosis. Emphasis is laid on the role played by LSEG in defining the loco-regional stage of gastric and colorectal carcinomas, as well as on the contribution of the method to establish pancreatic carcinomas not lending themselves to resection. What is more, LSEG demonstrates inoperable cases by detecting small, unsuspected metastases, not prominating above the hepatic surface."}
{"id": "8952773", "title": "[Contribution of endosonography to the diagnosis and follow-up of pediatric gastric neurofibroma revealing von Recklinghausen's disease].", "content": "[Contribution of endosonography to the diagnosis and follow-up of pediatric gastric neurofibroma revealing von Recklinghausen's disease]. Gastrointestinal involvement in von Recklinghausen's disease (RD) is rare during childhood; its symptoms are late and its prognosis is poor, related to local recurrence and risk of malignant transformation. A 13 year-old boy was admitted for hematemesis revealing gastric ulcer. A second episode of hematemesis led to identify a sessile gastric tumor in this patient having numerous skin caf\u00e9-au-lait spots. Recurrent bleeding required laparotomy that showed diffuse infiltration into the anterior gastric wall: histological examination of the excised piece showed characteristic features of neurofibromatosis. The patient was not compliant to the endosonographic survey so that a symptomatic relapse led to total gastrectomy: histological examination did not show malignant transformation. Endoscopy is a major tool for identifying gastrointestinal localization of RD but endosonography is necessary to precise the extent of the tumor."}
{"id": "8939844", "title": "Endosonography and endosonography-guided biopsy of upper-GI-tract tumors using a curved-array echoendoscope.", "content": "Endosonography and endosonography-guided biopsy of upper-GI-tract tumors using a curved-array echoendoscope. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) with a curved-array transducer and to determine the value of endosonography-guided biopsy. EUS was performed in 162 consecutive patients for preoperative staging of gastric or esophageal cancer (n = 122) or for EUS-guided biopsy (n = 40). All patients were examined using a flexible echoendoscope (Pentax FG32-UA) equipped with a 7.5-MHz curved-array transducer. A specially designed fine needle was used for EUS-guided biopsy of submucosal or extrinsic lesions. Surgery was performed in 19 of 48 patients with esophageal cancer and 60 of 74 patients with gastric cancer. The accuracy in the assessment of the infiltration depth of esophageal cancer and in the determination of lymph node involvement was 84% and 88%, respectively. In gastric cancer the tumor infiltration depth was assessed correctly in only 65% of the patients. The identification of early gastric cancer proved to be a major problem. The accuracy in the detection of lymph node involvement was 73%. Obstructing tumors were examined in 17 patients with carcinoma of the esophagus or the gastric cardia. The accuracy of EUS in determining the T-stage and the N-stage of stenotic tumors was 88% and 86%, respectively. Endosonography-guided needle biopsy was successfully performed in all 40 patients. Histologic analysis revealed malignancy in 50% of the patients. Only two biopsy specimens contained nonrepresentative material (accuracy: 95%). No complications were observed related to the procedure. EUS with a curved-array transducer provides high accuracy rates in staging of esophageal carcinoma. Evaluation of gastric cancer with this technique appears to be more difficult than with radial transducers. A major advantage of the linear transducer is the ability to perform EUS-guided biopsies of submucosal or extamural lesions."}
{"id": "8934164", "title": "Interobserver variability in endoscopic ultrasonography: a prospective evaluation.", "content": "Interobserver variability in endoscopic ultrasonography: a prospective evaluation. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is an imaging modality that is now widely used to stage gastrointestinal malignancies. Few studies have addressed the issue of interobserver variability in the interpretation of EUS, particularly as it pertains to the staging of rectal carcinoma. Twenty-six patients with a diagnosis of rectal carcinoma were evaluated prospectively by three endoscopists. One performed sigmoidoscopy, the second (primary endosonographer) performed an EUS staging examination with full knowledge of the patient history and sigmoidoscopic appearance of the lesion, and the third endoscopist (secondary endosonographer) performed EUS blinded to this information. The results of the respective examinations were then compared. When the EUS findings of the endosonographers were compared, T stage agreed in 88% of patients, with the following kappa coefficients: T1 (kappa = 0.00); T2 (kappa = -0.04); T3 (kappa = -0.05); T4 (kappa = 0.00). Interrator N stage agreed in 73% of patients (kappa = 0.42). Our study prospectively evaluated interobserver variation in staging rectal carcinoma by EUS. The protocol that was followed provides a useful template that eliminated potential observer bias. Fair agreement was demonstrated regarding lymph node assessment. Although the raters agreed in 88% of the patients, kappa statistic analysis did not reach significant agreement, due to this institution's preponderence of UT3 lesions. Thus, validation of our findings in a setting where a broader spectrum of disease is encountered is required."}
{"id": "8898440", "title": "Exploring the role of endosonography.", "content": "Exploring the role of endosonography. Endosonography (ES) or endoscopic ultrasonography has undergone very rapid development and has now become an important imaging technique for gastroenterologists all over the world. Endosonography is currently used in a wide field of gastrointestinal diseases, most of which are in the upper gastrointestinal tract. This small tour will take you through the forest of indications in endosonography, focusing on staging of malignancies. The tour will stop at the most common indications for ES, briefly summarizing the current state of affairs and taking a short look into the future."}
{"id": "8893345", "title": "Preoperative chemotherapy in gastric cancer.", "content": "Preoperative chemotherapy in gastric cancer. Even with extended surgery, including systematic lymphadenectomy of the lymph node compartment II, only half of the patients with locally advanced gastric cancer (LAGC)-which comprises stages IIIA, IIIB, and IV-undergo macroscopic and microscopic tumor-free resection (i.e., R0 resection, according to UICC 1987/AICC 1988). An improvement in this situation is best accomplished by preoperative treatment modalities to increase the R0 resection rate and by preoperative and postoperative treatment to reduce local recurrences and distant metastases. For LAGC, which includes approximately two thirds of patients with locoregionally confined tumors, preoperative chemotherapy (CTx) represents a promising approach. Among a group of patients with surgically or clinically staged unresectable LAGC, approximately half underwent R0 resection after downstaging induced by active CTx. The long-term survival of these patients seems to be improved. Even in patients who had primarily unresectable tumors as defined by explorative laparotomy, the long-term survival was about 20% after preoperative CTx and subsequent surgery. Based on these experiences, randomized trials investigating preoperative CTx versus surgery alone are clearly needed to define whether such an approach has an impact on RO resection rates and survival of patients with LAGC. Preconditions for such trials are clinical staging procedures, including endoscopic ultrasonography (T category) and surgical laparoscopy plus lavage (excluding peritoneal carcinomatosis), and a standardized surgical procedure."}
{"id": "8885355", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided histologic needle biopsy: preliminary results using a newly developed endoscopic ultrasound transducer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound-guided histologic needle biopsy: preliminary results using a newly developed endoscopic ultrasound transducer."}
{"id": "8875868", "title": "Preoperative endosonographic staging of cancer of the cardia.", "content": "Preoperative endosonographic staging of cancer of the cardia. To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of endosonography (ES) in a prospective series of cancer of the cardia. Thirty-five patients with cancer of the cardia were investigated by ES; 29 underwent surgery. ES staging for the surgery patients was compared with histopathologic findings. Tumors were staged according to the 1987 TNM classification. ES had a diagnostic accuracy of 79% for the T category, 79% for the N category, 89% for the M category, and 72% for prognostic TNM staging. ES is an excellent paraclinical modality for the staging of local-regional spread of cancer of the cardia and a useful complement to computed tomography for evaluation of these tumors."}
{"id": "8865450", "title": "Laparoscopic ultrasonography for staging of gastrointestinal malignancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic ultrasonography for staging of gastrointestinal malignancy. Diagnostic laparoscopy has been used frequently as a preoperative staging procedure for different gastrointestinal malignancies. The assessment of solid abdominal organs and retroperitoneal ingrowth or detection of lymph-node metastasis is limited, however. A recent development, laparoscopic ultrasonography, will probably increase the preoperative evaluation of these lesions and thus further improve the preoperative staging. Since 1993 diagnostic laparoscopy combined with laparoscopic ultrasonography has been performed as an additional diagnostic procedure in patients who have already been selected for curative resection of different GI malignancies. In this prospective study, staging after conventional work-up is compared with the tumour stage after laparoscopy. All patients underwent exploratory laparotomy except those with histologically proven metastases/ingrowth. For patients with cancer of the esophagus and gastric cardia (n = 56) the preoperative stage was altered in 17% but laparotomy could only be avoided in 5% (for a subgroup of patients with a tumour of the gastric cardia laparotomy was avoided in 11%). Additional findings during laparoscopy showed that laparotomy could be avoided in 55% of the patients (n = 44) with primary liver tumours, liver metastasis or proximal bile duct tumours. For patients with pancreatic head tumours (n = 73) the preoperative stage of the tumor changed in 40%; the strategy of treatment was changed in 26% and laparotomy could be avoided in 20%. Laparoscopy combined with laparoscopic ultrasonography is effective (more accurate) in the staging of gastrointestinal malignancies, in particular for patients with liver, biliary and pancreatic tumours. The preoperative tumour stage changed between 15 and 60% for the different gastrointestinal malignancies and laparotomy could be avoided in 5-55%. The procedure is highly operator-dependent and has a learning curve."}
{"id": "8836718", "title": "Endosonographic T-staging of esophageal carcinoma: a learning curve.", "content": "Endosonographic T-staging of esophageal carcinoma: a learning curve. It has been suggested that 50 endosonographic examination are necessary to attain sufficient skill to become accurate in the staging of esophageal carcinoma. Since July 1991 all esophageal endosonographies have been performed by one investigator. The database, containing all examinations since July 1991, was reviewed to investigate the presence of a learning curve in T-staging of esophageal carcinoma by comparing the endosonographic T-stage with the pathologic T-stage. From July 1991 until April 1993, 231 endosonographies were performed for esophageal malignancies. Eighty-nine patients had been referred for preoperative staging and underwent surgical exploration. Seventy-one tumors were resected. The patients were split in two groups. Group I consisted of 36 patients examined between July 1991 and April 1992. In this period 100 endosonographies were performed. Group II consisted of 35 patients examined between April 1992 and March 1993. In this period 131 endosonographies were performed. Overall endosonographic T-staging was correct in 70%. The accuracy in group I was 58%; In group II 83% (p < 0.05). Overstaging was equally common in groups I and II (14%). Understaging was common in group I (28%), but rare in group II (3%). This study shows a definite learning curve for endosonographic T-staging of esophageal carcinoma. Acceptable accuracy rates could only be achieved after 100 examinations."}
{"id": "8836713", "title": "Diagnostic utility of 20-megahertz linear endoscopic ultrasonography in early gastric cancer.", "content": "Diagnostic utility of 20-megahertz linear endoscopic ultrasonography in early gastric cancer. Because of the widespread endoscopic treatment of early gastric cancer (EGC), accurate pretherapeutic staging of the invasion depth of EGC differentiating those limited within the mucosa from cancers invading the submucosa has become important. We staged the depth of tumor invasion of 47 lesions of EGC using 20 MHz linear endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). The EUS probe was introduced via the instrument channel of a standard endoscope. The accuracy of 20 MHz EUS in staging the mucosa or submucosa was 72.3%. There was 19.1% overstaging, 2.1% understaging, and 6.4% indeterminant. The principal causes of errors were inflammation associated with ulcers, benign cystic glands in the submucosal layer, and attenuation of the high-frequency ultrasound beam. 20 MHz EUS is useful in the pretherapeutic staging of EGC."}
{"id": "8826718", "title": "Pre-operative staging of gastro-oesophageal junction carcinoma: comparison of endoscopic ultrasound and computed tomography.", "content": "Pre-operative staging of gastro-oesophageal junction carcinoma: comparison of endoscopic ultrasound and computed tomography. Fifteen patients with carcinoma of the gastro-oesophageal junction were pre-operatively staged with endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and computed tomography (CT). The accuracy of tumour and nodal staging using both modalities was compared to the final histological staging of the resected specimens. In staging depth of tumour growth, EUS was significantly more accurate (87% of lesions correctly staged) than CT (40% correctly staged). In staging nodal involvement, EUS was again significantly more accurate (73% correctly staged) than CT (33%). Two-thirds of the lesions were traversable with the endoscopic probe, but most of the nontraversed lesions were correctly staged on EUS. In this study, CT has performed poorly as a staging modality for carcinoma at the gastro-oesophageal junction. Other studies have shown CT to be less accurate at this location than at other oesophageal sites. The orientation of the gastro-oesophageal junction, lack of surrounding fat planes, proximity of adjacent organs and patient motion contribute to the poor staging performance of CT at this location. In contrast, EUS has been an accurate staging modality at the gastro-oesophageal junction in this study and compares well with other studies evaluating EUS in the more proximal oesophagus. Endoscopic ultrasound is therefore a necessary modality if accurate pre-operative staging of gastro-oesophageal junction carcinoma is to be achieved."}
{"id": "8803568", "title": "The use of endoscopic ultrasonography in the evaluation and diagnosis of gastric lesions.", "content": "The use of endoscopic ultrasonography in the evaluation and diagnosis of gastric lesions. Endoscopic ultrasonography within the stomach can provide high resolution images of the gastric wall as well as adjacent lesions that cannot be achieved with other diagnostic modalities. Clinically important uses include the evaluation of submucosal tumors, thickened gastric folds, changes seen with portal hypertension, and the staging of gastric malignancy. Two basic principles should be considered when applying this modality in clinical practice. The first is that for any test to be considered truly indicated, the results should have some significant impact on management decisions and/or quality of life for the individual. The second is that endosonographic imaging is not a substitute for histology, but findings may have a direct impact on the need for and methods of obtaining biopsy material."}
{"id": "8799392", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for preoperative staging of gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for preoperative staging of gastric carcinoma. To assess the accuracy and limitation of endoscopic ultrasonography in preoperative staging of gastric cancer, we performed a prospective study on 99 patients. Ninety-nine patients with gastric cancer had preoperative staging with endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and CT. The depth of infiltration (T parameter) was correctly defined by EUS in 58/65 patients (89%). The lymph node involvement (N parameter) was correctly classified in 44/65 patients (68%), the sensitivity was 74% and the specificity was 54%. The most frequent cause of understaging T parameter was microscopic tumor invasion, whereas overstaging was due to peri-tumor inflammation. We believe that EUS is a reliable method, superior to all diagnostic tools, in the evaluation of locoregional extension of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "8797970", "title": "Primary tumour staging of gastric and colorectal cancer.", "content": "Primary tumour staging of gastric and colorectal cancer. Almost 15 years after its introduction, endosonography or endoscopic ultrasonography is an important technique in a wide range of gastrointestinal diseases. Other imaging techniques are CT, MRI and barium examination. There is a general consensus that the most important prognostic factor in gastric and colorectal carcinoma is the presence or absence of lymph node invasion, but malignant fixation of tumour through direct invasion of adjacent tissues also appears to be very important. Non-invasive preoperative assessment of tumour stage based on one or a combination of the above imaging modalities should allow appropriate treatment to be planned in each case."}
{"id": "8759666", "title": "Preoperative diagnosis of mucinous gastric adenocarcinoma by endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Preoperative diagnosis of mucinous gastric adenocarcinoma by endoscopic ultrasonography. The aims of this study were to investigate the characteristic features of mucinous gastric carcinoma on endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and to demonstrate the usefulness of EUS in the preoperative diagnosis of this disease. Twelve patients with mucinous gastric carcinoma who underwent EUS examination between April 1984 and April 1995 were enrolled in this study. All patients subsequently underwent surgery. Histopathologically, tumors were classified according to the mucin content (high or moderate) and the glandular formation of the tumor cells (well or poorly differentiated). Finally, the histological and endosonographic features were compared. In all patients, the infiltrated wall appeared echogenic because of diffusely distributed, reticular, highly echoic speckles in the submucosa and muscularis propria. The presence of mucinous lakes surrounded by reactive fibrous tissue correlated well with reticular, highly echoic speckles on EUS. There was an increase in echogenicity and thickness of the muscularis propria, depending on the invasion of the mucin. Although the boundary between submucosa and muscularis propria was distinct and the five-layered gastric wall structure was generally preserved, the mucosal layer was not discriminated in patients with poorly differentiated mucinous carcinoma with high mucin content. As a preoperative diagnostic procedure, EUS may be useful in recognizing the mucinous component of gastric tumors and may facilitate the differentiation of mucinous carcinoma from other gastric epithelial tumors."}
{"id": "8696704", "title": "Short communication: detection of early scirrhous carcinoma of the stomach by endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Short communication: detection of early scirrhous carcinoma of the stomach by endoscopic ultrasonography. The endoscopic ultrasonography (US) characteristics of early scirrhous carcinoma of the stomach (ESS) were evaluated in four patients. ESS was defined as the presence of poorly differentiated carcinoma cells spreading through the submucosa and muscularis propria in association with a marked desmoplastic reaction without serosal invasion. ESS was characterized by localized irregular hypoechoic enlargement of the third (submucosal) and the fourth (muscularis propria) layers. The fifth (serosal) layer was normal. The third and fourth layers showed a threefold increase in thickness compared with the thickness of these layers in healthy subjects. Our results suggest that endoscopic US is useful for diagnosis of ESS."}
{"id": "8688702", "title": "Computed tomography, endoscopic ultrasonography and intraoperative assessment in TN staging of gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Computed tomography, endoscopic ultrasonography and intraoperative assessment in TN staging of gastric carcinoma. In a prospective study from November 1989 to December 1993, the accuracy of computed tomography (CT), endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and intraoperative surgical assessment were compared for the evaluation of the depth of invasion (T category) and involvement of lymph nodes (N category) in patients with gastric carcinoma. Sixty-nine consecutive patients who received preoperative CT and EUS underwent subsequent surgery. CT and EUS results were compared with histopathologic staging of tumor invasion depth and regional lymph node metastasis (pT and pN categories). T categories were staged correctly in 42% of the cases by CT, 71% by EUS and 55% by intraoperative surgical assessment. CT correctly staged 49% of N1 and N2 lymph nodes compared with 65% for EUS and 45% for intraoperative surgical assessment. CT was more accurate for advanced cancer but had a tendency to understage the T and N categories. EUS was more accurate for serosal cancer and displayed a tendency to overstage T categories and understage N categories. Intraoperative surgical assessment overstaged early T stages, understaged the T4 stage and had a tendency to overstage N categories. CT and intraoperative surgical assessment of T and N categories were of limited value in the staging of gastric carcinoma compared to EUS. EUS is a valuable form of assessment to evaluate gastric cancer staging before surgery."}
{"id": "8679421", "title": "[Use of endoscopic ultrasonography in the staging of esophageal tumors].", "content": "[Use of endoscopic ultrasonography in the staging of esophageal tumors]. Endoscopic Ultrasound (EUS) was performed in 15 patients with esophageal and cardial carcinoma with the aim to evaluate intramural or extraesophageal invasion and regional lymph node metastases. In 10 patients the Authors correctly evaluated the tumoral depth invasion. In 5 patients mediastinal lymph node metastases were observed. It is concluded that EUS is a useful diagnostic method in the staging of esophageal carcinoma."}
{"id": "8675534", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound: improving GI diagnosis.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound: improving GI diagnosis. At present, the technique--which incorporates fiberoptic imaging--is best used for local staging of esophageal, pancreatic, and rectal cancer, characterization of submucosal gastrointestinal masses, and detection of common bile duct stones. Potential uses being investigated include transintestinal fine needle puncture to aspirate lymph nodes or tumors and assistance with various therapies."}
{"id": "8661546", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonographic staging of primary gastric lymphoma.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonographic staging of primary gastric lymphoma."}
{"id": "8658218", "title": "Laparoscopy and laparoscopic ultrasound in the staging of gastric cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopy and laparoscopic ultrasound in the staging of gastric cancer. As patients with gastric cancer are offered choices between surgical resection, investigational neoadjuvant chemotherapy, palliative chemotherapy, or symptomatic relief alone, the need for accurate preoperative staging becomes apparent. Laparoscopy has been suggested as an accurate staging modality in a variety of upper gastrointestinal malignancies. It allows for assessment of the stage of the primary tumor, identification of hepatic or regional nodal metastases, and the detection of small volume peritoneal disease unappreciated by other noninvasive staging modalities such as computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging or endoscopic ultrasound. This article reviews the current literature concerning laparoscopy and laparoscopic ultrasonography (LUS) in the staging of gastric cancer. The Memorial Hospital experience with 92 patients is described. In this group, metastatic disease unappreciated by conventional staging modalities was found in 31 cases. The preliminary experience with LUS suggests that its addition to standard laparoscopy increases the sensitivity and specificity of M1 screening as well as introducing T and N staging capabilities."}
{"id": "8658217", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography. Optimal treatment of gastric carcinoma requires accurate staging as there are marked differences in the prognosis of early and advanced gastric cancer which influence the decision for surgical resection versus nonsurgical palliation. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), by virtue of its considerable accuracy, has become the method of choice for regional staging of gastric cancer. EUS is unique in its ability to image the gastric wall as a 5-layer structure that correlates with actual histological layers. Thus, tumor depth can be imaged very precisely. Peritumor inflammation is the most common cause for overstaging by EUS; difficulty in determining tumor involvement of, but not through, the subserosa is another important reason for inaccurate staging. EUS is able also to detect small lymph nodes in the perigastric region. Although assessment of malignancy in nodes can be difficult, ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration cytology appears to be an accurate method to determine lymph node status. Surgery remains the standard treatment for gastric cancer, but new methods of endoscopic resection combined with high-frequency ultrasound may hold promise for future treatment of early gastric cancer. In addition to current radial and sector scanning instruments, recently introduced high-frequency ultrasound probes enhance the diagnostic possibilities of this technology."}
{"id": "8631181", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound--current applications.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound--current applications."}
{"id": "8731844", "title": "[The role of endoscopic ultrasonography and epidermal growth factor receptor assay in preoperative staging for gastric carcinoma].", "content": "[The role of endoscopic ultrasonography and epidermal growth factor receptor assay in preoperative staging for gastric carcinoma]. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was performed in 36 patients with gastric carcinoma and the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) of the specimen from endoscopic biopsy in 19 patients with gastric carcinoma was measured with immunoassay. Results of EUS were compared to the pathology of resected specimens according to the new (1987) TNM classification. EUS was very accurate in assessing the depth of tumor infiltration and the lymph node metastasis. Overall accuracy in T and N stage were 81% and 72% respectively. The level of EGFR in patients with infiltration into the neighbouring organs (97.7 +/- 27.9 fmol/mg pro.) were significantly higher than those without infiltration (47.7 +/- 21.3 fmol/mg pro.) (P < 0.01). The EGFR levels of those with lymph node metastasis (85 +/- 24.3 fmol/mg pro.) were significantly higher than that without lymph node metastasis (37.1 +/- 16.1 fmol/mg pro.) (P < 0.01). The results show that EUS as well as the EGFR assay could be used to determine the progress and prognosis of gastric carcinoma."}
{"id": "8565886", "title": "Endoscopic MRI: preliminary results of a new technique for visualization and staging of gastrointestinal tumors.", "content": "Endoscopic MRI: preliminary results of a new technique for visualization and staging of gastrointestinal tumors. The principle of endoscopic ultrasonography--introducing the transducer of an external imaging method, such as ultrasonography, in combination with an endoscope into the gastrointestinal tract for higher-resolution imaging--has also been applied to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We report here on our preliminary experience with a new method of endoscopic MRI in the upper gastrointestinal tract. Endoscopic MRI was performed in 32 patients with esophageal (n = 8) or gastric diseases (n = 24), mostly tumors (n = 26). Most cancers were at an advanced stage (T3/T4). A prototype MRI endoscope connected to a 1.5 tesla MRI scanner was used. The accuracy of endoscopic MRI in visualizing and staging gastrointestinal lesions was assessed. The normal gastrointestinal wall consisted of three layers, and tumors were visualized as having a low signal intensity on both T1- and T2-weighted sequences. Destruction of the wall layers was found to be characteristic of malignancy. Sufficient images were obtained in seven of eight esophageal cases (88%), but in only 14 of 24 gastric cases (58%). In patients in whom adequate visualization was achieved, the endoscopic MRI results of local and regional staging were consistent with surgical, histopathological, CT and/or EUS results in all six esophageal cancer cases and in 89% (T stage) and 56% (N stage) of the nine patients with gastric cancer. These preliminary results of endoscopic MRI are the first to be reported in the English literature. They show the potential of the method for local and regional staging, three-dimensional visualization of lesions being a potential advantage. Further technical improvements are expected."}
{"id": "8554267", "title": "[Imaging of cancer of the esophagus: ultrasound-endoscopy or computed tomography?].", "content": "[Imaging of cancer of the esophagus: ultrasound-endoscopy or computed tomography?]. The aim of this retrospective study, in 100 patients who had an esophagectomy from 1987 to 1992 for squamous cell carcinoma of the thoracic esophagus, was to determine the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and computed tomography (CT) in the preoperative staging of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). The EUS report were compared to the pathological findings for the T stage. Both EUS and CT reports were compared with surgical and pathological findings for N stage (N0/N1) and mediastinal extension. In the 100 patients, EUS accuracy for T stage was 80%; EUS was more accurate for N stage than CT (71% vs 55% respectively; p < 0.02), and as accurate as CT for mediastinal extension (86% vs 85%). In the 26 SCC estimated superficial by EUS (all passed through), EUS accuracy was 92% for T stage and 77% for the distinction between mucosal and submucosal tumours; for N stage, EUS and CT accuracies were equivalent (77% vs 81%). In the 44 SCC passed and estimated advanced by EUS, EUS accuracy for T stage was 68%; EUS was more accurate than CT for N stage (77% vs 48%, p < 0.01) and as accurate as CT for mediastinal extension (86 vs 84%). In the 30 SCC not passed by EUS, accuracies of EUS and CT were equivalent for N stage (57% vs 47%) and for mediastinal extension (73% vs 73%). This study suggests that: a) for SCC estimated superficial by EUS, EUS does not differentiate reliably mucosal from submucosal tumors and CT is useless; b) routine EUS seems unnecessary for SCC not passed through by endoscopy; c) CT is still useful in patients with advanced SCC, mainly for detection of distant metastases."}
{"id": "8535621", "title": "Staging of pancreatic cancer. Analysis of literature results.", "content": "Staging of pancreatic cancer. Analysis of literature results. Staging of pancreatic cancer is still considered to be one of the most difficult areas of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in gastroenterology. Variable scanning planes to obtain images of the tumor and its relationship to surrounding structures and vessels as well as a variety of possible artifacts in the scanning of pancreatic tumors greatly contribute to these difficulties. This review attempts to cover all relevant aspects of the literature regarding pancreatic cancer staging."}
{"id": "8528972", "title": "Surgical therapy for gastric cancer.", "content": "Surgical therapy for gastric cancer. The aim of any surgical approach to gastric carcinoma should be a complete resection with no residual tumor left behind, that is, a R0-resection according to the UICC. Complete tumor resection in this respect refers to the primary tumor as well as the lymphatic drainage and requires an adequate safety margin. The indications for surgical therapy of gastric cancer and the choice of procedure should consequently be guided by the tumor stage. This requires accurate preoperative staging, which can today be achieved with endoscopic ultrasonography and surgical laparoscopy. Gastric carcinoma stage IA (mucosa carcinoma) can be cured by local excision. In patients with tumor stages IB (submucosa carcinoma), II, and IIIA, lymph node metastases are common. Based on the available data, this group of patients benefits from radical resection and D2 lymph node dissection. In patients with advanced gastric carcinoma, that is, tumor stages IIIB and IV, a complete tumor removal usually can not be achieved by surgical resection. Neoadjuvant therapeutic modalities should consequently be assessed in these patients. Based on tumor location and growth pattern, a total gastrectomy is the procedure of choice in patients with middle and proximal third gastric cancer. A subtotal gastrectomy may be performed in patients with tumors of the distal third and \"Laur\u00e9n's intestinal type\" growth pattern. Depending on the individual tumor situation, the gastrectomy can be extended toward varying portions of the distal esophagus or a pancreas, preserving splenectomy and resection of the retroperitoneal lymph nodes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7895567", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer. The accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) for diagnosis of pancreatic cancers was evaluated in consecutive 232 patients with possible pancreatic cancer, and that for assessment of their locoregional spread was evaluated in 28 patients with pancreatic cancer subjected to pancreatectomy, in comparison with the accuracies of transabdominal ultrasonography (US) and computed tomography (CT). EUS was found to be significantly more accurate than US or CT and was especially useful for detecting small pancreatic cancers of less than 2 cm in diameter. With EUS, pancreatic cancers could be detected as a hypoechoic mass with a relatively unclear margin and irregular internal echoes. EUS was also more sensitive than CT and US for detecting venous and gastric invasions: it was more useful for detecting direct invasion of pancreatic cancers when the tumors were less than 3 cm in diameter. These findings indicate that EUS is an accurate method for diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and assessment of their locoregional spread and is particularly useful for detecting small tumors."}
{"id": "7789682", "title": "The feasibility of three-dimensional endoscopic ultrasonography: a preliminary report.", "content": "The feasibility of three-dimensional endoscopic ultrasonography: a preliminary report."}
{"id": "7789681", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy of lesions in the upper gastrointestinal tract.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy of lesions in the upper gastrointestinal tract."}
{"id": "7773356", "title": "A case of early gastric malignant lymphoma diagnosed and completely resected by strip biopsy.", "content": "A case of early gastric malignant lymphoma diagnosed and completely resected by strip biopsy. A case of early gastric malignant lymphoma definitively diagnosed by strip biopsy is reported. The subsequent operation revealed that the strip biopsy had resulted in radical resection. A 55-year-old woman visited our hospital for detailed examination of a small gastric lesion. Histologic findings of the specimens obtained by conventional forceps biopsy indicated reactive lymphoid hyperplasia, although the possibility of malignant lymphoma was not completely ruled out. Strip biopsy was, therefore, performed to establish a definitive diagnosis. Histopathological examinations of the strip biopsy specimen revealed definitive findings of malignant lymphoma, which was B-cell phenotype immunocytochemically. The margin of the resected specimen was free of invasion by malignant lymphoma and no lymph node involvement was suggested by endoscopic ultrasonography, computed tomography, and gallium scintigram. Subtotal gastrectomy was subsequently performed to rule out the possibility of remaining malignant lymphoma cells. It was proven that the strip biopsy removed the lesion completely and no perigastric lymph nodes were involved. While is still controversial as to whether strip biopsy should be adopted for the radical resection of early gastric lymphoma, this procedure can definitely provide excellent specimens for the accurate diagnosis of gastric malignant lymphoma and probably for group III lesions in the stomach."}
{"id": "7754650", "title": "[Multiple gastric wall abscesses--a rare differential endosonographic diagnosis of submucous stomach tumors].", "content": "[Multiple gastric wall abscesses--a rare differential endosonographic diagnosis of submucous stomach tumors]. We report a rare case of a 52 year old patient with multiple gastric wall abscesses. In 1987 a selective proximal vagotomy was performed. Because of non-specific gastric symptoms in 1993 an endoscopy and an endoscopic ultrasound was performed at another hospital which resulted in the likely diagnosis of multiple leiomyomas. Three months later a control endosonography showed three well demarcated submucosal tumors, partly echo-genic, but with an inhomogeneous echo-pattern. A laparotomy and histological examination of the submucosal gastric tumors revealed multiple gastric abscesses with granulomas after selective proximal vagotomy. Difficulties in the differential diagnosis of submucosal gastric tumors arising from this case are demonstrated and discussed."}
{"id": "7754626", "title": "Potentially resectable gastric carcinoma: current approaches to staging and preoperative therapy.", "content": "Potentially resectable gastric carcinoma: current approaches to staging and preoperative therapy. The incidence of gastric carcinoma has declined worldwide during the past several decades, and yet this cancer remains the most common malignancy in several countries around the world, particularly Japan, Chile, and Costa Rica. Gastric carcinoma, although not as common in the United States as it was in the past, is still the eighth most frequent cause of cancer death. For patients with localized gastric carcinoma, surgery remains the most effective therapy, resulting in a consistent but low rate of cure. Unresectable gastric carcinoma is an incurable disease with the exception of a small fraction of patients who are salvaged with chemoradiotherapy. In Western countries curative resection rates have been dismal because of the lack of early diagnosis. Additionally, postoperative adjuvant strategies in the United States and Europe have been ineffective. Even patients with curative resection frequently develop intraperitoneal and systemic carcinoma in addition to locoregional relapses. Many investigators have therefore embarked on the therapeutic strategies of preoperative chemotherapy and postoperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy. The preoperative chemotherapy strategy has particular appeal because of its potential to reduce the size of the primary tumor, thereby allowing a higher rate of curative resection; early systemic therapy of micrometastases might prove biologically more effective. To date, several studies using preoperative chemotherapy have demonstrated its feasibility. The effectiveness of repeated courses of postoperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy remains unsettled mainly owing to the inadequacy of peritoneal drug distribution and the associated toxic effects. Additional investigations are necessary to improve preoperative staging with the use of endoscopic ultrasonography and laparoscopy (peritoneal staging).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7754625", "title": "Preoperative chemotherapy for unresectable gastric cancer.", "content": "Preoperative chemotherapy for unresectable gastric cancer. Even with extended surgery, including systematic lymphadenectomy of the lymph node compartment II, only half of the patients with locally advanced gastric cancer (LAGC), which comprises stages IIIA, IIIB, and IV, undergo a macroscopic and microscopic tumor-free resection (i.e., R0 resection, according to UICC 1987/AICC 1988). An improvement of this situation is best accomplished by preoperative treatment modalities to increase the R0 resection rate and by preoperative and postoperative treatment to reduce local recurrences and distant metastases. For LAGC, which includes approximately two-thirds of patients with locoregionally confined tumors, preoperative chemotherapy (CTx) represents a promising approach. Among a group of patients with surgically or clinically staged unresectable LAGC, approximately half underwent R0 resection after down-staging induced by active modern CTx. The long-term survival of these patients seems to be improved. Even in patients who had primarily unresectable tumors as defined by an explorative laparotomy, the long-term survival was about 20% after preoperative CTx and subsequent surgery. Based on these experiences, randomized trials investigating preoperative CTx versus surgery alone are clearly needed to define whether such an approach has an impact on R0 resection rates and survival of patients with LAGC. Preconditions for such trials are clinical staging procedures, including endoscopic ultrasonography (T category) and surgical laparoscopy plus lavage (excluding peritoneal carcinomatosis), and a standardized surgical procedure."}
{"id": "7728350", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography of the pancreas.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography of the pancreas. The pancreas is the most technically demanding area to image with EUS. This technique, however, has found a clinical niche in evaluating patients with pancreatic cancer to determine resectability and likely will play a prominent role in the future in diagnosis through ultrasonographically directed FNA. Its role in localization of neuroendocrine tumors is established as long as preoperative localization is important in management. It is unlikely that a competing technology will develop in the near future with resolution the same or better than EUS. The role of EUS in the evaluation of early chronic pancreatitis is still under investigation, but it is likely that it can play a role adjunctive to ERCP. If FNA can be demonstrated to be safe and the interpretation of the cytology is accurate, then EUS could play an important role in this area. In the future, EUS may be used to acutely aspirate pancreatic pseudocysts and potentially could be useful in differentiating pseudocysts amenable to endoscopic drainage versus those that would be managed best by percutaneous or surgical drainage. With some design modifications, it may be feasible in the future to use ultrasonographic guidance to puncture pseudocysts and then place nasocystic drains or internal stents. These areas will need further investigation and further technological development."}
{"id": "7709663", "title": "[Preoperative locoregional staging of stomach carcinoma with endosonography].", "content": "[Preoperative locoregional staging of stomach carcinoma with endosonography]. From January 1987 till February 1992, a total of 203 consecutive patients with gastric carcinoma were evaluated with endosonography before operation. Endosonographic findings were categorized according to the TNM classification and compared with the histology of the resected specimen (n = 165). The overall accuracy rate of EUS in the assessment of the depth of tumor infiltration was 78%. The sensitivity and specificity of EUS in the detection of regional involved nodes were 82% and 84% respectively. Microscopic tumor invasion and indistinguishable inflammatory changes were the most frequent causes of misinterpretation by EUS. Tumor stenosis was a clear limitation for endosonography in 14% of the cases."}
{"id": "7667618", "title": "[Endosonography with electronic longitudinal scan in malignant diseases of the stomach].", "content": "[Endosonography with electronic longitudinal scan in malignant diseases of the stomach]. To assess the significance of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) using an electronic longitudinal scan we examined 75 patients. 32 patients suffering from malignant diseases of the stomach (2 early cancers, 22 gastric carcinoma, 4 cancers of the cardia, 2 gastric lymphoma, 2 infiltration from outside). 31 of the 32 patients who had malignant gastric diseases were correctly diagnosed by means of EUS. The positive sensitivity was 96.9%, the positive predictive value was 86.1%. The specificity was 88.4%, the negative predictive value 97.4%. Using sonographical criteria such as thickening of the gastric wall, wall layers, delineation of outer and interior gastric wall, infiltration into the gastric wall, infiltration into neighbouring organs as well as perigastric lymph node, EUS provides reliable determination and staging of gastric tumours. Compared to conventional ultrasonography and gastric endoscopy, EUS affords considerable improvement in the diagnosis of gastric tumours, especially with regard to the identification of the infiltration of the tumour (84.4%), recognition of malignancy (28.1%), identification of the origin of the tumour (21.9%), and of regional lymph node metastases (25%)."}
{"id": "7625216", "title": "[Echo endoscopy in the local staging of gastric cancer].", "content": "[Echo endoscopy in the local staging of gastric cancer]. to evaluate the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in the pre-operative T and N staging of gastric cancer. 41 consecutive patients with gastric cancer (35 carcinomas and 6 lymphomas) underwent EUS using an Olympus GF-UM20, with 360 degrees sector scan and interchangeable frequency (7.5-12 MHz). They were classified as T1-T4 and N0-N2, according to the TNM system. These results were then compared with the surgical and pathological staging (SP), by the weighted K statistic (Kw). In 2 patients EUS staging was not possible due to cardiac stenosis and in other 4 patients, information about SP staging was not available. In the remaining 35 patients the EUS/SP agreement was good (Kw = 0.80) for stage T and moderate (Kw = 0.49) for stage N. Non-agreement was mostly due to EUS understaging, both T and N. 1) EUS is the most accurate procedure for pre-operative local staging of gastric cancer, and 2) EUS should preferably be performed by endoscopists with sonographic experience and a particular interest in the method."}
{"id": "7601053", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the diagnosis and staging of gastrointestinal Kaposi's sarcoma.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasound in the diagnosis and staging of gastrointestinal Kaposi's sarcoma. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has been evaluated for diagnosing and staging of a variety of gastrointestinal tumors, but there are no data on EUS in Kaposi's sarcoma (KS). The aim of the present study was to evaluate the role of EUS in addition to endoscopy in the diagnosis and staging of patients with established or suspected upper gastrointestinal KS. 22 male acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) patients were prospectively studied, three of them before and after chemotherapy with liposomal doxorubicin. The features of gastrointestinal KS were recorded, and EUS was assessed for diagnosis in endoscopically negative or inconclusive cases, and for staging in endoscopically visible KS lesions. The typical EUS feature of KS was a hypoechoic and nonhomogeneous lesion leading predominantly to mucosal and submucosal thickening, whereas a few lesions presented only with submucosal involvement. EUS detected suspicious lesions in two patients with negative endoscopy, which turned out to be KS on follow-up. Restaging after chemotherapy in three patients showed regression of lesions both on endoscopy and EUS. EUS may contribute to better detection of early KS lesions and a more reliable delineation of the extent of gastrointestinal KS, which is valuable for assessing the effect of various forms of therapy."}
{"id": "7582597", "title": "Large gastric folds evaluated by endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Large gastric folds evaluated by endoscopic ultrasonography. Diffuse large gastric folds may lead to difficult clinical diagnosis particularly in biopsy-negative cases. In the differential diagnosis Menetrier's disease or hypertrophic gastritis and linitis, EUS is very helpful because of its ability in imaging the location of mural abnormality. In initially negative biopsy for linitis, EUS can help the clinician in selecting the optimal site for positive biopsy. In gastric NHL, EUS can be helpful in selecting the appropriate candidate for surgery and in monitoring the response to chemotherapy and irradiation. EUS appears to be more suitable for TNM staging than the Ann Arbor classification for gastric NHL. The routine use of EUS-guided FNA should be attempted for obtaining the tissue diagnosis."}
{"id": "7582587", "title": "Restaging after radiotherapy and chemotherapy: value of endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Restaging after radiotherapy and chemotherapy: value of endoscopic ultrasonography. The outcome in gastroenterological tumors is determined by many factors. Prospective studies are required to prove the clinical value of endoscopic ultrasonography. Endoscopic ultrasonography as a staging tool may have only indirect influence on the outcome by providing potentially better selection criteria for the application of different treatments that are stage dependent."}
{"id": "7582583", "title": "Assessment of resectability of gastrointestinal cancers by endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Assessment of resectability of gastrointestinal cancers by endoscopic ultrasonography. The general principle in the treatment of malignancy is complete tumor removal. Meticulous preoperative staging determines whether the complete resection is technically possible. Should radical resection prove to be impossible, palliative methods are applied that aim at restitution of the intestinal passage without any effect on survival."}
{"id": "7582582", "title": "Interobserver variation in tumor staging.", "content": "Interobserver variation in tumor staging. Interobserver agreement in cardioesophageal and rectal tumor evaluation is generally good, especially for uT1 and uT4 tumors. Diagnosis of a uT2 tumor is difficult and results in poor agreement. However, the proportion of agreement is satisfactory for distinguishing tumors that invade the mediastinal or the perirectal fat from those that do not, a situation that may be the most relevant from a therapeutic point of view. In cases of cardioesophageal tumor, agreement for metastatic LN is lower and depends on the sites involved, with the best agreement for intra-abdominal LN, which may indicate a worse prognosis. Lack of agreement in EUS images can be avoided by precise manipulation of the echoendoscope in the upper part of the mediastinum and by improving training and the definitions regarding EUS."}
{"id": "7582581", "title": "Endosonographic staging of gastric cancer: a review of literature results.", "content": "Endosonographic staging of gastric cancer: a review of literature results. This article provides an overview of the articles published on locoregional staging of stomach cancer by endoscopic ultrasonography. For an analysis of the clinical value of EUS in the diagnosis and treatment, the reader is referred to the review books, articles, and consensus statements that are cited."}
{"id": "7582580", "title": "Endosonographic staging of esophageal cancer: a review of literature results.", "content": "Endosonographic staging of esophageal cancer: a review of literature results. A large body of literature has accumulated showing endoscopic ultrasonography to be highly accurate in the locoregional staging of esophageal cancer. Several special aspects and problems of EUS in this setting are also presented in the literature. This article reviews this body of information and presents data from endoscopic staging research."}
{"id": "7569125", "title": "Endoscopic US of the gastrointestinal tract with endoscopic, radiographic, and pathologic correlation.", "content": "Endoscopic US of the gastrointestinal tract with endoscopic, radiographic, and pathologic correlation. Endoscopic ultrasonography (US) makes it possible to evaluate the layers of the wall of the gastrointestinal tract, as well as surrounding structures. The authors have used endoscopic US to evaluate the gastrointestinal tract in 160 patients. In the esophagus, endoscopic US is useful in staging esophageal carcinoma, planning radiation therapy ports, and locating and characterizing esophageal masses. Endoscopic US of the esophagus is also used to identify varices and evaluate the results of therapy. Applications of endoscopic US in the stomach include staging of gastric carcinoma, localization and characterization of nonmucosal gastric masses, detection and evaluation of gastric varices, and evaluation of gastric lymphoma. In the pancreas, endoscopic US is used for detecting pancreatic masses; staging pancreatic, distal common bile duct, and ampullary carcinoma; and evaluation biliary tract obstruction. Applications of endoscopic US in the rectum include localization and characterization of nonmucosal lesions and local staging of rectal carcinoma."}
{"id": "7560826", "title": "Endoscopic therapy for early gastric cancer. Utility of endosonography and evaluation of prognosis.", "content": "Endoscopic therapy for early gastric cancer. Utility of endosonography and evaluation of prognosis. We analyzed 30 endoscopically treated patients with early gastric cancer in terms of the utility of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and the evaluation of prognosis. Endoscopic therapy for early gastric cancer included strip biopsy, laser irradiation, and OK-432 injection. Examination of the depth of cancer invasion in the strip biopsy specimens showed that the diagnostic accuracy of EUS was 85.7%. Complete resection rate in strip biopsy was 82.8%, and the patients with incompletely resected cancer were successfully treated with laser irradiation and/or OK432 injection. The prognosis of the patients treated with strip biopsy was good. Three patients died of causes other than gastric cancer. Local recurrence and a heterochronous new lesion developed in six patients, but all of these cases were successfully treated with additional strip biopsy. All but one patient treated with laser irradiation and/or OK 432 injection survived during the study period. These results suggest that EUS is useful in determining the indication of endoscopic therapies and that prognosis is good in patients with early gastric cancer treated endoscopically."}
{"id": "8539469", "title": "[The role of ultrasonography in the diagnosis and staging of gastroenteric lymphoma].", "content": "[The role of ultrasonography in the diagnosis and staging of gastroenteric lymphoma]. Ultrasonography (US) plays an important role in the diagnosis, staging and follow-up of gastrointestinal lymphomas particularly when associated with complementary techniques such as echo-guided biopsy and endoscopic ultrasonography. Besides the well-known ultrasonographic \"pseudo-kidney\" image as sign of gastrointestinal pathology, the \"spoke wheel\" image is suggestive of gastroenteric lymphoma. This lesion is due to the lymphomatous infiltration of intestinal wall that looks ipoechoic compared to the iperechoic lumen. An early abdominal US study performed after clinical suspicion, should allow a presumptive identification of the enteric tract involved on the basis of the relationship between the \"pseudokidney\" image and the other abdominal organs. US study of the abdomen may be useful also to demonstrate enlarged retroperitoneal or visceral lymph nodes both in primary gastroenteric or systemic lymphomas. Fine needle biopsy (FNB) of deep lymph nodes is mandatory when superficial enlarged lymph nodes are not found showing a specificity and sensitivity of 100% and 66% respectively. The typical image of gastric wall on endoscopic US is constituted of five layers; the second one represents the lamina propria with the lymphatic tissue. The thickness increase of this layer suggest the diagnosis of gastric lymphoma. Therefore the endoscopic US examination is particularly important when the endoscopic features and the endoscopic biopsies are negative. Finally endoscopic US may be used to guide FNB of gastrointestinal tract lesions."}
{"id": "8284355", "title": "Neoplasms of the upper gastrointestinal tract.", "content": "Neoplasms of the upper gastrointestinal tract. Neoplasms of the upper gastrointestinal tract are generally detected by barium studies or endoscopy. Computed tomography remains the primary imaging modality for staging. Magnetic resonance imaging and endoscopic ultrasonography may also play an increasing role in evaluating these tumors."}
{"id": "8174983", "title": "Localisation of neuroendocrine tumours of the upper gastrointestinal tract.", "content": "Localisation of neuroendocrine tumours of the upper gastrointestinal tract. In order to localise neuroendocrine tumours of the foregut type (that is, of the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas), 18 patients were studied prospectively by endoscopic ultrasonography, computed tomography, transabdominal ultrasonography, magnetic resonance imaging, and somatostatin receptor scintigraphy. These 18 patients had a total of 25 primary tumour lesions which were verified histologically in tissue obtained by surgery or by ultrasound or endoscopy guided biopsy. Tumours were found in the stomach (n = 1), duodenum (n = 6), pancreas (n = 17), and liver (n = 1). Endoscopic ultrasonography had the highest sensitivity for tumour detection, followed by somatostatin receptor scintigraphy, computed tomography, transabdominal ultrasonography, and magnetic resonance imaging (88%, 52%, 36%, 32%, and 24% respectively). Endoscopic ultrasonography was especially sensitive in tumours smaller than 2 cm in diameter (88% v somatostatin receptor scintigraphy 35%; computed tomography 12%; transabdominal ultrasonography 6%; and magnetic resonance imaging 0%). Of 17 tumours located in the pancreas, endoscopic ultrasonography showed a sensitivity of 94% (somatostatin receptor scintigraphy 47%; computed tomography 47%; transabdominal ultrasonography 41%; and magnetic resonance imaging 29%). Of eight extrapancreatic tumours, six were identified by endoscopic ultrasonography, five by somatostatin receptor scintigraphy, and only one by computed tomography, transabdominal ultrasonography, and magnetic resonance imaging. One neuroendocrine tumour that was not detected by endoscopic ultrasonography was correctly identified by somatostatin receptor scintigraphy. Endoscopic ultrasound allowed correct determination of the tumour size and tumour spread into parapancreatic structures, especially the large vessels (T stage), in all 14 patients operated upon. The lymph node stage (N stage) was correctly determined in 10 of these 14 patients. In summary, endoscopic ultrasonography and somatostatin receptor scintigraphy were the most sensitive imaging methods for the localisation of these tumours and should be used as early diagnostic procedures to accurately stage neuroendocrine tumours of the foregut type."}
{"id": "8055243", "title": "Role of endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosis, staging, and outcome of gastrointestinal diseases.", "content": "Role of endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosis, staging, and outcome of gastrointestinal diseases. Using endoscopic ultrasound imaging, highly accurate gastrointestinal tumor characterization and staging is now possible without surgery. Precise endosonographic preoperative staging allows use of the TNM pathological staging system to stratify treatment for esophageal, gastric, rectal, and pancreatobiliary tumors. Endoscopic ultrasonography often establishes a diagnosis in malignant and, in certain patients, benign disease; accurately evaluates anastomoses for recurrent tumor; and characterizes submucosal masses. When histology is required, endoscopic ultrasonography has a critical role in defining an abnormal area for deep submucosal biopsy from the gastrointestinal lumen. Endoscopic ultrasonography is unsurpassed in determining resectability of gastrointestinal neoplasms. It can be used to monitor treatment of downstaged tumors prior to attempted resection. Using endoscopic ultrasonography for earlier diagnosis and precise staging will significantly improve the clinical outcome of patients with gastrointestinal disease as significant advances both in surgical techniques and in combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy continue to be made and applied selectively."}
{"id": "8052089", "title": "[Primary stomach lymphoma of the MALT type. Diagnosis and therapy. Gastrointestinal Lymphoma Study Group].", "content": "[Primary stomach lymphoma of the MALT type. Diagnosis and therapy. Gastrointestinal Lymphoma Study Group]. Primary gastric lymphoma are nowadays considered as a distinct lymphoma entity. Their classification is based on the concept of MALT (Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue). Within the gastrointestinal tract, the stomach is most frequently involved. In the pathogenesis of gastric lymphoma, Helicobacter pylori-associated gastritis plays an important, conditioning role. Usually, the diagnosis of gastric lymphoma can be established on the basis of endoscopic biopsies. Endoscopic ultrasound seems highly useful for differentiating the depth of lymphoma infiltration and for evaluating the perigastric lymph nodes. Options in the therapy of gastric lymphoma are based on their histological grade and stage of the disease. They include surgical resection and/or radiotherapy for local tumor control as well as chemotherapy in the case of disseminated disease or high malignancy. Currently, special interest focuses on the effect of Helicobacter pylori eradication."}
{"id": "8001485", "title": "Endosonographically guided fine-needle aspiration puncture of paraesophagogastric mass lesions: preliminary results.", "content": "Endosonographically guided fine-needle aspiration puncture of paraesophagogastric mass lesions: preliminary results. Mass lesions adjacent to the gastroesophageal wall can be visualized in detail by endoscopic ultrasonography. However, in many patients tissue diagnosis of these mass lesions is urgently required. We evaluated the efficiency of transmural fine-needle aspiration puncture guided by endosonography for cytological confirmation of such mass lesions. Endosonographically guided transmural fine-needle aspiration (EUS-guided FNA) puncture was performed in 12 patients with extrinsic mass lesions adjacent to the gastro-esophageal wall. In seven patients a malignant tumor and in four patients a benign lesion, were identified by EUS-guided FNA puncture, while in one patient no diagnostic tissue specimen could be obtained. No complications were observed. The cytological result of a malignant lesion was confirmed in six patients either by autopsy (n = 3), resection of tumor metastasis (n = 1) or by demonstration of a local recurrence of a previously histopathologically diagnosed carcinoma (n = 2), while the benign cytological results in four patients were confirmed by a follow-up period of at least 13 months (n = 3) and appropriate diagnostic tests (n = 1). It is concluded that EUS-guided FNA puncture is an efficient diagnostic technique for the assessment of malignancy and tissue diagnosis of extrinsic paragastroesophageal mass lesions. An important precondition for the successful performance of transmural EUS-guided FNA puncture is the application of endosonographic transducers with longitudinal scanning in the axis of the endoscope."}
{"id": "7975784", "title": "[Endosonographic findings in the upper gastrointestinal tract in staging of malignant nodal and extranodal lymphomas].", "content": "[Endosonographic findings in the upper gastrointestinal tract in staging of malignant nodal and extranodal lymphomas]. Endoscopic ultrasound has not yet become a routine procedure for the diagnosis and therapy planning of malignant lymphomas, and it was always restricted to patients with gastric or bowel involvement. From 1990 to 1992, 33 endoscopic ultrasound investigations have been performed in 25 patients with malignant lymphomas at the Cologne University Hospital. In addition, 21 of these patients had other (conventional) diagnostic procedures at the same time serving as reference. Endoscopic ultrasound showed lymphomas in 16/21 patients, and no evidence of lymphomas in 5/21 patients. The referencial investigations together showed lymphomas in 17/21 patients, and no evidence of lymphomas in 4/21 patients. Therefore, sensitivity was 94%. 5 of the patients in addition had involvement of the upper gastrointestinal tract's wall, proven by referencial investigations, which was diagnosed correctly in all cases. The pathological lymph nodes appeared mostly as echopoor, rather sharply demarcated and homogeneous. Their size was 7 mm to 55 mm in diameter, median 11 mm. The different histological types of lymphomas could not be distinguished by means of these criteria. Endoscopic ultrasound allows a detailed view at the mediastinal and epigastrical lymph node stations and may give important informations for the staging of malignant lymphomas."}
{"id": "7975766", "title": "[Primary stomach lymphoma. An assessment of the current status].", "content": "[Primary stomach lymphoma. An assessment of the current status]. The gastrointestinal tract represents the most frequent extranodal manifestation of Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Primary gastrointestinal lymphoma which are classified according to the concept of MALT (mucosa-associated-lymphoid-tissue) have to be differentiated from lymphoma involving secondarily the digestive tract. Primary gastric lymphoma which appear at an advanced age can be usually diagnosed endoscopic-bioptically. Representing the major prognostic factors options in the therapy of gastric lymphoma are based on the histologic grading and the stage of disease. Surgical resection and radiotherapy allow a good local tumor control while chemotherapy is the treatment of choice in case of disseminated disease or high malignancy. Characterizing the morphology and molecular biology of primary gastric lymphoma of the MALT, evaluating the role of endoscopic ultrasound in the local staging (EI1, EI2 and EII1), and optimating the therapeutic modalities are main topics of an ongoing prospective multicenter trial."}
{"id": "7973591", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in detection of locoregional lymph node metastases of gastrointestinal tumors].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in detection of locoregional lymph node metastases of gastrointestinal tumors]. The locoregional lymph node status was assessed via EUS and CT in 118 patients (37 female, 81 male, average age 63.1 [37-87] years) who had histologically confirmed neoplasias in the upper GI tract. These investigations were made as part of preoperative tumour staging. Resections were performed subsequently, yielding regional lymph node metastases in 76 cases and in 23 patients only enlarged lymph nodes with benign histological findings. Overall accuracy of findings of regional lymph node metastases was 84% for oesophageal carcinomas with EUS and 57% with CT, 78% for gastric carcinomas with EUS and 46% with CT and 68% for pancreatic and ampullary carcinomas with EUS and 53% with CT. In 2 non-Hodgkin lymphomas of the stomach, paragastral malignant lymphomas were identified via EUS but not via CT. In two further cases both methods yielded false positive results. Locoregionally enlarged lymph nodes with exclusively benign histology were found in 22 of 23 cases via EUS but were misinterpreted as metastases in 15 cases. Hence, EUS is evidently superior to CT in identifying locoregional lymph node metastases. The accuracy, however, does not represent tumour status assessment made possible with the help of endosonographic criteria; rather, it is essentially due to the high degree of sensitivity of the method and the scarcity of completely benign enlargements of lymph nodes in the vicinity of neoplasias."}
{"id": "7973291", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography--indications and results in diseases of the esophagus and stomach].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography--indications and results in diseases of the esophagus and stomach]. Based on own experience and on published data we report about indications and efficacy of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in esophageal and gastric diseases. At the present time the following conclusions can be drawn: Submucous tumors can be clearly demonstrated and unequivocally distinguished from extramural compressions. Although the EUS aspect does not allow to differentiate benign from malignant lesions, EUS findings can give hints as to the nature of a submucous tumor (leiomyoma, lipoma, cyst). The main indication for EUS ist local tumor staging. The pT stage of esophageal carcinoma can be assessed correctly in 84% (73 to 92%) and that of gastric carcinoma in 80% (69 to 92%) of the cases by EUS. Especially in early tumor stages, EUS is superior to computed tomography. Regional lymph node metastases can be visualized in 70 to 90% of the cases. EUS is also helpful in the follow-up of patients with operative resection of esophageal cancer and in patients with gastric non-Hodgkin lymphoma during radio-/chemotherapy."}
{"id": "7969597", "title": "[Ultrasonic endoscopy in the diagnosis of malignant esophagus tumors].", "content": "[Ultrasonic endoscopy in the diagnosis of malignant esophagus tumors]."}
{"id": "7958647", "title": "[Linear electronic intrarectal ultrasonography and cancer of the rectum. Results in 45 patients].", "content": "[Linear electronic intrarectal ultrasonography and cancer of the rectum. Results in 45 patients]. The aim of this study was to evaluate the preoperative staging of rectal carcinoma by intrarectal ultrasonography using linear probe or curved array transducer. Between October 1991 and July 1993, preoperative staging with endoscopic ultrasound was performed in 45 patients with rectal carcinoma. Twenty-four received preoperative radiation therapy. For carcinoma of the middle and the lower part of rectum, the distance between the inferior pole of the tumour and the levator ani muscle was systematically measured. The ultrasound results were compared with histological and surgical findings. The staging was accurately predicted in 82.2% of cases. The depth of cancer invasion was correct in 93.3% (95.2% when preoperative radiation therapy was not applied and 79.1% after radiation therapy). Presence or absence of lymph nodes metastasis was correctly determined in 84.4% (90.5% when preoperative radiation therapy was not applied and 79.1% after radiation therapy). The distance between the inferior pole of the tumour and the levator ani muscle was correctly determined in 29/31 carcinoma of the middle and the lower part of rectum. While the linear and sectorial technique is more difficult when the tumour was circular, the staging of the lower part of rectum carcinoma and anal canal was easier."}
{"id": "7940168", "title": "Computed tomography or endoscopic ultrasonography in preoperative staging of gastric and esophageal tumors.", "content": "Computed tomography or endoscopic ultrasonography in preoperative staging of gastric and esophageal tumors. Accurate preoperative staging of tumors of the esophagus and stomach is important in selecting treatment and determining prognosis. To date, no exact preoperative test has been useful in assessing stage of these tumors. Until recently, computed tomographic (CT) scanning has been the most frequently used examination to predict operative findings. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is a relatively new modality used by some centers to assess extramural anatomy of tumors in these two locations. We described 28 patients with tumors involving the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction, and the stomach, who underwent both EUS and CT before surgical exploration. We compared these two tests with the final pathologic interpretation and paid particular attention to presence of lymph nodes and wall penetration by primary tumor. For wall penetration by an esophageal-gastroesophageal junction carcinoma, EUS was 85% accurate versus 15% for CT. For absence of nodal spread by these tumors, EUS was 100% accurate versus 67% for CT. In the presence of nodal spread EUS was 60% accurate versus 50% for CT. For wall penetration by a gastric carcinoma, EUS was 71% accurate versus 0% for CT. In the absence of nodal spread EUS and CT were both 100% accurate. In the presence of nodal spread EUS was 50% accurate versus 25% for CT. EUS is more accurate than CT in the preoperative staging of upper gastrointestinal malignancies."}
{"id": "7774792", "title": "[Early gastric cancer staging by radiology, endoscopy, trans-endoscopic ultrasonography and its anatomo-pathological correlation].", "content": "[Early gastric cancer staging by radiology, endoscopy, trans-endoscopic ultrasonography and its anatomo-pathological correlation]. Early gastric cancer detection is still in its more elementary step in the western hemisphere, while in Japan gastric cancer is detected mainly in its early stage. The aim of this article is to analyze the Japanese method for early gastric cancer detection and staging, by sketch of certain morphologic criterions and a report of a typical case. In our case the lesion's staging was predicted as submucosal by means of endoscopy and double contrast roentgenography. Endoscopic ultrasonography complemented the analysis. The standard anatomopathological work up for early gastric cancer in Japan is also analysed. By this former method the accuracy of the initial staging by endoscopy, and radiologic means was ensured. By a correct early gastric cancer diagnosis and staging a better selection of the surgical strategy and survival can be achieved."}
{"id": "7713001", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography with the ultrasonic esophagoprobe.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography with the ultrasonic esophagoprobe. Forty-one patients with either stenosing esophageal and cardia carcinoma (n = 27) or suspected tumor stenosis (n = 14), in whom conventional endosonography had failed, were evaluated with the ultrasonic esophagoprobe (blind probe). The main indication was locoregional staging of esophageal and cardia carcinomas, or restaging after radiotherapy or combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy. In 37% of the patients (10 of 27) an EUS T4 carcinoma was diagnosed, and in 63% (17/27) an EUS-T3 one. Regional lymph-node metastases were diagnosed in 96% of the cases. EUS restaging after nonsurgical palliative treatment detected tumor lesions in three of eight patients. Despite the fact that the imaging quality is still not satisfactory, our results suggest that the limitations of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) examination due to stenosing tumor growth can be overcome by the use of this ultrasonic esophagoprobe or similar instruments. Further technical developments may improve the resolution as well as the imaging quality in the celiac axis region."}
{"id": "7712995", "title": "The role of endoscopic ultrasonography in the biliary tract: ampullary tumors.", "content": "The role of endoscopic ultrasonography in the biliary tract: ampullary tumors."}
{"id": "7712987", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography of perigastrointestinal lymph nodes.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography of perigastrointestinal lymph nodes. The introduction of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has opened a window in the diagnosis of the perigastrointestinal lymph nodes. Initial euphoria has been sobered by the fact that false-positive and false-negative diagnoses may occur. We review here the use of EUS to stage gastrointestinal cancer, and particularly to predict the presence or absence of lymph-node metastases. The role of EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration using a radial scanner or a curved array echoendoscope is mentioned."}
{"id": "7712985", "title": "The role of endoscopic ultrasonography in monitoring treatment: response to chemotherapy in lymphoma.", "content": "The role of endoscopic ultrasonography in monitoring treatment: response to chemotherapy in lymphoma."}
{"id": "7712983", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for early gastric cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "10148354", "title": "Therapy hinges on staging in upper GI tract cancer.", "content": "Therapy hinges on staging in upper GI tract cancer."}
{"id": "8519242", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis of regional lymph nodes in esophageal and gastric cancer--results of studies in vitro.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis of regional lymph nodes in esophageal and gastric cancer--results of studies in vitro. A total of 90 regional lymph nodes (43 benign/47 metastatic) from 16 surgical resection specimens of patients with esophageal and gastric carcinoma were examined in vitro by endosonography. The validity of endosonographic criteria of lymph node dignity (size, echogenicity, internal echo pattern and margin structure) was assessed using computer-supported B-mode analysis and compared to histopathological results. Of 26 lymph nodes with a diameter of more than 10 mm, 19 were metastatic (72%). The subjective assessment of the internal echo pattern (homogeneity) and the node margins by an experienced observer allowed the diagnosis of metastatic lymph nodes, but there was a high proportion of false positives (52%). Lymph node echogenicity, assessed either subjectively or by computer analysis, did not permit the differentiation between benign and metastatic lymph nodes."}
{"id": "8519241", "title": "Endosonography for preoperative locoregional staging of esophageal and gastric cancer.", "content": "Endosonography for preoperative locoregional staging of esophageal and gastric cancer. To assess the accuracy and limitations of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in the preoperative staging of esophageal and gastric carcinoma, we performed a prospective controlled study over a five year period. Data from 63 patients with esophageal cancer and 147 patients with gastric cancer who underwent surgery were available for comparison of the endosonographic TNM classification to the histophathological findings of the resected specimens. The overall accuracy of EUS in the assessment of tumor infiltration depth was 85.7% and 78% in esophageal and gastric cancer, respectively. The sensitivity of EUS in the detection of regional lymph node metastases was 90% in esophageal and 87% in gastric carcinoma. The most frequent causes of misdiagnoses by endosonography were microscopic tumor invasion and peritumorous inflammatory changes. The inability to traverse a tumor stenosis restricted the endosonographic evaluation in 31.6 and 14% of the cases with esophageal and gastric cancer, respectively."}
{"id": "8508381", "title": "New staging techniques. Endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "New staging techniques. Endoscopic ultrasound. Rectal ultrasonography allows detailed images of rectal tumors and provides the most accurate method of staging rectal cancer. Ultrasound assessment of the extent of tumor invasion and lymph node involvement is superior to computed tomography (CT) scan, though CT is still the best method to assess liver involvement. Ultrasound assessment of cancers above the peritoneal reflection is less useful clinically because it currently does not alter management. Outcome studies have not been reported using ultrasound to stage rectal cancer but should be forthcoming. Inflammation present at the leading edge of the tumor is the greatest cause for overstaging, and difficulty in determining tumor involvement into, but not through, the muscularis propria is another important cause of inaccurate staging. Lymph node assessment can be problematic, but future developments in ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration cytology holds promise for more accurate assessment of lymph node status. Surgery will remain the standard method to treat rectal cancer, but new methods, such as high-intensity focused ultrasound, may provide new ways to treat some patients."}
{"id": "8507928", "title": "Adrenal myelolipoma: comparison of diagnostic imaging and pathological findings.", "content": "Adrenal myelolipoma: comparison of diagnostic imaging and pathological findings. Myelolipoma of the adrenal gland is a rare, benign, nonfunctioning lesion consisting of fat and bone marrow elements in varying proportions. This tumor is commonly asymptomatic and usually discovered during various diagnostic imaging examinations performed for unrelated diseases. If a primary malignant or metastatic adrenal tumor cannot be excluded, ultrasound- or computed tomography-guided needle biopsy of the tumor is necessary. We report a case of adrenal myelolipoma associated with advanced gastric carcinoma and compare the diagnostic imaging findings with the pathological findings of the adrenal myelolipoma."}
{"id": "8497780", "title": "[Endosonography in oncology of the upper gastrointestinal tract].", "content": "[Endosonography in oncology of the upper gastrointestinal tract]. Based on our own experience and on data from the literature, we report on the indications for and efficiency of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in the oncology of the upper gastrointestinal tract. At the present time the following conclusions can be drawn: Intramural tumors can be clearly visualized and differentiated from extragastric conditions by EUS. Pancreatic tumors smaller than 2 cm can be delineated exactly by EUS and the sensitivity of EUS in demonstrating pancreatic tumors is 90%, a fact which is especially helpful in the early diagnosis of endocrine tumors. Since the endosonographic aspect does not allow us to separate unequivocally benign from malignant alterations, a clear distinction between inflammatory (pseudo) tumors and neoplastic pancreatic lesions based on EUS findings alone is not possible. The main indication for EUS is in regional TN-staging. The pT-stage of esophageal cancers can be determined correctly in 84% (73-92), of gastric carcinomas in 80% (69-92), of pancreatic cancers in 90% (88-92) and of the distal common bile duct and of papilla of Vater in 85% (83-89) of cases. EUS is superior to computed tomography, especially in early tumor stages. The correct EUS-staging of proximal bile duct tumors and of gallbladder cancer is far more difficult, especially when the latter is filled with stones. Local lymph node metastases are visualized by EUS in about 70-90% of cases. EUS is also valuable in evaluation of the anastomosis after operative resection of esophageal or gastric carcinoma, as well as in the follow-up of patients with gastric non-Hodgkin lymphomas during radiochemotherapy."}
{"id": "8491138", "title": "Clinical utility of endoscopic ultrasonography for pancreatic tumors.", "content": "Clinical utility of endoscopic ultrasonography for pancreatic tumors."}
{"id": "8491137", "title": "EUS: an added test or a replacement for several?", "content": "EUS: an added test or a replacement for several?"}
{"id": "8491133", "title": "Role of endoscopic ultrasonography in gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Role of endoscopic ultrasonography in gastric carcinoma. Two hundred and fifty four consecutive patients with gastric adenocarcinoma who underwent surgery were preoperatively evaluated with endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). The results were compared with the post-operative histo-pathological staging. EUS was correct in determining the T and N stage in 83% and 66%, respectively. Although EUS was accurate in determining the absence of lymph node metastases (accuracy in stage N0: 93%), it was not reliable in determining stages N1 and N2 (64% and 52%, respectively). Since 88% of all T3 and T4 tumors had lymph node metastases, the concomitant T stage may be an important criterion for assessing the nature of endosonographically visualized lymph nodes. The actual R0-resection rate (78%) was almost identical to the rate predicted preoperatively by EUS (81%). We therefore consider EUS a valuable pretherapeutic procedure in patients with gastric carcinoma."}
{"id": "8491131", "title": "Staging of pancreatic carcinoma by endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Staging of pancreatic carcinoma by endoscopic ultrasonography. The ability of EUS to diagnose small pancreatic cancer is well known. In this study, we present our experience with EUS in the local staging of 29 patients with pancreatic carcinoma who underwent surgery. EUS was 79, 83 and 79% accurate in determining anterior (including gastric), duodenal and retroperitoneal (vascular) invasion by the tumor. Ultrasonography (48, 39 and 55%, respectively) and CT (38, 33 and 41%, respectively) were less reliable. EUS was equal to angiography in diagnosing vascular involvement. EUS was more effective in detecting splenoportal infiltration (sensitivity 88%, specificity 78%) than arterial involvement (accuracy 50%). EUS was also less reliable in determining the N stage (66%) and in stage grouping (72%). Although EUS is superior to ultrasonography and CT in the local staging of pancreatic carcinoma, further studies must show whether improved staging criteria will lead to better results."}
{"id": "8491130", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis and staging of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Results of a prospective study with comparison to ultrasonography and CT scan.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis and staging of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Results of a prospective study with comparison to ultrasonography and CT scan. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was compared to ultrasonography (US) and CT scan (CT) in order to evaluate its role in the diagnosis and the locoregional spread assessment of pancreatic cancer. Sixty-four patients suspected of pancreatic cancer were studied prospectively, and the results of imaging techniques were compared to histology and surgical exploration. There were 49 cases of pancreatic adenocarcinoma, 11 of pancreatitis, 2 of common bile duct carcinoma, 1 lymphoma and 1 hepatocellular carcinoma with peripancreatic metastatic lymph nodes. EUS was significantly more accurate (91%) than CT (66%) and US (64%) for diagnosis of pancreatic cancer. EUS was able to image all 7 cancers less than 25 mm in diameter, US and CT only one. There were 4 false positives with EUS which were all cases of pseudotumorous pancreatitis. For detecting lymph node involvement, EUS was significantly more sensitive (62%) and accurate (74%) than US (8% and 37%) and CT (19% and 42%), respectively. Invaded lymph nodes adjacent to large tumors and micrometastatic involvement were responsible for this lack of sensitivity. EUS was significantly more sensitive (100%) than CT (71%) and US (17%) for detecting venous involvement. The specificity of EUS was lower (67%) because of duodenal bulb stenosis and large tumors. In conclusion, this prospective and comparative study confirms that EUS is an accurate tool for diagnosis and locoregional spread assessment of pancreatic cancer when performed in a reference center. EUS is of particular interest for small tumours. However, EUS does not enable differentiation of pseudotumorous pancreatitis from adenocarcinoma."}
{"id": "8482230", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in the demonstration and staging of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas of the stomach].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in the demonstration and staging of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas of the stomach]. Nine patients (five women, four men, mean age 64.2 [49-77] years) with histologically confirmed gastric non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) were investigated before starting therapy and during follow up, using endoscopic ultrasound, computer-assisted tomography and conventional ultrasound. Of ten gastric NHL infiltrations, nine were demonstrable using endoscopic ultrasound, three by computed tomography and two with conventional ultrasound. Accurate assessment of the primary tumour stage was possible in six out of eight cases using endoscopic ultrasound, but in none using tomography or conventional ultrasound. Three of these patients had inflammatory changes in enlarged paragastric lymph nodes and five malignant lymphomatous involvement. The latter was demonstrable by endoscopic ultrasound in all cases, by computed tomography in three cases and by conventional ultrasound in two cases. False positive results were obtained in two cases using endoscopic ultrasound and computed tomography. Regression of the tumour and of paragastric lymph nodes on radio-chemotherapy was demonstrable in two cases, and progression in one using endoscopic ultrasound; the other techniques showed progression of extragastric lymphoma involvement in only one case. Endoscopic ultrasound is an efficient method for demonstration and local staging of gastric non-Hodgkin lymphomas."}
{"id": "8479656", "title": "[Role of surgery for non-Hodgkin lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract].", "content": "[Role of surgery for non-Hodgkin lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract]. From January 1974 to December 1990, 619 patients were submitted to surgical treatment for gastrointestinal carcinoma: 10 cases (1.61%) of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas were observed (4 of the stomach, 3 of the small intestine, 1 of the colon, 2 of the rectum). There were 5 men and 5 women, mean age 57.1 years (range 34-80). In 6 patients the diagnosis was performed with radiological investigations, in 4 with ultrasonography too. Endoscopy biopsy was unfit for diagnosis in the gastric localizations, while it was positive in both rectal localizations. Seven patients were operated and no postoperative morbidity or mortality was observed. The role of surgery is discussed, diagnosis for staging and therapy alone or associated with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy."}
{"id": "8470637", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for assessing the horizontal extent of invasive gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography for assessing the horizontal extent of invasive gastric carcinoma. Accurately determining the surgical resection line is essential for improving the prognosis of patients with gastric carcinoma. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was used to assess the horizontal extent of cancerous invasion below the mucosal layer. In 105 patients (110 lesions) with gastric carcinoma, ultrasonographic images of resected specimens were compared with histological findings. The horizontal extent of the hypoechoic region of in vitro ultrasound was compared with the horizontal extent of the cancerous invasion and fibrosis in histological sections. In cases showing echo patterns characteristic of peptic ulcerations within the tumor focus, the horizontal spread of the echo-poor region correlated well with the spread of fibrosis, but not with the cancerous lesion. In other cases with no ulceration, the horizontal spread of the echo-poor region corresponded well with the cancerous lesions. To evaluate oral invasion of the cancerous lesion below the mucosa, 16 patients with gastric carcinoma who had clips placed during endoscopy were subsequently examined by EUS. The use of EUS combined with the clips allowed for a more accurate diagnosis of the invasion, not only in the mucosa, but also into the submucosa and beyond. This combined diagnostic method was safe and useful for determining a suitable surgical resection line."}
{"id": "8467967", "title": "[Electronic sectorial ultrasound endoscopy in benign and malignant tumoral pathology of the stomach. Results in 30 patients].", "content": "[Electronic sectorial ultrasound endoscopy in benign and malignant tumoral pathology of the stomach. Results in 30 patients]. From October 1991 to July 1992, endoscopic ultrasound examination (EUS) was performed preoperatively in 30 patients with gastrointestinal disease with a new forward-view fiber optic gastroscope with a 5 and 7.5 MHz curved-array linear transducer mounted directly behind the lens. Before EUS examination, endoscopy with biopsy had established the diagnosis of gastric disease in 22 cases: 16 adenocarcinoma, 4 lymphoma, 1 carcinoid tumor and 1 gastric metastasis of a chorionic tumor. In the 8 other cases, endoscopic diagnosis with non productive biopsy was gastric ulcer (1 case), submucosal tumor (5 cases), and large fold gastritis (2 cases). EUS established a correct diagnosis in 6 of these 8 cases (2 leiomyoma, 1 lipoma, 1 lymphoma, 2 gastric linitis). Correct preoperative TN staging was accomplished by EUS in 83.3% and correct preoperative staging for N was accomplished by EUS in 90%. This study shows that EUS a curved-array transducer is useful in preoperative TN staging of gastric tumors."}
{"id": "8465547", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in TN staging of stomach cancer. A comparison with computerized tomography and conventional ultrasound].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in TN staging of stomach cancer. A comparison with computerized tomography and conventional ultrasound]. 64 patients with histologically proven gastric carcinoma were investigated by endosonography (EUS), computed tomography (CT) and conventional transcutaneous sonography (US). In 50 patients a resection of the stomach was performed and the histological findings were compared with the results of preoperative staging. In all cases EUS was successful in demonstrating the tumour. With CT tumour visualisation was possible in 17 (35.4%), with US in 7 (14.6%) cases. The pT-stage was correctly determined preoperatively by EUS in 40 (81.6%) with CT and US in only 12 (25%) and 4 (8.3%) patients, respectively. The staging accuracy of EUS amounted to 80% in T1-, 81% in T2-, 100% in T3-, and 67% in T4-stage. The sensitivity in demonstrating lymph node metastases was 81.3% for EUS, 25.8% for CT and 9.7% for US. The specificity in this regard was 72.2% for EUS, 83.3% for CT and 100% for EUS. The overall accuracy for determination of pN-stage was 78% for EUS, 47.9% for CT and 41.7% for US. EUS is clearly superior to CT and US in the locoregional TN-staging of gastric carcinoma."}
{"id": "8435794", "title": "Diagnosis of primary early gastric lymphoma. Usefulness of endoscopic mucosal resection for histologic evaluation.", "content": "Diagnosis of primary early gastric lymphoma. Usefulness of endoscopic mucosal resection for histologic evaluation. Eight patients thought to have primary early gastric lymphoma were studied to evaluate the usefulness of endoscopic mucosal resection for the diagnosis of reactive lymphoid hyperplasia (RLH) or malignant lymphoma. In these patients, conventional endoscopic forceps biopsy did not provide a definite histologic diagnosis. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) demonstrated that the disease was limited to the mucosa and the submucosa in all patients, without any paragastric lymph node involvement, so endoscopic mucosal resection was performed to obtain specimens large enough to include the submucosa. As a result, primary early gastric lymphoma was diagnosed in five patients, for whom subsequent gastrectomy confirmed the diagnosis. The authors recommend that endoscopic mucosal resection be performed in patients thought to have primary early gastric lymphoma and for whom a definite diagnosis can not be made by conventional endoscopic forceps biopsy."}
{"id": "8420761", "title": "Endosonography and cytology in diagnosing and staging pancreatic body and tail carcinoma. Preliminary results of endosonographic guided puncture.", "content": "Endosonography and cytology in diagnosing and staging pancreatic body and tail carcinoma. Preliminary results of endosonographic guided puncture. Endosonography was performed in diagnosing and staging pancreatic body and tail carcinoma in two patients. In the first case endoscopy, abdominal ultrasound, and computed tomography were nondiagnostic in diagnosing the origin of submucosal gastric abnormalities. Endosonography diagnosed a pancreatic tail carcinoma with submucosal gastric involvement, and this was confirmed by endosonographic-guided cytology. Fundus varices due to segmented splenic vein involvement were found. Surgery was not recommended due to the advanced disease. In the second case pancreatic body carcinoma was diagnosed by ERCP and computed tomography. Transcutaneous ultrasonographic-guided cytological puncture confirmed the diagnosis. Endosonography revealed additional information of segmental portal hypertension with fundic varices due to splenic vein involvement. Autopsy confirmed the endosonographic diagnosis."}
{"id": "8417483", "title": "Accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis and staging of gastric cancer and lymphoma.", "content": "Accuracy of endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis and staging of gastric cancer and lymphoma. There is a need to assess the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in the diagnosis and staging of gastric cancer and lymphoma. A prospective study was performed on 86 patients with endoscopic gross appearance suspicious for cancer or lymphoma. Biopsies with endoscopic forceps were always carried out before EUS. All patients underwent laparotomy for final diagnosis, staging, and eventually treatment. The results of EUS were correlated with the histologic findings of the resected specimens, when possible, or with the surgical findings. There were 42 gastric cancers and 44 primary gastric lymphomas. EUS made a correct diagnosis of cancer in 35 of 42 patients, with a sensitivity of 83%. Positive predictability was 87%, specificity was 97%, and negative predictability was 96%. Diagnostic accuracy was 95%. In the evaluation of cancer depth invasion, EUS was correct in 91% of cases. EUS displayed perigastric metastatic lymph nodes in 14 of 25 patients, with a sensitivity of 56%. Positive predictive value was 93%, specificity was 93%, and negative predictive value was 54%. Diagnostic accuracy was 69%. EUS made a correct diagnosis of lymphoma in 39 of 44 patients, with a sensitivity of 89%. Positive predictability was 87%, specificity was 97%, and negative predictability was 97%. Diagnostic accuracy was 95%. In the evaluation of lymphoma depth invasion, EUS was correct in 92% of cases. EUS displayed metastatic perigastric lymph nodes in 8 of 18 patients, with a sensitivity of 44%. Positive predictability was 100%, specificity was 100%, and negative predictability was 72%. Diagnostic accuracy was 77%. From these data it appears that in these diseases EUS has demonstrated specific ultrasonographic features that allow correct diagnosis and staging in the majority of patients. In difficult cases EUS may help to achieve the correct diagnosis. EUS also appear to be a useful tool for staging of gastric cancer and lymphoma. It shows not only tumor depth and local spread but also the passage from a pathologic to a normal wall and lymph node metastasis. With this accurate noninvasive staging procedure, in the near future many patients will no longer undergo exploratory laparotomy for surgical staging. Thanks to EUS, the choice of conservative or surgical treatment can be strongly affected. In case of surgery, EUS can orient the kind of surgical approach. Moreover, the use of EUS for evaluation of therapy during follow-up will probably become of major importance."}
{"id": "8310725", "title": "[Endosonography in diagnosis and staging of malignant tumors of the stomach. A prospective comparative study between endosonography, computerized tomography and conventional ultrasonography].", "content": "[Endosonography in diagnosis and staging of malignant tumors of the stomach. A prospective comparative study between endosonography, computerized tomography and conventional ultrasonography]. 78 patients with histologically proven malignant tumors of the stomach (64 carcinomas, 10 non-Hodgkin lymphomas [NHL], 4 sarcomas) were investigated by endosonography (EUS), computed tomography (CT) and conventional ultrasound (US) during TN-staging (TNM-classification/UICC-1987 for carcinomas and NHL, TNMG-classification for sarcomas). In 60 patients (50 carcinomas, 6 NHL, 4 sarcomas) an operative resection was performed and the histological findings were compared with the results of preoperative staging. Demonstration of tumor was successful with EUS in 77 (99%), with CT in 33 (42%) and with US in 18 (23%) cases. The T-stage was correctly determined preoperatively by EUS in 50 (81%), by CT and US only in 15 (24%) and in 7 (11%) patients respectively. The accuracy of EUS in determining the T-stage of carcinomas and NHL amounted to 79% in T1-, 92% in T2-, 92% in T3- and 67% in T4-stage. In gastric sarcomas infiltrative destruction of the gastric wall could be demonstrated with EUS in all patients and with CT in 3 of 4 cases. With EUS and CT two smaller tumors were correctly delineated as submucous tumors while with US this was not possible in any case. In demonstrating local lymph node metastasis EUS achieved a sensitivity of 85%, CT of 29% and US of 13%. The specificity of EUS was 72%, of CT 79% and of US 100%. The overall accuracy for the pN-stage was 79.7% for EUS, 51.6% for CT and 42.2% for US. EUS proves to be an efficient method in the local TN-staging of gastric carcinomas an NHL.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8287810", "title": "Role of endosonography in the surgical management of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the stomach.", "content": "Role of endosonography in the surgical management of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the stomach. Ten patients with primary gastric non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) were preoperatively assessed by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). Tumor infiltration depth and lymph node involvement were assessed using the TNM classification system. EUS was 80% accurate in determining the TL stage and 90% in detecting lymph node metastases (NL stage). Based on the longitudinal tumor extent (antrum to fundus), as assessed by preoperative (n = 10) and additionally, intraoperative EUS (n = 3), partial gastric resection was performed in nine patients and total gastrectomy in one. All resection specimens had tumor-free resection margins (R0 resection rate 100%). These results were compared to those in 23 patients with gastric NHL operated on prior to the introduction of EUS in the hospital who were comparable with respect to tumor location and extent. In comparison with the ten cases where treatment was guided by EUS, the rate of total gastrectomy was higher (65% versus 10%) and the R0 resection rate lower (72% versus 100%) in this group of 23 patients. These results show that EUS may play a crucial role in the pre-surgical staging of gastric NHL."}
{"id": "8287809", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the local staging of primary gastric lymphoma.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the local staging of primary gastric lymphoma. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and endoscopy were prospectively performed and compared to the histopathologic findings of the resection specimens in 24 patients with primary gastric lymphoma (PGL). On EUS, three types of PGL could be differentiated, a superficial type (n = 10), an infiltrating type (n = 12) and a tumorous type (n = 2). In the correct assessment of surface extension of the tumors, endoscopy and EUS agreed in 37.5% of cases and EUS showed more extensive disease than endoscopy in 58% of cases. However, in comparison to the resection specimens, EUS still underestimated the tumor surface extension in 37.5% of cases; this was mainly in low grade malignant PGL. The depth of tumor infiltration was correctly determined on EUS compared to the resection specimens in 91.5% of cases. Sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of diagnosing lymph node metastases were 100%, 80% and 83%, respectively. We conclude that EUS is a useful pre-therapeutic staging tool for primary gastric lymphoma but there remain some problems in determining the longitudinal and circular tumor spread in order to accurately guide the extent of gastric resection."}
{"id": "8283414", "title": "[Gastric leiomyosarcoma. Ultrasonographic endoscopy and MRI].", "content": "[Gastric leiomyosarcoma. Ultrasonographic endoscopy and MRI]. Leiomyosarcoma of the stomach is an unfrequent tumor, for which the prognosis is better than for cancer of the stomach. Its development is often subserosal, thus explaining its clinical latency and its large volume at the time of diagnosis. While many publications report about the merits of conventional imaging for this type of pathology, few authors have considered ultrasonographic endoscopy, and even fewer magnetic resonance imaging. The authors present one case for which these two recent techniques were implemented, as well as a review of the literature."}
{"id": "8261991", "title": "Echoendoscopy prior to endoscopic tumor therapy--more safety?", "content": "Echoendoscopy prior to endoscopic tumor therapy--more safety? Echoendoscopy has been found useful to better define gastrointestinal tract tumors which may be suitable for endoscopic treatment. In benign tumors, echoendoscopy may be used to decrease the risk of hemorrhage or perforation before resection of large polyps or submucosal lesions. The most important indications for echoendoscopy, however, are in the field of GI oncology, and the method may lead to a better selection of superficial cancers without lymph node metastases. However, endoscopic ultrasound is still limited in differentiating mucosal from submucosal tumors and in the detection and interpretation of small lymph nodes. Technical improvements and careful interpretation of echoendoscopy will increase the number of patients cured by non-surgical procedures in the future."}
{"id": "8251741", "title": "[Endosonography of the gastrointestinal tract--an assessment of current status].", "content": "[Endosonography of the gastrointestinal tract--an assessment of current status]. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) combines endoscopy and ultrasonography. A small ultrasonic transducer incorporated into the rigid tip of endoscopes is transported into certain regions of the upper and lower gastrointestinal (GI) tract under visual control. The method allows for a high-resolution imaging of the gastrointestinal wall and organs and structures in its immediate vicinity. This is especially valuable in the preoperative local staging of gastrointestinal malignancies (esophagus, stomach, pancreas, biliary tract, colon and rectum) according to the new TNM system. In patients without distant metastases EUS helps guiding treatment decisions. EUS is also used with clinical benefit in the diagnosis of submucosal tumors and in the preoperative localization of pancreatic endocrine tumors. Its role in the diagnosis and management of benign gastroenterological disorders has still to be established."}
{"id": "8246026", "title": "Preoperative endoscopic ultrasound can predict the risk of recurrence after operation for gastric carcinoma.", "content": "Preoperative endoscopic ultrasound can predict the risk of recurrence after operation for gastric carcinoma. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has been shown to determine accurately the depth of invasion of the stomach wall in gastric carcinoma. We undertook this study to determine if T (tumor) stage as determined by EUS correlated with recurrence after resection and could be used to identify patients preoperatively at high risk for recurrence. We reviewed the surgical pathology and obtained follow-up data from the first 50 patients who underwent preoperative EUS for staging of gastric carcinoma. Rotating sector-scan ultrasound endoscopes were used with switchable frequencies of 7.5 MHz and 12 MHz. Of 50 patients, 43 underwent resection with curative intent and were available for follow-up. The concordance of EUS T stage with pathologic T stage in these patients was 86%. At a median follow-up duration of 25 months, only two of 13 patients with preoperative EUS stage T1 or T2 disease were found to have recurrence, while 23 of 30 patients with EUS stage T3 or T4 disease had recurrence (P = .0002) and 22 died. We conclude that patients with a preoperative EUS stage T1 or T2 are at low risk for postoperative recurrence, while patients with EUS stage T3 or T4 are at high risk for early postoperative recurrence. The latter patients are reasonable candidates for controlled trials of alternative preoperative management programs, such as chemotherapy, in an effort to improve their poor prognosis."}
{"id": "8243932", "title": "[Guided puncture-cytology under electronic sectorial ultrasound endoscopy. Results in 26 patients].", "content": "[Guided puncture-cytology under electronic sectorial ultrasound endoscopy. Results in 26 patients]. The diagnosis of submucosal tumors, extrinsic lesions of gastrointestinal tract and mediastinal or celiac masses can be made by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) but histological confirmation (benign or malignant lesion) is still required. The aim of this study was to determine the efficacy of a new method, enabling EUS (curved array transducer)--guided fine needle aspiration of deep lesions. From October 1991 to August 1992, EUS-guided fine needle aspiration was performed in 26 patients in whom a mediastinal mass (6 cases), mediastinal lymph nodes (4 cases), submucosal tumor (5 cases), extrinsic masses (4 cases) and large fold gastric disease with negative endoscopic biopsy (7 cases) was detected by EUS. Diagnostic results were obtained in 19 of 26 patients (73.1%). A malignant tumor was detected in 21 of 26 patients. The EUS-guided fine needle aspiration was positive in 16 cases. The sensitivity for diagnosis of malignancy was 76.2% while specificity was 100%. The development of this new technique in the future needs further study."}
{"id": "1732981", "title": "Regional lymph node metastasis in gastric cancer: evaluation with endoscopic US.", "content": "Regional lymph node metastasis in gastric cancer: evaluation with endoscopic US. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) was performed in 83 patients with gastric cancer to evaluate regional lymph node metastasis. Histopathologic findings were compared with preoperative EUS findings in a total of 1,519 resected lymph nodes. In lymph node staging, the prevalence of metastatic adenopathy was 31.3% (26 of 83 patients); EUS had an accuracy of 83.1% (69 of 83 patients), sensitivity of 53.8% (14 of 26 patients), specificity of 96.5% (55 of 57 patients), positive predictive value of 87.5% (14 of 16 patients), and negative predictive value of 82.1% (55 of 67 patients). The greater the maximum diameter of the node with metastasis, or the larger the ratio of the metastatic area to the cross-sectional area of the node, the higher the detection rate. In tumors classified on the basis of depth of invasion according to the 1987 TNM system, the rate of detection of metastasis in individual nodes was 0% in pT1 tumors (none of five nodes), 20% in pT2 tumors (17 of 85 nodes), 29% in pT3 tumors (20 of 70 nodes), and 10% in pT4 tumors (three of 31 nodes). It is concluded that the most important use of EUS will be in diagnosis of regional lymph node metastasis."}
{"id": "1641613", "title": "[Reoperation in colorectal carcinoma with curative intention].", "content": "[Reoperation in colorectal carcinoma with curative intention]. From the surgical point of view it may be helpful to adopt the following guidelines in the treatment of patients with metastatic or locally recurrent colorectal cancer: 1. A gastroenterologist concerned with oncological patients should initiate adequate resectional treatment of the primary tumor. 2. In case of locoregional recurrences, every diagnostic effort (endoscopy, intraluminal ultrasound, angiogram, CT-scan, MRI) should be made to select patients with limited and resectable disease. 3. In patients with liver metastases amenable to surgical resection it is mandatory to rule out extrahepatic disease preoperatively as far as possible. 4. Prognostic factors deriving from tumor-biological data, extent of recurrent disease, and laboratory findings (CEA) must be taken into consideration when the decision whether to operate is to be made. These arguments should also be used to support non-operative treatment in patients with a type of recurrence that cannot be cured by surgery. 5. Postoperatively, all information (intraoperatively detected extrahepatic disease, tumor infiltrated resection margins, CEA not returning to normal levels) should be combined to classify patients according to whether they carry a high risk for a second tumor recurrence and should thus undergo additional treatment. In a \"low-risk situation\", further follow-up seems to be adequate."}
{"id": "1633775", "title": "Application of ultrasonic probes prior to endoscopic resection of early gastric cancer.", "content": "Application of ultrasonic probes prior to endoscopic resection of early gastric cancer. The development of a new strip biopsy technique for endoscopic mucosectomy utilizing endoscopic saline injection and a double-channel endoscope permits the safe and simple resection of superficial type early gastric cancer which has been difficult to perform with conventional polypectomy techniques. Preresection assessment of the depth of invasion and postresection assessment of efficacy are important with regard to treatment of early gastric cancer, but conventional endoscopic ultrasonography employed for this purpose requires special equipment and involves intricate procedures. An ultrasonic probe which can be used endoscopically has recently been developed and is currently in the trial stage. The authors have conducted studies with respect to a 7.5 MHz radial scanning type Miniature Ultrasonic Probe as well as a 20 MHz manual linear scanning type Sonoprobe System. Experimental studies indicated that the former type is capable of delineating postresection ulcers, while the latter permitted delineation of tumors as hypoechoic images in 9 of 11 cases of early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "1633773", "title": "Enlarged lymph nodes: malignant or not?", "content": "Enlarged lymph nodes: malignant or not? Prospective controlled data of lymph node evaluation by endoscopic ultrasound in esophageal, gastric and pancreatic cancer is presented. Lymph node pattern, changes of boundaries and echogenicity were considered. Preoperative findings of endoscopic ultrasound were classified according to TNM staging. Only those cases with subsequent histologic examination of the resected specimen were entered into the study. Sensitivity of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was 90% for esophageal and 87% for gastric cancer. The specificity was 72% and 88%, respectively. In spite of the overall satisfactory results of EUS in evaluation of lymph nodes, further improvement in detection and differentiation of benign and malignant nodes is required."}
{"id": "1633770", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosis and staging of pancreatic and biliary tumors.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in diagnosis and staging of pancreatic and biliary tumors."}
{"id": "1633769", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis, staging and follow-up of esophageal and gastric cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis, staging and follow-up of esophageal and gastric cancer. The accumulating data show that endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is highly compatible with the UICC/AJCC staging classification for esophageal and gastric cancer, based on the TNM system expressing anatomical extent of disease. The great strength of EUS in staging these cancers is its ability to image the gut wall and adjacent structures in unique detail. EUS is more accurate than computed tomography in staging the depth of primary tumor invasion (T) and regional lymph node metastases (N). High frequency EUS is not useful in staging for distant metastases (M) due to limited depth of the field. EUS also has limitations in reliably distinguishing between neoplastic and inflammatory tissue. Thus, the major use of EUS is in staging rather than in diagnosis. However, initial reports indicate that EUS may be helpful in the detection of malignancy in Barrett's esophagus, in diagnosing post-operative recurrent cancer, and in evaluating the response to non-operative therapy. EUS appears to represent an important advance in the staging and follow-up of patients with esophageal and gastric cancer. Instruments and techniques will continue to evolve, but the next level of research should be designed to show that the improved staging provided by EUS has clinical utility and can affect patient outcome."}
{"id": "1574771", "title": "[The importance of the diagnostic imaging of malignant gastrointestinal tumors for radiotherapy].", "content": "[The importance of the diagnostic imaging of malignant gastrointestinal tumors for radiotherapy]. The importance of diagnostic imaging in malignant gastrointestinal tumors has moved from the primary diagnosis towards staging and follow-up studies. An accurate staging by diagnostic radiology is the cornerstone in planning radiation therapy. Especially in estimating the T- and N-stage as well as the primary diagnosis in esophagus-, gastric and rectal cancer endoscopy with endoscopic ultrasound is the method of choice. When planning radiation therapy barium studies of the esophagus and contrast enema of the colon are important. Only in the case of gastric lymphoma an upper gastrointestinal series is necessary. In the case of suspected recurrent rectal cancer CT-guided biopsy distinguishes between tumor recurrence and reactive fibrosis."}
{"id": "1559485", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography."}
{"id": "1559451", "title": "[The endosonographic staging of pancreatic carcinoma].", "content": "[The endosonographic staging of pancreatic carcinoma]. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), conventional ultrasound (US), computed tomography (CT) and angiography were compared in their assessment of local resectability in 35 consecutive patients (19 men, 16 women; mean age 49.8 [42-821] years) with non-metastatic carcinoma of the pancreas. The findings were made prospectively and independently of each other. EUS proved to be superior to transabdominal US and to CT in the diagnosis of tumour infiltration of the portal and splenic veins. For the portal vein the sensitivity was 93% by EUS, 14% by US and 36% by CT. Corresponding figures for the splenic vein were 92%, 39% and 69%. EUS was markedly superior to angiography in the diagnosis of portal vein involvement (sensitivity of 93% and 36%, respectively), but the two methods had similar sensitivity regarding splenic vein infiltration (92 and 100%). Tumour involvement of the coeliac trunk was diagnosed with higher sensitivity angiographically (86%) than by EUS (57%), CT (71%) or US (29%). Regarding T and N staging, EUS was superior to both US and CT. These data indicate that EUS is the most accurate method for local tumour staging of potentially resectable pancreatic carcinoma. It can replace angiography in the diagnosis of portal vein infiltration."}
{"id": "1544564", "title": "Diffuse heterotopic submucosal cystic malformation of the stomach: ultrasonographic diagnosis.", "content": "Diffuse heterotopic submucosal cystic malformation of the stomach: ultrasonographic diagnosis. The preoperative diagnosis of diffuse heterotopic submucosal cystic malformation of the stomach is very difficult to make with upper gastrointestinal (GI) series or endoscopy. We report a case of submucosal cysts associated with an early gastric carcinoma in which ultrasonography (US) and endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) were very useful in the preoperative diagnosis."}
{"id": "1509787", "title": "[Endosonography in gastroenterology--an intermediate evaluation].", "content": "[Endosonography in gastroenterology--an intermediate evaluation]. Endoscopic ultrasonography has widened the diagnostic spectrum of gastrointestinal disorders in two respects: For the first time it became possible to visualize the gastrointestinal wall with its layer structure. EUS was shown to be highly accurate in the local staging of gastrointestinal tumors (T and N stage). The clinical relevance of endosonography derives from stage-dependent treatment protocols selecting patients for different forms of tumor therapy. The second advantage of endosonography is a high-resolution imaging of the pancreas enabling the detection of small lesions (e.g. endocrine tumors). Endoscopic ultrasonography is furthermore the most reliable method for local staging of pancreatic and ampullary carcinoma. The role of endosonography in benign gastroenterological disorders is less well established. With the increasing use of laparoscopic surgery endosonography may become even more important in the future."}
{"id": "1500662", "title": "Heterotopic pancreas diagnosed by endoscopic ultrasonography and endoscopic injection of ethanol to make a histologic diagnosis.", "content": "Heterotopic pancreas diagnosed by endoscopic ultrasonography and endoscopic injection of ethanol to make a histologic diagnosis. A gastric submucosal tumor in a 56-year-old man was presumed to be heterotopic pancreas on the basis of endoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography. To obtain a histologic diagnosis we injected ethanol at the tumor site to create an artificial ulcer. This facilitated the removal of endoscopic biopsy specimens from the submucosal layer so that histologic examination could confirm the presence of heterotopic pancreatic tissue."}
{"id": "1479865", "title": "[Endosonography of stomach tumors].", "content": "[Endosonography of stomach tumors]. Based on own experience and on the published literature we report about indications and efficiency of endosonography (EUS) in gastric tumors. The following conclusions can be drawn at the present time. Submucous tumors can be clearly differentiated from extragastric compressions. Although the endosonographic aspect does not allow to formulate an etiologic diagnosis, EUS findings can give hints regarding the nature of the submucous tumor (e.g. leiomyoma, lipoma, cyst). In 75% of cases malignant submucous tumors can be visualized and a correct preoperative staging can be performed. EUS is of special importance in the description of gastric carcinoma. The pT stage can be correctly determined preoperatively in about 80% (69-92%) of cases. Accompanying inflammation in early gastric cancer can lead to overstaging. The sensitivity for local lymph node metastases reaches about 77% (50-88%). Gastric non-Hodgkin lymphomas can be excellently visualized with EUS. The sensitivity amounts to 90-100% and in about 90% of cases the extent of the tumor can be correctly determined preoperatively. The response to radio-chemotherapy of gastric non-Hodgkin lymphomas can be monitored easily with the method. At the present time EUS is the most sensitive imaging tool in visualizing and staging of gastric tumors. Its main advantage is the exact demonstration of intramural and paragastric alterations. However, despite the use of high ultrasonic frequencies and the excellent demonstration of even tiny details with EUS, biopsies for histologic evaluation are still mandatory, especially when dealing with gastric ulcer."}
{"id": "1467791", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in gastrointestinal cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in gastrointestinal cancer."}
{"id": "1463259", "title": "[Preoperative staging of gastric carcinoma using endosonography (EUS)].", "content": "[Preoperative staging of gastric carcinoma using endosonography (EUS)]. Accurate staging of gastric malignancy can only be obtained at surgery and after detailed histological examination of the resection specimen. Endoscopic ultrasonography may provide accurate detection and staging of gastric cancer because of its ability to visualize both the intramural and extramural extent of the lesion and any adjacent lymph node involvement. From february 90 to april 91, 29 patients with a gastric carcinoma were studied endosonographically before surgery. All studies were performed with an Olympus EU-M3. Preoperative TNM classification and a prediction of the resectability of gastric cancer were done in every patient. The results were matched with those obtained with the histology of resected specimens according to the TNM classification 1987. Endoscopic ultrasonography was accurate in assessing the extent and depth of tumor infiltration. The overall accuracy rate was 90.5% (19 out of 21 patients). Overstaging occurred in 9.5% of the cases (2 patients); none understaging occurred. EUS was less accurate in assessment of lymph node metastasis; the overall accuracy rate was 57.1%. Distinction between reactive lymph node and small micrometastatic lymph node involvement could be hard. Local resectability was correctly diagnosed with EUS in each of 23 patients; in two patients an intramural mass with a deep infiltration into the surrounding tissue was correctly diagnosed. In our opinion EUS is an essential diagnostic procedure in the clinical staging of the gastric cancer."}
{"id": "1461517", "title": "[Endoscopic and intraoperative ultrasonography in staging of stomach neoplasms].", "content": "[Endoscopic and intraoperative ultrasonography in staging of stomach neoplasms]. In Japan a better prognosis of gastric cancer has been achieved by early diagnosis and wide, careful lymphectomy. This is not true in western countries. Thus the Authors believe that rational surgical strategy and the careful use of advanced diagnostic tools would produce a better outcome. The Authors report the new diagnostic methods that they adopt in every case of gastric neoplasm: endoscopic ultrasonography, which also proved useful in submucosal tumors, like lymphomas; parenteral nutrition, immune status assessment for a possible use of immune response modulators, single-dose antimicrobial prophylaxis, antithrombotic prophylaxis, autologous blood storage, in order to reduce transfusion-linked risks. Surgical strategy is also reported, which includes wide resection with adequate margins, R2 lymphectomy and intraoperative assessment of disease extension by ultrasonography."}
{"id": "1386242", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography: an effective new tool for diagnosing gastrointestinal tumors.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography: an effective new tool for diagnosing gastrointestinal tumors. Endoscopic ultrasonography is a new technique used to evaluate the gastrointestinal tract and contiguous organs. High resolution endoscopic ultrasound dramatically improves tumor characterization, and enables more precise TNM staging. The earlier diagnosis achieved with this technique combined with more precise staging, permits the most effective timing and selection of chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery. This new technology will almost certainly have great impact on the clinical outcome of patients with gastrointestinal tumors."}
{"id": "1308309", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography in gastroenterology: its clinical relevance].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography in gastroenterology: its clinical relevance]."}
{"id": "2060901", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in staging a primary early gastric lymphoma: report of a case.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in staging a primary early gastric lymphoma: report of a case. A 74-year-old woman with a history of a benign gastric polyp was admitted to our hospital with a complaint of epigastric discomfort. A diagnosis of primary gastric lymphoma was confirmed by endoscopy and results of abrasive cytology. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), performed prior to surgery, demonstrated clearly the submucosal invasion of the gastric lymphoma. Histopathology on the depth and the involvement of perigastric lymph nodes of surgical specimen confirmed the accuracy of the EUS findings. Thus EUS offers a means of early preoperative diagnosis and staging of gastric lymphoma, and that is superior to conventional endoscopy in such cases."}
{"id": "2040468", "title": "Preoperative evaluation of gastric cancer by endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Preoperative evaluation of gastric cancer by endoscopic ultrasound. The preoperative use of endoscopic ultrasound was evaluated in 74 patients with confirmed gastric cancer. It was used in diagnosing the depth of invasion in the gastric wall, the infiltration to the adjacent organs, and the involvement of the perigastric lymph nodes. Results were compared with histological findings in resected specimens. Accuracy in staging gastric cancer using the T grade of the 1987 TNM system was 81.1% (60 of 74 patients). Endoscopic ultrasound provided excellent results compared with computed tomography and conventional ultrasound, particularly in evaluating perigastric lymph node metastasis and direct infiltration to the adjacent organs. The success rate in detecting lymph node metastasis was 50% (11 of 22 patients); the accuracy in diagnosing direct infiltration to the adjacent organs was 60% (three of five patients). This technique is useful in diagnosing malignant invasion and lymph node metastasis of gastric carcinomas but requires further refinement for use in diagnosing the disease itself. Its preoperative use is recommended for establishing surgical and other treatment plans, as well as in predicting the prognosis of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "2038994", "title": "Staging and follow-up of primary gastric lymphoma by endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Staging and follow-up of primary gastric lymphoma by endoscopic ultrasonography. The usefulness of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was assessed for diagnosing the depth of invasion in the gastric wall, the infiltration to the adjacent organs, and detecting regional lymph node involvement in primary gastric lymphoma. EUS was performed in 11 patients with primary gastric lymphoma who subsequently underwent gastrectomy with lymph node dissection, as well as chemotherapy in some cases. EUS findings showed a good correlation with the histopathology of the resected specimens. An accurate diagnosis of the depth of invasion into the gastric wall was made in 10 of 11 patients using the same T grade of the 1987 TNM system for gastric carcinoma. EUS also clearly visualized the reduction of depth of tumor invasion in two patients who underwent chemotherapy. Perigastric lymph node involvement could be detected accurately in nine of 11 patients. In conclusion, EUS is an excellent and sensitive diagnostic modality for the preoperative staging and follow-up of primary gastric lymphoma."}
{"id": "2028957", "title": "A limitation of endoscopic ultrasound: an unusual case of early gastric cancer overlying a pancreatic rest.", "content": "A limitation of endoscopic ultrasound: an unusual case of early gastric cancer overlying a pancreatic rest. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) has been developed as a valuable tool for examining the depth of carcinoma invasion and evaluating the submucosal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract. In the present case, that of a 60-yr-old woman, the work-up of radiography and conventional endoscopy revealed an ulcerating cancer of the stomach. Subsequent EUS showed a solid high-echoic mass occupying the third (submucosal) and fourth (muscularis propria) layers of gastric wall, suggestive of an advanced cancer invading the muscularis propria. However, histologic examination of the surgical specimen showed that this tumor was early submucosal carcinoma confined to the surface of a pancreatic rest. Retrospective evaluation of EUS pictures proved that the mass had tubular or circular echoless structures associated with thickening of the fourth layer, suggesting the pancreatic rest. Our experience in reviewing EUS findings of this tumor seems noteworthy, inasmuch as EUS indicates that EUS may provide certain characteristic features of gastric pancreatic rest that should be differentiated from invading carcinoma."}
{"id": "1991632", "title": "Evaluation of endosonography in TN staging of oesophageal cancer.", "content": "Evaluation of endosonography in TN staging of oesophageal cancer. Strategies for the treatment of cancer of the oesophagus depend on the tumour stage at the time of diagnosis. Resection, the only curative treatment, is confined to early tumour stages. Tumours with local infiltration are usually unresectable and require palliative treatment. Computed tomography has been widely used for preoperative staging but often fails to define this correctly. Endoscopic ultrasound allows direct visualisation of the parietal wall and may be useful in staging gastrointestinal tumours. In a comparative prospective study, 52 patients with tumours of the oesophagus were investigated preoperatively both by endoscopic ultrasound and computed tomography to determine the stage of tumour infiltration and local lymph node involvement. Thirty seven of these patients underwent operation, resection, or dissection and entered the study. The intraoperative findings or the histopathological assessment, or both, were taken as a reference. For all TN stages of oesophageal tumours, correct preoperative staging was accomplished by endoscopic ultrasound in 89% for T stage and 69% for N stage compared with 51% and 51% respectively by computed tomography (highly significant using Fisher's exact test). This study shows that endoscopic ultrasound is useful in preoperative TN staging of tumours of the oesophagus."}
{"id": "1991278", "title": "Primary neoplasms of the hollow organs of the gastrointestinal tract. Staging and follow-up.", "content": "Primary neoplasms of the hollow organs of the gastrointestinal tract. Staging and follow-up. The number of imaging modalities available to stage and follow-up patients with primary neoplasms of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract continues to increase. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT), and ultrasonography are useful techniques for both staging and follow-up. For staging, CT is most frequently used for the detection of liver metastases and is increasingly used as a substitute for the chest radiograph in the detection of lung metastases. CT is still the imaging test of choice for the preoperative staging of esophageal carcinoma. CT is less helpful in staging the patient with gastric carcinoma or colorectal carcinoma. The current usefulness of MRI in the staging of GI tract malignancies is limited by the lack of an adequate oral intraluminal contrast agent and degradation of images due to motion. Sonography, especially the new technique of endoscopic ultrasound, is promising for the detection of local invasion from GI tract malignancies. CT is used in the follow-up of patients with tumors of the GI tract to detect liver, adrenal, and nodal metastases as well as local recurrence because of the ability of CT to detect extraluminal masses. CT of the pelvis has been recommended as a routine follow-up procedure in patients who have undergone abdominal-peroneal resection. Both CT and MRI can be used to detect local recurrence, but suffer from the inability to differentiate scar from recurrent tumor. The initial hope that MRI would be capable of differentiating postoperative scar tissue from recurrent tumor has not been realized. Therefore, with positive CT or MRI findings, occasionally a percutaneous biopsy will be required to confirm local recurrence."}
{"id": "1932663", "title": "The role of imaging in the non-operative staging of gastrointestinal tumours.", "content": "The role of imaging in the non-operative staging of gastrointestinal tumours."}
{"id": "1924784", "title": "Preoperative staging of gastric cancer: comparison of endoscopic US and dynamic CT.", "content": "Preoperative staging of gastric cancer: comparison of endoscopic US and dynamic CT. Fifty consecutive patients with gastric adenocarcinoma proved by means of biopsy underwent preoperative staging with endoscopic ultrasonography (US). Dynamic computed tomography (CT) of the chest and abdomen was performed before surgery in 33 of the patients. In all 50 patients, the TNM classification of the American Joint Committee on Cancer was used to compare the imaging findings with pathologic findings in specimens resected at surgery. When the depth of tumor penetration was evaluated, the findings at endoscopic US and those at pathologic examination were concordant in 46 of 50 patients (92%), and the findings at dynamic CT and those at pathologic examination, in 14 of 33 patients (42%) (P less than .00042). Evaluation of regional lymph node metastases showed a concordance of 78% with endoscopic US and 48% with dynamic CT (P less than .038). Overall determination of stage with both dynamic CT and endoscopic US showed a concordance of 73%, compared with a concordance of 45% for dynamic CT alone (P less than .028)."}
{"id": "1920896", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography in the assessment of invasive cardiac cancer].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography in the assessment of invasive cardiac cancer]. The aim of this study was to assess the accuracy and limitation of Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) in the preoperative evaluation of the cardiac cancer (cancer in the area less than 2 cm from the esophago-gastric junction). EUS was preoperatively performed in 20 patients with cardiac cancer. These cases were visualized by the water immersion method and balloon contact method. The results were correlated with the histology of resected specimens. EUS was accurate in assessing the depth of tumor infiltration. Over all accuracy of EUS for cardiac cancer was 90%. Recognition of ultrasonographic patterns had enabled us to judge the mode of tumor infiltration whether expansive or infiltrative. Microscopical spread over 5 mm to the esophagus of the cardiac cancer could be detected by EUS. EUS was accurate in diagnosing thoracic lymph nodes (No. 110, 111, 112) metastasis of the cardiac cancer (accuracy 86%). EUS was valuable in the clinical diagnosis of the cardiac cancer."}
{"id": "1871669", "title": "The use of endoscopic ultrasound in determining the depth of cancer invasion in patients with gastric cancer.", "content": "The use of endoscopic ultrasound in determining the depth of cancer invasion in patients with gastric cancer. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was performed in 110 patients with gastric cancer to examine the depth of cancer invasion. The normal gastric wall has a five-layer structure on EUS. In 19 lesions, changes on EUS were limited to the first and/or second layers, suggesting that invasion was limited within the mucosa. In 91 lesions, changes were evident in the third or deeper layers. Alterations in the EUS appearance could be divided into two types: type A, with destruction of the layered structure and type B with thickening of the layers. The amount of interstitial tissue in cancer was classified as medullary or intermediate in 90% of type A, and as scirrhous in 82% of type B tumor. The EUS diagnosis of invasion was 95% accurate for stage M cancers, 75% for SM, 64% for PM, 100% for SS, 79% for SE, and 100% for SI lesions. The overall accuracy was 81%. Accompanying fibrosis and metastatic perigastric nodes were the main reasons for overestimating the extent of disease."}
{"id": "1860438", "title": "Analysis of gastric carcinoma growth by endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Analysis of gastric carcinoma growth by endoscopic ultrasonography. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was performed preoperatively in 82 patients with gastric carcinoma (40 with early and 42 advanced malignancy). Measurements of wall thickness were performed in each case and showed good correlation with histological findings. Wall thickening was found to consist of both tumorous and accompanying ulcerous tissue. Thus, increasing wall thickness, as demonstrated by EUS, may not necessarily mean progressive tumor growth. The EUS features of gastric carcinoma were analyzed and four distinct growth patterns found: predominantly intramural (IM) or intraluminal (IL) growth with preservation (Type 1) or destruction (Type 2) of the submucosal echo-rich layer. All early carcinomas displayed the IL-type growth pattern on EUS (98% IL1-type) and 81% of advanced tumors showed IM-type features. EUS was able to differentiate between early and advanced carcinoma in 98% of cases. The EUS pattern of submucosal destruction (type IM2 or IL2) corresponded to the expanding type tumor according to Ming's histopathological classification. On the other hand, 24 of 26 infiltrative tumors according to Ming were found on EUS to have an intramural growth pattern with preservation of the submucosa (type IM1). It is concluded that EUS is highly sensitive in predicting the tumor growth pattern in gastric carcinoma, providing important additional information to the currently used TNM staging system. Measurements of wall thickness are reliable but differentiation between tumorous growth and peritumorous changes is not possible."}
{"id": "1854986", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography of the upper gastrointestinal tract.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography of the upper gastrointestinal tract. EUS unites two established imaging techniques and extends the range of observation into and beyond the wall of the GI tract. The close proximity of the sonographic probe to the region of interest combined with high ultrasonic frequencies of between 7.5 and 12 MHz yields images of high resolution. EUS is used in the staging of benign and malignant neoplastic disorders of the oesophagus, stomach, pancreas and extrahepatic bile ducts. It helps to establish operability, to plan surgical approach, to follow response to therapy and to search for recurrence. The predictive value in defining the T and N stages of oesophageal carcinoma lies between 80 and 90% and 65 and 85%, respectively. It is clearly superior to CT in tumour stages T1 and T2. In gastric cancer, resectability based on the TNM staging system can be correctly assessed by EUS in 85% of cases and EUS detection and staging of early gastric cancer reaches an accuracy of 90%. The EUS accuracy rate for resectability of pancreatic carcinoma is 83% and tumour infiltration into the portal and splenic vein can be correctly determined by EUS in 94% and 67%, respectively. A reliable EUS differentiation between chronic pancreatitis and pancreatic carcinoma based on the echo pattern and outer margins is not possible. The development of EUS-guided needle biopsy should improve the specificity of EUS in this regard. Experience to data suggests as well that EUS will assume an important place in the staging of bile duct tumours. EUS has expanded our endoscopic and sonographic capabilities and it is to be hoped that further technical improvement, e.g. the construction of forward-viewing endoscopes combined with radial scanning devices, will contribute to a widespread use of this technique by gastroenterologists."}
{"id": "1843956", "title": "[Gastric epithelioid leiomyosarcoma (malignant leiomyoblastoma). Report of a case and review of the world literature].", "content": "[Gastric epithelioid leiomyosarcoma (malignant leiomyoblastoma). Report of a case and review of the world literature]. The authors report a case of gastric epithelial leiomyoma. (Leiomyoblastoma). Macroscopically, such tumors resemble leiomyoma, with a biological behavior between leiomyoma and leiomyosarcoma. A review of the medical literature indicates that gastrointestinal bleeding in the most usual manifestation. The endoscopy biopsy, many times, is unable to confirm the malignant or benign of the tumor. It is emphasized the importance of identifying the potentially malignant tendency of the tumor, indicated, mainly, by histology consist in total gastric resection. Radiology, Ultrasound and Endoscopy are the most frequently used methods to arrive at diagnosis. In our case a patient with a presumed diagnosis of gastric cancer with a severe upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage was operated on as an emergency. A radical extended total gastrectomy was performed. Intraoperative findings included multiple pancreatic, hepatic, splenic, hilium, greater and lesser omental metastases. The patient was released in good condition but died 3 months later."}
{"id": "1797075", "title": "[Early gastric carcinoma: short and long term results of surgical treatment].", "content": "[Early gastric carcinoma: short and long term results of surgical treatment]. This paper reports Authors' experience in 58 cases of early gastric cancer observed between 1972 and 1990. The diagnosis of E.G.C. was frequently obtained in patients with recent dyspeptic symptoms. The diagnostic importance of endoscopic procedures, upper gastrointestinal X-rays and endoscopic ultrasonography is underlined. The choice of total gastrectomy with the standardized dissection of regional lymph nodes in order to treat multicentric or upper gastric malignancies v.s. distal gastrectomy for antral lesions is discussed. The cumulative survival rate was 84.4%; local recurrence rate was 4.2%."}
{"id": "1795424", "title": "[Preoperative diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS)--a comparative study with other diagnostic tools].", "content": "[Preoperative diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS)--a comparative study with other diagnostic tools]. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), ultrasonography (US), computed tomography (CT), and angiography (Angio) were performed in 26 patients with pancreatic cancer which were all resected. Preoperative findings of each diagnostic tools were compared with histological findings. In order to discuss the effectiveness of each body imagings, the preoperative staging of pancreatic cancer was evaluated in direct invasion to the anterior pancreatic capsule and stomach (S), direct invasion to the duodenum (D), direct invasion to the retroperitoneal adjacent vessels (Rp), and regional lymph node metastasis (N). The overall accuracy rate was 77% with EUS (50% with US, 38% with CT, 56% with Angio) in S, 81% with EUS (44% with US, 38% with CT, 63% with Angio) in D, 77% with EUS (58% with US, 42% with CT, 73% with Angio) in Rp, and 65% with EUS (58% with US, 38% with CT) in N. EUS revealed high accuracy rates because EUS images of the whole pancreas, surrounding organs and major vessels were clearly visualized through the gastroduodenal walls. Also, the accuracy rates of Angio in Rp and US in N were almost the same as those of EUS in Rp and N. However, it was difficult for every procedure to diagnose the retroperitoneal perineural invasion. From these results, EUS is one of the most beneficial procedures for detecting of the extent of cancer. EUS is expected to be popularized in the diagnosis and staging of the pancreatic cancer."}
{"id": "1793632", "title": "[Complex endoscopic ultrasonographic diagnosis of esophageal diseases].", "content": "[Complex endoscopic ultrasonographic diagnosis of esophageal diseases]. Complex endoscopic and transesophageal ultrasonic examination makes it possible to identify distinctly the character and localization of the pathological process, its boundaries and its spread to the adjoining organs. Ultrasonic examination is especially effective in new growths of the esophagus."}
{"id": "1775939", "title": "Primary non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the stomach: endoscopic diagnosis and the role of surgery.", "content": "Primary non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the stomach: endoscopic diagnosis and the role of surgery. Primary non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the stomach represents a minority of 1-7% of all gastric malignancies. Symptoms are non-specific. At endoscopy three main patterns can be recognized: ulceration, diffuse infiltration, or a polypoid mass. Endoscopic biopsy results may be false-negative (up to 8%) owing to submucosal localization. The new technique of endoscopic ultrasonography is accurate in measuring depth of infiltration and regional lymph nodes. Preoperative diagnosis altered the indication for surgery. Without resection an excellent local tumour control (stage I, 85%, and stage II, 69%) can be achieved, leading to a fair prognosis: 5-year relapse free survival in stage I, 83%, and in stage II, 58%. Intra-abdominal recurrences were scarce (2%), and severe complications such as perforation and life-threatening haemorrhage were seldom present (4%). Thus, resection is not necessary, but early recognition is highly significant. Favourable results can be achieved by irradiation or chemotherapy with irradiation."}
{"id": "1757056", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in gastroenterologic tumors].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasound in gastroenterologic tumors]. By means of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) the visualization of the gastrointestinal wall Layers as well as a high-resolution imaging of the pancreas with neighbouring large vessels has become possible. EUS is especially sensitive in the local tumor staging in esophageal, gastric, pancreatic and ampullary carcinoma (accuracy rates 80-90%). Lymph node metastases are correctly identified in 70-80%. This also applies to the rectal cancer employing rigid instruments. Experience with colonic endosonography is still too limited to permit any definitive conclusions. For the primary diagnosis of submucosal tumors of the upper GI tract, and for the detection of small pancreatic lesions (e.g. endocrine tumors), endosonography is of high diagnostic accuracy."}
{"id": "1747555", "title": "[Indications and value of endosonography of the upper gastrointestinal tract].", "content": "[Indications and value of endosonography of the upper gastrointestinal tract]. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has been used in the diagnosis and staging of gastroenterologic tumors for about ten years. High accuracy rates of EUS in staging of esophageal, gastric and pancreatic carcinoma (T-stage: 80-95%, N-stage: 75-85%) have been reported. EUS is therefore a valuable diagnostic tool f\u00fcr assessment of prognosis as well as for planning of therapy of these tumors. Its value in benign gastroenterologic disease is unclear. EUS seems to be much less reliable in the differentiation between benign and malignant changes (e.g. esophageal stenoses, gastric ulcers, pancreatic mass lesions)."}
{"id": "1743123", "title": "Guillotine needle biopsy as a supplement to endosonography in the diagnosis of gastric submucosal tumors.", "content": "Guillotine needle biopsy as a supplement to endosonography in the diagnosis of gastric submucosal tumors. The presumptive diagnosis of gastric submucosal tumors can be made by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) but histological confirmation is still required. A special guillotine biopsy device (Flexi-Temno) which enables collection of adequate submucosal samples by the endoscopic approach was therefore evaluated. After visualization by EUS the guillotine needle biopsy was performed in 21 patients with submucosal tumors of the stomach. There were 2 failures in 2 patients with leiomyomas. The diagnosis suggested by EUS was confirmed by guillotine biopsy in 17 cases. Guillotine biopsy detected 2 cases of unsuspected leiomyosarcoma which were confirmed surgically. In cases of solid submucosal tumors confirmed on EUS, the guillotine needle biopsy enables a definitive histologic diagnosis. Thus malignancies can be detected when EUS findings are not significant."}
{"id": "1681869", "title": "Endoscopy in gastric malignancy.", "content": "Endoscopy in gastric malignancy. Gastric cancer remains, in most parts of the world, a disease of advanced presentation and associated resistantly high mortality. To date, fiberoptic endoscopy has yet to change this seemingly inexorable fact. Nevertheless, endoscopy plays a vital role in the evaluation and diagnosis of the gastric cancer patient and provides palliative options to patients suffering from advanced disease that may not respond to other modalities. With the advent of endoscopic screening protocols identifying cases at an early stage, there is early epidemiologic evidence of impact on the mortal consequences of this disease in high incidence areas such as Japan. Endoscopic ultrasound, flow cytometry of endoscopic biopsies, and photodynamic techniques offer the prospect of increasing definition of gastric malignancy prior to therapy, and new endoscopic therapies await further study to define their potential role in treating early cancer non-operatively. Twenty years ago, scientists intent on the study of gastric neoplasia played a major role in the advent of fiberoptic endoscopy. To date, their reward has been a wealth of information. As this material is digested and applied, it seems reasonable to believe their efforts may be eventually rewarded by a reduction in the epidemiologic impact of this disease, brought about not by changing global incidence patterns, but by knowledge and technology derived and administered endoscopically."}
{"id": "2407946", "title": "[DNA cytometry and morphometry, based on TV image analysis, in the diagnosis of gastric carcinoma].", "content": "[DNA cytometry and morphometry, based on TV image analysis, in the diagnosis of gastric carcinoma]. Cytological smears from gastric biopsies were studied by two types of TAS. B\u00f6cking's algorithm and a great number of form factors were used to separate the intact cells from the tumourous ones. The numerically expressed density features and morphometric parameters are able to indicate the possibility of malignant transformation even in dysplasia. These values become much higher in tumours and lead to unequivocal diagnosis. Both types of TAS render valuable help in assessing cases not reliably diagnosed by routine staining procedures."}
{"id": "2267648", "title": "Preoperative staging of gastrointestinal tumors by endosonography.", "content": "Preoperative staging of gastrointestinal tumors by endosonography. Intracavitary application of ultrasound was first performed for diagnostic purposes in 1967; since that time, it has been more and more widely used. As far as the gastrointestinal tract is concerned, endoscopically controlled ultrasonic probes provide visualization of the various layers of the intestinal wall. It is therefore possible to describe lesions of the esophagus, stomach, and the rectum with regard to their nature and depth of infiltration. Furthermore, periesophageal and perigastric organs can be visualized. It has become evident that endosonography is particularly important for pretherapeutic staging of tumors of the esophagus, stomach, and rectum. Here prospective comparative studies confirm the superiority of this new diagnostic procedure when compared to the methods available to date."}
{"id": "2200904", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography for assessing the horizontal spread of invasive gastric cancer].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasonography for assessing the horizontal spread of invasive gastric cancer]. The subjects were 64 cases of gastric cancer. In all 64 cases, resected specimens (formalin fixed) were subjected to endoscopic ultrasonographic examination by the water immersion method in order to assess the horizontal spread of the invasive gastric cancer. Ultrasonographic findings were compared with the histopathological findings of resected specimens. The tumor which invaded the submucosa or deeper layers was visualized as low echogenicity region in the third layer (corresponding to the submucosa) or deeper layers. The horizontal spread of the low echogenicity region represented that of the tumor or the associated fibrosis, but not the tumor itself. In the cases showing echo patterns which were characteristic of the peptic ulceration in the tumor focus (Type II-1, II-2, UL), the horizontal spread of cancer invasion in the submucosal layer or deeper layers (L Ca) was smaller than that of low echogenicity region depicted by ultrasonography (L U). In the other (Type II-3, III, A, B) cases, L Ca was almost comparable to L U."}
{"id": "2191594", "title": "Clinical application of endoscopic ultrasonography.", "content": "Clinical application of endoscopic ultrasonography. During the course of routine clinical practice in 48 patients, 50 endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) examinations were performed over a 1-yr period, with all patient data collected prospectively. Organs examined were the esophagus, stomach, duodenum, ampulla, pancreas, common bile duct, and gallbladder. There were 18 staging exams of known neoplasms, and 24 examinations to evaluate possible mass. Forty-three examinations were successful, four failed due to instrument malfunction, and three were technical failures. Among 35 exams for masses, follow-up pathology was available in 21 and confirmed EUS findings in 90%. EUS yielded additional information, not available by other imaging studies, in 60% of successful exams. No complications were seen. The recent literature is reviewed in approximately 2000 patients. We conclude that EUS is an accurate and safe method for evaluating upper gastrointestinal pathology, particularly for staging neoplasms."}
{"id": "2179012", "title": "[Echoendoscopy: a new technic for studying esophago-gastric subepithelial tumors and extrinsic compression].", "content": "[Echoendoscopy: a new technic for studying esophago-gastric subepithelial tumors and extrinsic compression]. The value of endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis of subepithelial tumors and extrinsic compression of the esophagus and the stomach was evaluated in 34 patients with 21 subepithelial tumors and 13 extrinsic compressions. Endoscopic ultrasonography was always performed after axial-vision fiberscopy anal routine biopsy specimens were obtained. Computed tomography was also done in all cases of extrinsic compression. Distinction between subepithelial tumor and extrinsic compression was made in all patients by endoscopic ultrasonography and in 5 cases by fiberscopic examination with biopsy specimens. Localization and intramural spread of subepithelial tumors were correctly determined in 12 of 13 cases by endoscopic ultrasonography (diagnostic accuracy: 92 percent). The echoendoscopic semiology of 21 subepithelial tumors was retrospectively established. The histologic nature of some of these tumors can be suggested by these signs. Endoscopic ultrasonography is superior to computed tomography in the evaluation of esogastric extrinsic compressions, particularly in the diagnosis of posterior mediastinal carcinomatosis and of tumoral invasion of the deep parietal layers. We conclude that endoscopic ultrasonography is currently the best procedure in the assessment of subepithelial tumors and extrinsic compressions of the esophagus and the stomach."}
{"id": "1983556", "title": "[Differential after care for early detection of recurrence: from the surgical viewpoint].", "content": "[Differential after care for early detection of recurrence: from the surgical viewpoint]. Tumor recurrence following \"curative\" resection (= R0) of gastrointestinal cancer occurs in 30% (colorectal carcinoma) to 70% (ductal pancreatic cancer) of patients. Only colorectal cancer recurrence involves a substantial chance of a reintervention which again may result in complete cancer clearance (local recurrence 17%, metachronous liver metastases 20%, other abdominal intracavitary relapse 12%, pulmonary secondaries 17%). Five-year survival after complete re-resection approaches 40% irrespectively of the site of recurrent disease. Recognition of resectable recurrence in asymptomatic patients is based on ultrasound, endoscopy, and chest X-ray. Laboratory investigations alone, and even CEA-screening, do not suffice."}
{"id": "2702998", "title": "Primary non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the stomach: changing aspects and therapeutic choices.", "content": "Primary non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the stomach: changing aspects and therapeutic choices. Eighty-five consecutive patients, seen between 1970 and 1987, with primary gastric non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were studied to evaluate diagnostic findings and treatment results. At endoscopy three main patterns were recognized: ulceration (n = 21), diffuse infiltration (n = 16) and a polypoid mass (n = 26). Recently, the new technique of endoscopic ultrasonography was used to measure depth of infiltration and regional lymph nodes. Preoperative diagnosis altered the indication of surgery. Since 1978 surgical staging was performed in only 29% of the patients compared to 90% in the earlier period. In the later period stage II was more systematically treated with a combination of chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Over the whole period patients in stage I (n = 52) had a 5 year disease-free survival of 63%. In stage II 38% had a 5 year disease-free survival. Complications were one perforation and one haemorrhage after radiotherapy and two cases of haemorrhage after radiotherapy combined with chemotherapy. Intraabdominal recurrences were found in two cases. Recognition of endoscopic features may lead to early detection and ultimately improved survival."}
{"id": "2697711", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in a case of gastric leiomyoblastoma.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in a case of gastric leiomyoblastoma. Endoscopic ultrasonographic diagnosis of a gastric leiomyoblastoma stemming from the gastric wall is reported. Transparietal echography and CT had indicated that this tumor arose form the right ovary."}
{"id": "2697357", "title": "Gastrointestinal cancer: diagnosis, staging, and the follow-up role of imaging.", "content": "Gastrointestinal cancer: diagnosis, staging, and the follow-up role of imaging."}
{"id": "2696138", "title": "Comparison of the efficacy of endoscopic ultrasonography and submucosography in diagnosing the depth of gastric cancer invasion.", "content": "Comparison of the efficacy of endoscopic ultrasonography and submucosography in diagnosing the depth of gastric cancer invasion. Diagnosis of the depth of the cancer invasion is necessary to select the indication of endoscopic treatment. We used endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and Submucosography (SMG) to diagnose the depth of cancer invasion and compared their efficacy against 63 lesions in 60 cases of gastric and esophageal cancers. SMG could diagnose the invasion correctly in 97% of m (mucosa) cancers, 88% of sm (submucosa) cancers and 100% of advanced cancers. On the other hand, linear-type EUS could diagnose the cancer invasion correctly in 60% of the m cancers, 83% of the sm cancers and 100% of advanced cancers. The results of the comparison of radial-type EUS and SMG showed similar results. Both EUS and SMG are appropriate for the judgement of endoscopic treatments. However, for the selection of the indication of endoscopic treatment which is applied to relatively small sized lesions in general, SMG appears to be superior to EUS in both resolution power and accuracy in shooting."}
{"id": "2688069", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the assessment of invasive gastric cancer.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography in the assessment of invasive gastric cancer. Endoscopic ultrasonographic (EUS) images of 174 cases of gastric cancer were examined to assess the depth of tumor invasion. Comparison was made between the depth of the changes shown in the multi-layered image produced by ultrasonography and the actual depth of invasion. Cases showing ultrasonographic changes extending deeper than the actual tumor were found to have fibrosis associated with peptic ulceration within the tumor focus. In such cases the echo images chiefly depicted the form and nature of the fibrosis, and the images were so characteristic that they could be classified into patterns. In the other cases the depth of tumor invasion could be almost precisely determined by detecting to which layer the changes shown by EUS extended."}
{"id": "2687144", "title": "[Progress in image diagnosis: endoscopic ultrasonography].", "content": "[Progress in image diagnosis: endoscopic ultrasonography]."}
{"id": "2685422", "title": "[A study on gastric and small intestinal aberrant pancreas by endoscopic ultrasonography--with special reference to comparison with histological appearance].", "content": "[A study on gastric and small intestinal aberrant pancreas by endoscopic ultrasonography--with special reference to comparison with histological appearance]. To obtain characteristic findings of gastrointestinal aberrant pancreas by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), we made comparison between endoscopic ultrasonograms and histological findings in 5 cases (6 lesions) of resected gastric aberrant pancreas and 1 case (1 lesion) of small intestinal one. By EUS, gastrointestinal aberrant pancreases were delineated as hypoechoic masses with blurred boundary containing fine scattered hyperechoic spots, and also there were thickening of the fourth layer below the mass. Occasionally, there were some duct-like structures within the mass or marginal lobular structures. Moreover, the ultrasonographic patterns of aberrant pancreases were classified into 2 types, that is, M and S types. On histological examination, M type cases, in which the mass attached to the thickened fourth layer by EUS, were corresponded to acinar type and the pancreatic acinar cells penetrated into the proper muscle layer of the gastrointestinal wall, whereas S type cases, in which the mass was separated from the fourth layer, to ductal or mixed type. We conclude, therefore, that not only making the accurate diagnosis of aberrant pancreas but also drawing an inference of its histological type might become possible by EUS."}
{"id": "2684563", "title": "[Contribution of endosonography to preoperative staging in esophageal and stomach cancer].", "content": "[Contribution of endosonography to preoperative staging in esophageal and stomach cancer]. A total number of 113 patients with gastroesophageal cancer (47 esophageal cancer, 66 gastric cancer) were examined by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). The depth of tumor infiltration in the wall, involvement of lymph nodes and spread to adjacent organs were the features particularly stressed on. 61 patients (46 with gastric cancer, 15 with esophageal cancer) underwent radical resection thus enabling a comparative study with the histological findings. The accuracy rate of EUS in determining the depth of infiltration was 85% in esophageal cancers and 77% in gastric cancers. Regarding involvement of lymph nodes, EUS was accurate in 80% of esophageal cancers and in 87% of gastric cancers, whereas CT scan was accurate in 47% and 43% respectively. For detecting spread to adjacent organs EUS was also more accurate than CT scan."}
{"id": "2664286", "title": "[Diagnosis of the infiltrating depth of the colonic cancer by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS)].", "content": "[Diagnosis of the infiltrating depth of the colonic cancer by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS)]. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is the latest procedure in the field of gastroenterology and is highly evaulating now because of its unique diagnosing method. For the example, the intra- and extra-mural informations of the GI tract can be known through this technique. In this paper, we reported on the usefulness of EUS in the diagnosis of the depth invasion of the colonic cancer and introduced the new and exclusive instrument for the colon. Namely, we could obtain the accurate diagnosis in 18 out of 20 cases with the rectal or the sigmoid colon cancer. One of causes of misdiagnosis in 2 cases of early cancer was due to the ghost echo. Another cause was the cancer cells infiltration to the deeper tissue which could be recognized only by a microscope. Then, we tried to examine the entire colon in 2 cases using the new instrument and succeeded to insert the endoscope to the cecum in a short time. In conclusion, we were convinced that EUS would develop the new aspect in the diagnosis of the colonic diseases including cancer."}
{"id": "2664209", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography of gastric myogenic tumor. A comparative study between histology and ultrasonography.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography of gastric myogenic tumor. A comparative study between histology and ultrasonography. In order to find a correspondence between the sonographic findings of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) and the histology of gastric myogenic tumors, histologic specimens (24 cases) and preoperative ultrasonograms (10 cases) were examined. Histologically, the incidence of necrosis within the tumor was more frequent and the area of necrosis was larger in leiomyosarcoma than in leiomyoma. Liquefaction necrosis was observed only in leiomyosarcoma. By EUS, myogenic tumors originating from the proper muscle were delineated as clearly demarcated hypoechoic tumors arising from the fourth layer. Irregularly shaped sonolucent areas within the tumor corresponded to liquefaction necrosis. Thus, sonolucent areas may be indicative of leiomyosarcoma."}
{"id": "2659481", "title": "Preoperative TNM classification of gastric carcinoma by endosonography in comparison with the pathological TNM system: a prospective study of 72 cases.", "content": "Preoperative TNM classification of gastric carcinoma by endosonography in comparison with the pathological TNM system: a prospective study of 72 cases. Prospectively, 72 patients with a gastric carcinoma were studied endosonographically before surgery. The results were correlated with those obtained with the histology of resected specimens according to the new (1987) TNM classification. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was accurate in assessing the extent and depth of tumor infiltration. Early gastric carcinoma could readily be distinguished from advanced carcinoma. The overall accuracy of EUS was 84.7%. Occasionally, overstaging and understaging occurred. Stenosis was a factor limiting accurate staging. EUS was reasonably accurate in the assessment of lymph node metastasis. The overall accuracy was 81.0%. In non-metastatic lymph nodes, however, the accuracy was only 50%. Difficulties occurred in distinguishing granulomatous lymph nodes and small micrometastatic lymph node involvement. EUS was not accurate in diagnosing distant metastasis, due to the limited depth of penetration of ultrasound. Technical improvements such as a reduction in the diameter of the echoprobe, and the use of the biopsy channel for EUS-guided cytological puncture will further enhance the accuracy of EUS."}
{"id": "3291775", "title": "[Endoscopic sonography in cancer diagnosis].", "content": "[Endoscopic sonography in cancer diagnosis]. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is the method to investigate sonographically tissue architecture by intraluminal scanning using the endoscope mounted a mechanical or electronic scanning device. The method is very effective in visualizing GI tract as well as organs present in the vicinity of digestive hollow organs as high resolution sonographic images. The method can be applied also to investigate various intraperitoneal organs, especially the liver by means of sonolaparoscopy. The most obvious application of the method is the staging of malignant neoplasms of the GI tracts especially of the stomach, esophagus and rectum. EUS mostly reveals five layer structure as layers different in echogenicity and it is considerably accurate to assess extents of wall involvement in malignancy, ulceration and inflammation of the digestive tract. It is effective in differentiating between carcinoma and submucosal tumors simply by ultrasonic localizations of the tumor masses. Involvement of regional lymph-nodes can be assessed is fairly accurate thus giving precise indication in the treatment, either medical or surgical means. Agreements between EUS staging of gastric cancer and histopathological determination were considerably accurate over various stages of gastric cancer, however, the presence of concomitant ulceration sometimes caused slight over-reading on the side of EUS. Laparoscopic sonography has also proven a considerable accuracy over existing imaging methods in terms of differential diagnosis of minute liver masses. These results seem to support the view that EUS, which is only slightly invasive, has opened up new area in cancer diagnosis, especially in the diagnosis of deeply sitting neoplasms, in which other sophisticated imaging technique are not yet available."}
{"id": "3289498", "title": "[Endoscopic treatment of early upper gastrointestinal carcinoma--high-frequency-current polypectomy, laser, and microwave coagulation procedures].", "content": "[Endoscopic treatment of early upper gastrointestinal carcinoma--high-frequency-current polypectomy, laser, and microwave coagulation procedures]. The authors have been treating early gastric carcinoma endoscopically by high-frequency-current polypectomy since 1976, by microwave coagulation since 1982, and by laser coagulation since 1983. In order to achieve absolute curability of early carcinoma, we recommend that polypectomy be performed first, whenever possible. The reason for this is that the resected polypectomised tissue enables a decision to be made as to whether further treatment is necessary, after histopathological examination of the specimen. Otherwise, cases in which snaring is impossible, such as flat or depressed carcinomas of markedly small or large size, should be treated by microwave and/or laser coagulation. In total, we have experienced 92 lesions (83 cases) of early gastric carcinoma treated by all of above 3 methods, and we currently have 5 cases showing more than 5-year survival. Among these, type II a early carcinomas less than 10mm in diameter accounted for the majority; on the other hand, there were 11 type II c cases, also with tumors less than 10mm in diameter. Referring to our surgical data, type II c (without ulcer nor lymph node metastases) less than 5mm in size is limited to the mucosa in 100% of cases, and of 6-10mm in size in 85%. We therefore propose that type II c tumors less than 10mm in size should be treated endoscopically, as well as type II a tumors of the same size. In order to determine the depth of carcinomatous invasion, endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) is effective. The diagnostic accuracy for Ul(-) early carcinoma is almost 100%, but for Ul(+) cases EUS is not so accurate. Further studies and improvements of EUS are thus needed."}
{"id": "3278405", "title": "Impact of endoscopic ultrasonography on diagnosis and treatment of primary gastric lymphoma.", "content": "Impact of endoscopic ultrasonography on diagnosis and treatment of primary gastric lymphoma. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) allows a visualization in vivo of the gastric wall. Five ultrasonic layers of different echogenicities are displayed; each corresponds to a precise anatomic structure. In gastric diseases this layering evidently changes. In 10 patients with suspected primary gastric lymphoma, EUS showed a characteristic thickening of the second, the second and third layers, or a diffuse, transmural thickening of the entire wall. A precise correlation between the longitudinal and depth infiltration observed at EUS and the surgical finding was seen in all patients. In three cases in which the preoperative bioptic diagnosis was erroneous (two gastritis and one carcinoma) EUS showed a characteristic echographic pattern for lymphoma, which was confirmed at surgery. There was agreement also, in EUS and surgical findings in all patients, about involvement of neighbor organs. It seems possible that in the future EUS could play an important role in detecting, staging, and planning treatment of lymphoma and other gastric tumors."}
{"id": "3070801", "title": "Endoscopic ultrasonography of the upper gastrointestinal tract.", "content": "Endoscopic ultrasonography of the upper gastrointestinal tract. Endoscopic ultrasonography was used for assessment of the extent of tumour invasion of the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract, including analysis of submucosal tumour and detection of lymph-node metastasis. The normal oesophageal and gastric wall was depicted as five layers by endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). The outer layer invaded by cancer was defined as the depth of tumour invasion. In 173 cases of oesophageal cancer, the depth of cancer invasion was diagnosed correctly in 88%. In 146 cases of gastric cancer, it was diagnosed correctly in 79%. In submucosal tumours of the GI tract, the site of tumour in the wall was diagnosed correctly in 99% and the histological type of tumour was predicted. EUS can also be used to detect small lymph nodes. According to the criteria, used in this study, EUS had a sensitivity of 84%, a specificity of 88% and an overall accuracy of 88% for detection of lymph-node metastases."}
{"id": "3044720", "title": "[Endosonographic findings of benign and malignant lesions in the stomach wall. A prospective comparison with conventional imaging study procedures].", "content": "[Endosonographic findings of benign and malignant lesions in the stomach wall. A prospective comparison with conventional imaging study procedures]. The results of endoscopic ultrasonography in the diagnosis and differentiation of benign and malignant lesions of the stomach was prospectively compared with those obtained by upper endoscopy with biopsy, double-contrast radiography and computed tomography in 15 patients with benign and 26 with malignant gastric lesions. The validity of the methods was established by comparing the results obtained with the long-term course observed clinically in conjunction with an endoscopic-histological follow-up or with the findings on histopathological examination of the operative specimen. Precise diagnosis of the lesion was made by endoscopic ultrasonography in about 90% of cases, a result better than that obtained with radiography or computed tomography. Furthermore, endoscopic ultrasonography had good sensitivity for demonstrating perigastric lymph node enlargement; in this respect it was better than computed tomography, but was not able to distinguish whether the enlargement was benign or malignant: this will only become possible with technical improvement of the instruments."}
{"id": "2838657", "title": "[Endoscopic ultrasonographic studies on malignant lymphoma of the stomach].", "content": "[Endoscopic ultrasonographic studies on malignant lymphoma of the stomach]."}
{"id": "3428238", "title": "Fundamentals of endoscopic laser therapy (ELT) for G.I. tumors--new aspects with endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS).", "content": "Fundamentals of endoscopic laser therapy (ELT) for G.I. tumors--new aspects with endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). The possibility of employing endoscopic laser therapy (ELT) to cure early gastric cancer is discussed from the viewpoint of using endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS). Using EUS the digestive tract wall was seen as a 5-layered structure corresponding to the histological layers. On the basis of this layered structure of the gastric wall, the depth of cancer invasion and the results of laser treatment were evaluated. In 128 cases of gastric cancer examined by EUS and confirmed histologically, when the depth of cancer invasion was classified as mucosal, submucosal, muscularis propria, and deeper-than-subserosal invasion, the accuracy rate was 80%. In 26 cases of early gastric cancer, in the EUS images of the lesions before and after ELT, a lack of the gastric wall caused by the laser irradiation was observed. Furthermore, in the long-term follow-up study using EUS, the residual growth of the extraluminal cancer was detectable. EUS is one of the most promising methods for the evaluation of curative laser treatment of early gastric cancer."}
{"id": "3330147", "title": "[The analysis of tumor growth pattern by endoscopic ultrasonography in patients with depressed type of gastric cancer].", "content": "[The analysis of tumor growth pattern by endoscopic ultrasonography in patients with depressed type of gastric cancer]."}
