{"id": "23986887", "title": "The ethnic differences of stroke in Yakutia.", "content": "The ethnic differences of stroke in Yakutia. In Yakutia, the morbidity and mortality from stroke increased in the past 2 decades. Stroke share in the total mortality structure increased significantly. According to the autopsies, haemorrhagic stroke (HS) was more common in indigenous patients. The aim of the study was to examine ethnic features of stroke patients of indigenous and non-indigenous ethnicity admitted to Regional Vascular Center (RVC), Yakutsk. The study used data from a hospital stroke registry, which took into account the cases of acute stroke in 2011. Stroke type and aetiology were determined by clinical examination, computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging studies, cerebral angiography and ultrasound of cerebral vessels. A total of 1,108 patients were hospitalized (51.4% male, n=569) in 2011. The mean age was 60.5 \u00b1 12.9 years, male: 59.1 \u00b1 12.8, female: 61.9 \u00b1 13.05. Five hundred and ninety-two ischemic strokes (IS; 53.4%), 236 HS (21.3%), 280 transient ischemic attacks (TIA; 25.3%) were diagnosed. Patients who had a stroke were divided into 3 groups according to their ethnicity: native (n=411; 49.6%), Russians (n=347; 41.9%) and other nationalities (n=70; 8.5%). When comparing the incidence of HS in different ethnic groups, it was found that indigenous patients had more cases of HS than Russians (38% vs. 20.2%, p<0.05; adjusted odds ratio=2.42; 95% confidence interval: 1.72-3.41). Mean age of IS and HS indigenous patients had no significant differences compared with the average age of Russian ethnicity patients (p=0.69; p=0.201, respectively). The data from this study suggest that among the patients who suffered from stroke in the indigenous population, the share of a haemorrhagic form was higher than those of non-indigenous Caucasians. At the same time, the average age of patients, both having IS and HS had no significant differences by ethnicity. Further studies are needed to establish the causes of ethnic differences of stroke in Yakutia."}
{"id": "23965853", "title": "[Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome with cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage presenting as thunderclap headache-a long followed up case].", "content": "[Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome with cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage presenting as thunderclap headache-a long followed up case]. A 59-year-old woman presented with thunderclap headache. Cranial CT showed cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage (cSAH) at the right parietal lobe and cerebral angiography on day 5 revealed multiple cerebral arterial constriction, diagnosed as reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS). We could not detect vasoconstriction in MRA at the first examination on day 4, and vasoconstrictive finding appeared around Willis circle 8 days later. There was a temporal difference in a cephalalgic symptom and vasoconstrictive appearance. Clinical symptoms completely recovered and head CT, MRI/MRA findings were reversible after two months, reflecting a rather good RCVS outcome. However, we also followed up this case precisely using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with easy Z-score imaging system (e-ZIS), and hypoperfusion at the locus of cSAH persisted for more than one year. This finding strongly suggests that tissue damage in the cSAH locus induced by RCVS may be subclinicaly irreversible, even though clinical symptoms and abnormalities in cranial MRI and MRA completely recover.SPECT may be a high sensitive technique to detect the irreversible lesion in RCVS."}
{"id": "23945642", "title": "The emerging role of ferumoxytol-enhanced MRI in the management of cerebrovascular lesions.", "content": "The emerging role of ferumoxytol-enhanced MRI in the management of cerebrovascular lesions. Inflammation is increasingly being understood to be a key component to the pathophysiology of cerebrovascular lesions. Ferumoxytol, an iron oxide nanoparticle coated by a carbohydrate shell, has been used in MRI studies as an inflammatory marker because it is cleared by macrophages. Ferumoxytol-enhanced MRI has emerged as an important tool for noninvasive assessment of the inflammatory status of cerebrovascular lesions, namely aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations. Moreover, preliminary evidence suggests that ferumoxytol-enhanced MRI could be applied as a non-invasive tool to differentiate \"unstable\" lesions that require early intervention from \"stable\" lesions in which observation may be safe. Assessment of the effects of anti-inflammatory pharmacological interventions on cerebrovascular lesions is also a potentially crucial application of the technique. Future improvements in technique and MRI signal quantification will certainly pave the way for widespread and efficient use of ferumoxytol-enhanced MRI in clinical practice. In this paper, we review current data regarding ferumoxytol-enhanced MRI and discuss its current/potential applications and future perspectives."}
{"id": "23938115", "title": "Management of distal choroidal artery aneurysms in patients with moyamoya disease: report of three cases and review of the literature.", "content": "Management of distal choroidal artery aneurysms in patients with moyamoya disease: report of three cases and review of the literature. Prevention of rebleeding plays an important role in the treatment of hemorrhagic moyamoya disease, because rebleeding results in high mortality and morbidity. We discuss possible treatment for patients with moyamoya disease accompanied with distal choroidal artery aneurysms and review the literature to summarize clinical treatment and mechanisms. The cases of three male patients who suffered from intraventricular hemorrhage are presented. Computed tomography (CT) and digital subtractive angiography (DSA) revealed that bleeding was believed to be caused by ruptured aneurysms originating from distal choroidal artery aneurysms. Two patients successfully underwent superficial temporal artery (STA)-middle cerebral artery (MCA) bypass combined with encephalo-duro-myo-synangiosis (EDMS) and the obliteration of the aneurysm. The follow-up DSA or CT scan demonstrated that the aneurysms completely disappeared with the patency of the reconstructed artery. Neither of the patients experienced rebleeding during the follow-up period (up to 34 months). Given conservative treatment, the third patient experienced recurrent hemorrhages 4 months after the first ictus. This study describes treatment for moyamoya disease accompanied with distal choroidal artery aneurysms. Our experience suggests that cerebral revascularization combined with obliteration of the complicated distal aneurysm in the same session is a possible treatment."}
{"id": "23889823", "title": "Spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage as an initial manifestation of primary Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome: a case report.", "content": "Spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage as an initial manifestation of primary Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome: a case report. Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome can involve the central nervous system; however, spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage has rarely been reported as the initial manifestation. We report a 39-year-old woman with primary Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome presenting with intracranial hemorrhage. The diagnosis of primary Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome was based on the presence of ocular dryness, salivary gland secretory and excretory dysfunction confirmed with dynamic tracer emission CT, and positive anti-Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome A and anti-Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome B antibodies. Primary Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome can present with variable central nervous system signs, which may precede the classic sicca symptoms. Therefore, Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome-associated indicators should be investigated in patients without the common risk factors for stroke who present with spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage."}
{"id": "23880570", "title": "Haemorrhagic stroke or hyperglycaemia?", "content": "Haemorrhagic stroke or hyperglycaemia? A 56-year-old woman with no medical history was admitted with acute onset hemiballistic-choreiform movements of right extremity. On admission, her serum glucose and osmolality were elevated. Her glycosylated haemoblobin (HbA1c) was 17.9 with average blood sugars of 467 mg/dL. A CT scan of the brain revealed unilateral hyperintensities in the basal ganglia. A complete stroke work-up, including MRI and MR angiography of brain was otherwise unrevealing. Subcutaneous insulin was instituted, which led to complete resolution of her symptoms within 48 h of hospital admission. She was readmitted 4 weeks after her initial discharge for similar, but less severe, symptoms. This time her HbA1c was 13.9 with an average blood sugar of 352 mg/dL. A repeat MRI demonstrated a persistent abnormal signal within the left basal ganglia without infarct. She was started on subcutaneous insulin. Her symptoms improved but did not resolve. Haloperidol and gabapentin were initiated and she was again discharged after stabilisation to a rehabilitation centre as per physiotherapy recommendations."}
{"id": "23859836", "title": "Spot signs in intracerebral hemorrhage: useful for identifying patients at risk for hematoma enlargement?", "content": "Spot signs in intracerebral hemorrhage: useful for identifying patients at risk for hematoma enlargement? Prognostic signs for the identification of patients with acute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (SICH) prone to hematoma expansion are limited. Contrast extravasation (spot signs, SpS) on computed tomographic angiography (CTA) may be a promising method to predict hematoma expansion in acute SICH. However, prospective data on the predictive value of the SpS on hematoma expansion and clinical outcome are still limited. We aimed to investigate associations between the presence of SpS, hematoma expansion, and clinical outcome in acute SICH. A prospective observational study was performed between 08/2008 and 08/2011. Patients with SICH presenting within 6 h of symptom onset were included. Patients with secondary hematomas, purely intraventricular hematomas, incomplete CT evaluation, hematoma evacuation prior to follow-up brain imaging, and incomplete follow-up data and those who refused to give consent for data analysis were excluded. CT and CTA brain imaging were carried out in all patients at baseline. After 24 h, follow-up brain imaging was performed. Hematoma location, hematoma volume, and substantial hematoma expansion were documented. CTA images were evaluated by two investigators for the presence of SpS. In all positive SpS cases, images were additionally reviewed by a third rater to achieve consensus for interpretating contrast extravasation. Clinical outcome was measured by the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at discharge and at 3 months. In total, 101 patients [median age 73 years (interquartile range 60-79); male 61.4%] were included in the analysis. Median time from onset to CTA was 128 min (interquartile range 90-209 min); median initial National Institute of Health Stroke Scale score was 16 (8-21). SpS were detected in 27 patients (26.7%). Cohen's kappa for the presence of SpS was 0.606, indicating moderate agreement. SpS patients had significantly higher initial hematoma volumes than patients without SpS (36.0 vs. 14.39 ml, p = 0.005). Hematoma expansion was significantly more frequent in SpS patients (59.3 vs. 21.6%, p < 0.001) and associated with the presence of SpS in the univariate analysis (OR 5.273; 95% CI 2.047-13.584, p = 0.001) and in multivariable analysis adjusted for the initial hematoma volume (OR 4.678, 95% CI 1.781-12.288, p = 0.002). Sensitivity of SpS to predict hematoma expansion was 0.5, specificity was 0.84. The positive likelihood ratio for SpS to predict hematoma expansion was 3.136 (95% CI 1.649-5.967), the negative likelihood ratio was 0.595 (95% CI 0.414-0.854). No difference in 3-month clinical outcome was observed between patients with and without SpS (median mRS score 4 and 4, p = 0.457). The clinical value of SpS needs to be further explored. Future studies should particularly focus on structured training procedures to identify SpS and measure the time needed to precisely assess the presence of SpS and on the prevalence of SpS in consecutive intracerebral hemorrhage populations."}
{"id": "23830912", "title": "Efficacy of peripheral interventional radiologists performing endovascular stroke therapy guided by CT perfusion triage of patients.", "content": "Efficacy of peripheral interventional radiologists performing endovascular stroke therapy guided by CT perfusion triage of patients. To assess safety and efficacy of intraarterial mechanical thrombectomy for treatment of ischemic stroke in a community hospital by peripheral interventional radiologists employing computed tomography (CT) perfusion imaging for patient selection. Forty patients, 11 men (27.5%) and 29 women (72.5%), were treated between February 2008 and October 2011. Eligible patients had a National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score greater than 8 and diagnosis of large-vessel ischemic stroke by head CT angiogram, and met previously reported CT perfusion imaging triage criteria. The baseline NIHSS score was 18.0 \u00b1 7.9 (range, 8-35). Sixteen patients (40%) had a baseline NIHSS score greater than 20. Symptom onset was unknown in five patients. Symptom onset to device time in the remaining 35 patients was 254.8 minutes \u00b1 150.9 (range, 75-775 min). A total of 65% of patients showed thrombolysis in cerebral infarction (TICI) 2a, 2b, or 3 flow following the procedure. Symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage was seen in four patients (10.0%). At 90 days, 32 patients (80%) were alive and eight (20%) had died. The modified Rankin scale (mRS) score at 90 days was no more than 2 in 20 patients (50.0%). The mean mRS score at 90 days was 2.9 \u00b1 2.0 (range, 0-6). NIHSS score at 90 days was 5.1 \u00b1 6.1 (range, 0-24). In patients with successful recanalization (ie, TICI 2 or 3 flow), a good clinical outcome (ie, mRS score \u2264 2) was achieved in 65.3% of patients (mean, 2.4 \u00b1 1.9; range, 0-6), and 90-day mortality rate was 15.4%, compared with 28.6% in patients with TICI 0/1 flow. Peripheral interventional radiologists who use CT perfusion imaging for patient triage can have good neurologic outcomes and provide sustainable, safe, and complete around-the-clock coverage for endovascular stroke treatment."}
{"id": "23830589", "title": "Multimodal endovascular treatment of a vertebrovertebral fistula presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage and hydrocephalus.", "content": "Multimodal endovascular treatment of a vertebrovertebral fistula presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage and hydrocephalus. Vertebrovertebral fistulae are rare vascular malformations that uncommonly can rupture to present clinically as intracranial subarachnoid hemorrhage. We report a 69-year-old man presenting following spontaneous apoplectic collapse. Initial workup revealed diffuse, intracranial subarachnoid hemorrhage, intraventricular hemorrhage and hydrocephalus. However, the etiology was not apparent on CT angiography of the head. Catheter-based angiography was performed, demonstrating a single-hole, high-flow vertebrovertebral fistula, arising from the V2 segment and decompressing into both cervical and skull base venous structures. Definitive treatment consisted of endovascular fistula obliteration with a combination of coil and liquid embolic material. The patient made a full neurological recovery. High cervical and skull base fistulae are rare causes of intracranial hemorrhage; endovascular treatment is effective at disconnection of the arteriovenous shunt."}
{"id": "23824352", "title": "[A rare case of developmental venous anomaly with diffuse arteriovenous shunt in the posterior fossa presented as massive cerebellar hemorrhage].", "content": "[A rare case of developmental venous anomaly with diffuse arteriovenous shunt in the posterior fossa presented as massive cerebellar hemorrhage]. Developmental venous anomalies(DVAs), that have been previously called venous malformation, are extreme variations of normal transmedullary veins that are necessary for the drainage of white and gray matter. They are becoming the most commonly encountered intracranial vascular lesions in central nervous system imaging. Most DVAs are asymptomatic or uncomplicated, and surgery is no longer considered necessary. The author describes a rare case of an 8-year-old patient presenting with massive cerebellar hemorrhage due to DVA with diffuse arteriovenous(A-V)shunt. Cerebral angiography demonstrated diffuse A-V shunt from the basilar artery runs into the bilateral basal vein of Rosenthal through the enlarged transpontine vein. Caput medusae-like appearance was visualized, although the finding of nidus was not obvious. Moreover, three-dimensional computed tomography angiography demonstrated stenosis in part of the drainage routes. Then, we supposed that this lesion was a transitional form between a DVA and an arteriovenous malformation, and massive cerebellar hemorrhage might be caused by secondary venous hypertension due to venous stenosis. A careful follow-up should be made, because the prognosis of DVA with A-V shunt has not been fully elucidated."}
{"id": "23803620", "title": "Endovascular coiling as the first treatment strategy for ruptured pericallosal artery aneurysms: results, complications, and follow up.", "content": "Endovascular coiling as the first treatment strategy for ruptured pericallosal artery aneurysms: results, complications, and follow up. We apply endovascular coiling as the first treatment option for ruptured pericallosal artery aneurysms. We conducted a retrospective analysis of the clinical and radiological outcomes of this treatment strategy and morphological factors associated with the success of endovascular coiling, to assess the safety and feasibility of our management strategy. From January 2003 to January 2012, we attempted endovascular coiling as the first-intention treatment for 30 consecutive patients with ruptured pericallosal artery aneurysms including those with intracerebral hematoma. Twenty-seven cases of ruptured pericallosal artery aneurysms were successfully embolized with coiling whereas three failures required surgery. Four patients experienced periprocedural complications including thromboembolic event in two and hematoma enlargement after coiling in two. A maximum aneurysm diameter of <3 mm was most strongly associated with failure of endovascular coiling. Of the 27 coil-treated aneurysms, immediate angiographic results showed complete aneurysm occlusion in 19 cases, neck remnant in 6, and residual aneurysm in 2. One patient had a major aneurysm recurrence that was uneventfully reembolized. Sixteen of our 30 patients had good outcomes (modified Rankin scale [mRS] 0-2), 7 had moderate disability (mRS 3), and 4 had severe disability (mRS 4-5) at 3 months after treatment. The management strategy for coiling as the first-intention treatment for ruptured pericallosal artery aneurysms has the potential to become an acceptable alternative to surgical clipping for selected cases, although a larger study population and longer follow-up periods are needed before definitive conclusions can be drawn."}
{"id": "23803616", "title": "Risk factors of ischemic lesions related to cerebral angiography and neuro-interventional procedures.", "content": "Risk factors of ischemic lesions related to cerebral angiography and neuro-interventional procedures. Embolic stroke is not a rare complication of cerebral angiography. The risk factors for incidental embolism after cerebral angiography were retrospectively examined using diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) in 180 patients who underwent 247 angiography procedures, consisting of 174 diagnostic angiography and 73 interventional procedures, and magnetic resonance imaging including DWI within 72 hours after angiography. The two neuroradiologists in our hospital detected embolism after cerebral angiography as high-intensity lesions (HIL) on DWI. The relationships between HIL on DWI and procedural factors were evaluated. DWI after cerebral angiography revealed HIL related to the procedure in 72 of 247 angiographies. In all procedures, age (p < 0.01), past history of cerebral infarction (p < 0.05), anti-platelet therapy (p < 0.05), neuro-intervention (p < 0.01), and total amount of contrast medium (odds ratio [OR] 2.125, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.045-4.321) were significantly correlated with HIL. In diagnostic angiography, the performance of the procedure by a resident operator (OR 2.526, 95% CI 1.214-5.254) was significantly correlated with HIL. Age, past history of cerebral infarction, and previous anti-platelet therapy determined the risk of atherosclerotic changes in patients. The neuro-intervention and total amount of contrast medium used could predict the risk of time limitations for angiography. Resident operator is also a risk factor. This study demonstrates the importance of improving the risk of time limitations for angiography and the risk due to operator inexperience. Further training of residents may be needed to reduce the occurrence of embolic complications."}
{"id": "23803206", "title": "[Intracranial lageniform aneurysms: imaging features, diagnosis and treatment strategies].", "content": "[Intracranial lageniform aneurysms: imaging features, diagnosis and treatment strategies]. To explore the imaging features, diagnosis and treatment strategies of intracranial lageniform aneurysms. The clinical characteristics and therapeutic outcomes of 6 patients with intracranial lageniform aneurysms were retrospectively analyzed. All the 6 aneurysms, including 5 anterior communicating artery aneurysms and 1 middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysm, were diagnosed by CT, DSA and (or) MRA. Pretreatment CT revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage and intracranial hematoma surrounding the ruptured aneurysm. Three dimensional DSA showed that all the lageniform aneurysms contained two parts, the larger false aneurysm and the smaller true aneurysms. All the 5 Acom aneurysms were coiled and the MCA aneurysm was clipped. Two patients with coiling developed serious brain edema, and acute decompressive craniectomy was performed to 1 of them. Pathological examination of the surgical specimens confirmed that pseudoaneurysm formed the larger part of the lageniform aneurysm. One patient died of brain hernia, and the other 5 patients were discharged with good GOS. All the patients showed stable neurological status during the 3-month follow-up. Lageniform aneurysm is a complex aneurysm consisting in larger part of false aneurysm and in smaller part of true aneurysm, and early intervention with individualized surgeries is recommended."}
{"id": "23769881", "title": "Image quality improvement in three-dimensional time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography using the subtraction method for brain and temporal bone diseases.", "content": "Image quality improvement in three-dimensional time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography using the subtraction method for brain and temporal bone diseases. Time-of-flight (TOF) magnetic resonance (MR) angiography is based on flow-related enhancement using the T1-weighted spoiled gradient echo, or the fast low-angle shot gradient echo sequence. However, materials with short T1 relaxation times may show hyperintensity signals and contaminate the TOF images. The objective of our study was to determine whether subtraction three-dimensional (3D) TOF MR angiography improves image quality in brain and temporal bone diseases with unwanted contaminations with short T1 relaxation times. During the 12-month study period, patients who had masses with short T1 relaxation times noted on precontrast T1-weighted brain MR images and 24 healthy volunteers were scanned using conventional and subtraction 3D TOF MR angiography. The qualitative evaluation of each MR angiogram was based on signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) and scores in three categories, namely, (1) presence of misregistration artifacts, (2) ability to display arterial anatomy selectively (without contamination by materials with short T1 relaxation times), and (3) arterial flow-related enhancement. We included 12 patients with intracranial hematomas, brain tumors, or middle-ear cholesterol granulomas. Subtraction 3D TOF MR angiography yielded higher CNRs between the area of the basilar artery (BA) and normal-appearing parenchyma of the brain and lower SNRs in the area of the BA compared with the conventional technique (147.7 \u00b1 77.6 vs. 130.6 \u00b1 54.2, p < 0.003 and 162.5 \u00b1 79.9 vs. 194.3 \u00b1 62.3, p < 0.001, respectively) in all 36 cases. The 3D subtraction angiography did not deteriorate image quality with misregistration artifacts and showed a better selective display of arteries (p < 0.0001) and arterial flow-related enhancement (p < 0.044) than the conventional method. Subtraction 3D TOF MR angiography is more appropriate than the conventional method in improving the image quality in brain and temporal bone diseases with unwanted contaminations with short T1 relaxation times."}
{"id": "23751744", "title": "[Long-term efficacies of sinus skeletonization plus abnormal venous reflux interruption in the treatment of parasinus dural arteriovenous fistula].", "content": "[Long-term efficacies of sinus skeletonization plus abnormal venous reflux interruption in the treatment of parasinus dural arteriovenous fistula]. To retrospectively explore the long-term efficacies of sinus skeletonization plus abnormal venous reflux interruption in the treatment of dural arteriovenous fistula interfering major dural sinus. Among 15 consecutively treated patients, the lesions were located in superior sagittal sinus (n = 7), medial segment of transverse sinus (n = 3) and lateral transverse and sigmoid sinus (n = 5). And 40% of them clinically presented with intracranial hypertension and 13.3% with hemorrhage. Preoperatively, Gamma knife therapy and transarterial occlusion were used in 1 case each. All underwent sinus skeletonization plus abnormal venous reflux interruption if any. Interfered sinus was preserved in 12 cases. In another 3 cases, completely occluded segment of sinus was resected after skeletonization. Surgical mortality was none. At discharge, the symptoms were relieved or disappeared in 12 cases. Follow-up study was available in 11 cases over a mean period of 6 years. A Karnofsky performance status (KPS) score of 90 or more was achieved in 8 cases and a KPS score of 80, 60 or 40 was found in 1 case each. Digital subtract angiography was performed in 9 cases and computed tomographic angiography in 1 case after operation. Cure was achieved in 7 cases and 3 cases had minimal residue without recurrence. Sinus skeletonization may stably block most blood supply to fistula so as to offer cure or long-term control of dural arteriovenous fistula."}
{"id": "23746383", "title": "Automated subtraction CT angiography for visualization of the whole brain vasculature: a feasibility study.", "content": "Automated subtraction CT angiography for visualization of the whole brain vasculature: a feasibility study. To develop an automated computed tomography angiography (CTA) imaging protocol that allows visualization of the whole brain vasculature and evaluate the clinical usefulness of the technique for delineation of intracranial vessels in patients with cerebrovascular disorders. We prospectively included 100 patients who underwent automated subtraction CTA for suspected cerebrovascular disorders. The nonenhanced and contrast enhanced scans were obtained with the same table feeding speed. The x-ray tube start angles of the two scans were matched to enable accurate registration and subtraction of the CTA datasets. Subtracted CTA datasets were reformatted as three-dimensional volume rendering and maximum intensity projection images for further review. Two independent readers assessed the quality of subtraction and delineation of intracranial vessels. The visibility of ophthalmic arteries was also assessed. Subtraction was successful in all patients. The image quality of bone removal was rated excellent in 95 patients, with no or minimal bone remnants. Incomplete bone removal was observed in five patients because of severe motions between the scans. In 97 of 100 patients, arterial segments at the circle of Willis could be clearly visualized. Excellent delineation of bilateral ophthalmic arteries was possible in 81 of 100 patients. The whole brain vasculature would be clearly visualized by using the optimized automated CTA protocol. Our automated, single-source, dual-energy subtraction CTA protocol is a fully automated subtraction method that is capable of delineating major intracranial vessels as well as very small arteries."}
{"id": "23736000", "title": "Asymptomatic cerebral microbleeds in adult patients with moyamoya disease: a prospective cohort study with 2 years of follow-up.", "content": "Asymptomatic cerebral microbleeds in adult patients with moyamoya disease: a prospective cohort study with 2 years of follow-up. Risk factors for cerebral microbleeds (CMBs) in moyamoya disease (MMD) remain unknown, and whether the presence or distribution of CMBs is related to the subsequent hemorrhagic events needs to be confirmed. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between intracranial vascular morphology and the incidence/distribution patterns of CMBs as well as to determine the outcome in adult patients with MMD. Eighty-five consecutive adult patients with MMD were prospectively evaluated by 3.0-tesla high-intensity susceptibility-weighted magnetic resonance imaging and catheter-based digital subtraction angiography from June 2009 to January 2012. The differences in intracranial angiography (Suzuki stages, posterior cerebral artery stages, and angiographic features of the anterior choroidal and posterior communicating arteries) and clinical parameters (age, gender, hemorrhagic onset, antiplatelet treatment, systolic/diastolic blood pressure, diabetes, and plasma fibrinogen) among various CMB distribution patterns were analyzed with multinomial logistic regression. Moreover, after a median follow-up of 23 months, the relationship between CMB distribution patterns and subsequent intraventricular hemorrhage was also analyzed with Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and a Cox proportional hazards model. Forty-five female and 40 male patients were finally enrolled in the study with an average age of 41.4 \u00b1 12.7 years. Thirty-one CMB foci were detected in 24 (28.2%) patients. Most of the lesions (n = 22, 71.0%) were located in the region of deep and periventricular white matter (DPWM). Dilation and extension of anterior choroidal and posterior communicating arteries (AChA-PComA) was found to be an independent risk factor associated with the CMBs located in DPWM (p = 0.045; odds ratio 3.39, 95% CI 1.03-11.19). Patients with DPWM CMBs showed a statistically higher likelihood of subsequent intraventricular hemorrhage compared to patients without CMB foci and with CMBs in other regions (p = 0.014) during the follow-up period. Multivariable analysis suggested that DPWM CMBs were independent predictors of subsequent intraventricular hemorrhage (p = 0.028; hazard ratio 5.53, 95% CI 1.20-25.41). Dilation and extension of AChA-PComA is a determinant of CMBs involved in DPWM. CMBs in DPWM are probably predictors of subsequent intraventricular hemorrhage."}
{"id": "23733000", "title": "Predictors of hematoma volume in deep and lobar supratentorial intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Predictors of hematoma volume in deep and lobar supratentorial intracerebral hemorrhage. Hematoma volume is the strongest predictor of outcome in intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Despite known differences in the underlying biology between deep and lobar ICHs, limited data are available on location specificity of factors reported to affect hematoma volume. To evaluate whether determinants of ICH volume differ by topography, we sought to estimate location-specific effects for potential predictors of this radiological outcome. Prospective cohort study. Academic medical center. A total of 744 supratentorial primary ICH patients (388 deep and 356 lobar) aged older than 18 years admitted between January 1, 2000, and December 31, 2010. Intracerebral hemorrhage volume measured from the computed tomography scan obtained on presentation to the emergency department. Linear regression analysis, stratified by ICH location, was implemented to identify determinants of log-transformed ICH volume. Median ICH volume was larger in lobar hemorrhages (39 mL; interquartile range, 16-75 mL) than in deep hemorrhages (13 mL; interquartile range, 5-40 mL; P < .001). In multivariable linear regression, independent predictors of deep ICH volume were intensity of anticoagulation (\u03b2 = 0.32; standard error [SE] = 0.08; P < .001; test for trend across 4 categories of the international normalized ratio), history of coronary artery disease (\u03b2 = 0.33; SE = 0.17; P = .05), male sex (\u03b2 = 0.28; SE = 0.14; P = .05), and age (\u03b2 = -0.02; SE = 0.01; P = .001). Independent predictors of lobar ICH volume were intensity of anticoagulation (\u03b2 = 0.14; SE = 0.06; P = .02) and antiplatelet treatment (\u03b2 = 0.27; SE = 0.13; P = .03). Predictors of hematoma volume only partially overlap between deep and lobar ICHs. These findings suggest that the mechanisms that determine the extent of bleeding differ for deep and lobar ICHs. Further studies are needed to characterize the specific biological pathways that underlie the observed associations."}
{"id": "23708941", "title": "Cerebral microbleeds: a guide to detection and clinical relevance in different disease settings.", "content": "Cerebral microbleeds: a guide to detection and clinical relevance in different disease settings. Cerebral microbleeds have emerged as an important new imaging marker of cerebral small vessel disease. With the development of MRI techniques that are exquisitely sensitive to paramagnetic blood products, such as T2*-weighted gradient-recalled echo and susceptibility-weighted sequences, microbleeds have been detected in ever-increasing numbers of patients in stroke and cognitive clinics, as well as in healthy older people and in a variety of other rarer diseases and syndromes. Detection of cerebral microbleeds has clinical implications with respect to the diagnosis of the underlying small vessel disease, the safety of antithrombotic use, and the risk of symptomatic intracerebral haemorrhage, cognitive impairment and dementia. This article provides a guide to the detection and clinical relevance of cerebral microbleeds in different conditions based on a comprehensive review of the literature and own findings in research and clinical practice."}
{"id": "23706619", "title": "Treatment of acute visceral aortic pathology with fenestrated/branched endovascular repair in high-surgical-risk patients.", "content": "Treatment of acute visceral aortic pathology with fenestrated/branched endovascular repair in high-surgical-risk patients. The safety and feasibility of fenestrated/branched endovascular repair of acute visceral aortic disease in high-risk patients is unknown. The purpose of this report is to describe our experience with surgeon-modified endovascular aneurysm repair (sm-EVAR) for the urgent or emergent treatment of pathology involving the branched segment of the aorta in patients deemed to have prohibitively high medical and/or anatomic risk for open repair. A retrospective review was performed on all patients treated with sm-EVAR for acute indications. Planning was based on three-dimensional computed tomographic angiogram reconstructions and graft configurations included various combinations of branch, fenestration, or scallop modifications. Sixteen patients (mean age [\u00b1 standard deviation], 68 \u00b1 10 years; 88% male) deemed high risk for open repair underwent urgent or emergent repair using sm-EVAR. Indications included degenerative suprarenal or thoracoabdominal aneurysm (six), presumed or known mycotic aneurysm (four), anastomotic pseudoaneurysm (three), false lumen rupture of type B dissection (two), and penetrating aortic ulceration (one). Nine (56%) had previous aortic surgery and all patients were either American Society of Anesthesiologists class IV (n = 9) or IV-E (n = 7). A total of 40 visceral vessels (celiac, 10; superior mesenteric artery, 10; right renal artery, 10; left renal artery, 10) were revascularized with a combination of fenestrations (33), directional graft branches (six), and graft scallops (one). Technical success was 94% (n = 15/16), with one open conversion. Median contrast use was 126 mL (range, 41-245) and fluoroscopy time was 70 minutes (range, 18-200). Endoleaks were identified intraoperatively in four patients (type II, n = 3; type IV, n = 1), but none have required remediation. Mean length of stay was 12 \u00b1 15 days (median, 5.5; range, 3-59). Single complications occurred in five (31%) patients as follows: brachial sheath hematoma (one), stroke (one), ileus (one), respiratory failure (one), and renal failure (one). An additional patient experienced multiple complications including spinal cord ischemia (one) and multiorgan failure resulting in death (n = 1; in-hospital mortality, 6.3%). The majority of patients were discharged to home (63%; n = 10) or short-term rehabilitation units (25%; n = 4), while one patient required admission to a long-term acute care setting. There were no reinterventions at a median follow-up of 6.2 (range, 1-16.1) months. Postoperative computed tomographic angiogram was available for all patients and demonstrated 100% branch vessel patency, with one type III endoleak pending intervention. There were two late deaths at 1.4 and 13.4 months due to nonaortic-related pathology. Urgent or emergent treatment of acute pathology involving the visceral aortic segment with fenestrated/branched endograft repair is feasible and safe in selected high-risk patients; however, the durability of these repairs is yet to be determined."}
{"id": "23693044", "title": "Coil embolization of intracranial aneurysm in polyarteritis nodosa. A case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Coil embolization of intracranial aneurysm in polyarteritis nodosa. A case report and review of the literature. Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a rare multisystem disease characterized by systemic necrotizing arteritis of small and medium size arteries. The skin, joints, kidneys, gastrointestinal tract and peripheral nerves are most commonly involved. Although aneurysms are commonly seen in the visceral vessels, intracranial aneurysms are rare with 15 reported cases. The intracranial aneurysms are usually multiple and located in supra- as well as infra-tentorial compartments. Most of the cases presented with subarachnoid or parenchymal hemorrhage. The aneurysms were usually small, although large cavernous aneurysms were reported in one case. Treatment guidelines are not clear regarding the management of these cases. Most patients were treated conservatively by medical management with surgical excision performed in only two cases and coiling done in one patient with cavernous aneurysms. Repeat hemorrhages or re-bleed in spite of medical treatment have also been reported. We describe the case of a 22-year-old woman, a known case of PAN who presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiogram showed a ruptured right middle cerebral artery bifurcation aneurysm along with unruptured left middle cerebral, right posterior communicating and left posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysms. Her previous abdominal angiogram had revealed multiple aneurysms in visceral arteries. Successful coil embolization of the ruptured right MCA bifurcation aneurysm was performed with preservation of the parent vessel. The patient made a complete recovery and was placed on medical treatment for PAN. Follow-up MR angiography at three months revealed stable occlusion of the embolized aneurysm with no change in the unruptured aneurysms. Although rare, PAN can be associated with intracranial aneurysms which can cause subarachnoid or parenchymal hemorrhage. Selected cases can be treated safely by coil embolization."}
{"id": "23674525", "title": "The striate artery, hematoma, and spot sign on coronal images of computed tomography angiography in putaminal intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "The striate artery, hematoma, and spot sign on coronal images of computed tomography angiography in putaminal intracerebral hemorrhage. A spot sign is a bright spot on computed tomography angiography source images, which is predictive of hematoma growth in spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage, although the cause of the spot sign is unclear. Our aim was to investigate the spot sign seen on computed tomography angiography and a striate artery, which is a presumed site of intracerebral hemorrhage bleeding origin in the putamen. In consecutive cases of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage in the putamen, spot signs and striate arteries were evaluated. Coronal reformat images of computed tomography angiography were created to visualize the striate arteries. Acute deterioration, defined as hematoma enlargement, emergency hematoma removal, or death within the day of admission, was reviewed. Of the 141 patients undergoing computed tomography angiography, 15 of the 30 patients (50%) who had spot signs showed an intrahematoma striate artery (termed spot and tail sign), which was a linear density extending from the middle cerebral artery toward the spot sign. Acute deterioration occurred more frequently in patients who had a spot and tail sign compared with patients who had spot signs without intrahematoma striate arteries (P<0.05). Multivariate analysis revealed that hematoma volume, spot signs, and intrahematoma striate arteries were independent predictors of acute deterioration (P<0.05). The presence of a spot and tail sign, assumed to indicate active bleeding from the striate artery, could be a more sensitive predictor of acute deterioration than the presence of a simple spot sign."}
{"id": "23664398", "title": "Regional cerebral perfusion alterations in patients with mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer disease using dynamic susceptibility contrast MRI.", "content": "Regional cerebral perfusion alterations in patients with mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer disease using dynamic susceptibility contrast MRI. The purpose of this study was to assess regional cerebral perfusion distribution in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) or mild cognitive impairment (MCI) using dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging. Regional changes of perfusion were evaluated in 34 patients with AD, 51 patients with MCI, and 23 healthy controls (HCs). Using region of interest analyses, regional cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral blood volume, and mean transit time were measured bilaterally in the hippocampus; the temporal, temporoparietal, frontal, and sensomotoric cortices; the anterior and posterior cingulate gyri; the lentiform nucleus; and the cerebellum. A significant reduction of CBF in patients with AD compared to HCs was shown in the frontal and temporoparietal cortices bilaterally, the lentiform nuclei bilaterally, the left posterior cingulate gyrus, and the cerebellum. Compared with patients with MCI, patients with AD presented a reduction of CBF in the frontal cortices bilaterally, the left temporoparietal cortex, and the left anterior and posterior cingulate gyrus. In both hippocampi and the posterior cingulate gyrus, a trend to a slight increase of CBF in patients with MCI was noticed with a decrease in patients with AD. Using dynamic susceptibility contrast magnetic resonance imaging, pathologic alterations of regional brain perfusion can be demonstrated in patients with AD compared to patients with MCI or HCs."}
{"id": "23664329", "title": "Role of MRA in the detection of intracranial aneurysm in the acute phase of subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Role of MRA in the detection of intracranial aneurysm in the acute phase of subarachnoid hemorrhage. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) has been evaluated for the detection of unruptured intracranial aneurysms with favorable results at 3 Tesla (3T) and with similar diagnostic accuracy as both 3D time-of-flight (3D-TOF) and contrast-enhanced (CE-MRA) MRA. However, the diagnostic value and place of MRA in the detection of ruptured aneurysms has been little evaluated. Thus, the goal of this prospective single-center series was to assess the feasibility and diagnostic value of 3T 3D-TOF MRA and CE-MRA for aneurysm detection in acute non-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). From March 2006 to December 2007, all consecutive patients admitted to our hospital with acute non-traumatic SAH (\u226410 days) were prospectively included in this study evaluating MRA in the diagnostic workup of SAH. Feasibility of MRA and sensitivity/specificity of 3D-TOF and CE-MRA were assessed compared with gold standard DSA. In all, 84 consecutive patients (45 women, 39 men; age 23-86 years) were included. The feasibility of MRA was low (43/84, 51.2%). The reasons given for patients not undergoing magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination were clinical status (27 patients), potential delay in aneurysm treatment (11 patients) and contraindications to MRI (three patients). In patients explored by MRA, the sensitivity of CE-MRA (95%) was higher compared with 3D-TOF (86%) with similar specificity (80%). Also, 3D-TOF missed five aneurysms while CE-MRA missed two. The value of MRA in the diagnostic workup of ruptured aneurysms is limited due to its low feasibility during the acute phase of bleeding. Sensitivity for aneurysm detection was good for both MRA techniques, but tended to be better with CE-MRA."}
{"id": "23662820", "title": "Intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring of extracranial-intracranial bypass procedures.", "content": "Intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring of extracranial-intracranial bypass procedures. Intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring (IONM) represents an established tool in neurosurgery to increase patient safety. Its application, however, is controversial. Its use has been described as helpful in avoiding neurological deterioration during intracranial aneurysm surgery. Its impact on extracranial-intracranial (EC-IC) bypass surgery involving parent artery occlusion for the treatment of complex aneurysms has not yet been studied. The authors therefore sought to evaluate the effects of IONM on patient safety, the surgeon's intraoperative strategies, and functional outcome of patients after cerebral bypass surgery. Intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring results were compared with those of intraoperative blood flow monitoring to assess bypass graft perfusion. Compound motor action potentials (CMAPs) were generated using transcranial electrical stimulation in patients undergoing EC-IC bypass surgery. Preoperative and postoperative motor function was analyzed. To assess graft function, intraoperative flowmetry and indocyanine green fluorescence angiography were performed. Special care was taken to compare the relevance of electrophysiological and blood flow monitoring in the detection of critical intraoperative ischemic episodes. The study included 31 patients with 31 aneurysms and 1 bilateral occlusion of the internal carotid arteries, undergoing 32 EC-IC bypass surgeries in which radial artery or saphenous vein grafts were used. In 11 cases, 15 CMAP events were observed, helping the surgeon to determine the source of deterioration and to react to it: 14 were reversible and only 1 showed no recovery. In all cases, blood flow monitoring showed good perfusion of the bypass grafts. There were no false-negative results in this series. New postoperative motor deficits were transient in 1 case, permanent in 1 case, and not present in all other cases. Intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring is a helpful tool for continuous functional monitoring of patients undergoing large-caliber vessel EC-IC bypass surgery. The authors' results suggest that continuous neurophysiological monitoring during EC-IC bypass surgery has relevant advantages over flow-oriented monitoring techniques such as intraoperative flowmetry or indocyanine green-based angiography."}
{"id": "23647568", "title": "Impact of blood pressure changes and course on hematoma growth in acute intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Impact of blood pressure changes and course on hematoma growth in acute intracerebral hemorrhage. An association between high blood pressure (BP) in acute intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) and hematoma growth (HG) has not been clearly demonstrated. Therefore, the impact of BP changes and course on HG and clinical outcome in patients with acute ICH was determined. In total, 117 consecutive patients with acute (<6 h) supratentorial ICH underwent baseline and 24-h CT scans, CT angiography for the detection of the spot sign and non-invasive BP monitoring at 15-min intervals over the first 24 h. Maximum and minimum BP, maximum BP increase and drop from baseline, and BP variability values from systolic BP (SBP), diastolic BP and mean arterial pressure (MAP) were calculated. SBP and MAP loads were defined as the proportion of readings >180 and >130 mmHg, respectively. HG (>33% or >6 ml), early neurological deterioration (END) and 3-month mortality were recorded. Baseline BP variables were unrelated to either HG or clinical outcome. Conversely, SBP 180-load independently predicted HG (odds ratio 1.05, 95% CI 1.010-1.097, P = 0.016), whilst both SBP 180-load (odds ratio 1.04, 95% CI 1.001-1.076, P = 0.042) and SBP variability (odds ratio 1.2, 95% CI 1.047-1.380, P = 0.009) independently predicted END. Although none of the BP monitoring variables was associated with HG in the spot-sign-positive group, higher maximum BP increases from baseline and higher SBP and MAP loads were significantly related to HG in the spot-sign-negative group. In patients with acute supratentorial ICH, SBP 180-load independently predicts HG, whilst both SBP 180-load and SBP variability predict END."}
{"id": "23639563", "title": "Brain MRI findings in neurologically asymptomatic patients with infective endocarditis.", "content": "Brain MRI findings in neurologically asymptomatic patients with infective endocarditis. Neurologic complications in infective endocarditis are frequent and affect patient prognosis negatively. Additionally, detection of asymptomatic lesions by MR imaging could help early management of this condition. The objective of our study was to describe MR imaging characteristics of cerebral lesions in a neurologically asymptomatic population with infective endocarditis. One hundred nine patients at the acute phase of a definite or possible infective endocarditis according to the Duke modified criteria and without neurologic manifestations according to the NIHSS were prospectively included. Each patient underwent cerebral MR imaging and MRA within 7 days of admission. MR imaging showed abnormalities in 78 patients (71.5%). Acute ischemic lesions (40 patients, 37%) and cerebral microbleeds (62 patients, 57%) were the most frequent lesions. Eight patients had an acute SAH, 3 patients had brain microabscesses, 3 had a small cortical hemorrhage, and 3 had a mycotic aneurysm. Acute ischemic lesions mostly appeared as multiple small infarcts disseminated in watershed territories (25/40, 62.5%) and as lesions of different ages (21/40, 52.5%). Cerebral microbleeds were preferentially distributed in cortical areas (362/539 cerebral microbleeds, 67%). No significant correlation was found among lesions, in particular between acute ischemia and cerebral microbleeds. Occult cerebral lesions, in particular cerebral microbleeds and acute ischemic lesions, are frequent in infective endocarditis. The MR imaging pattern of acute small infarcts of different ages predominating in watershed territories and cortical cerebral microbleeds may represent a surrogate imaging marker of infective endocarditis."}
{"id": "23619699", "title": "MRI of intracranial vertebral artery dissection: evaluation of intramural haematoma using a black blood, variable-flip-angle 3D turbo spin-echo sequence.", "content": "MRI of intracranial vertebral artery dissection: evaluation of intramural haematoma using a black blood, variable-flip-angle 3D turbo spin-echo sequence. We investigated the efficacy of three-dimensional black blood T1-weighted imaging (3D-BB-T1WI) using a variable refocusing flip angle turbo spin-echo sequence in the diagnosis of intracranial vertebral artery dissection (VAD). Sixteen consecutive patients diagnosed with intracranial VAD underwent magnetic resonance imaging that included 3D time-of-flight-MRA, axial spin-echo T1-weighted images (SE-T1WI) and oblique coronal 3D-BB-T1WI sequences. The visualization, morphology and extent of intramural haematomas were assessed and compared among the sequences. Results obtained by digital subtraction angiography (DSA), 3D-angiography and/or 3D-CT angiography (CTA) were used as standards of reference. 3D-BB-T1WI revealed intramural haematomas in all cases, whereas SE-T1WI and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) failed to reveal a haematoma in one case and three cases, respectively. The mean visualization grading score for the intramural haematoma was the highest for 3D-BB-T1WI, and there was a statistically significant difference among the sequences (p < 0.001). At least a portion of the intramural haematoma was distinguishable from the lumen on 3D-BB-T1WI, whereas the haematomas were entirely indistinguishable from intraluminal signals on MRA in two cases (12.5%) and on SE-T1WI in one case (6.3%). 3D-BB-T1WI revealed the characteristic crescent shape of the intramural haematoma in 14 cases (87.5%), whereas SE-T1WI and MRA revealed a crescent shape in only 7 cases (43.8%) and 8 cases (50%), respectively. In a consensus reading, 3D-BB-T1WI was considered the most consistent sequence in representing the extent and morphology of the lesion in 14 cases (87.5%), compared to DSA and CTA. 3D-BB-T1WI is a promising method to evaluate intramural haematoma in patients with suspected intracranial VAD."}
{"id": "23615579", "title": "Body fat distribution as a risk factor for cerebrovascular disease: an MRI-based body fat quantification study.", "content": "Body fat distribution as a risk factor for cerebrovascular disease: an MRI-based body fat quantification study. While adiposity is a well-established risk factor for cardiovascular disease, the association between adiposity and cerebrovascular disease is not entirely understood. For example, common methods to quantify body fat volume such as body mass index, waist circumference and waist-to-hip ratio are not suitable to identify the complex distribution patterns of body fat and its relation to cerebrovascular pathology. In view of a better understanding of the association between fat distribution and cerebrovascular disorders, the aim of the study was to perform measurements of body fat distribution patterns and body fat volumes in correlation to arteriosclerosis of the brain-feeding arteries and white matter lesion load (WMLL). In this study we performed a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-based volumetric differential analysis of subcutaneous and visceral body fat distribution in 25 patients with MRI-proven hyperacute ischemic stroke. For the measurement of adipose tissue volume and tissue distribution automatic labeling analysis software was used. A correlation analysis of MRI volumetric measurements of subcutaneous and visceral body fat, atherosclerotic plaque load of the brain-feeding arteries measured by computed tomography angiography, and WMLL measured by MRI volumetry of the whole brain was performed. The normalized total abdominal adipose tissue and the normalized subcutaneous abdominal adipose tissue showed no significant correlation with either WMLL or total plaque volume. In contrast, the normalized visceral adipose tissue showed a significant correlation with WMLL volume. Visceral adipose tissue as a percentage of total adipose tissue showed a significant correlation with WMLL. In particular, the percentage of visceral adipose tissue rather than total body fat volume strongly correlated with atherosclerosis and ischemic cerebral lesions. Furthermore, the volume of both soft and calcified plaques correlated significantly with WMLL. Our results contribute to existing studies about the association of different patterns of fat distribution with atherosclerosis of the brain-feeding arteries, in particular highlighting the importance of visceral adiposity as a risk factor for cerebrovascular disease. The percentage of visceral adipose tissue in total adipose tissue has the potential of a sensitive parameter and might become a relevant new epidemiological marker, showing highly significant correlations with well-established markers of cerebrovascular disease. In conclusion, the percentage of visceral adipose tissue by itself has to be regarded as a risk factor for both small vessel cerebrovascular disease and cerebral atherosclerosis of the large-to-medium-sized arteries."}
{"id": "23615478", "title": "Infective endocarditis with symptomatic cerebral complications: contribution of cerebral magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Infective endocarditis with symptomatic cerebral complications: contribution of cerebral magnetic resonance imaging. Cerebral complications are well-identified causes of morbidity and mortality in patients with infective endocarditis (IE). Few studies have analysed the impact of brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in IE patients with neurological manifestations. The aims of this study were to assess the MRI contribution to the management of patients with IE neurological manifestations and to compare cerebral CT and MRI findings. Patients with definite or probable IE and neurological manifestations were prospectively enrolled from 2005 to 2008, in a university hospital (Bichat Claude Bernard Hospital, Paris). Clinical and radiological characteristics and echocardiographic findings were systematically recorded. Brain MRI with angiography was performed and compared to available CT scans. The contribution of MRI results to cerebral involvement staging and to therapeutic plans was evaluated. Thirty patients, 37-89 years old, were included. Nineteen suffered from pre-existing heart disease. Blood cultures were positive in 29 cases and the main micro-organisms were streptococci (n = 14) and staphylococci (n = 13). The IE was mainly located on mitral (n = 15) and aortic valves (n = 13). Neurological events were strokes (n = 12), meningitis (n = 5), seizures (n = 1), impaired consciousness (n = 11) and severe headache (n = 1). MRI findings included ischaemic lesions (n = 25), haemorrhagic lesions (n = 2), subarachnoid haemorrhage (n = 5), brain abscess (n = 6), mycotic aneurysm (n = 7), vascular occlusion (n = 3) and cerebral microbleeds (n = 17). In 19/30 cases, neurological manifestations were observed before the diagnosis of IE. MRI was more sensitive than CT scan in detecting both clinically symptomatic cerebral lesions (100 and 81%, respectively) and additional asymptomatic lesions (50 and 23%, respectively). Therapeutic plans were modified according to MRI results in 27% of patients: antibiotherapy regimen modifications in 7% (switch for molecules with high cerebral diffusion) and surgical plan modifications in 20% (indication of valvular replacement due to the embolic nature of the vegetations revealed by MRI or postponement of surgery due to haemorrhagic lesions). None of the 16/30 (51%) operated-on patients experienced postoperative neurological worsening. In-hospital death occurred in 4 patients. In patients with IE neurological manifestations, MRI revealed a broader involvement of the brain (type and number of lesions) than indicated by clinical signs and/or CT scan. With a better disease staging of neurological manifestations, MRI brain imaging may help in patient management and the decision-making process especially for cardiac surgery indication and timing of valve replacement."}
{"id": "23615379", "title": "Thrombolytics in acute ischaemic stroke: historical perspective and future opportunities.", "content": "Thrombolytics in acute ischaemic stroke: historical perspective and future opportunities. The discovery of thrombolytic agents goes back to the 1930s, when it was shown that substances derived from bacteria (streptokinase, staphylokinase), tissue (fibrinokinase), urine (urokinase) or bat saliva could activate the fibrinolytic system. The potential to treat arterial thrombosis with plasmin was recognized, but it was not until 1958 that its first use in acute ischaemic stroke (AIS) was described. However, since computer tomography (CT) was not available until the mid 1970s, optimal selection of patients was not possible. Early studies with streptokinase in AIS showed an increased risk of intracranial haemorrhage and lack of efficacy, which was associated with low fibrin specificity. The search for new agents with a better risk-benefit profile continued until 1979 when tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) was discovered. In 1983 it became possible to produce recombinant t-PA (rt-PA) by expression of a cloned gene which enabled clinical trials to be started, mainly for coronary thrombolysis. In 1995, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke study showed that rt-PA was an effective treatment for AIS, nowadays for use up to 4.5 h after onset. However, rt-PA still often fails in achieving rapid reperfusion, has relatively low recanalization rates and is associated with an increased bleeding risk. Several attempts have been made to develop thrombolytics with a better risk-benefit profile than rt-PA, but no real impact on clinical practice was observed. In 1994, it was shown that tenecteplase (rt-PA-TNK) had a higher fibrin specificity than rt-PA, but its clinical use in AIS was described only in 2005. The recently reported results of a small phase 2B trial showed significantly better reperfusion and clinical outcome with rt-PA-TNK compared to rt-PA; patients were selected by CT perfusion and angiography, and treated within 6 h after stroke onset. Currently, a phase 3 trial of rt-PA-TNK versus rt-PA is being planned in patients at an onset up to 4.5 h. The most fibrin-specific recombinant plasminogen activator desmoteplase originates from 1991, and its clinical development in AIS started in 2005. Desmoteplase is in phase 3 development for the treatment of AIS between 3 and 9 h after onset in AIS patients presenting with occlusion or high-grade stenosis."}
{"id": "23615110", "title": "A new, more accurate classification of middle cerebral artery aneurysms: computed tomography angiographic study of 1,009 consecutive cases with 1,309 middle cerebral artery aneurysms.", "content": "A new, more accurate classification of middle cerebral artery aneurysms: computed tomography angiographic study of 1,009 consecutive cases with 1,309 middle cerebral artery aneurysms. Classification of middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysms is sometimes difficult because the identification of the main MCA bifurcation, the key for accurate classification of MCA aneurysms, is inconsistent and somewhat subjective. To use the meeting point of the M1 and M2 trunks as an objective, generally accepted, and angiographically evident hallmark for identification of MCA bifurcation and more accurate classification of MCA aneurysms. We reviewed the computed tomographic angiography data of 1009 consecutive patients with 1309 MCA aneurysms. The M2 trunks were followed proximally until their meeting with the M1 trunk at the main MCA bifurcation. The aneurysms were classified according to their relative location: proximal, at, or distal to the MCA bifurcation. The M1 aneurysms were further subgrouped into M1 early cortical branch aneurysms and M1 lenticulostriate artery aneurysms, extending the classic 3-group classification of MCA aneurysms into a 4-group classification. The main MCA bifurcation was the most common location for MCA aneurysms, harboring 829 aneurysms (63%). The 406 M1 aneurysms comprised 242 M1 early cortical branch aneurysms (60%) and 164 M1 lenticulostriate artery aneurysms (40%). We found 106 MCA aneurysms (8%) at the origin of large early frontal branches simulating M2 trunks liable to be misclassified as MCA bifurcation aneurysms. Even though 51% of the 407 ruptured MCA aneurysms were associated with an intracerebral hematoma, this did not affect the classification. Studying MCA angioarchitecture and applying the 4-group classification of MCA aneurysms is practical and facilitates the accurate classification of MCA aneurysms, helping to improve surgical outcome."}
{"id": "23615086", "title": "Diagnostic yield of cerebral angiography in patients with computed tomography-negative, lumbar puncture-positive subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Diagnostic yield of cerebral angiography in patients with computed tomography-negative, lumbar puncture-positive subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography is generally recommended in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) by positive lumbar puncture (LP) but negative findings on computed tomography (CT). Existing data on the yield of angiography in these patients are very limited. To retrospectively assess the diagnostic yield of cerebral angiography in patients with CT-/LP+ SAH and to determine the clinical and laboratory predictors of a vascular abnormality on angiography. A total of 35 patients with CT-/LP+ SAH underwent cerebral angiography at our institution between 2008 and 2011. Patient clinical characteristics and LP findings were entered into a multivariate logistic regression analysis to identify predictors of vascular abnormalities. Twenty-five patients (71.4%) were female and 10 (28.6%) were male, with a mean age of 53 years. Twenty-six patients (74.3%) had cerebrospinal fluid xanthochromia. Sixteen patients (45.7%) were found to have an aneurysm on cerebral angiography. The median CSF red blood cell count of both the first (7790/mm(3) vs 4700/mm(3)), and last collection tubes (6800/mm(3) vs 3219/mm(3)) were higher in patients with cerebral aneurysms vs those without aneurysms (P = .3). On multivariate analysis, there were no clinical or laboratory parameters that predicted the presence of aneurysm on cerebral angiography. The diagnostic yield of cerebral angiography is high (45.7%) in patients with CT-/LP+ SAH. Higher red blood cell counts were noted in patients with cerebral aneurysms but no clinical or laboratory parameter can reliably predict the presence of a vascular anomaly. Thus, it is reasonable to perform cerebral angiography in all patients with CT-/LP+ SAH."}
{"id": "23608872", "title": "Hemispheric venous dysgenesis in a woman presenting with seizures, weakness and parkinsonism.", "content": "Hemispheric venous dysgenesis in a woman presenting with seizures, weakness and parkinsonism. This report describes an unusual case of a woman who developed progressive hemiparesis, seizures and hemiparkinsonism associated with MRI and angiographic evidence of chronic venous hypertension in the contralateral cerebrum and cerebellum. In the absence of inflammatory or veno-occlusive disorders, the patient's clinical and neuroradiological findings point to a developmental disorder, such as a hemispheric venous dysgenesis, as the underlying lesion."}
{"id": "23582984", "title": "Abnormalities of cerebral blood flow in multiple sclerosis: a pseudocontinuous arterial spin labeling MRI study.", "content": "Abnormalities of cerebral blood flow in multiple sclerosis: a pseudocontinuous arterial spin labeling MRI study. Arterial spin labeling (ASL) is a noninvasive technique that can measure cerebral blood flow (CBF). To our knowledge, there is no study that examined regional CBF of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients by using this technique. The present study assessed the relationship between clinical presentations and functional imaging data in MS using pseudocontinuous arterial spin labeling (pCASL). Twenty-seven patients with MS and 24 healthy volunteers underwent magnetic resonance imaging and pCASL to assess CBF. Differences in CBF between the two groups and the relationships of CBF values with the T2-hyperintense volume were evaluated. Compared to the healthy volunteers, reduced CBF was found in the bilateral thalami and right frontal region of the MS patients. The volume of the T2-hyperintense lesion was negatively correlated with regional CBF in some areas, such as both thalami. Our results suggest that demyelinated lesions in MS mainly have a remote effect on the thalamus and that the measurement of CBF using ASL could be an objective marker for monitoring disease activity in MS."}
{"id": "23572475", "title": "Computed tomography angiography spot sign does not predict case fatality in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage with intraparenchymal extension.", "content": "Computed tomography angiography spot sign does not predict case fatality in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage with intraparenchymal extension. Many patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) with intraparenchymal extension develop early hematoma expansion, which is not explained by aneurysmal rerupture in half of cases. In patients with primary intracerebral hemorrhage, the computed tomography angiography (CTA) spot sign predicts hematoma expansion and poor outcome. We conducted a 2-center prospective cohort study to evaluate whether CTA spot sign predicts case fatality in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage with intraparenchymal extension. We studied consecutive patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage with intraparenchymal extension. Two experienced readers, blinded to clinical data, analyzed CTAs for spot sign presence. We assessed the proportion of patients with the CTA spot sign and tested its association with in-hospital and 90-day case fatality, using univariable and multivariable logistic regression. In 32 of 236 patients (14%), we found at least 1 spot sign. Acute surgical hematoma evacuation with aneurysm occlusion occurred in 120 patients (51%). The overall in-hospital case fatality rate was 37%. The CTA spot sign was not associated with in-hospital (multivariable odds ratio, 0.51 [95% confidence interval, 0.06-3.26]) or 90-day (multivariable odds ratio, 0.59 [0.21-1.65]) case fatality. The found frequency of CTA spot signs is lower after aneurysmal than primary intracerebral hemorrhage and is not associated with in-hospital or 90-day case fatality in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage with intraparenchymal extension."}
{"id": "23564127", "title": "Usefulness of intraoperative computed tomography for the evacuation of lobar hemorrhage.", "content": "Usefulness of intraoperative computed tomography for the evacuation of lobar hemorrhage. There is a lot of debate on the treatment method for spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Intraoperative computed tomography (iCT) provides excellent images of cerebrovascular lesions. In this paper, we describe the surgical procedure and the efficacy of iCT during lobar hemorrhage evacuations and subsequent patient outcomes. Fifty-eight patients with lobar hemorrhage were treated using iCT. We performed preoperative cerebral angiography and/or three-dimensional (3D) CT angiography to detect abnormal vessels and identify the spatial relationships between the cerebrovascular structures and the hematoma. After administration of local anesthesia, an enlarged burr-hole was created just above the hematoma. Microsurgical evacuation of the hematoma was performed, and an iCT image was obtained to assess real-time 3D information on residual hematoma or unexpected rebleeding. Mean hematoma volume, evacuation rate, and duration of the surgery were 42 mL, 93 %, and 89 min respectively. Postoperative rebleeding occurred in 1 case. The median Glasgow Coma Scale score upon admission was 12. At discharge, most patients (60 %) had good functional outcomes defined by modified Rankin Scale scores of 0-3. Postoperative neurological findings and consciousness levels showed early improvement. Safe, accurate, and effective evacuation of lobar hemorrhage was possible with iCT as an image-guided intraoperative navigation tool."}
{"id": "23544266", "title": "Cerebral hemorrhage and cerebral infarction in 30 cases of adult moyamoya disease: comparison between conservative therapy and superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery anastomosis.", "content": "Cerebral hemorrhage and cerebral infarction in 30 cases of adult moyamoya disease: comparison between conservative therapy and superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery anastomosis. To clarify the effect of surgery on the prevention cerebral hemorrhage in adult moyamoya disease, we compared postoperative courses between superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery (STA-MCA) anastomosis and conservative therapy. The study subjects were 30 adults with moyamoya disease. Unilateral STA-MCA anastomosis was conducted in 7 of these 30 cases, and bilateral STA-MCA anastomosis was conducted in 8 of these 30 cases. Therefore, anastomosis was performed in a total of 23 sides. The postoperative clinical course was observed for more than 5 years after the STA-MCA anastomosis. Cerebral hemorrhage occurred after operation in 2 sides (8.7%) among the 23 sides that received STA-MCA anastomosis. On the contrary, hemorrhage occurred during conservative therapy in 5 sides (13.5%) among 37 non-operation sides (no significance in chi2 test). Cerebral infarction occurred in 3 sides (13%) among 23 sides treated with STA-MCA anastomosis. However, the infarction occurred in 2 sides (5.4%) among the 37 non-operation sides (no significance in chi2 test). Cerebral hemorrhage tended to occur less frequently after STA-MCA anastomosis, and bypass surgery was suggested to have some beneficial effect in preventing cerebral hemorrhage in adult moyamoya disease. However, it was revealed that STA-MCA anastomosis exacerbated the brain ischemia. Therefore, strict management is mandatory in the perioperative period."}
{"id": "23542797", "title": "[Vertebral artery dissecting aneurysm presenting with isolated pain and showing repeated morphological changes over the short term: a case report].", "content": "[Vertebral artery dissecting aneurysm presenting with isolated pain and showing repeated morphological changes over the short term: a case report]. Vertebral artery (VA) dissecting aneurysm (VADA), which presents with headache and neck pain as the only manifestations, is an uncommon pathology, but is increasingly recognized as a cause of posterior circulation stroke in young adults. We report a case of VADA with isolated occipital headache at the time of onset and treatment using an endovascular approach. A 58-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with left occipital headache. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed neither subarachnoid hemorrhage(SAH)nor cerebral infarction, but magnetic resonance angiography (MRA)revealed left VADA. Conservative treatment including pain relief and blood pressure control was provided. After 2 weeks, the dissecting lesion showed spontaneous improvement and occipital headache was gradually improving. However, 4 months after onset, the VADA showed growing aneurysmal dilatation. We therefore performed endovascular surgery (coil embolization with parent artery occlusion). Symptoms improved, and the postoperative course was uneventful. Although the natural history of VADA with isolated headache remains unclear, endovascular treatment should be considered for patients with growing aneurysmal dilatation, since the prognosis for patients with subsequent SAH is very poor."}
{"id": "23542422", "title": "Towards robust deconvolution of low-dose perfusion CT: sparse perfusion deconvolution using online dictionary learning.", "content": "Towards robust deconvolution of low-dose perfusion CT: sparse perfusion deconvolution using online dictionary learning. Computed tomography perfusion (CTP) is an important functional imaging modality in the evaluation of cerebrovascular diseases, particularly in acute stroke and vasospasm. However, the post-processed parametric maps of blood flow tend to be noisy, especially in low-dose CTP, due to the noisy contrast enhancement profile and the oscillatory nature of the results generated by the current computational methods. In this paper, we propose a robust sparse perfusion deconvolution method (SPD) to estimate cerebral blood flow in CTP performed at low radiation dose. We first build a dictionary from high-dose perfusion maps using online dictionary learning and then perform deconvolution-based hemodynamic parameters estimation on the low-dose CTP data. Our method is validated on clinical data of patients with normal and pathological CBF maps. The results show that we achieve superior performance than existing methods, and potentially improve the differentiation between normal and ischemic tissue in the brain."}
{"id": "23526786", "title": "Superselective arterial spin labeling applied for flow territory mapping in various cerebrovascular diseases.", "content": "Superselective arterial spin labeling applied for flow territory mapping in various cerebrovascular diseases. In three example patients suffering from internal carotid artery occlusion, intracranial steno-occlusive disease, and symptomatic arteriovenous malformation (AVM), a new method named superselective pseudo-continuous arterial spin labeling (pCASL) was used in addition to clinical routine measurements. The capabilities of this method are demonstrated to gain important information in diagnosis, risk analysis, and treatment monitoring that are neither accessible by digital subtraction angiography nor by existing selective arterial spin labeling methods and thus to propose future applications in clinical routine. In all cases superselective pCASL enabled the assessment of tissue viability and of territorial brain perfusion at different levels starting from major brain feeding vessels to collateral circulation at the level of the Circle of Willis to even distal branching arteries. This made it possible to estimate the contribution of an extracranial-intracranial bypass to the brain perfusion; to depict individual arteries to important functional brain areas; to identify en-passant feeding vessels of an AVM and to track possible changes in their perfusion territories after intervention."}
{"id": "23508276", "title": "\"Dynamic spot sign\" on CT perfusion source images predicts haematoma expansion in acute intracerebral haemorrhage.", "content": "\"Dynamic spot sign\" on CT perfusion source images predicts haematoma expansion in acute intracerebral haemorrhage. To evaluate the association between dynamic progressive enhancing foci (\"dynamic spot sign\") in acute haematoma on CT perfusion source images (CTP-SI) and haematoma expansion. One hundred twelve consecutive patients with spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage according to unenhanced CT, CTP and CT angiography within 6 h of symptom onset were prospectively evaluated. Patients were dichotomised according to the presence/absence of the dynamic spot sign on CTP-SI in haematoma. The predictive value of haematoma expansion was analysed. Haematoma expansion was detected in 28 patients (25.0 %) on follow-up unenhanced CT images. Thirty patients (26.8 %) demonstrated the dynamic spot sign on CTP-SI, about 83.3 % of patients with haematoma expansion (P\u2009<\u20090.001). Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and kappa value for expansion were 89.3 %, 94.0 %, 96.3 %, 83.3 % and 0.814, respectively. In multiple regression, the presence of the CTP dynamic spot sign within acute haematomas independently predicted haematoma expansion; the univariate analysis OR value was 131.667 (29.386-590.289), P\u2009<\u20090.0001. Moreover, the multivariate analysis CTP dynamic spot sign OR value was 203.996 (32.123-1295.488), P\u2009<\u20090.0001. The CTP-SI dynamic spot sign is associated with acute haematoma expansion, is more direct in showing active ongoing bleeding and has a higher predictive value than the CTA spot sign. \u2022 It is important to identify potential progression of spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage. \u2022 Dynamic enhancement within CT perfusion source images is associated with haemorrhage expansion. \u2022 The CTP dynamic spot sign may be present throughout arterial to venous phase imaging. \u2022 The CTP dynamic spot sign carries a higher predive value for haematoma expansion than CTA."}
{"id": "23498563", "title": "Screening for cerebrovascular disease in microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II (MOPD II): an evidence-based proposal.", "content": "Screening for cerebrovascular disease in microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II (MOPD II): an evidence-based proposal. Microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II (OMIM 210720) is a rare autosomal recessive condition frequently associated with early-onset cerebrovascular disease. Presymptomatic detection and intervention could prevent the adverse consequences associated with this. We reviewed published cases of microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II to ascertain prevalence and characteristics of cerebrovascular disease and use these data to propose an evidence-based approach to cerebrovascular screening. Of 147 cases identified, 47 had cerebrovascular disease (32%), including occlusive arteriopathy (including moyamoya) and cerebral aneurysmal disease. Occlusive disease occurred in younger individuals, and progression can be both rapid and clinically silent. A reasonable screening approach would be magnetic resonance imaging and angiography of the cervical and intracranial circulation at diagnosis, repeated at yearly intervals until 10 years, and every 2 years thereafter, unless clinical concerns occur earlier. At present it would appear that this needs to be life-long. Families and professionals should be alerted to the potential significance of neurologic symptoms and measures should be taken to maintain good vascular health in affected individuals."}
{"id": "23498376", "title": "Haptoglobin phenotype predicts cerebral vasospasm and clinical deterioration after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Haptoglobin phenotype predicts cerebral vasospasm and clinical deterioration after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Vasospasm (VS) and delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) are thought to greatly affect prognosis. Haptoglobin (Hp) is a hemoglobin-binding protein expressed by a genetic polymorphism (1-1, 2-1, and 2-2). Our objects were to investigate whether the Hp phenotype could predict the incidence of cerebral infarction, favorable outcome, clinical deterioration by DCI, and angiographical VS after aneurysmal SAH. Ninety-five consecutive patients who underwent clipping or coil embolization were studied. Favorable functional outcome was defined as a modified Rankin Scale score of 0-2 at 3 months. Angiographical VS was diagnosed based on cerebral angiography findings performed between days 7 and 10 after SAH. The Hp 2-2 group had a significantly greater risk of angiographical VS than that of Hp 2-1 and 1-1 groups combined on univariate (odds ratio [OR]: 3.60, confidence interval [CI]: 1.49-8.67, P = .003) and multivariate logistic regression analyses after being adjusted for age, sex, Fisher groups, and other risk factors (OR: 3.75, CI: 1.54-9.16, P = .004). The Hp 2-2 group also showed the tendency of a greater risk of clinical deterioration by DCI with marginal significance on univariate and age- and sex-adjusted analyses (univariate OR: 2.46, CI: .90-6.74, P = .080; age- and sex-adjusted OR: 2.46, CI: .89-6.82, P = .080) but not after being adjusted for other multiple risk factors. The Hp 2-2 group was not associated with the favorable 3-month outcome and cerebral infarction (univariate: P = .867, P = .209; multivariate: P = .905, P = .292). The Hp phenotype seems to be associated with a higher rate of angiographical VS and clinical deterioration by DCI but does not affect the incidence of cerebral infarction and favorable outcome."}
{"id": "23495805", "title": "Angiographic findings in 2 children with cerebral paragonimiasis with hemorrhage.", "content": "Angiographic findings in 2 children with cerebral paragonimiasis with hemorrhage. Hemorrhagic events associated with cerebral paragonimiasis are not rare, especially in children and adolescents; however, angiographic evidence of cerebrovascular involvement has not been reported. The authors describe angiographic abnormalities of the cerebral arteries seen in 2 children in whom cerebral paragonimiasis was associated with hemorrhagic stroke. The patients presented with acute intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Angiography revealed a beaded appearance and long segmental narrowing of arteries, consistent with arteritis. In both patients, involved vessels were seen in the area of the hemorrhage. The vascular changes and the hemorrhage, together with new lesions that developed close to the hemorrhage and improved after praziquantel treatment, were attributed to paragonimiasis. Further study of the frequency and mechanism of hemorrhagic cerebrovascular complications associated with cerebral paragonimiasis is needed."}
{"id": "23466430", "title": "Hematoma expansion following acute intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Hematoma expansion following acute intracerebral hemorrhage. Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), the most devastating form of stroke, has no specific therapy proven to improve outcome by randomized controlled trial. Location and baseline hematoma volume are strong predictors of mortality, but are nonmodifiable by the time of diagnosis. Expansion of the initial hematoma is a further marker of poor prognosis that may be at least partly preventable. Several risk factors for hematoma expansion have been identified, including baseline ICH volume, early presentation after symptom onset, anticoagulation, and the CT angiography spot sign. Although the biological mechanisms of hematoma expansion remain unclear, accumulating evidence supports a model of ongoing secondary bleeding from ruptured adjacent vessels surrounding the initial bleeding site. Several large clinical trials testing therapies aimed at preventing hematoma expansion are in progress, including aggressive blood pressure reduction, treatment with recombinant factor VIIa guided by CT angiography findings, and surgical intervention for superficial hematomas without intraventricular extension. Hematoma expansion is so far the only marker of outcome that is amenable to treatment and thus a potentially important therapeutic target."}
{"id": "23449655", "title": "Contrast extravasation on CT angiography predicts hematoma expansion and mortality in acute traumatic subdural hemorrhage.", "content": "Contrast extravasation on CT angiography predicts hematoma expansion and mortality in acute traumatic subdural hemorrhage. The presence of active contrast extravasation at CTA predicts hematoma expansion and in-hospital mortality in patients with nontraumatic intracerebral hemorrhage. This study aims to determine the frequency and predictive value of the contrast extravasation in patients with aSDH. We retrospectively reviewed 157 consecutive patients who presented to our emergency department over a 9-year period with aSDH and underwent CTA at admission and a follow-up NCCT within 48 hours. Two experienced readers, blinded to clinical data, reviewed the CTAs to assess for the presence of contrast extravasation. Medical records were reviewed for baseline clinical characteristics and in-hospital mortality. aSDH maximum width in the axial plane was measured on both baseline and follow-up NCCTs, with hematoma expansion defined as >20% increase from baseline. Active contrast extravasation was identified in 30 of 199 discrete aSDHs (15.1%), with excellent interobserver agreement (\u03ba = 0.80; 95% CI, 0.7-0.9). The presence of contrast extravasation indicated a significantly increased risk of hematoma expansion (odds ratio, 4.5; 95% CI, 2.0-10.1; P = .0001) and in-hospital mortality (odds ratio, 7.6; 95% CI, 2.6-22.3; P = 0.0004). In a multivariate analysis controlled for standard risk factors, the presence of contrast extravasation was an independent predictor of aSDH expansion (P = .001) and in-hospital mortality (P = .0003). Contrast extravasation stratifies patients with aSDH into those at high risk and those at low risk of hematoma expansion and in-hospital mortality. This distinction could affect patient treatment, clinical trial selection, and possible surgical intervention."}
{"id": "23444309", "title": "Spot sign number is the most important spot sign characteristic for predicting hematoma expansion using first-pass computed tomography angiography: analysis from the PREDICT study.", "content": "Spot sign number is the most important spot sign characteristic for predicting hematoma expansion using first-pass computed tomography angiography: analysis from the PREDICT study. The spot sign score (SSS) provides risk stratification for hematoma expansion in acute intracerebral hemorrhage; however, external validation is needed. We sought to validate the SSS and assess prognostic performance of individual spot characteristics associated with hematoma expansion from a prospective multicenter intracerebral hemorrhage study. Two hundred twenty-eight intracerebral hemorrhage patients within 6 hours after ictus were enrolled in the Predicting Hematoma Growth and Outcome in Intracerebral Hemorrhage Using Contrast Bolus CT (PREDICT) study, a multicenter prospective intracerebral hemorrhage cohort study. Patients were evaluated with baseline noncontrast computerized tomography, computerized tomography angiography, and 24-hour follow-up computerized tomography. Primary outcome was significant hematoma expansion (>6 mL or >33%) and secondary outcome was absolute and relative expansion. Blinded computerized tomography angiography spot sign characterization and SSS calculation were independently performed by 2 neuroradiologists and a radiology resident. Diagnostic performance of the SSS and individual spot characteristics were examined with multivariable regression, receiver operating characteristic analysis, and tests for trend. SSS and spot number independently predicted significant, absolute, and relative hematoma expansion (P<0.05 each) and demonstrated near perfect interobserver agreement (\u03ba=0.82 and \u03ba=0.85, respectively). Incremental risk of hematoma expansion among spot-positive patients was not identified for SSS (P trend=0.720) but was demonstrated for spot number (P trend=0.050). Spot number and SSS demonstrated similar area under the curve (0.69 versus 0.68; P=0.306) for hematoma expansion. Multicenter external validation of the SSS demonstrates that the spot number alone provides similar prediction but improved risk stratification of hematoma expansion compared with the SSS."}
{"id": "23428238", "title": "Delayed rupture of a basilar artery aneurysm treated with coils: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Delayed rupture of a basilar artery aneurysm treated with coils: case report and review of the literature. Delayed rupture of a previously unruptured cerebral aneurysm after uneventful saccular coil packing is rare, particularly when the quality of aneurysm occlusion is appropriate (neck remnant or total occlusion). The present report describes the case of a 70-year-old woman with an incidentally detected, asymptomatic, small basilar tip non-thrombosed aneurysm who experienced rupture of the aneurysm 2 years after coiling. Cerebral angiography taken on the day of rupture revealed only small recanalization of the aneurysm neck with no dome-filling. This is the first report of delayed rupture due to minor recurrence of a previously unruptured small asymptomatic cerebral aneurysm after saccular coil packing. A literature review of 26 reports of late bleeding after coil embolization of previously unruptured cerebral aneurysms showed that dome-filling after coil embolization, symptomatic aneurysms and large/giant aneurysms all increase the risk of delayed rupture in previously unruptured aneurysms after saccular coil packing."}
{"id": "23417929", "title": "Subarachnoid haemorrhage with bilateral intracranial vertebral artery dissecting aneurysms treated by staged endovascular stenting.", "content": "Subarachnoid haemorrhage with bilateral intracranial vertebral artery dissecting aneurysms treated by staged endovascular stenting. Bilateral vertebral artery dissecting aneurysms (VADAs) presenting with subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) are an exceedingly rare and deadly clinical dilemma. Prompt intervention in the case of unilateral VADAs is advocated to prevent rebleed; however, in the case of bilateral VADAs, the optimal therapeutic intervention is unclear. We describe the case of a patient presenting with SAH with bilateral VADAs treated by staged endovascular stenting. This led to resolution of the aneurysms with patency of both vertebral arteries. Stent-based therapy of the symptomatic aneurysm followed by staged stenting of the asymptomatic, contralateral aneurysm appears to be a viable treatment option. This method allows the ability to preserve flow in both vertebral arteries with minimal changes in flow characteristics that may threaten the contralateral, asymptomatic VADA, and appears to be the ideal treatment in these rare cases."}
{"id": "23403328", "title": "Time is brain?--Surgical revascularization of acute symptomatic occlusion of the internal carotid artery up to one week.", "content": "Time is brain?--Surgical revascularization of acute symptomatic occlusion of the internal carotid artery up to one week. Clinical outcome and surgical success rate of open surgical reconstruction for acute symptomatic internal carotid artery (ICA) occlusion up to 1 week after stroke onset were analyzed to determine a cutoff time, after which risk exceeds clinical benefit. From November 1997 to March 2007, a total of 5369 patients were examined at the authors' stroke unit; 502 from this cohort underwent ICA reconstruction. A subgroup of 49 patients underwent surgical revascularization of acute ICA occlusion within 168 hr at a mean of 42.5\u00b138.7 hr after stroke onset. Preoperative diagnostic measures consisted of extracranial/intracranial duplex sonography (n=49), cerebral computed tomography (n=31), magnetic resonance imaging and angiography (n=37), and digital subtraction angiography (n=24). All 49 patients experienced a complete ICA occlusion and an ipsilateral recent ischemic infarction. Modified Rankin scale score (mRS) before surgery was 0 to 3 in 20 patients (41%) and 4 to 5 in 29 patients (49%). ICA patency could be restored in 38 patients (78%). The following clinical outcomes were noted: clinical improvement in mRS by at least 1 point in 23 of 49 of patients (47%), no change in 14 of 49 (28%), deterioration in mRS by at least 1 point in 6 of 49 (12%), and death within 30 days in 6 of 49 (12%). A total of 21 patients (43%) experienced perioperative cerebral events (new infarction, new intracranial hemorrhage or enlargement, or hemorrhagic transformation of the preexisting infarction). Univariate analysis showed that clinical improvement correlated significantly with success of recanalization and with early recanalization within 72 hr. Age, gender, and preoperative Rankin stage did not have influence. Clinical deterioration or death was only associated with perioperative cerebral events and seemed to be time-independent. Multivariate analysis did not have enough statistical power to analyze the impact of different risk factors on outcome after urgent revascularization. In patients who undergo surgery after 72 hr from symptom onset, the risk seems to outweigh the benefit."}
{"id": "23394535", "title": "Current management and treatment of cerebral vasospasm complicating SAH.", "content": "Current management and treatment of cerebral vasospasm complicating SAH. Cerebral vasospasm is a common and serious complication of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. Despite the improvements in treatment of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (aSAH), cerebral vasospasm complicating aSAH has remained the main cause of morbidity and mortality. Subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH)-induced vasospasm is a complex entity caused by vasculopathy, impaired autoregulation, and hypovolaemia, causing a regional reduction of cerebral brain perfusion which can then induce ischaemia. Cerebral vasospasm can present either asymptomatically detected only radiologically or symptomatically (delayed ischaemic neurologic deficit). The various diagnostic approaches include the use of transcranial doppler, digital subtraction angiography and multimodal computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) techniques. Although digital subtraction angiography is usually the gold standard for the diagnosis of cerebral vasospam, transcranial doppler is commonly the first-screening method for the detection of cerebral vasospam. The treatment of subarachnoid haemorrhage -induced vasospasm include the use of both medical and endovascular therapy. The aim of this review is to discuss the various current therapeutic options and future perspective measures for reducing cerebral vasospasm induced stroke after SAH."}
{"id": "23370480", "title": "Effect of core laboratory and multiple-reader interpretation of angiographic images on follow-up outcomes of coiled cerebral aneurysms: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "content": "Effect of core laboratory and multiple-reader interpretation of angiographic images on follow-up outcomes of coiled cerebral aneurysms: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Reported rates of recanalization following coil embolization vary widely across studies. Some confounders are known to affect outcomes but others remain questionable. In the current study, we assess differences in reported angiographic outcomes for cerebral aneurysms treated with coil embolization as a function of single vs multiple readers and site investigator vs core laboratory settings. Our systematic review covered 1999-2011 by using Ovid MEDLINE and EMBASE. Search terms were subarachnoid hemorrhage, intracranial aneurysms, endovascular treatment, and coiling. Inclusion criteria were >50 aneurysms and available imaging follow-up. Study characteristics of interest were readers at the treating site(s) or at an independent core imaging facility, single vs multiple readers, number of aneurysms treated, mean aneurysm size, mean follow-up time, coil type, initial rupture status, and angiographic follow-up. We defined \"unfavorable angiographic outcome\" as either \"recanalization,\" <90% occlusion, or \"incomplete occlusion.\" There were 104 (2.6%) of 4022 studies that fulfilled our inclusion criteria, comprising a total of 22,134 treated aneurysms, of which 15,969 (72.1%) had reported angiographic follow-up. The overall unfavorable outcome rate was 17.8% (2955/15,969 aneurysms). Eight (7.7%) of 104 studies reported core laboratory readings in which the pooled rate of unfavorable outcomes was 0.23 (95% CI, 0.19-0.28) compared with 0.16 (95% CI, 0.14-0.18) in readings from the treating sites (P < .001). The multivariate meta-regression suggested that core laboratory interpretation was significant for unfavorable outcomes (OR, 5.60; 95% CI, 2.01-15.60; P = .001), after adjustment for initial rupture status, aneurysm size, follow-up duration, and coil type. No significant association was found with use of multiple readers. Core laboratory studies tend to report higher rates of unfavorable outcomes compared with self-reported studies."}
{"id": "23336261", "title": "Transient focal neurological episodes, cerebral amyloid angiopathy, and intracerebral hemorrhage risk: looking beyond TIAs.", "content": "Transient focal neurological episodes, cerebral amyloid angiopathy, and intracerebral hemorrhage risk: looking beyond TIAs. When most doctors encounter older patients with transient focal neurological symptoms, they usually suspect a diagnosis of transient ischemic attacks or some of their known mimics (including migraine auras or focal seizures). This article emphasizes new observations on transient focal neurological episodes in the context of cerebral amyloid angiopathy, a common but under-recognized small vessel disease most often encountered as a cause of symptomatic lobar intracerebral hemorrhage. Transient focal neurological episodes in cerebral amyloid angiopathy are of clinical and pathophysiological interest because they can mimic transient ischemic attacks, but are probably more often related to bleeding (especially superficial cortical siderosis or focal convexity sub-arachnoid hemorrhage) rather than ischemia. Importantly, such episodes may also herald a very high future risk of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage. The article highlights scenarios encountered in clinical practice and discusses implications for patient care including: (a) the value of blood-sensitive magnetic resonance imaging sequences in investigating transient focal neurological episodes; and (b) treatment implications, as giving antiplatelet or anticoagulant drugs for these episodes could increase the risk of serious intracerebral hemorrhage."}
{"id": "23334227", "title": "Quantification of Phase Values of Cerebral Microbleeds in Hypertensive Patients Using ESWAN MRI.", "content": "Quantification of Phase Values of Cerebral Microbleeds in Hypertensive Patients Using ESWAN MRI. The presence of cerebral microbleeds (CMBs) may have predictive and diagnostic value for cerebrovascular diseases. The purpose of our study was to measure the phase values (PVs) of CMBs by phase maps. We retrospectively analyzed 75 patients with hypertension who had CMBs using enhanced T2*-weighted angiography (ESWAN). The PVs of CMBs were measured and documented. The mean PVs of CMBs were correlated with demographic features and the grade of white matter lesions for seven brain regions. A total of 275 CMBs were found. Their mean PV was - 1.39 \u00b1 0.29 radians. The mean PV of CMBs in seven brain regions was significantly lower than that of red nucleus and substantia nigra of healthy controls (P <\u2009 .05). The mean PV of CMBs in the basal ganglia gray matter was significantly lower than that of the brainstem, subcortical white matter, and cerebellum (P < 0.05). In subcortical white matter, the PVs were significantly lower in patients with hypertension < 10 years than for those patients with hypertension \u2265 10 years (P < 0.05). In basal ganglia gray matter, the PVs were significantly lower in men than in women (P < 0.05). There was no significant correlation between the PVs of CMBs and the demographic features addressed or the grade of white matter lesions. Measurement of the PV of phase maps using ESWAN sequence provides quantitative information for detection of CMBs. The measurement data reported herein will provide a reference for a longitudinal study of CMBs in the future."}
{"id": "23317412", "title": "FLAIR distal hyperintense vessels as a marker of perfusion-diffusion mismatch in acute stroke.", "content": "FLAIR distal hyperintense vessels as a marker of perfusion-diffusion mismatch in acute stroke. Distal hyperintense vessels (DHV) on MRI FLAIR sequences in acute brain ischemia are thought to represent leptomeningeal collateral flow. We hypothesized that DHV are more common in acute stroke patients with perfusion-diffusion weighted mismatch (PDM) than in those without. We performed a retrospective study of consecutive anterior circulation stroke patients who underwent multimodal MRI within 8 hours of onset. We correlated DHV occurrence with the presence or absence of PDM, and analyzed DHV correlates when angiography was available. Twenty-one patients with PDM and 28 without were included. On univariate analysis, there was no significant difference regarding demographic variables between the two groups, with the exception of a higher frequency of atrial fibrillation (33% vs. 7%; P = .02) and intravenous tissue plasminogen activator use (57% vs 25%; P = .03) in the PDM patients. The PDM group more commonly had DHV (85% vs 25%; P < .001). On multivariate analysis, DHV presence (odds ratio, 6.01; 95% confidence-interval, 1.08-33.29; P = .04) and vessel occlusion site (odds ratio, 3.17; 95% confidence-interval, 1.21-8.31; P = .01) were the only variables independently associated with PDM. Conventional angiography was useful correlating DHV presence and collateral flow in a subset of patients. DHV may be a surrogate marker for PDM in patients with hyperacute ischemic stroke."}
{"id": "23314882", "title": "The utility of cone beam volume CT in the evaluation of thrombosed intracranial aneurysms in subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "The utility of cone beam volume CT in the evaluation of thrombosed intracranial aneurysms in subarachnoid hemorrhage. Thrombosed aneurysms are difficult to visualize with digital subtraction angiography. We report a case of subarachnoid hemorrhage from a thrombosed ruptured aneurysm which was undetected on digital subtraction angiography but was visualized with cone beam volume CT. To our knowledge, this is the first report highlighting the utility of cone beam volume CT in identifying such aneurysms."}
{"id": "23292530", "title": "Improved delineation of arteries in the posterior fossa of the brain by model-based iterative reconstruction in volume-rendered 3D CT angiography.", "content": "Improved delineation of arteries in the posterior fossa of the brain by model-based iterative reconstruction in volume-rendered 3D CT angiography. Improved CTA delineation of arteries and unruptured aneurysms is clinically desired in the posterior fossa. We present a novel model-based iterative reconstruction that models system statistics and optics to improve CT image quality. We investigated the utility of MBIR for improving delineation of arteries in the posterior fossa on 3D brain CTA. Using filtered back-projection with a standard kernel and MBIR, we reconstructed axial images of 0.625-mm thickness of 28 consecutive patients (14 men; mean age, 58.6 \u00b1 14.6 years) who underwent 64-detector brain CTA. We placed regions of interest on the axial images, measured the mean CT value in the basilar artery and the value and SD in the pons and bilateral cerebellar hemispheres, and calculated the contrast-to-noise ratio of the brain arteries in the posterior fossa. Using volume-rendered CTA and a 4-point scale, 2 radiologists independently graded delineation of the BA, bilateral vertebral artery, superior cerebellar artery, and anterior and posterior inferior cerebellar arteries. We compared the results between FBP and MBIR by using paired t and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests. Compared with FBP, MBIR significantly improved the contrast-to-noise ratio (P < .0001) and subjective delineation of all arteries in the posterior fossa except the BA (VA, SCA, AICA, and PICA; P < .05 for all). The mean visual score by MBIR was 3.0 or higher for all those arteries except the AICA assessed by reader 1 (2.6 \u00b1 0.7). With 3D brain CTA, contrast-to-noise ratio and arterial delineation of the VA, SCA, AICA, and PICA in the posterior fossa are better with MBIR than FBP."}
{"id": "23269254", "title": "[Intracranial malignant glioma presenting as subarachnoid hemorrhage].", "content": "[Intracranial malignant glioma presenting as subarachnoid hemorrhage]. Cerebral aneurysms are the predominant cause of spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). However, if an aneurismal cause has been excluded, there remains but a short list of meningiomas or metastatic lesions as possible causes. This article details a case of neoplasm that presented exclusively with SAH. A 31-year-old male presented with a SAH with normal cerebral angiography. The initial magnetic resonance image (MRI) revealed a lesion in the left uncus thought to be recovering hemorrhage. Subsequent MRI, however revealed the mass to be expanding. A neuroendoscopical biopsy of the lesion established a diagnosis of glioblastoma. An affirmation is made that patients experiencing \"angiographically-negative\" SAH should undergo MRI, occasionally on a serial basis, to exclude other etiologies for hemorrhage, including neoplasma."}
{"id": "23223508", "title": "Incidence, locations, and longitudinal course of silent microbleeds in moyamoya disease: a prospective T2*-weighted MRI study.", "content": "Incidence, locations, and longitudinal course of silent microbleeds in moyamoya disease: a prospective T2*-weighted MRI study. Clinical significance of silent microbleeds is unknown in moyamoya disease. This study was aimed to clarify the incidence, locations, and longitudinal course. This prospective cohort study included 78 nontreated patients with moyamoya disease. The incidence and locations of silent microbleeds were evaluated on T2*-weighted MRI. MR examinations were repeated every 6 or 12 months during a mean follow-up period of 43.1 months. T2*-weighted MRI identified silent microbleeds in 17 (29.3%) of 58 adult patients with moyamoya disease, but in none of 20 pediatric patients. During follow-up periods, de novo silent microbleeds developed in 4 (6.9%) of 58 adult patients. Hemorrhagic stroke occurred in 4 patients (6.9%), all of who had silent microbleeds on initial examination. The presence of silent microbleeds was a significant predictor for subsequent hemorrhagic stroke in adult moyamoya disease (P<0.001). Careful and long-term follow-up of silent microbleeds would be essential to improve their outcome in adult patients with moyamoya disease."}
{"id": "23212660", "title": "Comparison of ESWAN, SWI-SPGR, and 2D T2*-weighted GRE sequence for depicting cerebral microbleeds.", "content": "Comparison of ESWAN, SWI-SPGR, and 2D T2*-weighted GRE sequence for depicting cerebral microbleeds. We aimed to compare images obtained with an Enhanced 3D multi-echo GRE T2*-weighted angiography (ESWAN) sequence with those obtained with a susceptibility-weighted imaging-spoiled gradient-recalled echo (SWI-SPGR) sequence and a two-dimensional (2D) T2*-weighted gradient-recalled echo (GRE) sequence for the description of cerebral microbleeds (CMBs) in hypertensive patients (elderly people). A total of 273 elderly hypertensive patients were imaged in a 3.0-T MR scanner using ESWAN, SWI-SPGR, and 2D T2*-weighted GRE sequence, respectively. The presence, number, and location of CMBs and scanning and postprocessing time were recorded for both sequences, and the differences were tested using nonparametric McNemar and Friedman tests. CMBs were detected by 2D T2*-weighted GRE images in 54 participants, SWI-SPGR images in 83 participants, and ESWAN images in 88 participants. The participants with CMBs detected by 2D T2*-weighted GRE sequence were fewer than those with CMBs detected by SWI-SPGR or ESWAN sequences (P < 0.05). There was no significant difference between SWI-SPGR and ESWAN sequences to detect the CMBs in number (P > 0.05). Among the participants with CMBs visualized in both sequences, most patients had CMBs in the subcortical white matter and at deep locations. The participants who had CMBs in the infratentorial region were fewer. The acquisition time of ESWAN images was slightly longer than that of SWI-SPGR images. ESWAN sequence was not superior to SWI-SPGR sequence in depicting CMBs at 3.0-T MR, but both of these sequences were superior to 2D T2*-weighted GRE sequence."}
{"id": "23175672", "title": "Association between interleukin-6 levels and first-ever cerebrovascular events in patients with vascular risk factors.", "content": "Association between interleukin-6 levels and first-ever cerebrovascular events in patients with vascular risk factors. The objective of this study was to examine the association of inflammatory markers with risk of first-ever cerebrovascular events (CVEs), while simultaneously evaluating subclinical vascular disease. We enrolled 464 outpatients who had vascular risk factors without any preexisting cardiovascular disease. We examined the presence of silent lacunar infarction (SLI) by magnetic resonance imaging; carotid intima-media thickness by ultrasound; and measured high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-18 at baseline, and assessed their associations with CVEs using Cox proportional hazards models of 4.8\u00b12.6 years follow-up. We further calculated measures of reclassification and discrimination. In age- and sex-adjusted analysis, IL-6, but neither high-sensitivity C-reactive protein nor IL-18, was associated with CVEs. The association remained significant after adjustment for conventional risk factors, intima-media thickness, and SLI (hazard ratios: 1.80, per 1-SD increase in log IL-6, P=0.03). Compared with the patients with below median IL-6 without SLI, those with above median IL-6 and SLI had a higher risk of CVEs (hazard ratios: 4.14, P=0.0014). The combination of IL-6 and SLI resulted in the net reclassification improvement of 14.3% (P=0.04), and the integrated discrimination improvement gain of 2.1% (P=0.05). IL-6 levels were independently associated with CVEs and could improve reclassification in those with SLI."}
{"id": "23159510", "title": "Spontaneous closure of intracranial dural arteriovenous fistulas: a report of 3 cases.", "content": "Spontaneous closure of intracranial dural arteriovenous fistulas: a report of 3 cases. Spontaneous closures of dural arteriovenous fistulas (dAVFs) are rare. We present spontaneous occlusion of dAVFs in 3 cases (one type IIa dAVF, one type IIb and one type III). Patients were 3 males with a mean age of 55 years (range 45-61). For two patients, the dAVF was revealed by hemorrhage. No head trauma was recorded at the interrogatory. Mean delay for spontaneous closure was 4 months (3-5 months). Review of the literature about this rare occurrence is presented and the factors that may lead to spontaneous occlusion of dAVFs are discussed."}
{"id": "23142024", "title": "320-detector row CT angiography for detection and evaluation of intracranial aneurysms: comparison with conventional digital subtraction angiography.", "content": "320-detector row CT angiography for detection and evaluation of intracranial aneurysms: comparison with conventional digital subtraction angiography. To compare the diagnostic performance of 320-detector row computed tomographic angiography (CTA) with digital subtraction angiography (DSA) for the detection and characterization of intracranial aneurysms. Fifty-two consecutive patients with non-traumatic subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and suspected intracranial aneurysms were evaluated from January 2009 to October 2011. All underwent both 320-detector row volume CTA examination and DSA. CTA volume data were transmitted to a VITREA workstation and two physicians with experience in diagnostic imaging of the nervous system independently carried out image post-processing and assessed the results. The three-dimensional (3D) CTA and DSA images were assessed using intraoperative findings as the reference standard. In 52 patients, 54 aneurysms were detected; 48 patients underwent surgery for 50 aneurysms. The overall sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 3D CTA were 96.3, 100, and 94.6%, respectively. Meanwhile, the overall sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of DSA were 98.1, 98.1, and 95.1%, respectively. For aneurysms less than 3 mm, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 3D CTA were 81.8, 100, and 93.3%, respectively. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of DSA for small aneurysms were 90.9, 100, and 96.2%, respectively. 3D CTA was superior to DSA in demonstrating aneurysmal calcification, parent artery, and surrounding vascular anatomy. 3D CTA is a highly sensitive, specific, and non-invasive imaging method for diagnosis and evaluation of intracranial aneurysms. It also allows for precise depiction of aneurysm morphology. Therefore, 320-detector row CTA may be used as an alternative to DSA as a first-line imaging technique in patients with SAH."}
{"id": "23124643", "title": "CT perfusion spot sign improves sensitivity for prediction of outcome compared with CTA and postcontrast CT.", "content": "CT perfusion spot sign improves sensitivity for prediction of outcome compared with CTA and postcontrast CT. Recent studies have recommended both early and late imaging to increase spot sign detection. However optimal acquisition timing for spot detection and impact on outcome prediction is uncertain. Our aim was to assess the utility of CTP in spot sign detection and characterization with emphasis on its impact on the prediction of outcome in patients with acute primary ICH. A retrospective review of 28 patients presenting within 6 hours of ICH, studied with CTA, CTP, and postcontrast CT, was performed. CTA, CTP, and postcontrast CT spot sign characteristics were recorded according to predefined radiologic criteria. A combined primary outcome of hematoma expansion or poor clinical outcome was used and defined as hematoma expansion \u22656 mL or \u226530%, need for surgical drainage, or in-hospital mortality. Associations with the primary outcome and spot sign presence were examined against baseline clinical, laboratory, and radiographic variables. Predictive ability of CTA, CTP, and postcontrast CT spot characteristics were compared among modalities. Primary outcome criteria were met in 18 patients (61%). CTP spot sign presence was an independent predictor of hematoma expansion or poor outcome (P = .040) and demonstrated greater sensitivity (78%) than spots detected on CTA (44%, P = .034) and postcontrast CT (50%, P = .025). Specificity and positive predictive value of the spot sign was high (100%) on all modalities. CTP detected the greatest number of spots (80%) with peak spot attenuation demonstrated at a median (interquartile range) time of 50 seconds (range, 34-63 seconds) after contrast bolus injection. CTP spot appearance was later than CTA-detected spots (P = .002) and earlier than postcontrast CT spots (P < .001). CTP spot sign detection improves the sensitivity for prediction of outcome compared with CTA or postcontrast CT-detected spots."}
{"id": "23124634", "title": "Emergency noninvasive angiography for acute intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Emergency noninvasive angiography for acute intracerebral hemorrhage. Spontaneous ICH is a devastating condition and is associated with significant mortality in the acute phase due to ongoing hemorrhage and hematoma expansion. A growing body of evidence suggests that there may be considerable utility in performing noninvasive vascular imaging during the acute-to-early phase of ICH. CTA has become widely available and is sensitive and specific for detecting vascular causes of secondary ICH such as aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, dural arteriovenous fistulas, intracranial dissections, and neoplasm. CT venography can also diagnose dural sinus thrombosis presenting as hemorrhagic infarction. Recent data from stroke populations demonstrate a relatively low risk to patients when contrast is administered in the absence of a known serum creatinine. Detection of acute contrast extravasation within the hematoma (\"spot sign\") with CT angiography is predictive of subsequent hematoma expansion and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Risk stratification based on acute CTA can inform and expedite decision-making regarding intensive care unit admission, blood pressure control, correction of coagulopathy, and neurosurgical consultation. Noninvasive vascular imaging should be considered as an important component of the initial diagnostic work-up for patients presenting with acute ICH."}
{"id": "23102529", "title": "Configuration of the circle of Willis is associated with less symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage in ischemic stroke patients treated with intravenous thrombolysis.", "content": "Configuration of the circle of Willis is associated with less symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage in ischemic stroke patients treated with intravenous thrombolysis. The circle of Willis (CoW) is a primary collateral pathway that compensates quickly for a drop in cerebral blood flow. Using the complete CoW as a surrogate marker for good collateral circulation, its prognostic value after intravenous thrombolysis was examined. We prospectively studied 64 consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke treated with tissue plasminogen activator within 3 hours of stroke onset between October 2005 and June 2012 in our hospital. The study protocol was based on standard guidelines for intravenous thrombolysis. On computed tomographic angiography 24 hours after thrombolysis, the CoW was complete in 21 (32.8%) cases and incomplete in 43 (67.2%). Patients with complete CoW were more likely to have early improvement in National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score (median improvement 2 vs 0 at 2 hours; 4 vs 1 at 24 hours), be independent at 3 months (42% vs 19%). In the incomplete CoW group, the rate of symptomatic intracerebral haemorrhage (SICH) according to the Safe Implementation of Thrombolysis in Stroke-Monitoring Study (SITS-MOST) definition was almost 3 times higher. Complete CoW was one of the strongest predictors of good functional outcome at 3 months (odds ratio 2.32; P = .01). Complete CoW independently predicted functional independence and survival."}
{"id": "23091237", "title": "Arterial spin labeling in patients with chronic cerebral artery steno-occlusive disease: correlation with (15)O-PET.", "content": "Arterial spin labeling in patients with chronic cerebral artery steno-occlusive disease: correlation with (15)O-PET. Heterogeneity of arterial transit time due to cerebral artery steno-occlusive lesions hampers accurate regional cerebral blood flow measurement by arterial spin labeling (ASL). To assess the feasibility of regional cerebral blood flow measurement by ASL with multiple-delay time sampling in patients with steno-occlusive diseases by comparing with positron emission tomography (PET), and to determine whether regional arterial transit time measured by this ASL technique is correlated with regional mean transit time, a PET index of perfusion pressure. Sixteen patients with steno-occlusive diseases received both ASL and (15)O-PET. The mean regional cerebral blood flow measured by ASL and PET, regional arterial transit time by ASL, and regional mean transit time by PET were obtained by a region-of-interest analysis. Correlation between regional cerebral blood flow by ASL and that by PET, and correlation between regional arterial transit time by ASL and regional mean transit time by PET were tested using Pearson's correlation coefficient for both absolute and relative values. A multivariate regression analysis was performed to test whether regional arterial transit time by ASL was a significant contributor in modeling regional mean transit time by PET after controlling the effect of regional cerebral blood flow by ASL. A significant positive correlation was found between regional cerebral blood flow by ASL and that by PET for both absolute (r = 0.520, P < 0.0001) and relative (r = 0.691, P < 0.0001) values. A significant positive correlation was found between regional arterial transit time by ASL and regional mean transit time by PET both for absolute (r = 0.369, P = 0.0002) and relative (r = 0.443, P < 0.0001) values. The regression analysis revealed that regional arterial transit time by ASL was a significant contributor in modeling regional mean transit time by PET after controlling regional cerebral blood flow by ASL (P = 0.0011). The feasibility of regional cerebral blood flow measurement using ASL with multiple-delay time sampling was confirmed in patients with cerebral artery steno-occlusive diseases. Moreover, it was suggested that mapping of regional arterial transit time has the potential to detect hemodynamic impairment."}
{"id": "23079406", "title": "Traumatic intracranial hematomas: prognostic value of contrast extravasation.", "content": "Traumatic intracranial hematomas: prognostic value of contrast extravasation. Contrast extravasation within spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage is a well-described predictor of hematoma growth, poor clinical outcome, and mortality. The purpose of this study was to assess the prognostic value of contrast extravasation in acute traumatic intracranial hematomas. In our institution, CTA (including PCCT) is the primary screening technique for cervical vascular injuries. Sixty consecutive patients with at least 1 acute intracranial hematoma (ICH, subdural hematoma, and/or epidural hematoma) meeting predefined size criteria, with CTA/PCCT performed within 24 hours of admission and follow-up CT within 72 hours of admission, were retrospectively evaluated for CE by 2 observers. The predictive value of CE for a composite outcome (hematoma expansion, need for hematoma evacuation, in-hospital mortality) was evaluated on a per-patient basis. Interobserver agreement for CE and the association between baseline variables and outcome were also examined. Different patterns of extravasation were evaluated on a per-lesion basis, with outcomes including hematoma expansion and evacuation. CE was present in 30 (50%) patients with almost perfect interobserver agreement (\u03ba=0.87; 95% CI, 0.74-0.99). The per-patient multivariate analysis showed independent association of midline shift (P=.020), Glasgow Coma Scale score\u22648 (P=.024), and CE (P=.017), with poor outcome and demonstrated a trend toward poor outcome prediction for age 65 years or older (P=.050). In the per-lesion analysis, only extravasation identified on CTA (active and contained extravasation) was associated with hematoma expansion and evacuation. Contrast extravasation within intracranial hematomas predicts poor in-hospital outcome in the setting of acute traumatic intracranial injuries."}
{"id": "23065095", "title": "Relationship between routine multi-detector cardiac computed tomographic angiography prior to reoperative cardiac surgery, length of stay, and hospital charges.", "content": "Relationship between routine multi-detector cardiac computed tomographic angiography prior to reoperative cardiac surgery, length of stay, and hospital charges. While multi-detector cardiac computed tomography angiography (MDCCTA) prior to reoperative cardiac surgery (RCS) has been associated with improved clinical outcomes, its impact on hospital charges and length of stay remains unclear. We studied 364 patients undergoing RCS at Washington Hospital Center between 2004 and 2008, including 137 clinically referred for MDCCTA. Baseline demographics, procedural data, and perioperative outcomes were recorded at the time of the procedure. The primary clinical endpoint was the composite of perioperative death, myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, and hemorrhage-related reoperation. Secondary clinical endpoints included surgical procedural variables and the perioperative volume of bleeding and transfusion. Length of stay was determined using the hospital's electronic medical record. Cost data were extracted from the hospital's billing summary. Analysis was performed on individual categories of care, as well as on total hospital charges. Data were compared between subjects with and without MDCCTA, after adjustment for the Society of Thoracic Surgeons score. Baseline characteristics were similar between the two groups. MDCCTA was associated with shorter procedural times, shorter intensive care unit stays, fewer blood transfusions, and less frequent perioperative MI. There was additionally a trend towards a lower incidence of the primary endpoint (17.5 vs. 24.2 %, p = 0.13) primarily due to a lower incidence of perioperative MI (0 vs. 5.7 %, p = 0.002). MDCCTA was also associated with lower median recovery room [$1,325 (1,250-3,302) vs. $3,217 (1,325-5,353) p < 0.001] and nursing charges [$6,335 (3,623-10,478) vs. $6,916 (3,915-14,499) p = 0.03], although operating room charges were higher [$24,100 (22,300-29,700) vs. $23,500 (19,900-27,700) p < 0.05]. Median total charges [$127,000 (95,000-188,000) vs. $123,000 (86,800-226,000) p = 0.77] and length of stay [9 days (6-19) vs. 11 days (7-19), p = 0.21] were similar. Means analysis demonstrated a strong trend towards lower mean total hospital charges [$163,000 (108,426) vs. $192,000 (181,706), p = 0.06] in the MDCCTA group. In conclusion, preoperative MDCCTA is associated with a number of improved perioperative outcomes and does not significantly effect the length of stay or total hospital charges during the index hospitalization."}
{"id": "23055088", "title": "Intracranial supraclinoid ICA dissection causing cerebral infarction and subsequent subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Intracranial supraclinoid ICA dissection causing cerebral infarction and subsequent subarachnoid hemorrhage. Intracranial arterial dissection usually leads to cerebral infarction or subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). It is rare to see both complications in one clinical scenario. Case report and review of the literature. A 48-year-old woman suffered a left middle cerebral infarct from a dissection of the left supraclinoid ICA. As she was recovering from the ischemic stroke 5 days later she suffered a SAH. The SAH was caused by rupture of a dissecting pseudoaneurysm, which only became evident on repeat catheter angiography. The dissecting pseudoaneurysm was treated with coil occlusion. Intracranial ICA dissections are typically associated with either ischemic or hemorrhagic presentation. We report an unusual case of a patient who suffered a SAH a few days after an ischemic stroke from the dissection. This case contradicts the long-held dogma that intracranial dissection can have either an ischemic or a hemorrhagic presentation, but not both."}
{"id": "23014950", "title": "Management of ruptured dissecting intracranial aneurysms in infants: report of four cases and review of the literature.", "content": "Management of ruptured dissecting intracranial aneurysms in infants: report of four cases and review of the literature. Intracranial cerebral aneurysms in the pediatric population are infrequent, and those occurring in infants less than 1 year old are extremely rare. Of intracranial aneurysms in children, dissecting aneurysms are the most common type seen. While spontaneous dissecting aneurysms usually present with ischemia, hemorrhage can also occur. A retrospective review of our patients revealed that from July 1, 2007 to June 30, 2012, four infants were treated for ruptured distal dissecting intracranial aneurysms at Texas Children's Hospital. Mycotic aneurysms and collagen vascular disorder were excluded in all four cases. All patients presented in our series presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage, and three had intraventricular hemorrhage. All patients underwent conventional catheter angiography for diagnosis. All patients in this series were managed in the acute or subacute period with surgical or endovascular trapping without distal bypass procedures. All four patients tolerated sacrifice of the parent vessels feeding these distal aneurysms well. We describe the presentation and management of these rare cases and then review the current literature on the management of these dissecting aneurysms in infants."}
{"id": "23010691", "title": "Beyond delayed cerebral vasospasm: infarct patterns in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Beyond delayed cerebral vasospasm: infarct patterns in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Angiographic vasospasm (CVS) has been accused to be the main cause of delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). However, treatment success including endovascular treatment remains to be improved. We performed a pattern analysis of ischemic lesions in SAH patients in the absence of angiographic cerebral vasospasm to generate further hypotheses concerning etiology and risk factors of DCI apart from vasospastic narrowing. We retrospectively included 309 patients with cerebral infarcts after SAH. Vasospasm was assessed by means of CT or MR angiography and perfusion measurement or digital subtraction angiography. All clinical and radiological data were used to determine the most probable etiology for new infarcts. Twenty-seven percent of patients showed infarcts without presence of angiographic vasospasm. Seventy-three percent of these \"atypical infarcts\" were induced by complications of aneurysm therapy, 7 % by hypoxia, 2 % by ICP-related herniation. In 17 %, the etiology remained unclear; however, disturbances of the microcirculation for different reasons were the most likely cause in these patients. Beyond CVS and treatment complications, a not insignificant number of SAH patients suffered from infarcts of other etiology probably due to disturbance of the microcirculation. Therapeutic approaches for vasodilation of angiographic vasospasm alone should be reconsidered."}
{"id": "22934580", "title": "Clinical and radiographic features of moyamoya disease in patients with both cerebral ischaemia and haemorrhage.", "content": "Clinical and radiographic features of moyamoya disease in patients with both cerebral ischaemia and haemorrhage. Patients with moyamoya disease (MMD) very rarely develop both cerebral ischaemia and haemorrhage. The aim of this study was to clarify the clinical and radiographic features of MMD in patients who presented with both ischaemia and haemorrhage, compared with MMD patients who presented with one or the other. The records of 92 consecutive patients with MMD were reviewed. These patients were divided into three groups, according to the type of presentation: ischaemic presentation (Group I); haemorrhagic presentation (Group H); and haemorrhagic-ischaemic presentation (Group H-I). The patient characteristics, areas of infarction, and angiographic findings were evaluated. Seventy-six (82%) of the 92 patients were categorised as Group I, 7 (8%) as Group H, and 9 (10%) as Group H-I. Median follow-up periods for Group H-I was 55 months (IQR, 36-116 months). There were eight females in Group H-I, in which the median age was 30 years. Of the nine cases in Group H-I, six presented with cerebral haemorrhage as the precedent event and three had complications during the acute phase. In Group H-I, the prevalence of posterior cerebral artery (PCA) lesions was high (42%) and infarctions were most frequently found in PCA-related areas. The presence of steno-occlusive PCA lesions may be of pathogenic importance in MMD patients who develop both cerebral ischaemia and haemorrhage. The prevalence of this type of stroke in MMD patients is higher than expected, and further investigation in clinical settings is thus warranted."}
{"id": "22928845", "title": "Optimizing blood pigment analysis in cerebrospinal fluid for the diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage--a practical approach.", "content": "Optimizing blood pigment analysis in cerebrospinal fluid for the diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage--a practical approach. Patients presenting with sudden severe headache may have a subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH). After a normal head computer tomography (CT), a lumbar puncture is routinely performed to rule out SAH. Photospectrometry is then used to detect bilirubin in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Photospectrometric analysis of CSF reaches a high sensitivity, but a low specificity for SAH. This low specificity necessitates extensive additional research to rule out cerebral aneurysm accompanied by high costs and risk of complications. The objective of this study was to retrospectively evaluate two different CSF interpretation methods using photospectrometry in patients presenting with acute headache. The first of these is the Leiden method, an iterative model using a standard calculation. The second is the UK NEQAS guideline, which uses the original spectrum in combination with a decision tree. Our goal was to obtain retrospective data on patients screened with both methods to improve specificity of CSF research. We included 361 patients in this study; 47 of these had a raised bilirubin concentration in the CSF according to the Leiden method. In only nine of these 47 patients was an aneurysm found; in the other patients the Leiden test was positive for other reasons (viral meningitis, hyperbilirubinaemia, etc.). Of the 47 patients with raised bilirubin, 24 could be re-evaluated using the UK NEQAS. Of these 24 patients, five had an aneurysm. No aneurysms were found in patients with a negative result according to the UK NEQAS guideline. Our data show that a raised bilirubin calculated using the Leiden method seems to have a lower specificity than the UK NEQAS guideline. For practical reasons, it seems advantageous to use the Leiden method as a screening method and use the UK NEQAS guideline if a positive result is found."}
{"id": "22904102", "title": "Severe venous congestive encephalopathy secondary to a dialysis arteriovenous graft.", "content": "Severe venous congestive encephalopathy secondary to a dialysis arteriovenous graft. The clinical presentation and imaging of venous congestive encephalopathy (VCE) can mimic several neurological conditions, making the diagnosis challenging. We report a patient with end stage renal disease on dialysis who presented with a right occipital infarction. The patient developed progressive encephalopathy and increased intracranial pressure. Extensive imaging, electroencephalography and serum analysis did not explain the cause of his infarction and progressive neurological deterioration. Finally, cerebral angiography and venography demonstrated severe generalized VCE due to arterial shunting from a right upper extremity arteriovenous graft (AVG) and an occluded right innominate venous trunk. The right arm shunt resulted in severe cerebral venous hypertension due to ipsilateral occlusion of the innominate venous trunk. After the AVG was repaired, the cerebral venous hypertension resolved and the patient returned to baseline."}
{"id": "22847527", "title": "Three-dimensional skeletonization and symbolic description in vascular imaging: preliminary results.", "content": "Three-dimensional skeletonization and symbolic description in vascular imaging: preliminary results. A general method was developed to analyze and describe tree-like structures needed for evaluation of complex morphology, such as the cerebral vascular tree. Clinical application of the method in neurosurgery includes planning of the surgeon's intraoperative gestures. We have developed a 3D skeletonization method adapted to tubular forms with symbolic description. This approach implements an iterative Dijkstra minimum cost spanning tree, allowing a branch-by-branch skeleton extraction. The proposed method was implemented using the laboratory software platform (ArtiMed). The 3D skeleton approach was tested on simulated data and preliminary trials on clinical datasets mainly based on magnetic resonance image acquisitions. A specific experimental evaluation plan was designed to test the skeletonization and symbolic description methods. Accuracy was tested by calculating the positioning error, and robustness was verified by comparing the results on a series of 18 rotations of the initial volume. Accuracy evaluation showed a Haussdorff's distance always smaller than 17 voxels and Dice's similarity coefficient greater than 70\u00a0%. Our method of symbolic description enables the analysis and interpretation of a vascular network obtained from angiographic images. The method provides a simplified representation of the network in the form of a skeleton, as well as a description of the corresponding information in a tree-like view."}
{"id": "22842208", "title": "Pipeline embolization device and subsequent vessel sacrifice for treatment of a bleeding carotid pseudoaneurysm at the skull base: a case report.", "content": "Pipeline embolization device and subsequent vessel sacrifice for treatment of a bleeding carotid pseudoaneurysm at the skull base: a case report. An attempt at parent vessel reconstruction with Pipeline embolization devices to treat a mycotic pseudoaneurysm of the internal carotid artery at the skull base is presented. A 50-year-old woman with malignant otitis externa and bilateral temporal bone osteomyelitis presented with brisk bleeding from her left ear. She had bony dehiscence of the left carotid canal at CT and extravasation from a pseudoaneurysm of the carotid petrous segment at angiography. Carotid tortuosity proximally precluded placing a covered stent. After the lesion stopped bleeding spontaneously and given the presence of bilateral osteomyelitis putting the contralateral carotid at risk, the decision was made to attempt preservation of the parent vessel with flow diversion. However, bleeding recurred after 12 days, necessitating carotid sacrifice. This first reported experience in treating a carotid pseudoaneurysm at the skull base with the Pipeline device shows that transient cessation of bleeding is insufficient for flow diversion to be effective."}
{"id": "22807022", "title": "Mapping of cerebral perfusion territories using territorial arterial spin labeling: techniques and clinical application.", "content": "Mapping of cerebral perfusion territories using territorial arterial spin labeling: techniques and clinical application. A knowledge of the exact cerebral perfusion territory which is supplied by any artery is of great importance in the understanding and diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease. The development and optimization of territorial arterial spin labeling (T-ASL) MRI techniques in the past two decades have made it possible to visualize and determine the cerebral perfusion territories in individual patients and, more importantly, to do so without contrast agents or otherwise invasive procedures. This review provides an overview of the development of ASL techniques that aim to visualize the general cerebral perfusion territories or the territory of a specific artery of interest. The first efforts of T-ASL with pulsed, continuous and pseudo-continuous techniques are summarized and subsequent clinical studies using T-ASL are highlighted. In the healthy population, the perfusion territories of the brain-feeding arteries are highly variable. This high variability requires special consideration in specific patient groups, such as patients with cerebrovascular disease, stroke, steno-occlusive disease of the large arteries and arteriovenous malformations. In the past, catheter angiography with selective contrast injection was the only available method to visualize the cerebral perfusion territories in vivo. Several T-ASL methods, sometimes referred to as regional perfusion imaging, are now available that can easily be combined with conventional brain MRI examinations to show the relationship between the cerebral perfusion territories, vascular anatomy and brain infarcts or other pathology. Increased availability of T-ASL techniques on clinical MRI scanners will allow radiologists and other clinicians to gain further knowledge of the relationship between vasculature and patient diagnosis and prognosis. Treatment decisions, such as surgical revascularization, may, in the near future, be guided by information provided by T-ASL MRI in close correlation with structural MRI and quantitative perfusion information."}
{"id": "22791182", "title": "Multimodal endovascular management of acute ischemic stroke in patients over 75 years old is safe and effective.", "content": "Multimodal endovascular management of acute ischemic stroke in patients over 75 years old is safe and effective. Greater attention has been directed to endovascular recanalization of acute ischemic stroke in septuagenarians and above. A retrospective chart review was conducted to include patients treated for acute ischemic stroke from 2006 to 2012. All patients underwent initial neurological assessment and non-contrast head CT. Patients treated from 2009 to 2012 additionally received emergent CT angiogram and CT perfusion. 51 patients met the clinical and radiographic criteria and underwent multimodal endovascular revascularization for acute ischemic events. All patients underwent cerebral angiography and met angiographic criteria for endovascular thrombolysis. 34 patients (67%) were older than 80 years of age. 23 patients (45%) received intravenous tissue plasminogen activator prior to admission. Eight (16%) patients underwent stent placement after intra-arterial thrombolysis, 10 (20%) underwent balloon angioplasty and seven (14%) underwent both angioplasty and stent placement. 21 (41%) required only intra-arterial thrombolytics. An improvement in Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction score was noted in 34 patients (67%). The average modified Rankin Scale score on discharge was 3.9. Symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage occurred in three patients (6%); none required surgery. One patient (1.9%) had a postoperative retroperitoneal hematoma, which was managed conservatively. Two fatalities resulted from intraoperative vessel rupture (3.9%), with a combined morbidity and mortality of 27.5%. Multimodal endovascular recanalization of acute ischemic stroke is a relatively safe treatment option in patients older than 75 years of age. Careful patient selection by clinical and radiographic inclusion criteria is necessary for the successful management of stroke in this age group."}
{"id": "22770540", "title": "De novo ruptured aneurysm at the site of anastomosis after superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery anastomosis--case report and literature review.", "content": "De novo ruptured aneurysm at the site of anastomosis after superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery anastomosis--case report and literature review."}
{"id": "22700746", "title": "Robust perfusion deficits in cognitively impaired patients with secondary-progressive multiple sclerosis.", "content": "Robust perfusion deficits in cognitively impaired patients with secondary-progressive multiple sclerosis. Cognitive impairment is a common, disabling symptom of MS. We investigated the impact of cerebral perfusion and brain and lesion volumetry on cognitive performance in 45 patients with SPMS by using MR imaging. Cognition was assessed by using a standard battery, the Minimal Assessment of Cognitive Function in Multiple Sclerosis. qCBF and qCBV maps were analyzed by using SPM and PLS. SPM was also used to conduct the GM, WM, and WML volumetric analyses. Both SPM and PLS demonstrated significantly reduced qCBV in the superior medial frontal cortex of impaired patients. PLS also revealed significantly lower qCBV in the bilateral thalami and caudate nuclei of impaired patients and identified a pattern of significantly attenuated qCBF similar to that of qCBV. Performance on the Symbol Digit Modalities Test, which assesses information-processing speed, correlated most strongly overall with cerebral perfusion. Focal (ie, voxelwise) analyses of GM, WM, and WML volume revealed no significant differences between patients with and without cognitive impairment, though global GM volume was significantly decreased and global WML volume was significantly increased in impaired patients. These results suggest that cognitively impaired patients with SPMS exhibit robust perfusion deficits in cortical and subcortical GM and impaired processing speed."}
{"id": "22695125", "title": "Cortical vessel imaging and visualization for image guided depth electrode insertion.", "content": "Cortical vessel imaging and visualization for image guided depth electrode insertion. To avoid intracranial hemorrhage during minimally invasive depth electrode insertion without craniotomy for epilepsy surgery, precise in vivo imaging of cortical vessel and relevant rendering methods are critical, and should be used in preoperative planning. In this study, a non-invasive phase contrast MR angiography (PC-MRA) method was chosen for cortical vessel imaging. After image pre-processing (registration and segmentation), three visualization methods were implemented to optimize the vessel imaging and brain tissue rendering for surgical planning. The processed results were evaluated by comparing with intraoperative photographs. The results showed occurrences of missing vessels between imaging and photos (18.3%, 6 cases), but these could be compensated by realistic sulci visualization methods. The results showed 3D texture mapping to be the most suitable cortex visualization method for use in surgical navigation. Based on the methods and evaluations, a new surgical planning system and criteria of usage were developed with input from the surgeons' experience using the prototype system. This system could greatly help reduce the risk of the intracranial hemorrhage during electrode insertion and also avoid potential risks caused by contrast agent injections for contrast enhanced MRA or CTA."}
{"id": "22677326", "title": "[Focal convexal subarachnoid hemorrhage: clinical presentation, imaging patterns and etiologic findings in 23 patients].", "content": "[Focal convexal subarachnoid hemorrhage: clinical presentation, imaging patterns and etiologic findings in 23 patients]. Clinical presentation and etiology of localized nontraumatic convexal subarachnoid hemorrhage (cSAH) have been described in a few patients. They differ from those of aneurysmal subarachnoid bleeding which is diffuse. The purpose of this study was to describe the clinical presentation, the radiologic findings and causes of cSAH. We selected patients admitted to the neurology department of CHU of N\u00eemes or Montpellier, from May 2008 to May 2011, who presented with cSAH, observed in a single cortical sulcus unrelated to trauma and identified on brain MRI T2* weighted images as a hyposignal in one sulcus of the convexity. Data collection was retrospective. Twenty-three patients (14\u00a0men and nine women) were included. Mean age was 69.5years (range 29-86). Patients had mostly sensory or sensorimotor deficits which was regressive in less than 30minutes, recurrent, and seldom accompanied by headache. Brain MRI allowed the identification of patients with old brain hematomas (n=2), lobar microbleeds (n=7) and superficial cortical hemosiderosis (n=6). The etiologic diagnosis was determined in 43% (n=10/23): cerebral amyloid angiopathy (n=3), reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (n=2), primary cerebral angiitis (n=1), posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (n=1), cortical vein thrombosis (n=3, two of them associated with dural sinus thrombosis). Cerebral angiography was performed in 11\u00a0patients and gave the etiologic diagnosis (angiitis, cortical vein thrombosis) in two. Follow-up was available for 16\u00a0patients (mean 12months, range 3months to 5years). Etiology was established during follow-up in two patients, both had cerebral amyloid angiopathy diagnosed after recurrent lobar hematomas. cSAH has various causes, but clinical presentations appear to be relatively stereotyped with recurrent and brief episodes of sensorimotor deficits. A comprehensive assessment and monitoring would lead to an etiologic diagnosis in some patients."}
{"id": "22532547", "title": "Cerebral vasculopathy in children with neurofibromatosis type 1.", "content": "Cerebral vasculopathy in children with neurofibromatosis type 1. Cerebral vasculopathy is an important but underrecognized complication of neurofibromatosis type 1. Over a 10-year period, we retrospectively assessed the prevalence, clinical manifestations, management, and outcome of cerebral vasculopathy in children with neurofibromatosis type 1. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain was performed on 78% of the patients (312/398) of which 46% (143/312) had magnetic resonance angiography of the intracranial arteries; 4.8% (15/312) had cerebral vasculopathy. Approximately half were asymptomatic at presentation; none had neurologic deficits. Cerebral vasculopathy included moyamoya changes (7) and stenosis/occlusion of major intracranial arteries (8). On follow-up (mean 4 years), 2 patients developed radiologic progression; 1 was treated with aspirin alone, whereas another underwent revascularization surgery. Although cerebral vasculopathy in neurofibromatosis type 1 may be asymptomatic at presentation, there may be radiologic and clinical progression leading to morbidity and mortality. Magnetic resonance angiography should be considered with brain MRI for early detection and timely intervention of cerebral vasculopathy."}
{"id": "22532423", "title": "Noncontrast-enhanced three-dimensional (3D) intracranial MR angiography using pseudocontinuous arterial spin labeling and accelerated 3D radial acquisition.", "content": "Noncontrast-enhanced three-dimensional (3D) intracranial MR angiography using pseudocontinuous arterial spin labeling and accelerated 3D radial acquisition. Pseudocontinuous arterial spin labeling (PCASL) can be used to generate noncontrast magnetic resonance angiograms of the cerebrovascular structures. Previously described PCASL-based angiography techniques were limited to two-dimensional projection images or relatively low-resolution three-dimensional (3D) imaging due to long acquisition time. This work proposes a new PCASL-based 3D magnetic resonance angiography method that uses an accelerated 3D radial acquisition technique (VIPR, spoiled gradient echo) as the readout. Benefiting from the sparsity provided by PCASL and noise-like artifacts of VIPR, this new method is able to obtain submillimeter 3D isotropic resolution and whole head coverage with a 8-min scan. Intracranial angiography feasibility studies in healthy (N = 5) and diseased (N = 5) subjects show reduced saturation artifacts in PCASL-VIPR compared with a standard time-of-flight protocol. These initial results show great promise for PCASL-VIPR for static, dynamic, and vessel selective 3D intracranial angiography."}
{"id": "22473742", "title": "Rapid time-resolved magnetic resonance angiography via a multiecho radial trajectory and GraDeS reconstruction.", "content": "Rapid time-resolved magnetic resonance angiography via a multiecho radial trajectory and GraDeS reconstruction. Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography is challenging due to the need for both high spatial and temporal resolution. A multishot trajectory composed of pseudo-random rotations of a single multiecho radial readout was developed. The trajectory is designed to give incoherent aliasing artifacts and a relatively uniform distribution of projections over all time scales. A field map (computed from the same data set) is used to avoid signal dropout in regions of substantial field inhomogeneity. A compressed sensing reconstruction using the GraDeS algorithm was used. Whole brain angiograms were reconstructed at 1-mm isotropic resolution and a 1.1-s frame rate (corresponding to an acceleration factor > 100). The only parameter which must be chosen is the number of iterations of the GraDeS algorithm. A larger number of iterations improves the temporal behavior at cost of decreased image signal-to-noise ratio. The resulting images provide a good depiction of the cerebral vasculature and have excellent arterial/venous separation."}
{"id": "22410653", "title": "Recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage in patients with hypertension is associated with APOE gene polymorphism: a preliminary study.", "content": "Recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage in patients with hypertension is associated with APOE gene polymorphism: a preliminary study. Recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in patients with hypertension has been reported in Asia and is attributed to poor control of blood pressure, but there may be a genetic basis. This study evaluates the roles of apolipoprotein E (APOE) and \u03b1-1 antichymotrypsin (ACT) genes in patients with recurrent hypertensive ICH and compares patients with nonrecurring hypertensive ICH and normal controls. Thirty-three recurrent and 101 nonrecurrent patients with hypertension and ICH were included. The demographic, stroke risk factors, and computed tomographic or magnetic resonance imaging findings were recorded. Magnetic resonance angiography or digital subtraction angiography and vasculitic profile were done in recurrent group to exclude secondary causes of ICH. APOE and ACT gene polymorphisms were assessed with polymerase chain reaction studies in patients with ICH and 188 healthy controls. The demographic and clinical variables were similar in patients with recurrent and nonrecurrent ICH, but patients with recurrent ICH were older (61.1 vs 57.2 years). In the recurrent ICH group, only 7 (10%) out of 69 episodes were lobar; the remaining were deep-seated hematomas. In the nonrecurrent group, 7 (6.9%) patients had lobar ICH. The E2 (odds ratio 4.32; 95% confidence interval 1.65-11.28; P = .003) and E4 alleles of APOE (odds ratio 11.33; 95% confidence interval 5.37-23.02; P < .0001) were significantly related to recurrent ICH compared to healthy controls. The E4 allele was also independently related to recurrent compared to nonrecurrent ICH, even after adjustment for stroke risk factors (odds ratio 25.99; 95% confidence interval 11.65-57.97; P < .0001). ACT gene polymorphism, however, was not related to recurrent ICH compared to controls and nonrecurrent ICH. APOE polymorphism may contribute to the recurrence of hypertensive ICH."}
{"id": "22345142", "title": "Intravenous heparin for the treatment of intraluminal thrombus in patients with acute ischemic stroke: a case series.", "content": "Intravenous heparin for the treatment of intraluminal thrombus in patients with acute ischemic stroke: a case series. Current American Stroke Association/American Heart Association recommendations on the management of acute ischemic stroke do not recommend the early use of heparin because of an increased risk of bleeding complications. However, for select patients, such as those with strokes associated with non-occlusive intraluminal thrombus, intravenous heparin might prove to be beneficial. A retrospective analysis of acute ischemic stroke cases associated with non-occlusive intraluminal thrombus of intracranial and extracranial arteries in the corresponding vascular territories was conducted to identify patients in whom treatment with intravenous heparin resulted in near-complete or complete lysis of the thrombus. Imaging findings from CT perfusion and angiography, MRI, and/or digital subtraction angiography were used to describe the location of intraluminal thrombus immediately before and after treatment with intravenous heparin. 18 patients with nonocclusive intraluminal thrombus confirmed by CT angiography (CTA) received treatment with intravenous heparin alone (median duration 3.5 days; range 1-8 days). The median National Institutes of Health stroke scale score was 2.5 (range 0-15) on admission and 1 (range 0-9) at discharge. Nine patients had complete lysis, and nine patients had partial lysis of the thrombus with improved flow distal to the location of the thrombus. None of the patients developed intracranial hemorrhage. For strokes associated with intraluminal thrombus, intravenous heparin might prove to be an effective treatment strategy. Further studies are necessary to evaluate the efficacy and safety of treatment with intravenous heparin in those patients."}
{"id": "22341666", "title": "Safety of intravenous thrombolysis in acute ischemic stroke patients with saccular intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Safety of intravenous thrombolysis in acute ischemic stroke patients with saccular intracranial aneurysms. It is not known if the presence of unruptured intracranial aneurysms can increase the risk of hemorrhage after thrombolysis for acute ischemic stroke. The goal of our study was to evaluate the risk of hemorrhage after intravenous tissue plasminogen activator in acute stroke patients with intracranial aneurysms. This is a retrospective analysis of consecutive cases of patients with acute ischemic stroke who were treated with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator at Mayo Clinic between March 2002 and June 2011 and who were evaluated with invasive or noninvasive intracranial angiography. Univariate analyses were performed with the t, Chi-square, and Fisher exact tests where appropriate. Intracranial angiograms were performed in 105 patients (85 magnetic resonance angiography, 19 computed tomography angiography, and 1 catheter arteriography). The mean age of the patients was 69 \u00b1 14 years. The mean National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score at admission was 8 \u00b1 5. A total of 12 incidental saccular aneurysms were found in 10 (9.5%) patients, and all 10 of these patients were white. There were no subarachnoid hemorrhages during the hospital stay in any patient with or without intracranial aneurysm. The rates of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage and 3-month clinical outcomes were similar in patients with or without intracranial aneurysms. Intravenous thrombolysis was safe among our patients with acute ischemic stroke and incidental intracranial saccular aneurysm."}
{"id": "22251073", "title": "Vertebral artery ostial stenosis: prevalence by digital subtraction angiography, MR angiography, and CT angiography.", "content": "Vertebral artery ostial stenosis: prevalence by digital subtraction angiography, MR angiography, and CT angiography. (1) To determine the prevalence of vertebral arterial ostial stenosis (VOS) as determined by the \"gold standard\" of digital subtraction angiography (DSA). (2) To learn the correlation between vertebral ostial stenosis and study indication. (3) To determine the ability of contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (CE MRA) and computed tomographic angiography (CTA) to reflect the true prevalence of vertebral ostial stenosis as determined by DSA. Three hundred and twenty-nine patients who underwent DSA had recorded evaluation of 443 vertebral artery origins. Cases were categorized by patient age and study indication. Similar numbers of CTA and MRA studies were assessed. The prevalence of VOS in the study population was 5.4%. VOS was not observed in patients under 40 years of age, and was seen in 12.5% of patients over 70 years. CE MRA demonstrated decreased signal at the vertebral origins consistent with stenosis in 20% of patients. CTA estimated VOS at .8%, and yielded 7.3% of studies, which were nondiagnostic for VOS. The prevalence of VOS as determined by DSA is low and increases with patient age and correlates with factors such as anterior infarct (18.4%), posterior infarct (33.3%), carotid atherosclerosis (30.8%), and vertebrobasilar insufficiency (33%). Patients being evaluated for reasons less closely correlated with atherosclerotic disease, such as arteriovenous malformation (AVM) or hemorrhage showed a lower prevalence of VA stenosis (brain aneurysm or AVM 5/121, 4.1%, brain hemorrhage 5/153, 3.3%). Routine clinical MRA significantly overestimates VOS prevalence, and findings suggest that CTA underestimates the degree and prevalence of VOS."}
{"id": "22211853", "title": "Imaging of subacute blood-brain barrier disruption after methadone overdose.", "content": "Imaging of subacute blood-brain barrier disruption after methadone overdose. Methadone intoxication can cause respiratory depression, leading to hypoxia with subsequent coma and death. Delayed postanoxic leukoencephalopathy (DAL) has been reported with intoxication by carbon monoxide, narcotics, and other toxins. To investigate the metabolic derangement of the white matter (WM) and blood-brain barrier (BBB) after DAL caused by methadone overdose. Case report of 2 patients with DAL after a single dose of \"diverted\" methadone used for pain control. In both cases brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed initial extensive bilateral restricted diffusion lesions within the WM. Follow-up MRI using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging ((1) H-MRSI) showed markedly lower N-acetylaspartate and higher choline within the WM. BBB permeability, calculated by Patlak graphical analysis of MRI T1 data obtained after contrast agent injection, showed disruption of the BBB within the WM lesions, which persisted longer than a year in 1 patient. Neuropsychological evaluation showed executive dysfunction in both patients. After 1 year, one patient recovered whereas the second remained impaired. Methadone overdose can cause DAL with profound disturbances of neural metabolism and the BBB. The time course of these disturbances can be monitored with MR methods."}
{"id": "22209646", "title": "Intraprocedural prediction of hemorrhagic cerebral hyperperfusion syndrome after carotid artery stenting.", "content": "Intraprocedural prediction of hemorrhagic cerebral hyperperfusion syndrome after carotid artery stenting. Hyperperfusion syndrome (HPS) is a rare but severe complication after carotid artery stenting (CAS). Reliable methods for predicting HPS remain to be developed. We aimed to establish a predictive value of hemorrhagic HPS after CAS. Our retrospective study included 136 consecutive patients who had undergone CAS. We determined the cerebral circulation time (CCT) by measuring the interval between the point of maximal opacification of the terminal portion of the internal carotid artery and the cortical vein. We calculated intraprocedural CCT changes (\u0394CCT) by subtracting postprocedural CCT values from preprocedural CCT values. The mean \u0394CCT was 0.9 \u00b1 0.9 seconds; 3 patients (2.2%) with prolonged \u0394CCT (2.7, 5.4, and 5.8 seconds) developed HPS. The cutoff time of 2.7 seconds predicted hemorrhagic HPS retrospectively with 100% sensitivity and 99% specificity. Our findings suggest that post-CAS HPS can be predicted by using the \u0394CCT value obtained by intraprocedural digital subtraction angiography. Patients with a \u0394CCT >2.7 seconds require careful intensive hemodynamic and neurologic monitoring after CAS."}
{"id": "22133742", "title": "Wake-up stroke within 3 hours of symptom awareness: imaging and clinical features compared to standard recombinant tissue plasminogen activator treated stroke.", "content": "Wake-up stroke within 3 hours of symptom awareness: imaging and clinical features compared to standard recombinant tissue plasminogen activator treated stroke. Patients with wake-up stroke (WUS) are excluded from thrombolysis because of unknown time of symptom onset. Previous studies have reported similar stroke severity and early ischemic changes (EICs) in patients with WUS and stroke of known onset. These studies, however, included patients within a large timeframe to imaging or did not quantify EICs. The aim of our study was to quantify EICs of patients with WUS presenting within 3 hours of symptom recognition compared to standard 3-hours recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA)-treated patients and assess the extent of ischemic lesion and functional independence at follow-up. Patients were selected from our prospectively collected stroke database. Baseline and follow-up computed tomographic scans were graded with Alberta Stroke Program Early Computed Tomography Score (ASPECTS). Clinical outcome measures were modified Rankin Scale score, mortality, and symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage. Demographic features, risk factors, stroke severity, and baseline ASPECTS were similar in both groups. WUS and rt-PA-treated patients had similar tissue outcome (median ASPECTS 7.0 vs 7.5; P = .202). Functional outcome was more favorable in rt-PA-treated patients (61.6% vs 43.1%; odds ratio [OR] 2.12; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.05-4.28; P = .037). After adjusting for age, stroke severity, treatment, and EICs in less than one-third of middle cerebral artery territory, rt-PA and National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale scores remained the only significant predictors of outcome (OR 7.76; 95% CI 2.40-25.05; P = .001 and OR 0.74; 95% CI 0.67-0.82; P < .001, respectively). Within 3 hours of symptom recognition, patients with WUS have EICs similar to rt-PA-treated patients. It is reasonable to expect that selected WUS patients might benefit from thrombolysis within 3 hours of symptom awareness."}
{"id": "21990532", "title": "Initial experience with a combined multidetector CT and biplane digital subtraction angiography suite with a single interactive table for the diagnosis and treatment of neurovascular disease.", "content": "Initial experience with a combined multidetector CT and biplane digital subtraction angiography suite with a single interactive table for the diagnosis and treatment of neurovascular disease. A combined imaging suite is useful in the diagnosis and treatment of vascular disease involving the head and neck. This study demonstrates the utility of a multidetector row CT and biplane digital subtraction angiography (DSA) system (hybrid suite) with a single interactive table for the evaluation and treatment of neurovascular disease. 30 patients were studied utilizing the hybrid suite. Direct intra-arterial and selective intravenous injection of contrast with CT imaging (IA-CTA and IV-CTV) was performed in nine vascular tumors, three intracranial arteriovenous malformations, four spinal vascular lesions, one aneurysm and two inferior petrosal sinus sampling cases. Angiography with CT perfusion (CTP) imaging was obtained in five temporary balloon occlusion tests, two ischemic stroke and two vasospasm cases. A CT scan of the head was obtained in two cases during aneurysm coiling. The value of the IA-CTA and IV-CTV images compared with conventional CT and MRI images was qualitatively assessed. All studies were technically successful with no complications. IA-CTA and IV-CTV were useful in the diagnosis and treatment of vascular disease. All IA-CTA and IV-CTV images were qualitatively graded as superior to conventional imaging. CTP imaging provided information about the penumbra and area of infarction in five temporary balloon test occlusions, two ischemic stroke and two vasospasm cases. A CT scan of the head provided timely information in two aneurysm coiling cases. The hybrid suite allowed angiography and CT scanning to be performed immediately without patient transfer. This hybrid suite improves the diagnostic and therapeutic capabilities of treating a multitude of neurovascular diseases."}
{"id": "21795066", "title": "Early aggressive medical management for patients with symptomatic intracranial stenosis.", "content": "Early aggressive medical management for patients with symptomatic intracranial stenosis. There are limited data on the effect of an early aggressive risk factor modification program to achieve risk factor targets and its impact on clinical outcomes among patients with symptomatic intracranial stenosis. We prospectively identified patients with symptomatic intracranial stenosis of 50% to 99% (using computed tomographic angiography or cerebral angiography) who failed to qualify for or declined to participate in the Stenting and Aggressive Medical Management for Preventing Recurrent stroke in Intracranial Stenosis trial but elected to receive aggressive medical management. Aggressive medical management was defined as aspirin plus clopidogrel therapy for a minimum of 3 months, blood pressure control, statin use with a low-density lipoprotein (LDL) goal of <70 mg/dL, smoking cessation, and body mass index <25 kg/m(2). Of 22 patients, the mean age was 65.6 \u00b1 7.7 years, 82% were male, 59% were white, and mean percent stenosis was 71.5 \u00b1 9.5% (55% with 70% to 99% stenosis). Median time from symptomatic event to first evaluation was 3 days. All patients completed 3 months of dual antiplatelet therapy, and at last follow-up, 86% had met their blood pressure goal, all were on statin therapy although only 73% had met their LDL goal, 96% reported no active tobacco use, and 36% had lost weight, but only 23% had achieved the BMI target. Over a mean follow-up of 1.2 years, there was no ischemic stroke, brain hemorrhage, or death from other vascular causes. An early aggressive risk factor modification program achieved high levels of blood pressure and cholesterol targets for patients with symptomatic intracranial stenosis and when combined with dual antiplatelet therapy was effective for the prevention of recurrent vascular events in this cohort."}
{"id": "21761271", "title": "A rule to identify patients who require magnetic resonance imaging after intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "A rule to identify patients who require magnetic resonance imaging after intracerebral hemorrhage. A study performed in Hong Kong of catheter angiography after ICH found a high rate of structural lesions in patients 45 years of age or younger, without a history of hypertension, or with lobar hemorrhage. We hypothesized that a clinical decision rule based on these Hong Kong criteria would reliably identify patients who require MRI after ICH. We identified all patients admitted with ICH to our medical center during a 5-year period who underwent brain MRI. Patients were excluded if the history revealed an obvious cause of ICH. Two study neurologists independently adjudicated whether MRI revealed the cause of ICH. We devised a rule recommending MRI if patients met one or more Hong Kong criteria, and calculated the proportion of patients with diagnostic MRI studies who would have been identified by this rule. We also examined the performance of a modified rule using age \u2264 55 years. The original Hong Kong rule applied to 102 of the 148 patients in our cohort (69%), and would have recommended MRI in 25 of 27 patients with diagnostic MRI studies (93%, 95% CI 76-99%). The modified rule applied to 110 patients (74%), and would have recommended MRI in all 27 patients with diagnostic MRI studies (100%, 95% CI 91-100%). A rule based on simple clinical criteria may be useful for stratifying the yield of MRI after ICH. If validated in further studies, such a rule could reduce the number of unnecessary MRI studies after ICH, leading to more cost-effective care."}
{"id": "9049450", "title": "International survey on the management of patients with SLE. II. The results of a questionnaire regarding neuropsychiatric manifestations.", "content": "International survey on the management of patients with SLE. II. The results of a questionnaire regarding neuropsychiatric manifestations. To determine the diagnostic and therapeutic approach used in clinical practice for the management of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients with primary SLE-mediated neuropsychiatric (NP) manifestations. A questionnaire was drawn up to assess how clinicians manage various clinical manifestations of SLE. A portion of this questionnaire was designed to assess how clinicians diagnose and treat primary NP-SLE. Most of the questions in the NP-SLE section consisted of lists of different clinical manifestations and laboratory or radiological studies that participants were asked to rate on a scale of importance [from 1 (extremely important) to 5 (not important)] to the diagnosis of primary NP-SLE. The questionnaire also assessed how different NP manifestations are treated in clinical practice. The relative importance of each clinical manifestation was determined through its mean score, and the agreement among participants on each issue was determined using the coefficient of variation (CV). Fifty-nine lupus centers participated in the NP-SLE portion of the survey. The clinical manifestations which were considered to be of extreme or major importance for the diagnosis of primary NP-SLE were seizures, psychosis, transverse myelitis, stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA) and aseptic meningitis. Among the radiological and laboratory studies, only brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) achieved \"extremely important\" mean scores (between 1 and 2). aPL testing was used routinely in the majority of patients (mean 96.8%; CV = 0.1), while brain MRI was used less frequently (mean 56.5%; CV = 0.61). Only brain MRI and cerebral angiography were considered to be helpful in differentiating cerebral vasculopathy from multi-infarct (mean score = 1.6 and 1.9, respectively), whereas a prompt response to treatment with increased doses of steroids was considered helpful in differentiating SLE-related psychosis from steroid-induced psychosis (mean score = 1.58). The results of aPL testing, coagulation tests for the lupus anticoagulant, an brain MRI were considered to be of extreme or major importance in decisions involving treatment with anticoagulant or anti-platelet therapy. Symptomatic therapies, such as heparin, or anti-convulsant, anti-platelet, oral anticoagulant, and antipsychotic therapy were the most widely used. Corticosteroids were the most frequently used immunosuppressive therapy. The administration of other immunosuppressive agents as specific treatment for NP-SLE was uncommon. Our survey found that in clinical practice, the NP manifestations currently considered to be diagnostic of primary SLE-mediated CNS involvement are not limited to those included in the American Rheumatism Association (ARA) criteria, e.g. seizures and psychosis. Antiphospholipid antibodies appeared to be the laboratory parameter most frequently relied upon in the diagnosis of NP-SLE, and in decisions regarding treatment. Apart from that, only brain MRI and, in selected cases, cerebral angiography seemed to be of real help in diagnosis. The lack of consensus regarding the treatment of primary NP-SLE manifestations most probably reflects both the complex nature of neurological illness in SLE patients and the lack of clear diagnostic criteria."}
{"id": "22878870", "title": "CTA spot sign predicts hematoma expansion in patients with delayed presentation after intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "CTA spot sign predicts hematoma expansion in patients with delayed presentation after intracerebral hemorrhage. Hematoma expansion after acute intracerebral hemorrhage occurs most frequently in patients presenting within 3 h of symptom onset. However, the majority of patients present outside this window or with an unknown onset time. We investigated the prevalence of hematoma expansion in these patients and assessed the accuracy of the CT angiography (CTA) spot sign for identifying risk of hematoma expansion. We analyzed 391 consecutive patients undergoing CTA and a followup CT. CTA spot sign readings were performed by two experienced readers and hematoma expansion was assessed by means of semi-automated software. Hematoma expansion occurred in 18 % of patients. When stratified by time from symptom onset to initial CT, hematoma expansion rates were: 39 % within 3 h; 11 % between 3 and 6 h, 11 % beyond 6 h (but with known onset), and 20 % in patients with unknown symptom onset. Of patients who developed hematoma expansion, only 38 % presented within 3 h. The accuracy of the spot sign in predicting hematoma expansion was 0.67 for patients presenting within 3 h, 0.83 between 3 and 6 h, 0.88 after 6 h, and 0.76 for patients presenting with an unknown onset time. A substantial number of patients destined to suffer from hematoma expansion present either late or with an unknown symptom onset time. The CTA spot sign accurately identifies patients destined to expand regardless of time from symptom onset, and may therefore open a path to offer clinical trials and novel therapies to the many patients who do not present acutely."}
{"id": "22747768", "title": "The effects of continuous prostacyclin infusion on regional blood flow and cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid haemorrhage: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.", "content": "The effects of continuous prostacyclin infusion on regional blood flow and cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid haemorrhage: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial. One of the main causes of mortality and morbidity following subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) is the development of cerebral vasospasm, a frequent complication arising in the weeks after the initial bleeding. Despite extensive research, to date no effective treatment of vasospasm exists. Prostacyclin is a potent vasodilator and inhibitor of platelet aggregation. In vitro models have shown a relaxing effect of prostacyclin after induced contraction in cerebral arteries, and a recent pilot trial showed a positive effect on cerebral vasospasm in a clinical setting. No randomised, clinical trials have been conducted, investigating the possible pharmacodynamic effects of prostacyclin on the human brain following SAH. This trial is a single-centre, randomised, placebo-controlled, parallel group, blinded, clinical, pilot trial. A total of 90 patients with SAH will be randomised to one of three intervention arms: epoprostenol 1 ng/kg/min, epoprostenol 2 ng/kg/min or placebo in addition to standard treatment. Trial medication will start day 5 after SAH and continue to day 10. The primary outcome measure is changes in regional cerebral blood flow from baseline in the arterial territories of the anterior cerebral artery, medial cerebral artery and the posterior cerebral artery, measured by CT perfusion scan. The secondary outcomes will be vasospasm measured by CT angiography, ischaemic parameters measured by brain microdialysis, flow velocities in the medial cerebral artery, clinical parameters and outcome (Glasgow Outcome Scale) at 3 months. Clinicaltrials.gov NCT01447095."}
{"id": "19945250", "title": "[Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome].", "content": "[Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome]. Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) is more frequent than previously thought and is probably underdiagnosed. The mean age of onset is 42 years, and it affects slightly more women than men. RCVS is attributed to a transient, reversible dysregulation of cerebral vascular tone, which leads to multifocal arterial constriction and dilation. More than half the cases (60%) are secondary to exposure to vasoactive substances (e.g., cannabis, antidepressants, and nasal decongestants) or occur in the postpartum period. RCVS has a characteristic clinical and radiological course, developing in a single phase after a sudden onset, and there is generally no new event after 1 month. The main pattern of presentation begins with recurrent thunderclap headaches, often triggered by sexual activity or various Valsalva's maneuvers, over a period of 1 to 3 weeks. Seizures and focal neurological deficits are less frequent and generally start after the headaches. Cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage (22%), intracerebral hemorrhage (6%), seizures (3%), and reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy (9%) are early complications, occurring mainly within the first week. Ischemic events, including TIAs (16%) and cerebral infarction (4%), occur significantly later than hemorrhagic strokes, mainly during the second week. Diagnosis requires the demonstration of the characteristic \"string and beads\" on cerebral angiography and can be difficult, for 21% of patients have a normal initial magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and 9% both a normal MRA and a normal transcranial Doppler. In these cases, the initial investigations must be repeated after a few days. The final diagnosis is made when a follow-up MRA shows resolution or at least marked improvement of the arterial abnormalities within 12 weeks. RCVS is sometimes associated with other large artery lesions of the head and neck, including dissections and unruptured aneurysms, especially during the postpartum period. Nimodipine is the treatment most often recommended. In our experience, it is not especially effective in severe RCVS. Relapses are possible but rare and have not yet been reported in prospective series. Although the exact pathophysiology remains speculative, strong recommendations against vasoactive substances appear prudent."}
{"id": "21474799", "title": "Refining the definition of the malignant profile: insights from the DEFUSE-EPITHET pooled data set.", "content": "Refining the definition of the malignant profile: insights from the DEFUSE-EPITHET pooled data set. To refine the definition of the malignant magnetic resonance imaging profile in acute stroke patients using baseline diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) and perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (PWI) findings from the pooled DEFUSE/EPITHET database. Patients presenting with acute stroke within 3 to 6 hours from symptom onset were treated with tissue plasminogen activator or placebo. Baseline and follow-up DWI and PWI images from both studies were reprocessed using the same software program. A receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was used to identify Tmax and DWI volumes that optimally predicted poor outcomes (modified Rankin Scale 5-6) at 90 days in patients who achieved reperfusion. Sixty-five patients achieved reperfusion and 46 did not reperfuse. Receiver operating characteristic analysis identified a PWI (Tmax>8 s) volume of >85 mL as the optimal definition of the malignant profile. Eighty-nine percent of malignant profile patients had poor outcome with reperfusion versus 39% of patients without reperfusion (P=0.02). Parenchymal hematomas occurred more frequently in malignant profile patients who experienced reperfusion versus no reperfusion (67% versus 11%, P<0.01). DWI analysis identified a volume of 80 mL as the best DWI threshold, but this definition was less sensitive than were PWI-based definitions. Stroke patients likely to suffer parenchymal hemorrhages and poor outcomes following reperfusion can be identified from baseline magnetic resonance imaging findings. The current analysis demonstrates that a PWI threshold (Tmax>8 s) of approximately 100 mL is appropriate for identifying these patients. Exclusion of malignant profile patients from reperfusion therapies may substantially improve the efficacy and safety of reperfusion therapies. Clinical Trial Registration Information- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00238537."}
{"id": "23860364", "title": "Ruptured dissecting vertebrobasilar aneurysm in childhood: what is the therapeutic strategy?", "content": "Ruptured dissecting vertebrobasilar aneurysm in childhood: what is the therapeutic strategy? Pediatric aneurysms are rare, accounting for 0.5-4.6% of all intracranial aneurysms. Dissecting vertebrobasilar aneurysms (DVBA) are more frequently observed among children than adults. Cases acutely presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage need a prompt treatment because of the higher mortality related to untreated cases. Options for an active DVBA management depend on the features of the malformation and include endovascular and surgical approaches. We refer to an 8-year-old healthy female, who presented with a sudden severe headache and vomit, followed by a half-hour loss of consciousness. A CT scan revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage, and brain MR angiography showed a lesion with mass effect on bulbar structures, suggestive of an aneurysm of the vertebrobasilar junction. The intracranial angiography confirmed this diagnosis and showed a relevant revascularization coming from the anterior cerebral circulation. Endovascular treatment was considered as a suitable option and occlusion of both vertebral arteries, saving the left posterior inferior cerebellar artery, was performed. No neurological deficits appeared after embolization, and the patient was clinically stable at 18 months of follow-up. In the 'stent era', parent vessel deconstruction throughout endovascular balloon or coil occlusion could be considered in patients with a sound collateral circulation and when cerebellar hemisphere and encephalic trunk feeding is not compromised."}
{"id": "23406825", "title": "Idiopathic intraventricular aneurysm presenting with intraventricular hemorrhage: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Idiopathic intraventricular aneurysm presenting with intraventricular hemorrhage: case report and review of the literature. Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) is a relatively commonly encountered problem in neurosurgical practice. The underlying causes could include hypertension, arteriovenous malformations (AVM), angiomas, trauma, tumors, aneurysms and moyamoya disease. Truly idiopathic intraventricular aneurysms (IVA) are rare. A high index of suspicion needs to be maintained since, with the appropriate treatment, the outcome is generally good. We report the case of a 14-year-old boy who presented with sudden onset headache and vomiting. CT angiogram pointed to the possibility of an IVA. This was confirmed by MRI with three-dimensional constructive interference in steady state (CISS-3D) sequences and digital subtraction angiography. The patient underwent microsurgical excision of the aneurysm and is doing well on follow-up. Idiopathic IVA can present with IVH at any age. MRI with CISS-3D and MR angiography would be the imaging modality of choice since it can also rule out other causes of intraventricular bleeding such as tumors and AVM. These lesions could be managed effectively by microsurgical excision/clipping. The necessity of investigating every patient who presents with IVH is debatable."}
{"id": "23361488", "title": "Cerebral perfusion imaging.", "content": "Cerebral perfusion imaging. Recent advances are allowing computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to add diagnostic information derived from microscopic-scale brain structure, pathology, and physiology to the gross pathologic information that has been the core of brain imaging diagnosis since the 1980s. Physiologic imaging with MR perfusion weighted imaging has joined MR diffusion imaging as an essential components of stroke and brain tumor MRI. At the same time, the volume scanning revolution in CT technology has dramatically decreased the radiation doses required for CT perfusion imaging by allowing routine simultaneous CT perfusion and noninvasive dynamic bone subtracted CT angiography (CTA) without a significant increase in radiation dose over conventional head CT-CTA alone. Although ongoing research and clinical trials is needed to define more precisely how these techniques can best be exploited to improve clinical care and patient outcomes, in the acute stroke and subarachnoid hemorrhage populations the radiation risk associated with CT perfusion imaging is negligible and the physiologic information promises significant patient safety benefits."}
{"id": "23321171", "title": "Outcomes of endovascular coiling versus surgical clipping in the treatment of ruptured intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Outcomes of endovascular coiling versus surgical clipping in the treatment of ruptured intracranial aneurysms. The effects of treatment modality (endovascular coiling or surgical clipping) on incidence of cerebral vasospasm and infarction following aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (aSAH) remain controversial. This study compared outcomes between endovascular coiling versus surgical clipping to treat patients with acute (< 72 h) aSAH. Patients with aSAH were randomized to receive endovascular or surgical treatment. All patients underwent clinical assessments, angiography and brain computed tomography. Data from 186 patients were analysed: 94 in the endovascular group and 92 in the surgical group. Demographics and severity of aSAH were comparable between the groups. Incidence of symptomatic vasospasm, cerebral infarction and complete occlusion were significantly lower in the endovascular coiling group than in the surgical clipping group. Good clinical recovery 12 months after aSAH was seen in 75.0% and 69.7% of surviving patients in the endovascular versus coiling group, respectively. In this study, coiling yielded less symptomatic vasospasm, cerebral infarction and complete occlusion than surgical clipping, with no between-group differences in clinical outcome."}
{"id": "23286173", "title": "A comprehensive framework for the detection of individual brain perfusion abnormalities using arterial spin labeling.", "content": "A comprehensive framework for the detection of individual brain perfusion abnormalities using arterial spin labeling. Arterial spin labeling (ASL) enables measuring cerebral blood flow in MRI without injection of a contrast agent. Perfusion measured by ASL carries relevant information for patients suffering from pathologies associated with singular perfusion patterns. However, to date, individual identification of abnormal perfusion patterns in ASL usually relies on visual inspection or manual delineation of regions of interest. In this paper, we introduce a new framework to automatically outline patterns of abnormal perfusion in individual patients by means of an ASL template. We compare two models of normal perfusion and assess the quality of detections comparing an a contrario approach to the generalized linear model (GLM)."}
{"id": "23269053", "title": "Ruptured intracranial aneurysms in pediatric polyarteritis nodosa: case report.", "content": "Ruptured intracranial aneurysms in pediatric polyarteritis nodosa: case report. Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a rare, systemic necrotizing vasculitis of small and medium size arteries that leads to aneurysms in various organs. Aneurysms associated with PAN are common in visceral arteries, however, intracranial aneurysms are rare, especially in childhood. A pediatric patient with PAN developed serial hemorrhagic strokes from a ruptured superior cerebellar artery aneurysm (subarachnoid hemorrhage) and a de novo aneurysm of the frontoorbital artery (intracerebral hemorrhage) after 9 months. Patients with PAN who present with intracranial aneurysms are candidates for intervention even if the aneurysm is unruptured and still small, and close observation is needed to detect de novo aneurysms in patients with chronic history of PAN."}
{"id": "23269051", "title": "Simultaneous presentation of two cerebral aneurysms.", "content": "Simultaneous presentation of two cerebral aneurysms. A 48-year-old woman experienced sudden onset of severe headache. Computed tomography showed subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and intracerebral hematoma in the right frontal lobe. Digital subtraction angiography revealed three aneurysms in the anterior communicating artery (AcomA), the right posterior communicating artery (PcomA), and the right middle cerebral artery. The AcomA aneurysm was treated with endovascular coiling. However, her oculomotor nerve palsy was aggravated after the procedure. Embolization of the right PcomA aneurysm was conducted immediately and her oculomotor nerve palsy recovered completely 3 months later. Simultaneous presentation of multiple aneurysms with separate symptoms is rare. We speculate that the progressive oculomotor nerve palsy was caused by tiny enlargement or morphological change of the aneurysm caused by elevated blood pressure and pulsatile effect after SAH."}
{"id": "23253809", "title": "[Clinical analysis of 42 cases of chronic expanding intracerebral hematoma].", "content": "[Clinical analysis of 42 cases of chronic expanding intracerebral hematoma]. To summarize our own experiences of managing chronic expanding intracerebral hematoma (CEICH) and discuss its diagnosis and treatment. The courses of CEICH, clinical and imaging features, intraoperative findings, pathological examinations and follow-up outcomes were reviewed retrospectively. The relevant literatures were reviewed simultaneously. The course of CEICHs ranged from 22 days to 10 years. Twenty-three cases (54.8%) were misdiagnosed as cystic gliomas, cystic gliomas, brain cysticercoses, brain abscesses and tumor strokes, etc. The misdiagnostic rate had decreased to 19.0% since June 1997. Thirty-eight patients underwent surgical operations and 4 had puncture drainage of hematoma. There was no operative death. Thirty-three cases achieved an excellent recovery and 9 cases had varying degrees of nervous dysfunctions. The follow-up period was 1-21 years. One patient had recurrence after 10 years. Among the cases of multiple CEICH, two lesions underwent no surgical treatment. One increased obviously after 7 years and another disappeared. The following five points may be used as the diagnostic criteria of CEICH: (1) intracerebral cystic space-occupying lesions on brain images; (2) circular or circle-like enhancement around lesions; (3) a mixed signal of concentric circular lamellar structures on MRI T1WI; (4) abnormal vascular lesions on CTA, MRA or DSA; (5) clinical signs and symptoms of slow progress of intracranial pressure. CEICHs with clinical symptoms of local mass effect shall be obliterated surgically. The abnormal tissues in cyst wall of hematoma should be resected. Small hematomas (< 2 cm) may be followed up."}
{"id": "23214023", "title": "[Diagnosis of the source of bleeding in multiple cerebral aneurysms by susceptibility-weighted imaging].", "content": "[Diagnosis of the source of bleeding in multiple cerebral aneurysms by susceptibility-weighted imaging]. to evaluate the efficiency of susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI) in diagnosing the source of bleeding in multiple cerebral aneurysms. This investigation enrolled 30 patients with multiple aneurysms (MA) treated at the N. N. Burdenko Neurosurgery Research Institute in 2008 to 2011. A study group included 19 women and 11 men whose age was 28 to 62 years. Thirty patients with MA were found to have 84 aneurysms at different sites. All the 30 patients were operated on using microsurgical techniques. SWI established the source of bleeding in 27 of the 30 patients. The technique was informative in all the cases, except 2 patients, who were studied in late periods (3 and 16 years) after hemorrhage. Bleeding in one patient with MA and suspected clinical subarachnoid hemorrhage was not confirmed by SWI or during surgery. According to the authors' data, the sensitivity and specificity of the technique were 93.1 and 100%, respectively. SWI is the method of identifying the source of bleeding in patients with MA, which enables the treatment tactic to be correctly chosen. The informative value of the technique decreases as a longer period is after hemorrhage."}
{"id": "23178785", "title": "[Cerebrovascular diagnostics: imaging].", "content": "[Cerebrovascular diagnostics: imaging]. Imaging of the cerebral vasculature relies mostly on computed tomography angiography (CTA), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). Although DSA is still the gold standard, many questions can be answered with CTA and/or MRA thanks to recent technological advances. The following article describes the advantages and disadvantages of these techniques with regard to different questions. Basic principles regarding the different techniques are explained."}
{"id": "23165731", "title": "Brain perfusion imaging: How does it work and what should I use?", "content": "Brain perfusion imaging: How does it work and what should I use? In the last 15 years there has been a relative explosion in the number of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques and developments related to cerebral perfusion. Given the variety of perfusion methods available, it is often difficult to decide which technique would be best for a particular clinical question or patient. In this review article we discuss the more common techniques, review how they are performed, and summarize the optimal technique or techniques for a variety of clinical situations."}
{"id": "23158716", "title": "[Analysis of relevant factors of cerebral arteriovenous malformation with hemorrhage].", "content": "[Analysis of relevant factors of cerebral arteriovenous malformation with hemorrhage]. To explore the influencing factors of bleeding in the patients with cerebral arteriovenous malformation (AVM) through observing its angioarchitecture with cerebral digital subtraction angiography (DSA) so as to decipher its hemorrhagic risks. A total of 87 cases of cerebral AVM during the period of 2004-2010 underwent cerebral angiography by digital subtraction angiography. The relationships between bleeding and such factors as the site and size of masses of AVM, the type and site of supplying arteries, the number and pathway of venous drainage, the relationships between AVM and aneurysm in terms of location and venous tumor were determined by univariate analyses and binary Logistic regression with SPSS 18.0. Univariate analysis indicated that such factors as the site and size of masses, the type and site of supplying arteries, the number venous drainage, the relationships between AVM and aneurysm were positively correlated with hemorrhagic presentation. When stepwise multiple Logistic regression analysis was employed, only the size of AVM, the number of venous drainage and aneurysm were the independent predictors of hemorrhagic presentation. The size of masses of AVM, the number of venous drainage and aneurysm are the strong risk predictors for AVM hemorrhage."}
{"id": "23128895", "title": "Retrospective analysis of linac-based radiosurgery for arteriovenous malformations and testing of the Flickinger formula in predicting radiation injury.", "content": "Retrospective analysis of linac-based radiosurgery for arteriovenous malformations and testing of the Flickinger formula in predicting radiation injury. The aim of the study was to validate the use of linac-based radiosurgery in arteriovenous malformation (AVM) patients and to predict complications using an integrated logistic formula (ILF) in comparison with clinical outcomes. The results of radiosurgery in 92 AVM patients were examined. All patients were treated with linac-based radiosurgery. Of these, 70 patients were followed for 12-45 months (median, 24 months) and were analyzed. The treated volume varied from 0.09 to 26.95 cm(\u00b3) (median, 2.3 cm(\u00b3)) and the median marginal dose was 20 Gy (range, 10.4-22). The median 12-Gy volume was 9.94 cm(\u00b3) (range, 0.74-60.09 cm(\u00b3)). Patients and lesion characteristics potentially affecting nidus obliteration and excellent outcome were evaluated by performing a log-rank test and univariate and multivariate analyses. The risk for radiation injury (RRI) was calculated with an integrated logistic formula. The predictive power of the RRI was assessed by calculating the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. Follow-up magnetic resonance (MR) angiography revealed complete AVM obliteration in 56 of 70 patients. The MR angiography confirmed an obliteration rate of 80%. The annual hemorrhage rate was 1.4% for the first 2 years after radiosurgery and 0% thereafter. The number of patients with an excellent outcome was 48 (68%). Factors associated with better obliteration were higher radiation dose to the lesion margins [12-Gy volume (V12) >10 cm(\u00b3)], small volume, and a Pollock-Flickinger score less than 1.49; those predicting excellent outcomes were V12<10 cm(\u00b3), small volume, and Pollock-Flickinger score less than 1.49, as determined by multivariate analyses. Factors associated with radiation injury were V12>10 cm(\u00b3 )(p=0.03) and volume greater than 2 cm(\u00b3) (p=0.001), as determined by a univariate analysis. The analyses showed an ROC of 0.66. These data suggest that linac-based radiosurgery is effective. In terms of obliteration, excellent outcomes, and especially radiation injury, V12 and volume should be considered. The Flickinger formula seems to be applicable to Novalis-treated patients, but long-term follow-up is necessary for definite conclusions."}
{"id": "23088945", "title": "Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography. Magnetic resonance (MR) angiography is a powerful tool for the evaluation of cervical and intracranial vasculature. Both noncontrast and contrast-enhanced MR angiography can provide exquisite vascular contrast and detail without the use of ionizing radiation. More advanced techniques such as time-resolved MR angiography and parallel imaging provide dynamic information in rapid fashion. This article describes the basic principles and techniques of MR angiography image acquisition."}
{"id": "23064627", "title": "[Case of cerebral venous thrombosis secondary to Protein S gene abnormality first diagnosed as aseptic meningitis].", "content": "[Case of cerebral venous thrombosis secondary to Protein S gene abnormality first diagnosed as aseptic meningitis]. A 28-year-old man admitted to our hospital because of severe neck pain, headache, fever and vomiting. He was alert and had no neurological deficit except for nuchal stiffness. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination showed elevated mononuclear cell counts (68/mm(3)) and protein levels (300 mg/dl). He was diagnosed as having aseptic meningitis and was thereby treated. Two days later, he manifested seizure and on the next day, severe cerebral hemorrhage occurred in the left parietal lobe and decompression surgery was performed. Cerebral venous thrombosis was strongly indicated by operative findings, cerebral angiography and retrospective assessment of MRI images. Genetic testing revealed a novel mutation (p.Cys449Tyr) combined by Protein S Tokushima mutation (p.Lys196Glu) which is frequently observed in Japanese. Possibility of CVT should be noted, even when a patient exhibits clinical symptoms and CSF findings compatible with a diagnosis of aseptic meningitis."}
{"id": "23037567", "title": "Clinical value of 3D T\u2082*-weighted imaging with multi-echo acquisition: comparison with conventional 2D T\u2082*-weighted imaging and 3D phase-sensitive MR imaging.", "content": "Clinical value of 3D T\u2082*-weighted imaging with multi-echo acquisition: comparison with conventional 2D T\u2082*-weighted imaging and 3D phase-sensitive MR imaging. Susceptibility-weighted angiography (SWAN) is a state-of-the-art 3-dimensional (3D) T\u2082*-weighted imaging (T\u2082*WI) technique with multiple echo acquisitions, but its clinical utility remains to be determined. We compared the utility of susceptibility-weighting sequences among SWAN, 3D phase-sensitive magnetic resonance (MR) imaging (PSI), and conventional 2-dimensional (2D) T\u2082*WI in routine clinical practice. Our results indicate that SWAN can achieve susceptibility weighting more effectively than conventional 2D T\u2082*WI and as effectively as PSI and requires a much shorter scan time than PSI."}
{"id": "23013418", "title": "Swirl sign in intracerebral haemorrhage: definition, prevalence, reliability and prognostic value.", "content": "Swirl sign in intracerebral haemorrhage: definition, prevalence, reliability and prognostic value. Swirl sign has previously been described in epidural hematomas as areas of low attenuation, radiolucency or irregular density. The aims of this study were to describe swirl sign in ICH, study its prevalence, study the reliability of the subjective evaluation on computed tomography (CT), and to explore its prognostic value. CTs of 203 patients with ICH were retrospectively evaluated for the presence of swirl sign. Association between swirl sign and different clinical and radiological variables was studied. Inter- and intraobserver agreement with regard to the occurrence of swirl sign was substantial (\u041a 0.80) and almost perfect (\u041a 0.87), respectively. Swirl sign was found in 30% of the study population. 61% of patients with swirl sign were dead at one month compared with 21% of those with no swirl sign (p < 0.001). Only 19% of patients with swirl sign exhibited favorable outcome at three months compared with 53% of those with no swirl sign (p < 0.001). Patients with swirl sign exhibited larger ICHs with average ICH-volume 52 \u00b1 50 ml (median 42 ml) compared with 15 \u00b1 25 ml (median 6) in patients whose CT did not show swirl sign (p < 0.001). Swirl sign was independent predictor of death at one month (p = 0.03; adjusted odds ratio 2.6, 95% CI 1.1 - 6), and functional outcome at three months (p = 0.045; adjusted odds ratio 2.6, 95% CI 1.02 - 6.5). As swirl sign showed to be an ominous sign, we recommend identification of this sign in cases of ICHs."}
{"id": "23001815", "title": "Advanced neuroimaging to guide acute stroke therapy.", "content": "Advanced neuroimaging to guide acute stroke therapy. Traditionally non-contrast CT has been considered the first choice imaging modality for acute stroke. Acute ischemic stroke patients presenting to the hospital within 3-hours from symptom onset and without any visible hemorrhages or large lesions on CT images are considered optimum reperfusion therapy candidates. However, non-contrast CT alone has been unable to identify best reperfusion therapy candidates outside this window. New advanced imaging techniques are now being used successfully for this purpose. Non-invasive CT or MR angiography images can be obtained during initial imaging evaluation for identification and characterization of vascular lesions, including occlusions, aneurysms, and malformations. Either CT-based perfusion imaging or MRI-based diffusion and perfusion imaging performed immediately upon arrival of a patient to the hospital helps estimate the extent of fixed core and penumbra in ischemic lesions. Patients having occlusive lesions with small fixed cores and large penumbra are preferred reperfusion therapy candidates."}
{"id": "22998806", "title": "3 cases of primary intracranial hemorrhage associated with \"Molly\", a purified form of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA).", "content": "3 cases of primary intracranial hemorrhage associated with \"Molly\", a purified form of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). 3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, or \"Ecstasy\" in tablet form) is a powerful sympathomimetic drug that is commonly perceived as safer than other stimulants such as methamphetamine or cocaine. \"Molly\" is a purified form of MDMA that is perceived by users as being even safer, as it is free of adulterants such as methamphetamine. Previously, all reports of intracranial hemorrhages in MDMA abusers were associated with coingestion of other sympathomimetic drugs, or with pre-existing cerebrovascular lesions. We describe a series of three young, otherwise healthy patients with various types of intracranial hemorrhages associated with \"Molly\" ingestion. All three patients underwent extensive workup including catheter angiography that did not demonstrate aneurysm, arteriovenous malformation, or vasculitis. We suggest that even the purified form of MDMA can cause serious intracranial hemorrhagic complications and should not be thought of as a safe recreational drug."}
{"id": "22996749", "title": "Intracranial aneurysms: midterm outcome of pipeline embolization device--a prospective study in 143 patients with 178 aneurysms.", "content": "Intracranial aneurysms: midterm outcome of pipeline embolization device--a prospective study in 143 patients with 178 aneurysms. To evaluate the midterm clinical and angiographic outcomes after pipeline embolization device (PED) placement for treatment of intracranial aneurysms. This prospective nonrandomized multicenter study was approved by the review boards of all involved centers; informed consent was obtained. Patients (143 patients, 178 aneurysms) with unruptured saccular or fusiform aneurysms or recurrent aneurysms after previous treatment were included and observed angiographically for up to 18 months and clinically for up to 3 years. Study endpoints included complete aneurysm occlusion; neurologic complications within 30 days and up to 3 years; clinical outcome of cranial nerve palsy after PED placement; angiographic evidence of occlusion or stenosis of parent artery and that of occlusion of covered side branches at 6, 12, and 18 months; and clinical and computed tomographic evidence of perforator infarction. There were five (3.5%) cases of periprocedural death or major stroke (modified Rankin Scale [mRS] > 3) (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.3%, 8.4%), including two posttreatment delayed ruptures, two intracerebral hemorrhages, and one thromboembolism. Five (3.5%) patients had minor neurologic complications within 30 days (mRS = 1) (95% CI: 1.3%, 8.4%), including transient ischemic attack (n = 2), small cerebral infarction (n = 2), and cranial nerve palsy (n = 1). Beyond 30 days, there was one fatal intracerebral hemorrhage and one transient ischemic attack. Ten of 13 patients (95% CI: 46%, 93.8%) completely recovered from symptoms of cranial nerve palsy within a median of 3.5 months. Angiographic results at 18 months revealed a complete aneurysm occlusion rate of 84% (49 of 58; 95% CI: 72.1%, 92.2%), with no cases of parent artery occlusion, parent artery stenosis (<50%) in three patients, and occlusion of a covered side branch in two cases (posterior communicating arteries). Perforator infarction did not occur. PED placement is a reasonably safe and effective treatment for intracranial aneurysms. The treatment is promising for aneurysms of unfavorable morphologic features, such as wide neck, large size, fusiform morphology, incorporation of side branches, and posttreatment recanalization, and should be considered a first choice for treating unruptured aneurysms and recurrent aneurysms after previous treatments. http://radiology.rsna.org/lookup/suppl/doi:10.1148/radiol.12120422/-/DC1."}
{"id": "22994214", "title": "Advanced multimodal CT/MRI approaches to hyperacute stroke diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring.", "content": "Advanced multimodal CT/MRI approaches to hyperacute stroke diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring. Multimodal CT/MRI has dramatically changed the approach to ischemic stroke management, as noninvasive CT/MRI images detail brain tissue or parenchyma, angiography or vessel status, and collateral perfusion or blood flow in regions of the brain vulnerable to ischemic injury. Such snapshots of the dynamic process of cerebral ischemia may be used to gauge reversibility and therapeutic opportunities. Treatment of acute stroke may be rapidly tailored to clinical scenarios based on imaging correlation of ischemia, vessel status, and perfusion. Serial or repeated imaging from the initial presentation to later stages of the hospital course may illustrate infarct growth, persisting occlusion, reocclusion, recanalization, reperfusion, and hemorrhagic transformation. From acute stroke to rehabilitation phases and subsequent prevention, multimodal CT/MRI has emerged as a key tool to track the process of stroke and the impact of our therapeutic interventions."}
{"id": "22975866", "title": "Traumatic intracranial aneurysms due to blunt brain injury-a single center experience.", "content": "Traumatic intracranial aneurysms due to blunt brain injury-a single center experience. Traumatic intracranial aneurysms (TICAs) have previously been described in literature. However, the evidence of TICAs secondary to blunt brain injury have not been elucidated well, with most of the conclusions coming from isolated case reports. We have attempted to examine the epidemiology, classification, clinical presentation, therapeutic modalities, and outcomes of TICAs with our series of patients at the neurosurgery department of Xuanwu Hospital, China. We reviewed our aneurysm database from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2011. In particular, patients with TICAs secondary to blunt brain injury were reviewed. Variables assessed included age, sex, causes of blunt brain injury, skull fracture, location, classification, clinical presentation, time elapsed to arrive at diagnoses, treatment, and eventual outcome. Based on our assessment, we arrived at a modified classification scheme to categorize these aneurysms. We reviewed 2335 patients with cerebral aneurysm from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2011. Of these, 15 patients (0.64 %) with traumatic aneurysms secondary to blunt brain injury were identified.Motor vehicle accidents (MVA) were observed to be the most common cause of injury (10 patients, 66.7 %), followed by TICAs sustained after falling down (5 patients, 33.3 %). The most common symptom at presentation was epistaxis (6 patients, 40 %), followed by ophthalmic problems (6 patients, 40 %), with both presentations seen in 1 patient. The most common diagnostic modality used was DSA in 12 patients (80 %) followed by CTA in 2 patients (13.3 %). Infraclinoid TICAs were seen in 9 patients (60 %), whereas supraclinoid TICAs were seen in 5 patients (33.3 %), with perifalx TICAs seen in 1 patient. Endovascular intervention therapies were performed in 11 patients (73.3 %), bypass surgery and trapping in 2 (13.3 %), transnasal endoscopic approach in combination with balloon assisted in 2 patients. At discharge, 2 patients had poor clinical outcomes (13.3 %), 5 had fair (33.3 %),and 8 resulted with good outcomes (53.3 %). TICAs arising secondary to blunt brain injury account for 0.64 % of all cerebral aneurysms. Infraclinoid, supraclinoid ICA and perifalx TICAs are the most common aneurysms arising from blunt brain injury. Our study further shows that traumatic patients presenting with recurrent epistaxis, oculomotor nerve palsy, and delayed intracranial hemorrhage should receive cerebroangiography as soon as possible. An early diagnosis and proper treatment could prove to be helpful in terms of improving final clinical outcome."}
{"id": "22974643", "title": "Neuroimaging in acute stroke.", "content": "Neuroimaging in acute stroke. This article reviews the various imaging modalities available for the evaluation of patients presenting with a potential stroke syndrome, specifically acute ischemic stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage, and subarachnoid hemorrhage. It reviews the various computed tomography (CT) modalities, including noncontrast brain CT (NCCT), CT angiography, and CT perfusion. It discusses multimodal magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of patients with acute stroke, including diffusion-weighted imaging, T2-weighted sequences/fluid-attenuated inversion recovery, magnetic resonance angiography, perfusion-weighted imaging, and gradient-recalled echo. At the end of this article, a brief review on how to read an NCCT geared toward the emergency physician is included."}
{"id": "22961960", "title": "Antegrade flow across incomplete vessel occlusions can be distinguished from retrograde collateral flow using 4-dimensional computed tomographic angiography.", "content": "Antegrade flow across incomplete vessel occlusions can be distinguished from retrograde collateral flow using 4-dimensional computed tomographic angiography. In acute stroke patients with intracranial vessel occlusion, angiographic demonstration of antegrade contrast opacification distal to the occlusion site (termed the \"clot outline sign\") has been associated with higher rates of vessel recanalization. We sought to determine whether antegrade flow can be demonstrated on time-resolved 4-dimensional computed tomographic angiography (4-dimensional CTA), whether it can be distinguished from retrograde collateral flow, and if it can be used to predict early recanalization. Fifty-seven acute stroke patients with intracranial anterior circulation vessel occlusion were retrospectively identified. All patients had received a multimodal computed tomography examination including thin-section 4-dimensional CTA and subsequent digital subtraction angiography as part of an endovascular procedure. Pretreatment 4-dimensional CTA and single-phase CTA were assessed for presence of antegrade contrast opacification distal to the occlusion site. Digital subtraction angiograms were reviewed for preintervention Thrombolysis in Cerebral Infarction grade, presence of the clot outline sign, as well as postintervention Thrombolysis in Cerebral Infarction grade. On 4-dimensional CTA, evidence of antegrade flow was present in 11 of 57 cases (19.3%). Compared with angiography, 4-dimensional CTA predicted antegrade flow with 100% sensitivity and 97.9% specificity. Single-phase CTA offered 40% sensitivity and 87.2% specificity. Early recanalization occurred in 3 patients (6.5%) after intravenous thrombolysis (n=46); all demonstrated antegrade flow on 4-dimensional CTA. Using 4-dimensional CTA, it is possible to noninvasively distinguish antegrade flow across a cerebral artery occlusion from retrograde collateral flow. Presence of antegrade flow on 4-dimensional CTA is associated with an increased chance of early vessel recanalization."}
{"id": "22958770", "title": "Fatal hemorrhage in cerebral proliferative angiopathy.", "content": "Fatal hemorrhage in cerebral proliferative angiopathy. Cerebral proliferative angiopathy (CPA) is a rare vascular abnormality with several angiomorphological features that are distinct from brain arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). The natural history of CPAs indicates a lower risk for hemorrhage compared to brain AVMs. A 62-year-old woman presented with gait instability and dysarthria. MRI and angiography revealed a diffuse vascular network involving the tectum and cerebellar vermis with intermingled brain parenchyma. This lesion had no dominant feeder, high-flow arteriovenous shunt, flow-related aneurysm or highly dilated veins on angiogram. These findings were consistent with a diagnosis of CPA. During follow-up, she developed progressive gait instability and eye movement abnormalities, but no remarkable change was detected on the repeated MRI and angiography. Nine years later, she died of mesencephalic hemorrhage originating from the CPA. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first description of a patient with CPA who died as a result of the initial hemorrhage. It is important to recognize that a part of CPAs is aggressive and can be more vulnerable to critical hemorrhage."}
{"id": "22958768", "title": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome: treatment with multiple sessions of intra-arterial nimodipine and angioplasty.", "content": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome: treatment with multiple sessions of intra-arterial nimodipine and angioplasty. Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) is characterized by acute severe headache with or without additional neurological symptoms and reversible cerebral vasoconstriction. Unruptured aneurysms have been reported in some cases with RCVS. We describe a severe case of a 50-year-old woman with RCVS presenting as cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiogram demonstrated the typical angiographic findings of RCVS and two very small unruptured aneurysms of the left internal carotid artery. The patient was treated with calcium channel blockers and the two aneurysms were successfully treated endovascularly. On day 16 the patient developed new focal neurological symptoms (severe paraparesis) and was successfully treated with intraarterial nimodipine and angioplasty in multiple sessions."}
{"id": "22940230", "title": "Prognostic factors related to clinical outcome following thrombectomy in ischemic stroke (RECOST study). 50 patients prospective study.", "content": "Prognostic factors related to clinical outcome following thrombectomy in ischemic stroke (RECOST study). 50 patients prospective study. New thrombectomy devices allow successful and rapid recanalization in acute ischemic stroke. Nevertheless prognostics factors need to be systematically analyzed in the context of these new therapeutic strategies. The aim of this study was to analyze prognostic factors related to clinical outcome following Solitaire FR thrombectomy in ischemic stroke. Fifty consecutive ischemic stroke patients with large vessel occlusion were included. Three treatment strategies were applied; rescue therapy, combined therapy, and standalone thrombectomy. DWI ASPECT score<5 was the main exclusion criterion after initial MRI (T2, T2, TOF, FLAIR, DWI). Sexes, age, time to recanalization were prospectively collected. Clinical outcome was assessed post treatment, day one and discharge by means of a NIHSS. Three months mRS evaluation was performed by an independent neurologist. The probability of good outcome at 3 months was assessed by forward stepwise logistic regression using baseline NIHSS score, Glasgow score at entrance, hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, blood-brain barrier disruption on post-operative CT, embolic and hemorrhagic post procedural complication, ischemic brain lesion extension on 24h imaging, NIHSS at discharge, ASPECT score, and time to recanalization. All variables significantly associated with the outcome in the univariate analysis were entered in the model. The significance of adding or removing a variable from the logistic model was determined by the maximum likelihood ratio test. Odds-ratio (OR) and their 95% confidence intervals were calculated. At 3 months 54% of patients had a mRS 0-2, 70% in MCA, 44% in ICA, and 43% in BA with an overall mortality rate of 12%. Baseline NIHSS score (p=0.001), abnormal Glasgow score at entrance (p=0.053) hyperglycemia (p=0.023), dyslipidemia (p=0.031), blood-brain barrier disruption (p=0.022), embolic and hemorrhagic post procedural complication, ischemic brain lesion extension on 24h imaging (p=0.008), NIHSS at discharge (0.001) were all factors significantly associated with 3 month clinical outcome. ASPECT subgroup (5-7 and 8-10), and time to recanalization were not correlated to 3 months outcome. Baseline NIHSS score (OR, 1.228; 95% CI, 1.075-1.402; p=0.002), hyperglycemia (OR, 10.013; 95% CI, 1.068-93.915; p=0.04), emerged as independent predictors of outcome at 3 months. Overall embolic complication rate was 10%, and symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage was 2%. The MCA location was associated with the best clinical outcome. A DWI ASPECT cutoff score of 5 was reliable and safe. No correlation with time to recanalization was observed in this study. NIHSS and hyperglycemia at admission were the two factors independently associated with a bad outcome at 90 days."}
{"id": "22925413", "title": "Efficacy of extracranial-intracranial revascularization for non-moyamoya steno-occlusive cerebrovascular disease in a series of 66 patients.", "content": "Efficacy of extracranial-intracranial revascularization for non-moyamoya steno-occlusive cerebrovascular disease in a series of 66 patients. Although there is uncertainty about whether extracranial-intracranial arterial bypass is useful for the treatment of steno-occlusive cerebrovascular disease in general, there is some argument for its continued use in particular patients. In the present study, we evaluated the efficacy of superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery (STA-MCA) anastomosis combined with encephalo-duro-myo-synangiosis (EDMS) in the treatment of non-moyamoya steno-occlusive cerebrovascular disease by retrospectively reviewing clinical and radiological data from 66 patients treated between January 2006 and April 2011. Forty-six double STA-MCA anastomoses and 20 single anastomoses were completed, and all remained patent in the perioperative phase, as confirmed by CT angiography. Postoperative CT perfusion imaging demonstrated immediate improvement in perfusion in the revascularized hemisphere. On discharge, 50 of the 66 patients (75.8%) had an improved National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score relative to preoperative values. After at least 6 months of follow-up, 54 (88.5%) patients had improved NIHSS scores relative to discharge values. CT perfusion imaging showed significant improvement compared to post-operative images. Follow-up digital subtraction angiography confirmed that 95 of 96 (99%) anastomoses remained patent. There was no significant difference between the single and double bypasses in terms of either clinical or hemodynamic outcomes on the revascularized side. STA-MCA combined with EDMS was effective for the treatment of non-moyamoya steno-occlusive cerebrovascular disease with hemodynamic impairment. Hemodynamic evaluation before and after surgery may help identify patients in need of a bypass and may be useful for predicting outcome."}
{"id": "22923358", "title": "[Neuroradiological focus on stroke imaging].", "content": "[Neuroradiological focus on stroke imaging]. Stroke is heterogenous in its symptoms, which are also caused by various pathologies. Clinically the causing mechanism (bleeding or ischemia) of a new onset of neurological deficits can not reliably be distinguished. However, ischemia is four times more frequent than a bleeding causing neurological symptoms. Modern imaging technologies (computed assisted tomography or magnetic resonace imaging) and interventional techniques are a mainstay in diagnostics and management of acute onset of neurological symptoms. They can reliably distinguish between bleeding and stroke, especially taking newest technologies, such as perfusion studies and angiographies, into account. Neuroradiology with its interventional options has nowadays furthermore become an important tool in strokes and offers a local maneuver to retrieve the clotting pathology and even opens the therapeutic window for a delayed start of the therapy since symptom's onset beyong the conventional 4.5 hours window. Also risks of a therapy and which therapy option should be used can immediately be assessed."}
{"id": "22918938", "title": "Complicated cerebral venous sinus thrombosis with intracranial hemorrhage and mastoiditis.", "content": "Complicated cerebral venous sinus thrombosis with intracranial hemorrhage and mastoiditis. Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) is a rare cause of stroke, occurring when a blood clot forms in any of the brain venous sinuses. Symptoms include neurological deficits, headache, seizures, and coma. There are many predisposing factors for CVST including prothrombotic conditions, oral contraceptives, pregnancy/puerperium, malignancy, infection, and head injury. Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis has no identifiable underlying etiology in about 12.5% to 33% of the cases. Diagnosis has become easier with newer imaging techniques, such as magnetic resonance venography. The treatment options for CVST include symptomatic treatment, anticoagulation (AC), thrombolysis, and thrombectomy. Controversy exists over the efficacy and safety of AC in patients with CVST with concurrent intracranial hemorrhage (ICH). We present a complex case of CVST with ICH and mastoiditis as well as provide a literature review about CVST."}
{"id": "22905952", "title": "Unusual MRI findings of dural arteriovenous fistula: isolated perfusion lesions mimicking TIA.", "content": "Unusual MRI findings of dural arteriovenous fistula: isolated perfusion lesions mimicking TIA. The diagnosis of transient ischemic attack (TIA) based on clinical history and objective findings, even including multiparametric MRI, can be misleading. We report two patients who presented with TIA-like deficits with isolated perfusion lesions in corresponding areas but were finally diagnosed as transient neurological symptoms associated with dural arteriovenous fistula (dAVF). Two patients presented with transient focal neurological symptoms lasting less than one hour. An isolated perfusion deficit with no diffusion change in the clinically relevant area was shown on brain MRI, indicating transient ischemia as the most plausible cause of neurological symptoms. However, cerebral angiography let to diagnosis of dAVF in both cases. Intracerebral hemorrhage occurred after the initial diagnosis of TIA in one patient, and the small area of perfusion abnormality accompanied by the enlarged cortical vein in the other case helped to identify the dAVF through the further investigation. The pattern of perfusion-weighted imaging in both cases revealed increase of mean transit time and relative cerebral blood volume denoting the venous congestion in a clinically corresponding area. Reported cases are uncommon clinical presentation of a dAVF, which can be misdiagnosed as TIA on clinical grounds. In rare cases, the isolated perfusion deficits could be attributable to venous congestion, despite the similar pattern of clinical presentation, such as with TIA."}
{"id": "22905619", "title": "[Endovascular treatment of middle cerebral artery bifurcation aneurysms].", "content": "[Endovascular treatment of middle cerebral artery bifurcation aneurysms]. To summarize the diagnosis and endovascular treatment of middle cerebral artery (MCA) bifurcation aneurysm. Between January 2010 and June 2011, 32 patients with MCA bifurcation aneurysm underwent endovascular treatment. There were 12 males and 20 females, aged 49.5 years on average (range, 35-81 years). All patients had sudden headache, 2 cases had disturbance of consciousness and hemiplegia, and 22 cases had a history of hypertension. Before operation, 10 cases were classified as Hunt-Hess level I, 15 cases as level II, and 7 cases as level III; 24 cases were classified as Fisher level II and 8 cases as level III. The patients underwent coil embolization using single microcatheter in 16 cases, using double microcatheter in 7 cases, using balloon-assisted in 4 cases, using single stent in 4 cases, and using double stent in 1 case. The results of postoperative immediate digital subtraction angiography showed that 30 patients achieved dense embolization, and 2 patients using single microcatheter achieved approximated dense embolization. Among them, 18 cases suffered extensive subarachnoid hemorrhage, thus lumbar puncture continued drainage was performed for 3-7 days; the other 14 cases had little subarachnoid hemorrhage, lumbar puncture released hemorrhagic cerebrospinal fluid discontinuously, and after 1 week, head CT demonstrated that subarachnoid hemorrhage was significantly decreased. At 1 day after surgery, 2 patients had local cerebral ischemia; after Nimotop and other drugs were used for 1 week, the symptom was alleviative. All 32 patients were followed up 4 to 17 months. No aneurysm rupture and bleed occurred during follow-up; no other complications or sequelae was observed except for 3 cases of hemiparesis and 1 case of aphasia. The computed tomographic angiography examination showed no re-open of dense embolized aneurysm at 3, 6 months, and 1 year after surgery. As long as appropriate intervention treatment method is chosen, endovascular treatment of MCA bifurcation aneurysm is safe and effective."}
{"id": "22890017", "title": "Atraumatic nonaneurysmal sulcal subarachnoid hemorrhages: a diagnostic workup based on a case series.", "content": "Atraumatic nonaneurysmal sulcal subarachnoid hemorrhages: a diagnostic workup based on a case series. Atraumatic and nonaneurysmal sulcal subarachnoid hemorrhage (sSAH) is a rare type of cerebrovascular disease with various etiologies previously reported in small case reports. In this study, we propose to analyze clinical presentations, imaging patterns and etiologies in a large case series of such patients in order to propose a diagnostic workup. We retrospectively analyzed clinical and radiological data of consecutive patients with a diagnosis of atraumatic and nonaneurysmal sSAH, admitted to our institution between 2008 and 2011. All patients had both computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as a part of their initial evaluation. 30 patients (18 women and 12 men, mean age: 60 years) were identified. The main clinical symptoms at presentation were focal and transient neurological deficit (n = 22) and thunderclap headache (n = 10). Four patients had progressive headache and 4 other had partial or generalized epileptic seizures. MRI abnormalities associated with sSAH were prior hemorrhages, microbleeds, severe leukoencephalopathy and hemosiderosis suggesting cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA; n = 9), vasogenic edema in parieto-occipital areas compatible with a posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES; n = 3), cortical venous thrombosis (n = 2) and concomitant acute cortical stroke (n = 3). Other underlying causes of sSAH, not diagnosed on MRI, were reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) based on clinical criteria and conventional angiography (n = 4), angiitis diagnosed by skin biopsy (n = 1), vascular malformation diagnosed on CT and digital subtraction angiographies (n = 3), and overanticoagulation (n = 1). Four cases remained unresolved. This study confirmed that sSAH is a rare condition related to a wide spectrum of etiologies. Combination of brain MRI and magnetic resonance angiography and eventually digital subtraction angiography allowed the identification of an underlying etiology for 87% of patients. CAA, RCVS and PRES represented more than 50% of the etiological mechanisms. Among older patients, sSAH was mainly related to CAA while in younger patients, RCVS represented the most frequent etiology."}
{"id": "22884137", "title": "Application of T2 measurement on gradient echo T2-weighted imaging in differential diagnosis of intracranial hemorrhage and calcification.", "content": "Application of T2 measurement on gradient echo T2-weighted imaging in differential diagnosis of intracranial hemorrhage and calcification. Differential diagnosis of intracranial hemorrhage and calcification is a common problem encountered in clinical imaging diagnosis. The purpose of this study was to investigate the feasibility of T2 measurement on gradient echo (GRE) T2-weighted imaging (T2WI) in differential diagnosis of intracranial hemorrhage and calcification. Thirty-eight hemorrhagic foci in 18 patients and 11 calcification foci in seven patients were included in this study. The diagnosis of hemorrhage and calcification was confirmed in all cases with enhanced T2 weighted angiography (ESWAN) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and CT respectively. The significance for the difference of T2 value between the central and peripheral areas of hemorrhage and calcification lesions was tested with univariate analysis of variance. The detection rate of GRE T2 WI on intracranial hemorrhage was 1.9-fold higher than that of CT, especially for the hemorrhage in the brainstem and cerebellum. However, GRE T2WI was far less sensitive to calcification than CT. There was a significant difference in the T2 value between the central area of hemorrhage and calcification (P < 0.001), though no difference in the T2 value was obtained between the peripheral area of hemorrhage and calcification (P > 0.05). Quantitative measurement of T2 value on GRE T2 WI with a single MRI examination provides a fast, convenient, and effective means in differential diagnosis between intracranial hemorrhage and calcification, which may thus reduce the medical cost and save precious time for clinical management."}
{"id": "22843754", "title": "Cerebral cavernous malformation: a diagnostic challenge in a young patient with intracerebral haemorrhage.", "content": "Cerebral cavernous malformation: a diagnostic challenge in a young patient with intracerebral haemorrhage. An 18-year-old Caucasian man presented with a sudden onset right hemiparesis. On examination, he had objective evidence of an upper motor neuron lesion affecting the right side of his body. CT scan showed a left thalamic haemorrhage. MRI, gradient echo and cerebral angiogram showed no structural lesion and the cause of the bleeding was ultimately attributed to the use of cocaine. During the subsequent 2 years the patient had two further similar episodes, with an MRI eventually demonstrating a cerebral cavernous malformation. This was excised using frameless stereotactic surgery, following which the patient made an uneventful recovery."}
{"id": "22841286", "title": "Brain computed tomography perfusion may help to detect hemodynamic reconstitution and predict intracerebral hemorrhage after carotid stenting.", "content": "Brain computed tomography perfusion may help to detect hemodynamic reconstitution and predict intracerebral hemorrhage after carotid stenting. We wanted to examine whether brain computed tomography (CT) perfusion can help to detect the reconstitution of cerebral hemodynamics and predict intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) after carotid stenting. From September 2002 to October 2009, data of 114 patients with carotid intervention were prospectively collected, and we retrospectively identified a total of 108 consecutive patients with unilateral carotid stenting. Brain CT perfusion was studied at three time points: 1 week before, and 1 week and 6 months after stenting. Cerebral blood volume (CBV), cerebral blood flow, and time to peak (TTP) of brain CT perfusion were examined at cortical and subcortical areas of middle cerebral artery (MCA) and posterior cerebral artery territory. The CBV, cerebral blood flow, and TTP ratios of stenting side/nonstenting side were used for comparison. The flow direction of ophthalmic artery was detected by sonography, and the presence of anterior communicating artery was examined on prestenting cerebral angiogram. After carotid stenting, CBV and TTP ratios improved significantly in both MCA cortical and subcortical areas in patients with unilateral carotid stenosis (P < .01) but not in patients with bilateral carotid stenosis. Patients with reversed ophthalmic flow had better improvement of TTP in both MCA and posterior cerebral artery territories (P < .05) than patients with forward flow. However, no significant difference was found between patients with and patients without anterior communicating artery collateral (P > .05). The prestenting TTP ratio in MCA subcortical area was significantly higher in patients with poststenting ICH than patients without ICH (P = .0191). Cerebral hemodynamics can be reconstituted within a few days after carotid revascularization, especially in patients with reversed ophthalmic flow. Prolonged TTP in prestenting MCA subcortical area may suggest a high risk of poststenting ICH."}
{"id": "22824687", "title": "Accuracy of computed tomography angiography in detecting the underlying vascular abnormalities for spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage: a comparative study and meta-analysis.", "content": "Accuracy of computed tomography angiography in detecting the underlying vascular abnormalities for spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage: a comparative study and meta-analysis. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) is a rapid, non-invasive procedure with a small risk for evaluating patients with various types of strokes. But the effectiveness of CTA in detecting the etiology of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (SICH) has not been well established. To evaluate the diagnostic value of CTA for detecting underlying vascular abnormalities in patients with SICH. This is a comparative study to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of CTA and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in SICH. We also did a meta-analysis, combining our results with those of all previous studies to determine a more precise estimate of CTA in detecting the etiology of SICH.. Between July 2009 and October 2011, CTA and DSA were routinely performed in consecutive young patients (age between 18 and 45 years) with acute non-hypertensive SICH. Imaging data were prospectively stored in the database for analysis. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive values (PPV), negative predictive values (NPV), and accuracy were used for evaluating the diagnostic value of CTA for vascular lesion. This study included 92 patients. The sensitivity, specificity, PPV, NPV, and accuracy of CTA for detecting DSA-positive pathologies were 94.6%, 100%, 100%, 96.5%, and 97.8%, respectively. A total of 544 cases were included for meta-analysis. The pooled sensitivity, specificity, PPV, NPV, and accuracy of CTA for detecting the etiology in SICH were 95.4%, 98.3%, 96.9%, 97.4%, and 97.2%, respectively. There was no substantial heterogeneity between the studies. CTA has high PPV and NPV for vascular pathologies. It should be performed as the initial vascular investigation for patients with acute SICH. Future technical advancement of CTA is still needed to eliminate the false-negative results."}
{"id": "22811207", "title": "Predicting intracerebral hemorrhage growth with a spot.", "content": "Predicting intracerebral hemorrhage growth with a spot."}
{"id": "22805394", "title": "Simultaneous hemorrhage in intracranial aneurysms and in renal cyst in a case of polycystic kidney disease.", "content": "Simultaneous hemorrhage in intracranial aneurysms and in renal cyst in a case of polycystic kidney disease. We report an unusual case of simultaneous hemorrhage in intracranial aneurysms and in renal cyst in a case of polycystic kidney disease. A 27-year-old gentleman presented with progressive headache and intermittent vomiting of one month duration. Initial computerized tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging/angiography revealed a large mass lesion in the right temporal fossa. Over the previous 15 days, he developed progressive weakness in his left upper and lower limbs, and the headache worsened in severity. A repeat of CT scan showed an evidence of aneurysmal bleed and a large temporal lobe hematoma. The patient underwent urgent evacuation of the intracerebral of hematoma and excision of the redundant aneurysmal sac. The patient made excellent recovery in the post-operative period; however, for him, the pain abdomen was persisting. Detailed work-up with contrast-enhanced abdominal CT scan revealed bilateral multiple cysts in the kidneys with evidence of intracystic hemorrhage on the left side. An extensive search of the literature revealed that this kind of presentation has not been reported previously."}
{"id": "22787001", "title": "Recognizing false ischemic penumbras in CT brain perfusion studies.", "content": "Recognizing false ischemic penumbras in CT brain perfusion studies. Computed tomography (CT) plays a pivotal role in the diagnosis of acute stroke and in treatment decision making. CT perfusion imaging performed with intravenous iodinated contrast material allows calculation of the time to peak enhancement, mean transit time, and cerebral blood volume, important parameters for differentiating between an ischemic penumbra, which might benefit from intravascular therapy with thrombolytic agents, and infarcted tissue, which would not benefit from such therapy. Differentiation between the two entities is important because thrombolytic therapy is associated with an increased risk for intracranial hemorrhage. A finding of delay in peak enhancement or increased mean transit time in a region with normal or only slightly abnormal cerebral blood volume is suggestive of an ischemic penumbra; however, accurate interpretation of the CT perfusion parameters may be difficult in the presence of a cerebrovascular anatomic variant or physiologic condition that produces benign oligemia leading to a false appearance of penumbra. For this reason, CT perfusion parameters must be correlated with the clinical history and findings at unenhanced head CT, angiography or CT angiography, and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. The authors identify five possible causes of false penumbras, each of which produces a different pattern at imaging: upstream flow restriction, evolution of ischemic change, vascular dysregulation, positioning of the patient's head at an angle during image acquisition, and variant anatomy in the circle of Willis. Familiarity with the imaging patterns and causes of false penumbras may increase the radiologist's confidence in diagnosis and help avoid costly errors in treatment."}
{"id": "22784396", "title": "A comparison of 4D time-resolved MRA with keyhole and 3D time-of-flight MRA at 3.0 T for the evaluation of cerebral aneurysms.", "content": "A comparison of 4D time-resolved MRA with keyhole and 3D time-of-flight MRA at 3.0 T for the evaluation of cerebral aneurysms. A subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) due to the rupture of a cerebral aneurysm (CA) is a devastating event associated with high rates of mortality. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), as a noninvasive technique, is typically used initially. The object of our study is to evaluate the feasibility of 4D time-resolved MRA with keyhole (4D-TRAK) for the diagnostic accuracy and reliability of the detection and characterization of cerebral aneurysms (CAs), with a comparison of 3D time-of-flight MRA (3D-TOF-MRA) by using DSA as a reference. 3D-TOF-MRA, 4D-TRAK and 3D-DSA were performed sequentially in 52 patients with suspected CAs. 4D-TRAK was acquired using a combination of sensitivity encoding (SENSE) and CE timing robust angiography (CENTRA) k-space sampling techniques at a contrast dose of 10 ml at 3 T. Accuracy, sensitivity, specificity of 4D-TRAK and 3D-TOF-MRA were calculated and compared for the detection of CAs on patient-based and aneurysm-based evaluation using 3D-DSA as a reference. The overall image quality of 4D-TRAK with a contrast dose of 10 ml was in the diagnostic range but still cannot be compared with that of 3D-TOF-MRA. In 52 patients with suspected CAs, fifty-eight CAs were confirmed on 3D-DSA finally. Fifty-one (with 2 false-positives and 9 false-negatives) and 58 (with 1 false-positive and 1 false-negative) CAs were visualized on 4D-TRAK and 3D-TOF-MRA, respectively. Accuracy, sensitivity and specificity on patient-based evaluation of 4D-TRAK and 3D-TOF-MRA were 92.31%, 93.33%, 85.71% and 98.08%, 100%, 85.71%, respectively, and 74.07%, 75.00%, 66.67% and 96.30%, 95.83%, 100% on aneurysm-based evaluation in patients with multiple CAs, respectively. Subgroup analysis revealed that for 19 very small CAs (maximal diameter <3 mm, measured on 3D-DSA), 9 were missed on 4D-TRAK and 1 on 3D-TOF-MRA (P\u2009=\u20090.008). However, for 39 CAs with maximal diameter\u2009\u2265\u20093 mm, the diagnostic accuracy is equally (39 on 4D-TRAK vs. 39 on 3D-TOF-MRA) (P\u2009=\u20091). In four larger CAs with maximal diameter\u2009\u2265\u200910 mm, 4D-TRAK provided a better characterization of morphology than 3D-TOF-MRA. 4D-TRAK at a lower contrast dose of 10 ml with a combination of SENSE and CENTRA at 3 T could provide similar diagnostic accuracy rate for CAs with maximal diameter\u2009\u2265\u20093 mm, and a better characterization of morphology for larger CAs with maximal diameter\u2009\u2265\u200910 mm compared to 3D-TOF-MRA. However, further study is still needed to improve the \"vascular edge\" artifact and the compromise in spatial resolution in depiction of CAs with maximal diameter<3 mm."}
{"id": "22749486", "title": "[Loss of consciousness after a minor trauma revealing an aneurysm rupture in a child].", "content": "[Loss of consciousness after a minor trauma revealing an aneurysm rupture in a child]. In pediatrics, concussions are common after falls and are often banal. However, it is important to identify situations where a particular inquiry is essential. Cerebral hemorrhage and aneurysms, although more common in adults, can also occur the young. The best investigation for diagnosis is the brain CT scan. After a soccer head injury, a 13-year-old boy presented with headache, abdominal pain, and a feeling of being ill. Then, he quickly lost consciousness and had amnesia for several hours. On arrival, the clinical examination, including neurological testing was normal except for bradycardia and pallor. He then presented a severe meningeal syndrome. A CT scan showed cerebral hemorrhage at the left sylvian fissure and in the posterior fossa. MR angiography confirmed subarachnoid hemorrhage and made and us suspect an aneurismal lesion in the emergence of the left sylvian artery. Cerebral hemorrhage is rare in children (about 1.4/10,0000 per year), 18% of which are pure meningeal forms. In the cases of intraventricular or subarachnoid hemorrhage in children, it is essential to complete the assessment by angiography because the risk of underlying aneurysm is then 57%. Among children with aneurysm, 35% will have bleeding from aneurysm rupture, especially during adolescence. Cerebral aneurysms are usually not familial. A family screening should only be performed when two cases or more of intracerebral aneurysms are reported in first- or second-degree relatives. In this case, the best investigation is cerebral MR angiography."}
{"id": "22743639", "title": "Comparison of conventional CTA and volume perfusion CTA in evaluation of cerebral arterial vasculature in acute stroke.", "content": "Comparison of conventional CTA and volume perfusion CTA in evaluation of cerebral arterial vasculature in acute stroke. CTA-like datasets can be reconstructed from whole-brain VPCTA. The aim of our study was to compare VPCTA with CTA for detection of intracranial stenosis and occlusion in stroke patients. Omitting CTA from stroke CT could reduce radiation dose. One hundred sixty-three patients were included in this retrospective analysis. Inclusion criterion was suspected stroke within 4.5 hours after onset of symptoms. All examinations were performed on a 128-section multidetector CT scanner. Axial, coronal, and sagittal maximum intensity projections were reconstructed from CTA and from peak arterial phase of VPCTA. Images were scored for quality and presence of intracranial stenosis >50% or occlusion. For statistical analysis, the Wilcoxon signed-rank test and Fisher exact test were used, with a 2-tailed P value of .05 or less for statistical significance. Average image quality was superior in CTA (P < .05). However, image quality dichotomized for diagnostic significance was without difference between CTA and VPCTA (P > .05). Comparative statistical analysis revealed no significant difference for detection of intracranial stenosis and occlusion between CTA and VPCTA (P > .05). Substitution of intracranial CTA by VPCTA would lower radiation dose by 0.5 mSv. VPCTA is suited to assess the intracranial vasculature in patients with stroke and might have the potential to decrease radiation dose by substituting for intracranial CTA in stroke CT. Additional studies are necessary to further evaluate potential benefits of the dynamic nature of VPCTA."}
{"id": "22729076", "title": "Acute subdural hematoma without subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by ruptured A1-A2 junction aneurysm. Case report.", "content": "Acute subdural hematoma without subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by ruptured A1-A2 junction aneurysm. Case report. A 54-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with complaint of sudden headache. The patient had suffered two episodes of transient headache before admission. Computed tomography (CT) revealed acute subdural hematoma (ASDH) on the right side of the cerebral convexity with bilateral extension along the tentorium cerebelli without signs of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) or intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Three-dimensional CT angiography and conventional cerebral angiography revealed a left A1-A2 junction aneurysm. Neck clipping of the aneurysm was performed. The aneurysm extended inferiorly, with the dome embedded in the chiasmatic cistern and tightly adhered to the arachnoid membrane. There was no evidence of hematoma in the subarachnoid space. The patient was discharged without neurological deficit. Ruptured aneurysms resulting in ASDH without SAH or ICH are very rare. Radiological investigation such as three-dimensional CT angiography should be performed to find the causative aneurysm in a patient with ASDH with a history of repeated headaches and without traumatic signs or episodes, and the appropriate treatment should be planned with expediency."}
{"id": "22728542", "title": "[Spontaneous dissection of the anterior cerebral artery that simultaneously presented with cerebral infarction and subarachnoid hemorrhage, successfully treated with conservative management: a case report].", "content": "[Spontaneous dissection of the anterior cerebral artery that simultaneously presented with cerebral infarction and subarachnoid hemorrhage, successfully treated with conservative management: a case report]. We recently encountered a rare case of anterior cerebral artery dissection (ACAD) that accompanied fresh cerebral infarction (CI) and subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). An initial head CT showed a thin SAH in the interhemispheric cistern and cortical sulcus of the left frontal surface. Subsequent MRI performed 10 min after head CT scan revealed a fresh infarction in the left ACA region. MR-and digital subtraction angiograms demonstrated a dissection in the A2 portion of the left ACA with a leak of contrast media around the left A3 portion, suggesting that the bleeding occurred in a distal portion of the main dilation. Without anti-thrombotic therapy, the patient recovered without complications by blood pressure control and administration of brain-function protection therapies. We found 11 cases similar to the present case in the literature. All cases presented with lower-extremity dominant hemiparesis; however, sudden onset headache was rare. Blood pressure was not well-controlled in 4 out of the 6 known hypertensive cases. Main sites of dissection were located at the A2 portion in all cases except one A3 lesion, and extended to A3 in 2 cases. Conservative therapy led to favorable outcome in 8 cases, while 4 cases underwent surgical interventions for increasing risk of aneurysm rupture after initial observational therapies. Re-bleeding did not occur in any of the 12 cases reviewed. These data suggest that conservative treatment can be considered for an initial management of ACAD with simultaneous CI and SAH. More evidence needs to be accumulated to establish the optimal therapeutic approach for ACAD associated with CI and SAH."}
{"id": "22727622", "title": "Outcomes-based assessment of a new reference standard for delayed cerebral ischemia related to vasospasm in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Outcomes-based assessment of a new reference standard for delayed cerebral ischemia related to vasospasm in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. The purpose is to perform outcomes-based assessment of a new reference standard for delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) related to vasospasm. Retrospective study was performed with consecutive aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (A-SAH) patients between January 2002 and May 2009. A new reference standard for DCI was applied to the study population incorporating clinical and imaging criteria. Diagnostic accuracy was determined by chart diagnosis. Outcome measures for assessment included: permanent neurologic deficits, infarction, functional disability, treatment, and discharge status. Medical record review was performed by two blinded observers. Chi-square test calculated statistical significance between DCI and no DCI groups. A total of 137 patients were included; 59% (81/137) classified as DCI and 41% (56/137) as no DCI by the reference standard. Overall accuracy is 96% (95% confidence interval 92-99) with 100% sensitivity, 92% specificity, 94% positive and 100% negative predictive values. Patients classified as DCI had 40% (32/81) permanent neurologic deficits and 57% (46/81) infarction compared to 0% (0/56) classified as no DCI. DCI patients had 33% (27/81) functional disability compared to 13% (7/56) classified as no DCI. Ninety-four percent (76/81) DCI patients received treatment compared to 0% (0/56) classified as no DCI. DCI group had 46% (37/81) discharged to rehabilitation facilities and 11% (9/81) mortality compared to 25% (14/56) and 2% (1/56), respectively, in no DCI group. There are statistically significant differences (P < .0001) between DCI and no DCI groups for all outcome measures. This new reference standard has high diagnostic accuracy for DCI related to vasospasm. The outcomes-based assessment further supports its accuracy in correctly classifying A-SAH patients."}
{"id": "22721822", "title": "Multistage indocyanine green videoangiography for the convexity dural arteriovenous fistula with angiographically occult pial fistula.", "content": "Multistage indocyanine green videoangiography for the convexity dural arteriovenous fistula with angiographically occult pial fistula. Recently, intraoperative indocyanine green (ICG) videoangiography has become a common technique for treating cerebrovascular diseases. We report a case of dural arteriovenous fistula (AVF) treated with direct surgery using intraoperative ICG videoangiography. A 41-year-old man with right hemiplegia caused by a left subcortical hemorrhage was transferred to our hospital. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) revealed a left convexity parasagittal dural AVF. Surgical resection of the dural AVF was performed using step-by-step ICG videoangiography 4 times in each dissection procedure, which precisely delineated the structure of the dural AVF. After a circular incision of the dura around the fistular point, repeated ICG videoangiography identified the residual fistula between the pial artery from the middle cerebral artery and the draining vein. Complete disappearance of the AVF was confirmed by ICG videoangiography after this pial fistula was removed. Postoperative DSA revealed no residual AVF. Accurate detection of all fistular points and complete resection, including the dura mater and pial vessels, are necessary to avoid rebleeding caused by the residual dural AVF due to incomplete obliteration of the fistular points. Intraoperative ICG videoangiography could provide information on angiographically occult vascular malformation, such as pial fistulas, that cannot be detected by preoperative DSA. Our findings suggest that multistage intraoperative ICG videoangiography can be quite useful for complete resection of a dural AVF with angiographically occult pial fistula."}
{"id": "22721623", "title": "Intraprocedure aneurysm rupture in embolization: clinical outcome with imaging correlation.", "content": "Intraprocedure aneurysm rupture in embolization: clinical outcome with imaging correlation. Intraprocedural aneurysm rupture (IPAR) is the most feared complication of embolization for intracranial aneurysms. Here we report the immediate and long-term imaging outcomes of IPAR during embolization and the correlation with clinical outcomes. Of the 376 consecutive patients harboring 412 intracranial aneurysms who had underwent endovascular coil embolizations in the past 9 years, 10 patients (2.7% per patient, 2.4% per aneurysm) had IPAR. There were two men and eight women, with an age range of 40-71 years (mean: 52 years). Imaging findings, including immediate cerebral angiography, brain computed tomography (CT), and follow-up CT, were analyzed. Final clinical patient outcome was evaluated by modified Rankin scale (mRS). The causes of the IPARs were coil protrusion (n=7), microcatheter perforation (n=2), or they were spontaneous (n=1). Nine cases involved previously ruptured aneurysms, while one was unruptured; aneurysmal location of the IPARs was the anterior (n=5) or posterior (n=4) communicating artery or the anterior cerebral artery (n=1). Angiographic cerebral hemodynamic compromise was observed in four patients and associated with poor clinical outcomes. Immediate CT showed contrast media and/or intracranial hemorrhage expansion in all the patients. Cerebral tissue loss due to ischemia and/or hemorrhagic occurred in six patients with more than 3 months of follow-up. On more than a 3-month clinical outcome, six patients presented with good recoveries (mRS: \u2264 2). One patient exhibited a moderate disability (mRS: 4), and three patients died (mRS: 6). IPAR is an uncommon complication and usually occurs during the advancement of the coil into the aneurysm sac. Angiographic hemodynamics is an important indicator to determine the outcome of the IPAR. Brain CT demonstrates the progression of the IPAR and the cerebral tissue loss resulting from ischemic or hemorrhagic events."}
{"id": "22712371", "title": "[Clinical screening of patients with cerebral arteriosclerosis combined with vertebral artery abnormalies].", "content": "[Clinical screening of patients with cerebral arteriosclerosis combined with vertebral artery abnormalies]. To explore the clinical screening and value of vertebral artery ultrasound, Transcranial doppler (TCD), Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and Computed tomography angiography (CTA) in the diagnosis of cerebral arteriosclerosis combined with vertebral artery abnormalies according to vertebral artery digital subtraction angiography (DSA). From January 2006 to September 2010, 186 patients with cerebral arteriosclerosis were retrospectively analyzed. Among the patients, 133 cases were males and 53 cases were females,ranged from 30 to 84 years (with a mean of 63.8 years). All the patients were estimated by DSA; 172 cases were estimated vertebral artery ultrasound and TCD; 53 cases were estimated by MRA; 25 cases were estimated by CTA. The positive results by DSA were seen as case group, while the negative results were seen as control group. The sensitivity, specificity and concordance rate among four groups were calculated. The abnormality rate of vertebral artery with DSA, vertebral artery ultrasound, TCD, MRA and CTA separately was 50.00% (93/186), 30.81% (53/172), 49.42% (85/172),15.10% (8/53) and 40.00% (10/25). According to DSA standard, the sensitivity of vertebral artery ultrasound in diagnosing was 50.57%, the specificity was 89.41%, and concordance rate was 69.77%; while the sensitivity of TCD was 68.48%, the specificity was 72.50%, and concordance rate was 70.35%; the sensitivity of MRA was 21.43%, specificity was 92.00%, and concordance rate was 54.72%; the sensitivity of CTA was 63.64%,the specificity was 78.57%, and concordance rate was 72.00%. The reasonable and combined application of vertebral artery ultrasound, TCD, MRA and CTA is helpful for diagnosing cerebral arteriosclerosis combined with vertebral artery abnormalies. For the patients with cerebrovascular disease, cervical massage technique should be paid highly attention, which may cause vertebral artery injury and other complications."}
{"id": "22698503", "title": "Stenosis or hyperperfusion in sickle cell disease--ultrasound assessment of cerebral blood flow volume.", "content": "Stenosis or hyperperfusion in sickle cell disease--ultrasound assessment of cerebral blood flow volume. Increased blood flow velocity (BFV) in basal cerebral arteries measured by transcranial color-coded sonography (TCCS) is a stroke risk factor in sickle cell disease (SCD). Raised BFV may be caused by vessel narrowing or by hyperperfusion. In 44 SCD patients and 14 controls, intracranial arterial BFVs and global cerebral blood flow (CBF) were analyzed by TCCS and extracranial duplex ultrasound, respectively. Magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance angiography were performed in all patients with pathologic intracranial BFV rise. Intracranial BFVs and CBF in SCD were significantly higher than in controls. CBF in SCD correlated with BFV in all intracranial arteries and correlated inversely with age and hemoglobin values. Magnetic resonance angiography failed to demonstrate any stenosis in our SCD patients, thus raised intracranial BFVs must be interpreted as an anemia-dependent cerebral hyperperfusion. These findings suggest that the pathomechanism of stenosis-derived arterio-arterial embolism might be less relevant in SCD-related ischemic stroke, and other factors like small vessel disease or sickle cell-induced microvascular blood clotting have to be considered."}
{"id": "22683118", "title": "Acute ischemic stroke treated with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator in a patient taking dabigatran with radiographic evidence of recanalization.", "content": "Acute ischemic stroke treated with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator in a patient taking dabigatran with radiographic evidence of recanalization. Dabigatran etexelate is a new oral direct thrombin inhibitor that has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration to prevent stroke in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. A 51-year-old man with a history of atrial fibrillation who was taking dabigatran presented with an acute ischemic stroke. The patient had a normal international normalized ratio, activated partial thromboplastin time, and an elevated thrombin time of 26.4 seconds. Recanalization of the middle cerebral artery with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator was apparent on digital subtraction angiography, and there was no evidence of intracerebral hemorrhage on the repeat computed tomographic scan. This is the first report of a patient who was taking dabigatran etexilate and who had an ischemic stroke caused by a middle cerebral artery occlusion, with an elevated thrombin time and radiographic recanalization with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator without evidence of hemorrhagic transformation."}
{"id": "22676956", "title": "Clinical differences between acute CVST and non-thrombotic CVSS.", "content": "Clinical differences between acute CVST and non-thrombotic CVSS. Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) is a rare stroke subtype, which has many overlapping symptoms with non-thrombotic cerebral venous sinus stenosis (CVSS) in the acute phase. Despite these similarities, their therapeutic regimens and outcomes are entirely different, and treatment delay is life-threatening. This study aims to address their clinical differences to help promote proper patient care. 34 cases of CVST and 34 cases of non-thrombotic CVSS diagnosed with digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in the acute phase (symptoms onset within 7days) were consecutively enrolled in this prospective non-randomized and controlled study. Differences between CVST and CVSS in their clinical manifestation, plasma biomarkers, and MR or DSA imaging were compared. CVST and CVSS overlap in many ways, but differ in their respective medical histories and neurological deficits. However, 20.6% of CVST and 64.7% of CVSS occur without a definitive medical history, and 70.6% of CVST and 64.7% of CVSS occur without focal neurologic deficits. In the acute phase of CVST, d-dimer and fibrinogen are found to be abnormally elevated in 94.1% and 73.5% of cases, respectively. In the CVSS group, d-dimer and fibrinogen are only elevated in 17.6% and 5.9% of cases, respectively (binary logistic regressions test, all P<0.001). In the CVST group, the predominant features in MRI/MRV and DSA imaging include local brain lesions, flow void signal loss, non-visualization, and a local filling defect sign at the involved sinus. Conversely, in the CVSS group, imaging revealed symmetrically small bilateral ventricles and the spread of cerebral edema in MRI/MRV. DSA imaging in the CVSS group revealed external compression and a narrow sinus with disproportionate venous engorgement. Despite these findings, positive imaging only appears in a minority of patients in the two groups during the acute phase (Table 4). DSA may be beneficial to diagnose CVST in ambiguous patients suspected to have either CVST or CVSS. Clinically useful biomarkers (d-dimer and fibrinogen) may predict CVST in the emergency room in the ambiguous patients with or without equivocal MRI/MRV imaging."}
{"id": "22669554", "title": "A case of typical headache with an atypical diagnosis.", "content": "A case of typical headache with an atypical diagnosis."}
{"id": "22665003", "title": "Evaluation of cerebral arteriovenous malformations using image fusion combining three-dimensional digital subtraction angiography with magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Evaluation of cerebral arteriovenous malformations using image fusion combining three-dimensional digital subtraction angiography with magnetic resonance imaging. An image fusion of 3-dimensional (D) digital subtraction angiography (DSA) and magnetic resonance (MR) images, DSA-MR fusion, can simultaneously visualize both information of the vasculature provided by 3D DSA and of the soft tissues provided by MR images. The authors assessed the usefulness of DSA-MR fusion images concerning the pretreatment evaluation for cerebral arteriovenous malformation (AVM). Seven consecutive patients underwent pretreatment DSA-MR fusion and then microsurgical, endovascular and/ or radiosurgical treatments. DSA-MR fusion images clearly showed the spatial relationship among AVM, its feeding artery, draining vein, surrounding artery feeding the normal brain tissue, hematoma and brain tissues (gyri or brain surface) with reasonable post-processing time. These findings were useful for treatment planning for AVM, especially to enable neurosurgeons to easily understand the surgical anatomy preoperatively."}
{"id": "22627088", "title": "[Toxocara canis cerebral vasculitis revealed by iterative strokes].", "content": "[Toxocara canis cerebral vasculitis revealed by iterative strokes]. Cerebral vasculitis is a rare and severe condition, posing problems for diagnosis and treatment. Toxocara canis cerebral vasculitis is exceptionally rare, with only 4 cases having been reported. We report an additional case revealed by iterative strokes. A 49-years-old Laotian man presented with right ACA infarction associated with contrast enhancement of cerebrospinal fluid, and multiple segmental stenoses in small and medium caliber encephalic arteries, in a context of hypereosinophilia and chronic headaches. Laboratory tests showed lymphocytic meningitis and T.\u00a0canis antibody IgE in the blood and CSF. The diagnosis of T.\u00a0canis cerebral vasculitis was retained. During follow-up, the patient presented again with left pontine hemorrhagic stroke. Conventional cerebral angiography confirmed progression of vasculitis despite treatment. This case-report illustrates the diagnostic and therapeutic difficulties associated with vasculitis."}
{"id": "22621984", "title": "Apolipoprotein E genotype is associated with CT angiography spot sign in lobar intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Apolipoprotein E genotype is associated with CT angiography spot sign in lobar intracerebral hemorrhage. The CT angiography (CTA) spot sign predicts hematoma expansion and poor outcome in patients with primary intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The biological underpinnings of the spot sign remain poorly understood; it may be that the underlying vasculopathy influences its presence. Therefore, we conducted a study to identify genetic predictors of the spot sign. In an ongoing prospective cohort study, we analyzed 371 patients with CTA and genetic data available. CTAs were reviewed for the spot sign by 2 experienced readers, blinded to clinical data, according to validated criteria. Analyses were stratified by ICH location. In multivariate analysis, patients on warfarin were more likely to have a spot sign regardless of ICH location (OR, 3.85; 95% CI, 1.33-11.13 in deep ICH and OR, 2.86; 95% CI, 1.33-6.13 in lobar ICH). Apolipoprotein E \u03b52, but not \u03b54, was associated with the presence of a spot sign in lobar ICH (OR, 2.09; 95% CI, 1.05-4.19). There was no effect for \u03b52 or \u03b54 in deep ICH. Patients with ICH on warfarin are more likely to present with a spot sign regardless of ICH location. Among patients with lobar ICH, those who possess the apolipoprotein E \u03b52 allele are more likely to have a spot sign. Given the established relationship between apolipoprotein E \u03b52 and vasculopathic changes in cerebral amyloid angiopathy, our findings suggest that both hemostatic factors and vessel pathology influence spot sign presence."}
{"id": "22618384", "title": "Clinical significance of impaired cerebrovascular autoregulation after severe aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Clinical significance of impaired cerebrovascular autoregulation after severe aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between cerebrovascular autoregulation and outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. In a prospective observational study, 80 patients after severe subarachnoid hemorrhage were continuously monitored for cerebral perfusion pressure and partial pressure of brain tissue oxygen for an average of 7.9 days (range, 1.9-14.9 days). Autoregulation was assessed using the index of brain tissue oxygen pressure reactivity (ORx), a moving correlation coefficient between cerebral perfusion pressure and partial pressure of brain tissue oxygen. High ORx indicates impaired autoregulation; low ORx signifies intact autoregulation. Outcome was determined at 6 months and dichotomized into favorable (Glasgow Outcome Scale 4-5) and unfavorable outcome (Glasgow Outcome Scale 1-3). Twenty-four patients had a favorable and 56 an unfavorable outcome. In a univariate analysis, there were significant differences in autoregulation (ORx 0.19\u00b10.10 versus 0.37\u00b10.11, P<0.001, for favorable versus unfavorable outcome, respectively), age (44.1\u00b111.0 years versus 54.2\u00b112.1 years, P=0.001), occurrence of delayed cerebral infarction (8% versus 46%, P<0.001), use of coiling (25% versus 54%, P=0.02), partial pressure of brain tissue oxygen (24.9\u00b16.6 mm Hg versus 21.8\u00b16.3 mm Hg, P=0.048), and Fisher grade (P=0.03). In a multivariate analysis, ORx (P<0.001) and age (P=0.003) retained an independent predictive value for outcome. ORx correlated with Glasgow Outcome Scale (r=-0.70, P<0.001). The status of cerebrovascular autoregulation might be an important pathophysiological factor in the disease process after subarachnoid hemorrhage, because impaired autoregulation was independently associated with an unfavorable outcome."}
{"id": "22618152", "title": "The relationship between intracranial arterial stenosis and glomerular filtration rate.", "content": "The relationship between intracranial arterial stenosis and glomerular filtration rate. Poor renal function is associated with cardiovascular complications attributable to large-vessel diseases such as arterial calcification, heart failure, myocardial infarction, and cardiac mortality. The aim of this study was to evaluate the association between renal function and intracranial arterial stenosis (IAS). We analyzed the records of 283 stroke-free Korean adults (\u226545\u00a0years of age) who underwent brain 3D time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography as part of their voluntary health check. The presence of stenosis in the basilar artery and in the horizontal portion of the middle cerebral artery was defined as narrowing of the luminal diameter by 25% or more or occlusion on brain magnetic resonance angiography. We estimated the glomerular filtration rate using the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease equation. The subjects were 133 men and 150 women (mean age of 56\u00a0\u00b1\u00a07\u00a0years). One hundred sixty-six subjects (59\u00a0%) had IAS. The serum creatinine concentration in the highest quartile compared with the lowest quartile was associated with increased prevalence of IAS; the eGFR in the upper two quartiles compared with the lowest quartile were associated with decreased prevalence of IAS. The prevalence of subjects with a high eGFR decreased significantly with the severity of IAS. In conclusion, poor renal function is associated with the presence and the degree of IAS in stroke-free Korean adults."}
{"id": "22578227", "title": "Benefits of 3D rotational DSA compared with 2D DSA in the evaluation of intracranial aneurysm.", "content": "Benefits of 3D rotational DSA compared with 2D DSA in the evaluation of intracranial aneurysm. The aim of this study was to compare conventional two-dimensional (2D) digital subtraction angiography (DSA) with three-dimensional (3D) rotational DSA in the investigation of intracranial aneurysm in terms of detection, size measurement, neck diameter, neck delineation, and relationship with surrounding vessels. A further aim was to compare radiation dose, contrast volume, and procedural time between the two protocols. Thirty-five patients who presented with subarachnoid bleeds on computed tomography and were suspected of having intracranial aneurysms underwent conventional 2D DSA followed by 3D DSA. The 3D digital subtraction angiographic images were displayed as surface shaded display images. Aneurysm detection, sac size, neck diameter, neck delineation, and relationship of aneurysm to the surrounding vessels analyzed from the two protocols were compared. Radiation dose, contrast volume, and procedural time for both examinations were also compared. Three-dimensional DSA detected 44 aneurysms in 31 patients, with negative findings seen in four patients. A false-negative detection rate of 6.8% (three of 44) for 2D DSA was noted. There was no significant difference in aneurysm size between 3D and 2D DSA. The sizes of aneurysm necks were found to be significantly larger in 3D DSA than on 2D DSA. The aneurysm neck and relationship to surrounding vessels were significantly better demonstrated on 3D DSA than on 2D DSA. Radiation dose (entrance surface dose), contrast use, and procedural time with 3D DSA were significantly less than with 2D DSA. Three-dimensional DSA improves the detection and delineation of intracranial aneurysms, with lower radiation dose, less contrast use, and shorter procedural time compared to 2D DSA. The size of the aneurysm neck on 3D DSA tended to be larger than on 2D DSA."}
{"id": "22577751", "title": "A new strategic neurosurgical planning tool for brainstem cavernous malformations using interactive computer graphics with multimodal fusion images.", "content": "A new strategic neurosurgical planning tool for brainstem cavernous malformations using interactive computer graphics with multimodal fusion images. In this study, the authors used preoperative simulation employing 3D computer graphics (interactive computer graphics) to fuse all imaging data for brainstem cavernous malformations. The authors evaluated whether interactive computer graphics or 2D imaging correlated better with the actual operative field, particularly in identifying a developmental venous anomaly (DVA). The study population consisted of 10 patients scheduled for surgical treatment of brainstem cavernous malformations. Data from preoperative imaging (MRI, CT, and 3D rotational angiography) were automatically fused using a normalized mutual information method, and then reconstructed by a hybrid method combining surface rendering and volume rendering methods. With surface rendering, multimodality and multithreshold techniques for 1 tissue were applied. The completed interactive computer graphics were used for simulation of surgical approaches and assumed surgical fields. Preoperative diagnostic rates for a DVA associated with brainstem cavernous malformation were compared between conventional 2D imaging and interactive computer graphics employing receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. The time required for reconstruction of 3D images was 3-6 hours for interactive computer graphics. Observation in interactive mode required approximately 15 minutes. Detailed anatomical information for operative procedures, from the craniotomy to microsurgical operations, could be visualized and simulated three-dimensionally as 1 computer graphic using interactive computer graphics. Virtual surgical views were consistent with actual operative views. This technique was very useful for examining various surgical approaches. Mean (\u00b1SEM) area under the ROC curve for rate of DVA diagnosis was significantly better for interactive computer graphics (1.000\u00b10.000) than for 2D imaging (0.766\u00b10.091; p<0.001, Mann-Whitney U-test). The authors report a new method for automatic registration of preoperative imaging data from CT, MRI, and 3D rotational angiography for reconstruction into 1 computer graphic. The diagnostic rate of DVA associated with brainstem cavernous malformation was significantly better using interactive computer graphics than with 2D images. Interactive computer graphics was also useful in helping to plan the surgical access corridor."}
{"id": "22567808", "title": "Carotid and vertebral arterial dissections in the emergency department.", "content": "Carotid and vertebral arterial dissections in the emergency department. Although carotid and vertebral (cervical) arterial dissections are not common presentations to the emergency department, timely and appropriate diagnostic strategies will allow early initiation of effective treatment therapies. Cervical arterial dissection occurs when the intimal wall of an artery is damaged as a result of trauma or defect. As blood fills the layers of the arterial wall, thrombi form, which can lead to stroke, pseudoaneurysm, vessel occlusion, and stroke. Intracranial dissections may result in subarachnoid hemorrhage. Because cervical arterial dissections may present with common signs and symptoms such as headache, neck pain, neurological deficits, and stroke, it is essential that dissection be considered early and ruled out quickly. Computed tomographic angiography, magnetic resonance angiography, and digital subtraction angiography may be used for diagnosis. Anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy is the mainstay of treatment for spontaneous or traumatic dissections and will reduce the risk of stroke. Endovascular therapy or surgery may be indicated. Recurrence or rebleeding is a significant risk and must be managed."}
{"id": "22566099", "title": "Time-resolved angiography: Past, present, and future.", "content": "Time-resolved angiography: Past, present, and future. The introduction of digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in 1980 provided a method for real time 2D subtraction imaging. Later, 4D magnetic resonance (MR) angiography emerged beginning with techniques like Keyhole and time-resolved imaging of contrast kinetics (TRICKS) that provided frame rates of one every 5 seconds with limited spatial resolution. Undersampled radial acquisition was subsequently developed. The 3D vastly undersampled isotropic projection (VIPR) technique allowed undersampling factors of 30-40. Its combination with phase contrast displays time-resolved flow dynamics within the cardiac cycle and has enabled the measurement of pressure gradients in small vessels. Meanwhile similar accelerations were achieved using Cartesian acquisition with projection reconstruction (CAPR), a Cartesian acquisition with 2D parallel imaging. Further acceleration is provided by constrained reconstruction techniques such as highly constrained back-projection reconstruction (HYPR) and its derivatives, which permit acceleration factors approaching 1000. Hybrid MRA combines a separate phase contrast, time-of flight, or contrast-enhanced acquisition to constrain the reconstruction of contrast-enhanced time frames providing exceptional spatial and temporal resolution and signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). This can be extended to x-ray imaging where a 3D DSA examination can be used to constrain the reconstruction of time-resolved 3D volumes. Each 4D DSA (time-resolved 3D DSA) frame provides spatial resolution and SNR comparable to 3D DSA, thus removing a major limitation of intravenous DSA. Similar techniques have provided the ability to do 4D fluoroscopy."}
{"id": "22562718", "title": "Surgical treatment of poorly visualised and complex cerebrovascular lesions using pre-operative angiographic data as angiographic DynaCT datasets for frameless stereotactic navigation.", "content": "Surgical treatment of poorly visualised and complex cerebrovascular lesions using pre-operative angiographic data as angiographic DynaCT datasets for frameless stereotactic navigation. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is the \"gold standard\" for the imaging of cerebrovascular lesions, particularly cerebral aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). Current stereotactic navigation is based on computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) images, which-even despite the use of CT angiographic (CTA) or MR angiographic (MRA) sequences-may not reveal small lesions, and may not demonstrate all the different facets of complex lesions. To develop frameless stereotactic protocols based on pre-operative cerebral angiograms for enhancing precision in intra-operative navigation and improve patient outcomes. Pre-operative angiograms were obtained for ten patients requiring surgery for complex and/or poorly visualised cerebrovascular lesions. The angiographic data were captured as an angiographic DynaCT dataset and fused to pre-operative CT or MR imaging stereotactic sequences for pre-operative planning and intra-operative navigation. The utility of the angiographic DynaCT datasets for surgical navigation and treatment were assessed by the treating neurosurgeon. This technique enabled precise navigation and better treatment of cerebrovascular lesions that were either inadequately imaged or invisible to conventional pre-operative CT and/or MR imaging techniques. We found that its use in the surgical excision of a micro-AVM to be far superior to CTA and MRA datasets. Its use in seven cases was found to be superior to CTA and MRA datasets, and as useful as CTA or MRA datasets in two cases. Pre-operative formal cerebral angiography as an angiographic DynaCT dataset can be used safely and effectively for intra-operative navigation and treatment of cerebrovascular lesions, in particular, micro-cerebral AVMs."}
{"id": "22550310", "title": "Spontaneous symptomatic intracranial vertebrobasilar dissection: initial and follow-up imaging findings.", "content": "Spontaneous symptomatic intracranial vertebrobasilar dissection: initial and follow-up imaging findings. To evaluate initial radiologic findings of symptomatic intracranial vertebrobasilar dissections (VBDs) as well as the results at follow-up imaging of dissections that are conservatively managed. The respective institutional review boards approved this retrospective study and waived the need for informed consent. The initial radiologic findings of 210 patients with 230 symptomatic intracranial VBDs were retrospectively evaluated (48 ruptured, 182 unruptured). Those patients had undergone conventional angiography as well as magnetic resonance imaging and/or computed tomographic angiography, so that angiographic shapes and pathognomonic findings (eg, intramural hematoma, intimal flap) could be reviewed. The primary angiographic shapes of the symptomatic intracranial VBDs were subdivided into three groups: (a) dilatation without stenosis, (b) pearl-and-string, and (c) stenosis without dilatation. Furthermore, the radiologic evolution of conservatively managed symptomatic intracranial VBDs was evaluated. The respective frequencies of the radiologic findings at initial and follow-up imaging studies were compared by using \u03c72 tests. Primary shape differed significantly between ruptured and unruptured symptomatic intracranial VBDs. Most ruptured dissections presented with one of two main structures: dilatation without stenosis or pearl-and-string appearance. The primary shape of unruptured dissections was evenly distributed among the three types of findings. Intramural hematomas were most frequently found in the stenosis-without-dilatation group (42 of 60 [70%]), followed by the pearl-and-string group (27 of 90 [30%]). Intimal flap was most frequently found in the pearl-and-string group (21 of 90 [23%]), followed by the stenosis-without-dilatation group (eight of 60 [13%]). Follow-up results significantly differed by initial VBD shapes: Seventy-four percent (25 of 34) of the dilatation-without-stenosis group showed no change, whereas improvement was observed in 91% (39 of 43) of the stenosis-without-dilatation group (P<.05). Intracranial VBDs with intramural hematoma showed improvement in 63% (34 of 54) of cases, progression occurred in 20% (11 of 54), and only 17% (nine of 54) exhibited no change (P<.05). Primary angiographic shapes of symptomatic intracranial VBDs differed between ruptured and unruptured lesions. The stenosis-without-dilatation lesions most frequently exhibited radiologic improvement at follow-up imaging, followed by pearl-and-string and dilatation-without-stenosis lesions."}
{"id": "22548931", "title": "Vascular disorders: insights from arterial spin labeling.", "content": "Vascular disorders: insights from arterial spin labeling. The introduction of high-field magnetic imaging (\u22653 T) has made noninvasive arterial spin labeling (ASL) a realistic clinical option for perfusion assessment in vascular disorders. Combined with the advances provided by territorial imaging of individual intracerebral arteries and the measurement of vascular reactivity, ASL is a powerful tool for evaluating vascular diseases of the brain. This article evaluates its use in chronic cerebrovascular disease, stroke, moyamoya disease, and arteriovenous malformation, but ASL may also find applications in related diseases such as vascular dementia."}
{"id": "22548929", "title": "Vascular disorders--magnetic resonance angiography: brain vessels.", "content": "Vascular disorders--magnetic resonance angiography: brain vessels. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the brain obtained at 3 T imaging has made a significant clinical impact. MRA benefits from acquisition at higher magnetic field strength because of higher available signal-to-noise ratio and improved relative background suppression due to magnetic field strength-related T1 lengthening. Parallel imaging techniques are ideally suited for high-field MRA. Many of the developments that have made 3 T MRA of the brain successful can be regarded as enabling technologies that are essential for further development of 7 T MRA, which brings additional challenges."}
{"id": "22538962", "title": "Leukoaraiosis predicts poor 90-day outcome after acute large cerebral artery occlusion.", "content": "Leukoaraiosis predicts poor 90-day outcome after acute large cerebral artery occlusion. To date limited information regarding outcome-modifying factors in patients with acute intracranial large artery occlusion (ILAO) in the anterior circulation is available. Leukoaraiosis (LA) is a common finding among patients with ischemic stroke and has been associated with poor post-stroke outcomes but its association with ILAO remains poorly characterized. This study sought to clarify the contribution of baseline LA and other common risk factors to 90-day outcome (modified Rankin Scale, mRS) after stroke due to acute anterior circulation ILAO. We retrospectively analyzed 1,153 consecutive patients with imaging-confirmed ischemic stroke during a 4-year period (2007-2010) at a single academic institution. The final study cohort included 87 patients with acute ILAO subjected to multimodal CT imaging within 24 h of symptom onset. LA severity was assessed using the van Swieten scale on non-contrast CT. Leptomeningeal collaterals were graded using CT angiogram source images. Hemorrhagic transformation (HT) was determined on follow-up CT. Multivariate logistic regression controlling for HT, treatment modality, demographic, as well as baseline clinical and imaging characteristics was used to identify independent predictors of a poor outcome (90-day mRS >2). The median National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) at baseline was 15 (interquartile range 9-21). Twenty-four percent of the studied patients had severe LA. They were more likely to have hypertension (p = 0.028), coronary artery disease (p = 0.015), poor collaterals (p < 0.001), higher baseline NIHSS (p = 0.003), higher mRS at 90 days (p < 0.001), and were older (p = 0.002). Patients with severe LA had a uniformly poor outcome (p < 0.001) irrespective of treatment modality. Poor outcome was independently associated with higher baseline NIHSS (p < 0.001), worse LA (graded and dichotomized, p < 0.001), reduced leptomeningeal collaterals (graded and dichotomized, p < 0.001), presence of HT (p < 0.001), presence of parenchymal hemorrhages (p = 0.01), baseline mRS (p = 0.002), and older age (p = 0.043). The association between severe LA (p = 0.0056; OR 13.86; 95% CI 1.94-\u221e) and baseline NIHSS (p = 0.0001; OR 5.11; 95% CI 2.07-14.49 for each 10-point increase) with poor outcome maintained after adjustment for confounders in the final regression model. In this model, there was no significant association between presence of HT and poor outcome (p = 0.0572). Coexisting LA may predict poor functional outcome in patients with acute anterior circulation ILAO independent of other known important outcome predictors such as comorbid state, admission functional deficit, collateral status, hemorrhagic conversion, and treatment modality."}
{"id": "22538076", "title": "Hemorrhage/contrast staining areas after mechanical intra-arterial thrombectomy in acute ischemic stroke: imaging findings and clinical significance.", "content": "Hemorrhage/contrast staining areas after mechanical intra-arterial thrombectomy in acute ischemic stroke: imaging findings and clinical significance. The aim of this study was to report the CT evolution and clinical significance of HCA after intra-arterial mechanical thrombectomy (revascularization by using retrievers and/or other mechanical devices without concomitant delivery of intra-arterial thrombolytics) in our patients. These lesions are common after intra-arterial thrombolysis, being considered a negative prognostic sign. Their significance after pure mechanical thrombectomy remains unknown. Forty-eight patients were treated with mechanical thrombectomy by using retrievable stents between April 2010 and February 2011. All patients underwent initial (first 24 hours) and follow-up (48-72 hours) nonenhanced CT. We retrospectively analyzed the clinical and radiologic data of the patients with HCA and compared them with controls. Fifteen of 48 patients presented with HCA. The site of occlusion was the MCA in 7 patients, both the extra- and intracranial segments of the ICA in 6, and the intracranial ICA in 2. In 7 patients, previous intravenous thrombolysis was administered. Complete recanalization (TICI 3) was achieved in 12 patients, and incomplete recanalization (TICI 2b), in 3. The location of HCA was the subarachnoid space in 6 patients, the brain parenchyma in 4 patients, and both in 5 patients. The HCA were asymptomatic in all patients. There was no statistical difference in final NIHSS score reduction (NIHSS pretreatment-NIHSS at discharge) between patients and controls. In our series, HCA are common after mechanical thrombectomy but do not carry an increased risk of symptomatic hemorrhage or negative prognosis. These data might be related to the high rate of recanalization and the absence of intra-arterial thrombolytics."}
{"id": "22538071", "title": "Decreased frontal lobe gray matter perfusion in cognitively impaired patients with secondary-progressive multiple sclerosis detected by the bookend technique.", "content": "Decreased frontal lobe gray matter perfusion in cognitively impaired patients with secondary-progressive multiple sclerosis detected by the bookend technique. There is increasing evidence implicating microvascular impairment in MS pathogenesis. Perfusion imaging offers a unique opportunity to investigate the functional impact of GM pathology. We sought to quantify differences in MR imaging-based bookend-derived cerebral perfusion between cognitively impaired and nonimpaired patients with SPMS. Patients were prospectively recruited and assessed using MR imaging and the standard cognitive battery called the Minimal Assessment of Cognitive Function in MS. Patients exhibiting impairment on \u2265 2 individual tests were classified as cognitively impaired. Healthy controls were prospectively recruited and assessed using MR imaging to validate bookend assumptions. Structural and perfusion scans were coregistered and partitioned into anatomic brain regions and tissue compartments. Clinical and radiologic characteristics were compared between patients with and without impairment to identify potential confounders. A Bonferroni adjusted P value threshold (P < .005) was used for lobar and sublobar level analyses to correct for multiple comparisons. Thirty-seven patients with SPMS (age 56 \u00b1 9 years; 23 women, 14 men) and 10 age- and sex-matched healthy controls were recruited. Bookend assumptions were found to be valid in MS. GM and WM qCBV were all globally reduced in impaired patients. After adjusting for potential confounders while examining sublobar level perfusion, only GM qCBV was significantly different between cognitive groups, and this hypoperfusion localized to the bilateral medial superior frontal regions and left inferior, middle, and superior frontal regions (P < .005) of impaired patients compared with nonimpaired patients. GM qCBV accounted for 22.5% of the model variance compared with a model including only confounders (P = .0007). Bookend-derived GM qCBV was significantly reduced in cognitively impaired patients with SPMS in functionally relevant brain regions."}
{"id": "22499844", "title": "Hemodynamic changes in patients with arteriovenous malformations assessed using high-resolution 3D radial phase-contrast MR angiography.", "content": "Hemodynamic changes in patients with arteriovenous malformations assessed using high-resolution 3D radial phase-contrast MR angiography. Arteriovenous malformations have a high lifetime risk of hemorrhage; however, treatment carries a significant risk of morbidity and mortality, including permanent neurologic sequelae. WSS and other hemodynamic parameters are altered in patients with symptomatic AVMs, and analysis of hemodynamics may have value in stratifying patients into different risk groups. In this study, we examined hemodynamic data from patients with stable symptoms and those who presented with acute symptoms to identify trends which may help in risk stratification. Phase-contrast MRA using a radial readout (PC-VIPR) is a fast, high-resolution technique that can acquire whole-brain velocity-encoded angiograms with scan times of approximately 5 minutes. Ten patients with AVMs were scanned using PC-VIPR; velocity, area, flow, and WSS in vessels feeding the AVMs and normal contralateral vessels were calculated using velocity data from the phase-contrast acquisition. Patients with an asymptomatic presentation or mild symptoms (n = 4) had no significant difference in WSS in feeding vessels compared with normal contralateral vessels, whereas patients presenting with hemorrhage, severe headaches/seizures, or focal neurologic deficits (n = 6) had significantly higher WSS in feeding vessels compared with contralateral vessels. In this study, we demonstrate that estimates of WSS and other hemodynamic parameters can be obtained noninvasively in patients with AVMs in clinically useful imaging times. Variation in WSS between feeders and normal vessels appears to relate to the clinical presentation of the patient. Further analysis of hemodynamic changes may improve characterization and staging of AVM patients, when combined with existing risk factors."}
{"id": "22499841", "title": "Computerized occlusion rating: a superior predictor of aneurysm rebleeding for ruptured embolized aneurysms.", "content": "Computerized occlusion rating: a superior predictor of aneurysm rebleeding for ruptured embolized aneurysms. The initial angiographic occlusion rate is the strongest predictor of later rebleeding in previously ruptured coil-embolized cerebral aneurysms. Angiographic estimations of aneurysmal occlusion rates are, however, subjective in nature and confounded by methodologic problems. COR has been developed, and its superiority has been experimentally established to overcome subjective bias. The purpose of this study was to assess the clinical value of COR as a more objective predictor of aneurysm rebleeding when compared with SOR as described in the Raymond Classification. We applied COR in a consecutive series of 249 patients. Two DSA projections were selected independently by 2 blinded investigators. In cases of disagreement on the selected projections, a consensus decision was obtained. SOR were determined by 2 independent observers according to the Raymond classification. COR was measured by 2 blinded investigators. Interobserver variations were determined for SOR and COR. COR results were compared with SOR results and stratified as 100%, 99.9%-90%, 89.9%-70%, and <70% occlusion. SOR and COR were evaluated as predictors for aneurysm rebleeding. Seven aneurysms rebled (2.8%; follow-up, 59 \u00b1 35 months). In 20.9% of all cases, DSA selection was performed by consensus evaluations. Interobserver variations were statistically significant for SOR (P = .0030) but not for COR (P = .3517). Compared with COR, SOR overestimated the degree of aneurysmal occlusion in 81.9% of all cases. Only COR predicted rebleeding (P = .0162). Unacceptable interobserver variations were shown for the standard SOR estimations. COR substantially reduced the impact of subjective bias. COR may, therefore, serve as an easily applicable more objective predictor of aneurysm rerupture. The remaining bias of COR, caused by 2D image analysis, may be overcome by use of direct 3D measurements."}
{"id": "22499839", "title": "Monitoring peri-therapeutic cerebral circulation time: a feasibility study using color-coded quantitative DSA in patients with steno-occlusive arterial disease.", "content": "Monitoring peri-therapeutic cerebral circulation time: a feasibility study using color-coded quantitative DSA in patients with steno-occlusive arterial disease. Intracranial hemodynamics are important for management of SOAD. This study aimed to monitor peri-stent placement intracranial CirT of patients with SOAD. Twenty-five patients received stent placement for extracranial ICA stenosis, and 34 patients with normal CirT were recruited as controls. Their color-coded DSAs were used to define the Tmax of selected intravascular ROI. A total of 20 ROIs of the ICA, OphA, ACA, MCA, FV, PV, OV, SSS, SS, IJV, and MCV were selected. rTmax was defined as the Tmax at the selected region of interest minus Tmax at the cervical segment of the ICA (I1 on AP view and IA on lateral view). rTmax of the PV was defined as intracranial CirT. Intergroup and intragroup longitudinal comparisons of rTmax were performed. rTmax values of the normal cohorts were as follows: ICA-AP, 0.12; ICA-LAT, 0.10; A1, 0.28; A2, 0.53; A3, 0.81; M1, 0.40; M2, 0.80; M3, 0.95; OphA, 0.35; FV, 4.83; PV, 5.11; OV, 5.17; SSS, 6.16; SS, 6.51; IJV, 6.81; and MCV, 3.86 seconds. Before stent placement, the rTmax values of arterial ROIs, except A3 and M3, were prolonged compared with values from control subjects (P < .05). None of the rTmax of any venous ROIs in the stenotic group was prolonged with significance. After stent placement, the rTmax of all arterial ROIs shortened significantly, except A1and M3. Poststenting rTmax was not different from the control group. Without extra contrast medium and radiation dosages, color-coded quantitative DSA enables real-time monitoring of peri-therapeutic intracranial CirT in patients with SOAD ."}
{"id": "22495769", "title": "Carotid magnetization-prepared rapid acquisition with gradient-echo signal is associated with acute territorial cerebral ischemic events detected by diffusion-weighted MRI.", "content": "Carotid magnetization-prepared rapid acquisition with gradient-echo signal is associated with acute territorial cerebral ischemic events detected by diffusion-weighted MRI. Carotid intraplaque hemorrhage has been associated with symptomatic stroke and can be accurately detected with magnetization-prepared rapid acquisition with gradient-echo (MPRAGE). Currently, there are no studies analyzing carotid MPRAGE signal and territorial ischemic events defined by diffusion restriction in the acute setting. Our aim was to determine the association of carotid MPRAGE signal with acute territorial ischemic events using carotid MPRAGE and brain diffusion tensor imaging. After the addition of the MPRAGE sequence to the neck MR angiographic protocol, 159 patients with suspected acute stroke were evaluated with both brain diffusion tensor imaging and carotid MPRAGE sequences over 2 years, providing 318 carotid artery and paired brain images for analysis. Forty-eight arteries were excluded due to extracarotid sources of brain ischemia and 4 were excluded due to carotid occlusion. Two hundred sixty-six arteries were eligible for data analysis. Carotid MPRAGE-positive signal was associated with an acute cerebral territorial ischemic event with a relative risk of 6.4 (P<0.001). The relative risk of a diffusion tensor imaging-positive territorial ischemic event with carotid MPRAGE-positive signal was increased in mild, moderate, and severe stenosis categories (10.3, P<0.001; 2.9, P=0.01; and 2.2, P=0.01, respectively). In the workup of acute stroke, carotid MPRAGE-positive signal was associated with an increased risk of territorial cerebral ischemic events as detected objectively by brain diffusion tensor imaging. The relative risk of stroke was increased in all carotid stenosis categories but was most elevated in the mild stenosis category."}
{"id": "22483970", "title": "Prediction of flow augmentation and complications of extracranial-intracranial bypass in symptomatic cerebrovascular diseases.", "content": "Prediction of flow augmentation and complications of extracranial-intracranial bypass in symptomatic cerebrovascular diseases. Augmentation of the cerebral blood supply to correct cerebral hemodynamic insufficiency by extracranial-intracranial bypass may be an appropriate method to reduce the risk of ischemic stroke. Eighty-five patients with ischemic symptoms, decreased regional cerebral blood flow, and decreased regional cerebrovascular reactivity were recruited for surgery. The post-bypass mean regional blood flow increased by 35.8% compared to the pre-bypass value (p<0.001). Only minor re-establishment of vasculature after anastomosis was detected in three of four patients with middle cerebral artery stenosis, which suggests that there are fewer benefits of bypass surgery in this situation. Cerebral infarction occurred immediately post-operation in one patient who was predisposed to stroke due to a bilateral carotid occlusion. Hyperperfusion injury was infrequent in this series; only one patient developed intracerebral hemorrhage three weeks after the bypass. One ischemic and one hemorrhagic stroke occurred during the 90 months following surgery."}
{"id": "22481194", "title": "[Neuroradiological pattern of peripartum cerebro vascular disease medicating transfer to determine care unit].", "content": "[Neuroradiological pattern of peripartum cerebro vascular disease medicating transfer to determine care unit]. Pregnancy and puerperium are considered a period of a high risk of stroke responsible in a part of the morbidity and mortality in women. Imaging is the pivotal tool to diagnostics and care. To investigate the clinical and imaging features cerebrovascular complications during pregnancy and in post partum period. We report a retrospective analysis of forty four patients (November 2002 - October 2010) admitted in the intensive car department of the national institute of neurology for cerebro-vascular complications during pregnancy and in post partum period. Cerebro-vascular imaging modalities included cerebral computed tomography (CCT) with and without contrast in 94% of cases, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in 30.6% of cases completed by venous angiography MRI in 27.2% of cases and angiography MRI of Willis polygon in 11.3% of cases and by cerebral angiography in 13.6% of cases. Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) is diagnosed in 61.4 % of cases followed by meningo-cerebral haemorrhage (MCH) in 29.5% and finally cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) and arterial ischemia in 4.5% of cases each one. The cerebro-vascular complications are revelled in 86.3 % of the cases during the postpartum and were associated with the eclampsia or preeclampsia in 90.9 % of the cases (n=40). CCT showed typical lesions of PRES in 23 patients. It confirms the presence of hematoma in the 13 patients with MCH and find hypodense lesion in one case with ischemic stroke. CCT show direct (delta sign) and indirect signs of CVT. MRI confirms the diagnostic of PRES, when done (11 of 12 cases) and show cortical sub cortical hyper signal on T2 and FLAIR and hypo signal on T1 sequences. MRI was normal in one case. It shows hemorrhagic lesion in the 2 cases of MCH, thrombosis in the cases of CVT and ischemic lesion in the cases of ischemic stroke. CCT and MRI done within 48 hours from admission were decisive for early diagnostic and for fast and adequate care. Early recognition of stroke in peri partum by cerebral imaging is of paramount importance for prompt diagnosis and treatment to improve maternal morbidity and mortality."}
{"id": "22480937", "title": "Aortic coarctation misdiagnosed as a descending thoracic aorta aneurysm.", "content": "Aortic coarctation misdiagnosed as a descending thoracic aorta aneurysm. Aortic coarctation (AC) represents -7% of congenital cardiac diseases and is usually diagnosed in childhood or early adult Life, depending on the severity of obstruction and associated malformations. Left untreated fewer than 20% of patients survive to age 50. We describe a case of thoracic AC, diagnosed at age 61, in a woman with known hypertension since age 45. At age 56 the patient was admitted with a subarachnoid hemorrhage and, during cerebral angiography, a thoracic aortic aneurysm was detected. Four years later the patient was referred to the outpatient hypertension clinic due to uncontrolled hypertension and cardiac failure. The echocardiogram disclosed left ventricular hypertrophy and aggressive treatment failed to control her hypertension. At age 61, due to lower limb muscular fatigue, arterial Doppler ultrasound was performed that revealed symmetrically decreased ankle/brachial pressure index, suggesting aortic stenosis. MRI angiography enabled a diagnosis of AC with a large poststenotic dilation which had been interpreted as an aortic aneurysm in successive CT scans. The authors highlight the unusually late clinical presentation and misdiagnosis despite extensive radiologic investigation. The subarachnoid hemorrhage was probably a disease manifestation, since berry aneurysms are among the noncardiac malformations associated with AC."}
{"id": "22467936", "title": "Challenging the diagnosis of primary angiitis of the central nervous system: a single-center retrospective study.", "content": "Challenging the diagnosis of primary angiitis of the central nervous system: a single-center retrospective study. (1) To describe a series of adults assessed for suspected primary angiitis of the central nervous system (PACNS) and their final diagnosis; (2) to describe and compare presenting features of PACNS and reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS); and (3) to evaluate the specificity of the presenting features of RCVS. Patients evaluated at our institution between 2000 and 2008 for a possible CNS vasculitis and investigated by conventional angiography and/or brain biopsy were retrospectively analyzed. The inclusion criteria were a clinicoradiological presentation and cerebral angiography and/or brain biopsy raising the hypothesis of isolated cerebral vasculitis; and absence of identifiable etiology at the time of conventional angiogram and/or brain biopsy. Among 58 cases evaluated, 37 met the inclusion criteria and 33 were included in the study. Thirteen patients had RCVS. Thunderclap headaches, the absence of a focal neurological deficit, a convexal subarachnoid hemorrhage and/or normal brain parenchyma on magnetic resonance imaging, and \"string of beads\" appearance on conventional angiography had high diagnostic value. Six patients had other noninflammatory vascular disorders (intracranial atherosclerosis, cryptogenic embolism, and genetic vasculopathy). Six patients had infection or malignancy. Eight patients were diagnosed with PACNS; their clinical presentation and disease course were heterogeneous. Brain biopsy was performed in 3 cases (positive in 1). RCVS is an important differential diagnosis of CNS vasculitis. Its particular presentation should allow rapid identification in order to avoid pointless investigations and treatment. The frequent lack of histological proof and heterogeneous presentation of PACNS illustrated the nosological uncertainties of this label."}
{"id": "22453044", "title": "[A case of reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) triggered by human placenta extract].", "content": "[A case of reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) triggered by human placenta extract]. We present a case of a female patient with reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) arising after receiving subcutaneous injection of human placenta extract. A 44-year-old woman started taking human placenta extract with the aim of improving her menopausal symptoms, fatigue, and beauty. However, 18 days after taking human placenta extract, she had three episodes of thunderclap headache. Repeated cranial CT did not show subarachnoid hemorrhage; CSF examination showed neither xanthochromia nor inflammation. Brain diffusion weighted and FLAIR images were normal. However, magnetic resonance angiography showed multifocal segmental stenosis of the right middle cerebral artery and bilateral anterior cerebral arteries. Follow-up angiography, which performed 12 days after the oncet of thunderclap headache, revealed almost normalized flow in all cerebral arteries; we made a diagnosis of RCVS. She has had no symptoms and signs since the third attack of headache. The only identified etiologic factor was subcutaneous injection of human placenta extract started 18 days prior to onset. This is the first report of RCVS triggered by human placenta extract."}
{"id": "22422190", "title": "Multimodal imaging of reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome: a series of 6 cases.", "content": "Multimodal imaging of reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome: a series of 6 cases. RCVS is a clinical condition of recurrent severe headaches that may be associated with ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke and that is defined by the presence of segmental vasoconstriction in multiple cerebral arteries. The angiographic appearance resembles vasculitis, except that the abnormalities resolve during the course of several months. Because the treatment of RCVS differs from that for vasculitis, radiologists must understand the clinical and radiologic features so as to better guide imaging algorithms and facilitate diagnosis. We present a series of 6 cases of RCVS that highlight the imaging features across multiple modalities."}
{"id": "22421254", "title": "Intracranial intradural chordoma presenting with intraventricular hemorrhage.", "content": "Intracranial intradural chordoma presenting with intraventricular hemorrhage."}
{"id": "22418862", "title": "Ictal focal hyperperfusion demonstrated by arterial spin-labeling perfusion MRI in partial epilepsy status.", "content": "Ictal focal hyperperfusion demonstrated by arterial spin-labeling perfusion MRI in partial epilepsy status."}
{"id": "22405630", "title": "Prediction of haematoma growth and outcome in patients with intracerebral haemorrhage using the CT-angiography spot sign (PREDICT): a prospective observational study.", "content": "Prediction of haematoma growth and outcome in patients with intracerebral haemorrhage using the CT-angiography spot sign (PREDICT): a prospective observational study. In patients with intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH), early haemorrhage expansion affects clinical outcome. Haemostatic treatment reduces haematoma expansion, but fails to improve clinical outcomes in many patients. Proper selection of patients at high risk for haematoma expansion seems crucial to improve outcomes. In this study, we aimed to prospectively validate the CT-angiography (CTA) spot sign for prediction of haematoma expansion. PREDICT (predicting haematoma growth and outcome in intracerebral haemorrhage using contrast bolus CT) was a multicentre prospective observational cohort study. We recruited patients aged 18 years or older, with ICH smaller than 100 mL, and presenting at less than 6 h from symptom onset. Using two independent core laboratories, one neuroradiologist determined CTA spot-sign status, whereas another neurologist masked for clinical outcomes and imaging measured haematoma volumes by computerised planimetry. The primary outcome was haematoma expansion defined as absolute growth greater than 6 mL or a relative growth of more than 33% from initial CT to follow-up CT. We reported data using standard descriptive statistics stratified by the CTA spot sign. Mortality was assessed with Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. We enrolled 268 patients. Median time from symptom onset to baseline CT was 135 min (range 22-470), and time from onset to CTA was 159 min (32-475). 81 (30%) patients were spot-sign positive. The primary analysis included 228 patients, who had a follow-up CT before surgery or death. Median baseline ICH volume was 19\u00b79 mL (1\u00b75-80\u00b79) in spot-sign-positive patients versus 10\u00b70 mL (0\u00b71-102\u00b77) in spot-sign negative patients (p<0\u00b7001). Median ICH expansion was 8\u00b76 mL (-9\u00b73 to 121\u00b77) for spot-sign positive patients and 0\u00b74 mL (-11\u00b77 to 98\u00b73) for spot-negative patients (p<0\u00b7001). In those with haematoma expansion, the positive predictive value for the spot sign was61% (95% CI 47\u201373) for the positive predictive value and 78% (71\u201384) for the negative predictive value, with 51% (39\u201363) sensitivity and 85% (78\u201390) specificity[corrected]. Median 3-month modified Rankin Scale (mRS) was 5 in CTA spot-sign-positive patients, and 3 in spot-sign-negative patients (p<0\u00b7001). Mortality at 3 months was 43\u00b74% (23 of 53) in CTA spot-sign positive versus 19\u00b76% (31 of 158) in CTA spot-sign-negative patients (HR 2\u00b74, 95% CI 1\u00b74-4\u00b70, p=0\u00b7002). These findings confirm previous single-centre studies showing that the CTA spot sign is a predictor of haematoma expansion. The spot sign is recommended as an entry criterion for future trials of haemostatic therapy in patients with acute ICH. Canadian Stroke Consortium and NovoNordisk Canada."}
{"id": "22402860", "title": "Branch occlusive disease: clinical and magnetic resonance angiography findings.", "content": "Branch occlusive disease: clinical and magnetic resonance angiography findings. We evaluated the clinicoradiologic characteristics of patients with branch occlusive disease (BOD)-type intracranial atherosclerotic stroke (ICAS) compared with those of patients with non-BOD-type ICAS or with small artery disease (SAD). We analyzed 201 consecutive patients with acute infarcts within the middle cerebral artery (MCA) distribution but no demonstrable carotid or cardiac embolism sources. According to the diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) distribution and the presence of ipsilateral MCA stenosis, of any degree, on magnetic resonance angiography (3-T MRI), we divided patients into 3 groups: 1) BOD: subcortical infarcts with MCA stenosis (n = 46); 2) non-BOD: infarcts beyond the subcortical area with MCA stenosis (n = 52); and 3) SAD (n = 103). We compared risk factors, degree of stenoses and distribution, and radiologic features of microangiopathy (leukoaraiosis and cerebral microbleeds) among the groups. Risk factor profiles were similar among the groups, except that hypertension and current smoking were more prevalent in the non-BOD than in the BOD group (p = 0.032 and 0.045). The relevant MCA had more severe and focal stenosis in the non-BOD than in the BOD group (stenosis of \u226570%; 76.9% vs 28.3%; p < 0.001), but the degree of nonrelevant stenosis was similar across the groups. Although clinical features, DWI lesion patterns, and microangiopathy findings were similar between the BOD and SAD groups, nonrelevant stenosis was more prevalent in the BOD than in the SAD group (p < 0.01). BOD is prevalent (47% of ICAS) and shares common characteristics with non-BOD-type ICAS, although its clinicoradiologic features may resemble those of SAD. The morphologic characteristics of stenosis and risk factors may associate with a stroke phenotype in patients with ICAS."}
{"id": "22393160", "title": "Evaluation of middle cerebral artery stents using multidetector row CT angiography in vivo study: comparison of the three different kernels.", "content": "Evaluation of middle cerebral artery stents using multidetector row CT angiography in vivo study: comparison of the three different kernels. There are very few reports assessing middle cerebral artery (MCA) stents using multidetector computed tomography (MDCT). To assess MCA stents using multidetector CT angiography (CTA) in vivo evaluation: the differences in the CTA results according to the three different kernels. We retrospectively evaluated 27 MCA stents from 26 patients who underwent CTA with 16- and 64-slice MDCT after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting (PTAS). By CTA, using medium-smooth kernel (B30), medium-sharp kernel (B50), and sharp kernel (B60), the lumen diameter, artificial luminal narrowing (ALN), and subjective visibility score of the stented vessels were evaluated. The subjective visibility score ranged from 1 (poor quality) to 5 (excellent) using a five-point scale. There were excellent inter-observer agreements for the lumen diameter measurements (P < 0.001). The mean diameter of the stented vessels was 2.10 \u00b1 0.31 mm on digital subtraction angiography (DSA), 0.93 \u00b1 0.20 mm on CTA using B30, 1.18 \u00b1 0.27 mm on CTA using B50, and 1.29 \u00b1 0.29 mm on CTA using B60. The mean ALN was 55.7 \u00b1 6.0% on CTA using B30, 43.8 \u00b1 7.5% on CTA using B50, and 38.7 \u00b1 8.3% on CTA using B60. CTA with higher kernels had a smaller ALN than images with smaller kernels. The median subjective visibility score on the CTA using B50 was 3, which was higher than for the other kernels. The differences in the lumen diameter, ALN, and the subjective visibility score of the stented vessels on CTA using the three different kernels was statistically significant (P < 0.001). The sharp kernel was better to assess the lumen diameter and ALN, but was inferior to the medium-sharp kernel for in-stent evaluation due to high image-to-noise. CTA with medium-sharp kernel showed good lumen visibility and acceptable ALN for MCA stents. This could therefore be a non-invasive, readily applicable clinical method for assessing MCA stent patency after stent placement."}
{"id": "22386063", "title": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome associated with brain parenchymal hemorrhage.", "content": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome associated with brain parenchymal hemorrhage. We described a 7-year-old girl with reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome associated with brain parenchymal hemorrhage. She initially presented with high fever and pancytopenia, leading to a diagnosis of most severe type aplastic anemia. We treated her with cyclosporine, methylprednisolone and anti-thymocyte globulin. Thereafter she recurrently complained of a very severe headache called as thunderclap, and finally exhibited loss of consciousness. Brain imaging revealed massive parenchymal hemorrhage between the left occipital and parietal lobes on computed tomography, and diffuse cerebral vasoconstriction on magnetic resonance angiography. The cerebral vasoconstriction resolved within two months, and thus we diagnosed her as having reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome associated with brain parenchymal hemorrhage. This syndrome has been frequently reported in adult females, but rarely in children. However, even in children, a so called thunderclap headache may become a clue for the diagnosis of reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome, especially in cases taking immunosuppressive agents. Immediate magnetic resonance angiography is essential to diagnose this syndrome, and a prompt application of calcium channel inhibitors should be considered to resolve constriction of the vessels and to prevent subsequent brain damage."}
{"id": "22385002", "title": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage in a case of segmental arterial mediolysis with coexisting intracranial and intraabdominal aneurysms.", "content": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage in a case of segmental arterial mediolysis with coexisting intracranial and intraabdominal aneurysms. The authors report the rare case of a 58-year-old man with segmental arterial mediolysis (SAM) with associated intracranial and intraabdominal aneurysms, who suffered subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) due to rupture of an intracranial aneurysm. This disease primarily involves the intraabdominal arterial system, resulting in intraabdominal and retroperitoneal hemorrhage in most cases. The patient presented with severe headache and vomiting. The CT scans of the head revealed SAH. Cerebral angiography revealed 3 aneurysms: 1 in the right distal anterior cerebral artery (ACA), 1 in the distal portion of the A(1) segment of the right ACA, and 1 in the left vertebral artery. The patient had a history of multiple intraabdominal aneurysms involving the splenic, gastroepiploic, gastroduodenal, and bilateral renal arteries. He underwent a right frontotemporal craniotomy and fibrin coating of the dissecting aneurysm in the distal portion of the A(1) segment of the right ACA, which was the cause of the hemorrhage. Follow-up revealed no significant changes in the residual intracranial and intraabdominal aneurysms. An SAH due to SAM with associated multiple intraabdominal aneurysms is extremely rare. The authors describe their particular case and review the literature pertaining to SAM with associated intracranial and intraabdominal aneurysms."}
{"id": "22377893", "title": "Venous ischemic syndromes.", "content": "Venous ischemic syndromes. Venous ischemic syndromes represent a rare type of cerebrovascular disease that more commonly affects young women. Because of the remarkable variability of clinical presentations and neuroimaging signs, these syndromes represent an important clinical challenge. The most common clinical presentations include headache, seizures, focal neurological deficits, altered consciousness, and papilledema, which can present in isolation or in association with other symptoms. According to the grouping of symptoms and signs, four main patterns have been identified: isolated intracranial hypertension, focal syndrome, cavernous sinus syndrome, and subacute encephalopathy. CT scan is commonly performed as the first-line diagnostic test, in most cases showing indirect signs such as cerebral edema, ischemic or hemorrhagic lesions, or signs of venous stasis. The most accurate diagnostic techniques to objectively confirm the diagnosis include magnetic resonance angiography and computed tomography angiography. Clinical presentations and neuroimaging signs are important predictors of outcome following venous ischemic syndromes. Coma, epileptic seizures and intracranial hemorrhage were shown, among others, to be independent predictors of poor outcome."}
{"id": "22377883", "title": "Lobar hemorrhages.", "content": "Lobar hemorrhages. The lobar localization of a spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage occurs in one third of all cases; the most frequent cause is represented by amyloid angiopathy. The clinical symptomatology depends on the dimensions of the hematic collection and of the lobe. The diagnosis is made by CT, but also MRI must performed in order to exclude any vascular malformation or neoplasms, and in young patients a cerebral angiography must be done in order to exclude small arteriovenous or dural malformations."}
{"id": "22367453", "title": "Diagnostic pitfalls in interpreting cranial CT following cardiac angiography.", "content": "Diagnostic pitfalls in interpreting cranial CT following cardiac angiography."}
{"id": "22343271", "title": "Stab wound with lodged knife tip causing spinal cord and vertebral artery injuries: case report and literature review.", "content": "Stab wound with lodged knife tip causing spinal cord and vertebral artery injuries: case report and literature review. Case report and literature review. To report the case of a young patient who sustained a penetrating wound with a knife tip retained in his cervical vertebrae and to review the literature. Stab wound with foreign body retained, associated with spinal cord injury and vertebral artery injury, is not commonly reported. The timing and approach of surgical intervention are still controversial. A 17-year-old boy with a wound in the neck presented with diminishing feeling and dysfunction of the left leg and arm. Radiographs demonstrated a foreign body at the C4 level, and possible spinal cord and vertebral artery injuries were detected by computed tomography. Digital subtracted angiography showed a small lateral opening of the injured artery, which was successfully embolized. The knife tip was removed from the original wound without severe cerebrospinal fluid leakage or bleeding, The patient achieved immediate improvement after the operation. Cases of simultaneous spinal cord injury and vertebral artery injury in which the foreign body is retained are uncommonly reported. Digital subtracted angiography is necessary for cervical penetrating wounds and surgical approach should be individualized."}
{"id": "22341667", "title": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome 3 months after blood transfusion.", "content": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome 3 months after blood transfusion. Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome is characterized by the prolonged but reversible constriction of cerebral arteries accompanied by a sudden onset of severe headache, and is sometimes complicated by subarachnoid hemorrhage or cerebral infarction. It is associated with various clinical conditions and treatments, although the precise pathophysiology is not understood. In particular, several cases of this syndrome have been described to occur in middle-aged women within 1 week of a blood transfusion. We encountered a patient with a reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome who became symptomatic 3 months after a blood transfusion. No other cause for the syndrome was found. This case suggests that the risk for the reversible cerebral vasoconstriction may persist for months after blood transfusion."}
{"id": "22334638", "title": "Respective effects of early cerebral and abdominal magnetic resonance imaging on clinical decisions in infective endocarditis.", "content": "Respective effects of early cerebral and abdominal magnetic resonance imaging on clinical decisions in infective endocarditis. Extracardiac complications of endocarditis influence diagnosis, therapeutic plans, and prognosis. The aim of this study was to assess how early combined cerebral and abdominal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) affects the diagnosis and management of adults with endocarditis. In a single-centre prospective study, 58 patients with endocarditis underwent systematic cerebral and abdominal MRI within 7 days following admission. Diagnostic classification (Duke's modified criteria) and therapeutic plans were established by two experts just before and after MRI and then compared. Endocarditis was initially classified as definite in 29 patients, possible in 27, and excluded in 2. MRI detected cerebral lesions in 47 patients (81%) (ischaemic lesions in 25, microbleeds in 32, and silent aneurysms in 6), and abdominal lesions in 20 patients (34%). Based solely on MRI results without taking microbleeds into account, experts upgraded endocarditis diagnostic classification in 8 out of 29 (28%) non-definite endocarditis cases either to definite in 6 or to possible in 2. This upgrading was exclusively due to cerebral MRI in four patients and to cerebral and/or abdominal MRI in four patients. Experts modified endocarditis therapeutic plans in 11 (19%) out of the 58 patients, based solely on cerebral MRI, including modification of surgical plans in six (10%) patients. Overall, early MRI led experts to modify classification and/or therapeutic plans in 16 (28%) patients. MRI identified cerebral and/or abdominal asymptomatic lesions in many patients with endocarditis, but more frequently cerebral. Both cerebral and abdominal MRI findings affected diagnosis, but only cerebral MRI affected clinical management plans. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV IDENTIFICATION NUMBER: NCT 00144885. IRB AUTHORIZATION NUMBER: 0511114 (Comit\u00e9 Protection des Personnes Paris-Ile de France 1)."}
{"id": "22332063", "title": "Timing-invariant reconstruction for deriving high-quality CT angiographic data from cerebral CT perfusion data.", "content": "Timing-invariant reconstruction for deriving high-quality CT angiographic data from cerebral CT perfusion data. To suggest a simple and robust technique used to reconstruct high-quality computed tomographic (CT) angiographic images from CT perfusion data and to compare it with currently used CT angiography techniques. Institutional review board approval was waived for this retrospective study, which included 25 consecutive patients who had had a stroke. Temporal maximum intensity projection (tMIP) CT angiographic images were created by using prior temporal filtering as a timing-insensitive technique to produce CT angiographic images from CT perfusion data. The temporal filter strength was optimized to gain maximal contrast-to-noise ratios (CNRs) in the circle of Willis. The resulting timing-invariant (TI) CT angiography was compared with standard helical CT angiography, the arterial phase of dynamic CT angiography, and nonfiltered tMIP CT angiography. Vascular contrast, image noise, and CNR were measured. Four experienced observers scored all images for vascular noise, vascular contour, detail of small and medium arteries, venous superimposition, and overall image quality in a blinded side-by-side comparison. Measurements were compared with a paired t test; P \u2264 .05 indicated a significant difference. On average, optimized temporal filtering in TI CT angiography increased CNR by 18% and decreased image noise by 18% at the expense of a decrease in vascular contrast of 3% when compared with nonfiltered tMIP CT angiography. CNR, image noise, vascular noise, vascular contour, detail visibility of small and medium arteries, and overall image quality of TI CT angiograms were superior to those of standard CT angiography, tMIP CT angiography, and the arterial phase of dynamic CT angiography at a vascular contrast that was similar to that of standard CT angiography. Venous superimposition was similar for all techniques. Image quality of the arterial phase of dynamic CT angiography was rated inferior to that of standard CT angiography. TI CT angiographic images constructed by using temporally filtered tMIP CT angiographic data have excellent image quality that is superior to that achieved with currently used techniques, but they suffer from modest venous superimposition."}
{"id": "22321368", "title": "Computed tomographic angiography for patients with acute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Computed tomographic angiography for patients with acute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. With the advanced technology of multi-slice CT scans, we explored the effectiveness of CT angiography (CTA) in place of digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in patients with acute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). We performed a computerized PubMed search of the literature from inception to 27 July 2011 to find reports of similar comparative studies and performed a meta-analysis of diagnostic accuracy. The pooled sensitivity was 97.0% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 93.2-99.1%), specificity was 98.9% (95% CI: 97.0-99.7%), accuracy was 98.2% (95% CI: 96.6-99.2%), positive predictive value was 97.8% (95% CI: 94.2-99.5%) and negative predictive value was 98.5% (95% CI: 96.6-99.5%). The false negative rate was 1% (95% CI: 0.4-2.6%). We concluded that CTA with venography could replace DSA as the initial vascular investigation in patients presenting with spontaneous ICH during the acute phase. Future studies should focus on whether refinement of the techniques could preclude the false negative results."}
{"id": "22318312", "title": "Prediction of thrombus resolution after intravenous thrombolysis assessed by CT-based thrombus imaging.", "content": "Prediction of thrombus resolution after intravenous thrombolysis assessed by CT-based thrombus imaging. The degree of thrombus resolution directly indicates the effectiveness of a thrombolytic drug. We investigated the degree of thrombus resolution and factors associated with thrombus resolution after intravenous (IV) recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) using thin-section noncontrast computed tomography (NCT). Thin-section NCTs were performed before and immediately after IV rt-PA infusion in acute stroke patients. The thrombus volume and Hounsfield unit were measured using three-dimensional imaging software. Immediate recanalisation was assessed immediately after IV rt-PA infusion using CT angiography. During a three-year study period, 130 patients were prospectively enrolled. On baseline thin-section NCT, no thrombi were found in 30 patients (23%). Among the 100 patients with confirmed thrombus, the median volume decreased by 20% on the follow-up NCT. The thrombus was completely resolved in 8%. Of note, an increase in thrombus volume was observed in 20 patients. Independent predictors of thrombus resolution were total rt-PA dose, thrombus location in the M2 segment of the middle cerebral artery, and time from baseline to follow-up NCT. Thrombus resolution increased by 9% per each 10-mg increase in rt-PA (p = 0.045). Immediate complete recanalisation was achieved in 12% of patients. Total dose of rt-PA was independently associated with complete recanalisation [odds ratio [OR] 4.52, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.345-15.184) and good functional outcome at three months (modified Rankin scale score <3, OR 2.34, 95% CI 1.104-4.962). In conclusion, rt-PA dose was associated with the degree of thrombus resolution, immediate complete recanalisation, and good outcome at three months. CT-based thrombus imaging may be helpful in determining thrombolysis effectiveness."}
{"id": "22311115", "title": "Quantitative magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Quantitative magnetic resonance angiography."}
{"id": "22303927", "title": "Usefulness of CT angiography for therapeutic decision making in thrombolyzing intubated patients with suspected basilar artery thrombosis.", "content": "Usefulness of CT angiography for therapeutic decision making in thrombolyzing intubated patients with suspected basilar artery thrombosis. Acute ischemic stroke (AIS) due to basilar artery thrombosis (BAT) causes high mortality and severe disability. Early neurological assessment and timely thrombolysis might improve outcome. BAT is difficult to diagnose due to wide spectrum of presentation and decreased conscious level. Emergency physicians often intubate BAT patients with airway compromise before arrival of stroke neurologist. We evaluated role of computerized tomography (CT) angiography (CTA) of brain and cervical arteries in early diagnosis of acute BAT in intubated patients and facilitating decision for thrombolysis. Consecutive AIS patients presenting between 2007 and 2009 within 6 hours of symptom onset, with sudden deterioration in conscious level and intubation before assessment by neurologist, were included. All patients underwent brain CT and CTA. Outcomes were assessed at 3 months. Thrombolytic therapy, mainly intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (IV-TPA), was administered to 161 (8.4%) of 1,917 AIS patients during the study period. Acute BAT contributed 10.9% of our cohort. CTA was performed in 152 (94.4%) patients and the rest were excluded due to their impaired renal functions. Five patients (3 males, mean age 72 years) presenting with acute obtundation and airway compromise were intubated, sedated, and paralyzed before assessment by neurologist. CTA showed BAT in all. IV-TPA was initiated at 213 \u00b1 59 minutes in 4 patients while 1 received intraarterial thrombolysis at 13 hours. There was no intracranial hemorrhage. Mean length of hospital stay was 11.8 days. Despite severe stroke at presentation, good functional recovery at 3 months (modified Rankin scale [mRS] 1) occurred in 2 patients; mRS 4 in 1, and 2 died. In patients with BAT, intubated before assessment by neurologist, CTA might help in confirming the diagnosis and facilitating therapeutic decision making for initiating thrombolysis."}
{"id": "22302557", "title": "Blood oxygen level dependent angiography (BOLDangio) and its potential applications in cancer research.", "content": "Blood oxygen level dependent angiography (BOLDangio) and its potential applications in cancer research. Clinically, development of anti-angiogenic drugs for cancer therapy is pivotal. Longitudinal monitoring of tumour angiogenesis can help clinicians determine the effectiveness of anti-angiogenic therapy. Blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) effect has been widely used for functional imaging and tumour oxygenation assessment. In this study, the BOLD effect is investigated under different levels of oxygen inhalation for the development of a novel angiographic MRI technique, blood oxygen level dependent angiography (BOLDangio). Under short-term (<10 min) generalized hypoxia induced by inhalation of 8% oxygen, we measure BOLD contrast as high as 25% from vessels at 9.4T using a simple gradient echo (GRE) pulse sequence. This produces high-resolution 2D and 3D maps of normal and tumour brain vasculature in less than 10 minutes. Additionally, this technique reliably detects metastatic tumours and tumour-induced intracranial hemorrhage. BOLDangio provides a sensitive research tool for MRI of vasculature under normal and pathological conditions. Thus, it may be applied as a simple monitoring technique for measuring the effectiveness of anti-angiogenic drugs in a preclinical environment."}
{"id": "22297913", "title": "[An unusual case of bridge vein thrombosis with subsequent dural arteriovenous fistula as a sequela of sinus rectus thrombosis - a rare association].", "content": "[An unusual case of bridge vein thrombosis with subsequent dural arteriovenous fistula as a sequela of sinus rectus thrombosis - a rare association]."}
{"id": "22285527", "title": "A pediatric case of reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome with cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "A pediatric case of reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome with cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage. Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) is a rare disorder characterized by acute onset, severe headache, with reversible vasoconstriction of cerebral arteries often accompanied by additional neurological symptoms. This syndrome is seen mainly in middle-aged adults, predominantly women. Herein, we report on a pediatric case of RCVS with cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). A 12-year-old boy developed acute, severe headache with paralysis of lower extremities causing gait disturbance after administration of eletriptan. Brain magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) revealed multifocal narrowing of the cerebral arteries, whereas magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated sulcal hyperintensity on fluid-attenuated inversion recovery, consistent with cortical SAH. The patient's clinical symptoms resolved spontaneously after a few days and the MRI and MRA findings disappeared 3 months later, suggesting a diagnosis of RCVS. Eletriptan might cause vasoconstriction of cerebral arteries. Although most patients with RCVS are adults and pediatric cases are rare, RCVS should be considered in a child complaining of severe headache."}
{"id": "22281383", "title": "Disappearance of aneurysms associated with moyamoya disease after STA-MCA anastomosis with encephaloduro myosynangiosis.", "content": "Disappearance of aneurysms associated with moyamoya disease after STA-MCA anastomosis with encephaloduro myosynangiosis. Moyamoya disease is a rare cerebrovascular disease characterized by steno-occlusive vasculopathy affecting the terminal internal carotid arteries. Although the effect of direct arterial bypass on the prevention of recurrent haemorrhage or ischemic events in patients with hemorrhagic moyamoya disease has been demonstrated, disappearance of aneurysms associated with moyamoya disease has rarely been reported. In this study, we present two patients with aneurysms associated with moyamoya disease. After superficial temporal artery to middle cerebral artery anastomosis combined with encephaloduro myosynangiosis, the aneurysms on the moyamoya vessels disappeared, which was confirmed by follow-up angiography."}
{"id": "22271362", "title": "Spot sign score predicts rapid bleeding in spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Spot sign score predicts rapid bleeding in spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. This study was conducted to determine whether spot sign score correlates with average rate of hematoma expansion and whether average rate of expansion predicts in-hospital mortality and clinical outcome in spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The study included 367 patients presenting to the Emergency Department (ED) from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2008 with nontraumatic ICH. All received noncontrast computed tomography (NCCT) of the head and multidetector CT angiography (MDCTA) on presentation to the ED and a follow-up NCCT within 48 h. Imaging was used to determine the hematoma location and volume, average rate of expansion, and spot sign score. Primary outcome measures included in-hospital mortality and clinical outcome based on modified Rankin Scale at 3 months or at discharge. Regression analysis was performed to correlate spot sign score and average rate of hematoma expansion. ICH expansion was identified in 194 of 367 patients (53%). In a multivariate analysis, rate of ICH expansion predicted mortality (hazard ratio 1.1, CI 1.08-1.12, p\u2009<\u20090.0001). Patients who expired had an average rate of ICH expansion of 2.8 ml/h compared to 0.2 ml/h in survivors. Spot sign score on presentation to the ED correlated with the average rate of hematoma expansion. Average rate of hematoma expansion predicts mortality in spontaneous ICH. Spot sign score on presentation correlates with rate of expansion, supporting the hypothesis that high spot sign scores likely reflect active bleeding in acute ICH."}
{"id": "22268092", "title": "Differentiation of hemorrhage from iodinated contrast in different intracranial compartments using dual-energy head CT.", "content": "Differentiation of hemorrhage from iodinated contrast in different intracranial compartments using dual-energy head CT. Identification of ICH, particularly after ischemic stroke therapy, is important for guiding subsequent antithrombotic management and is often confounded by contrast staining or extravasations within intracerebral or extra-axial compartments. This study evaluates the accuracy of DECT in distinguishing ICH from iodinated contrast in patients who received contrast via IA or IV delivery. Forty patients who had received IA or IV contrast were evaluated using a DECT scanner at 80kV and 140kV to distinguish hyperdensities secondary to contrast staining or extravasation from those representing ICH. A 3-material decomposition algorithm was used to obtain virtual noncontrast images and iodine overlay images. Sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of DECT in prospectively distinguishing intracranial contrast from hemorrhage within parenchymal, subarachnoid, extra-axial, intraventricular, and intra-arterial compartments were computed using routine clinical follow-up imaging as the standard of reference. A total of 148 foci of intracranial hyperattenuation were identified. Of these, 142 were correctly classified for the presence of hemorrhage by DECT. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for identifying hemorrhage, depending on the compartment being considered, were 100%, 84.4%-100%, and 87.2%-100%, respectively. The only instances where DECT failed to correctly identify the source of hyperattenuation was in the presence of diffuse parenchymal calcification (n = 5) and a metallic streak artifact (n = 1). After IA and/or IV contrast administration, DECT can accurately differentiate all types of ICH from iodinated contrast without employing any additional radiation."}
{"id": "22264373", "title": "Plasma biomarker may help to distinguish acute CVST from non-thrombotic CVSS in emergency.", "content": "Plasma biomarker may help to distinguish acute CVST from non-thrombotic CVSS in emergency."}
{"id": "22247057", "title": "Clinical application and technique of 64-slice spiral CT subtraction angiography in head and neck.", "content": "Clinical application and technique of 64-slice spiral CT subtraction angiography in head and neck. To discuss the technique of 64-slice spiral CT subtraction angiography (64-SCTSA) in head and neck, and evaluate its clinical application. 84 patients suspected of head-neck vascular diseases were examined with 64-SCTSA. The examination techniques, image quality and clinical application were retrospectively analyzed, and the diagnoses of 64-SCTSA were compared with those of surgery or DSA. Eighty-four subjects were successfully examined with 64-SCTSA, whose scanning and imaging parameters are effective. Image quality was excellent in 51 cases (60.7 %), good in 29 (34.5 %) and acceptable in 4 (4.8 %). In the 84 subjects, 79 cases were found abnormal in blood vessel (58 in head and 21 in neck), of which 57 were confirmed by surgical operation or digital subtraction angiography (DSA). 64-SCTSA is a feasible technique with satisfactory image quality and has the advantages of showing the lesions of vasculature without shelter from bone. It can improve the diagnostic accuracy in head-neck vascular diseases."}
{"id": "22245279", "title": "Headache after substance abuse: a diagnostic dilemma.", "content": "Headache after substance abuse: a diagnostic dilemma. An 18-year-old man inhaled a substance containing synthetic cannabinoids and 1 hour later developed a severe global headache. Imaging revealed a perimesencephalic subarachnoid haemorrhage. An angiogram suggested that a small superior cerebellar artery aneurysm was the culprit. This report discusses the, as yet undefined, relationship between \"herbal highs\" and intracranial haemorrhage."}
{"id": "22241393", "title": "Intracranial dural arteriovenous fistulas: classification, imaging findings, and treatment.", "content": "Intracranial dural arteriovenous fistulas: classification, imaging findings, and treatment. Intracranial DAVFs are pathologic dural-based shunts and account for 10%-15% of all intracranial arteriovenous malformations. These malformations derive their arterial supply primarily from meningeal vessels, and the venous drainage is either via dural venous sinuses or through the cortical veins. DAVFs have a reported association with dural sinus thrombosis, venous hypertension, previous craniotomy, and trauma, though many lesions are idiopathic. The diagnosis is dependent on a high level of clinical suspicion and high-resolution imaging. Cross-sectional imaging techniques by using CT and MR imaging aid in the diagnosis, but conventional angiography remains the most accurate method for complete characterization and classification of DAVFs. The pattern of venous drainage observed on dynamic vascular imaging determines the type of DAVF and correlates with the severity of symptoms and the risk of hemorrhage."}
{"id": "22234794", "title": "Acute perfusion changes after spontaneous SAH: a perfusion CT study.", "content": "Acute perfusion changes after spontaneous SAH: a perfusion CT study. Perfusion computed tomography (CT) is a rapid technique that allows the measurement of acute disturbances in local and global cerebral blood flow in patients suffering stroke and spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH). The purpose of this study was to establish the relationship between different measures of brain perfusion made on dynamic-contrast CT reconstructions performed as soon as SAH has been diagnosed and the severity of the bleeding determined by the clinical grade, the extent of the bleeding and the outcome of the patients. After the diagnosis of SAH by conventional CT, a perfusion CT was performed before CT angiography. All imaging studies were performed on a six-slice spiral CT scanner. All images were analysed using perfusion software developed by Philips, which produces perfusion CT quantitative data based on temporal changes in signal intensity during the first pass of a bolus of an iodinated contrast agent. Measurements of mean transient time (MTT), time to peak (TTP), cerebral blood volume (CBV) and cerebral blood flow (CBF) in volumes of interest corresponding to territories perfused by the major cerebral arteries were performed. Different data regarding severity of the bleeding-such as level of consciousness, amount of bleeding in conventional CT-were collected. All poor-grade patients received a ventriculostomy catheter so that ICP recordings were obtained. Also, the occurrence of delayed cerebral ischaemia (DCI) was recorded. Outcome was assessed by the Glasgow Outcome Scale 6 months after the bleeding. For statistical analysis, non-parametric correlations between variables were performed. Thirty-nine patients have been included in the study since January 2007. In SAH patients there are increasing perfusion abnormalities as the severity of the bleeding increases. The most affected perfusion parameters are TTP and MTT, as they significantly increase with the clinical severity of the bleeding and the total volume of bleeding (P\u2009<\u20090.01, Spearman's Rho). When average MTT time is increased over 5.9 s there is a 20-fold (95% CI\u2009=\u20092.1-182) risk of poor outcome. All patients presenting this MTT time suffered from DCI. This value has a positive predictive value of 100% for DCI and 90% for a poor outcome. SAH causes cerebral blood flow abnormalities even in the acute phase of the illness, consisting mainly of an increase in circulation times (TTP and MTT), which are correlated with the severity of the bleeding."}
{"id": "22223244", "title": "Variable presentations of postpartum angiopathy.", "content": "Variable presentations of postpartum angiopathy. Postpartum angiopathy (PPA), a rare cause of stroke in the puerperium, is heralded by severe headaches within 1-2 weeks after delivery. Angiography demonstrates segmental vasoconstriction that often resolves spontaneously. PPA is generally regarded as benign. We aimed to define clinical presentations, radiological findings, and outcomes of patients with PPA. We retrospectively reviewed patients from 3 centers with acute neurological symptoms and angiography showing vasoconstriction in the postpartum period. Patients without neuroimaging and with diagnoses of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis and aneurysmal hemorrhage were excluded. Patient characteristics, clinical symptoms, neuroimaging findings, and clinical condition at hospital discharge were collected. Eighteen patients (mean age, 31 years; range, 15-41) were identified. Median gestation was 38 weeks. Twelve (67%) had a history of prior uneventful pregnancy. Neurological symptoms began on median day 5 postpartum and included headache (n=16, 89%), focal deficit (n=9, 50%), visual disturbance (n=8, 44%), encephalopathy (n=6, 33%), and seizure (n=5, 28%), often in combination. Brain imaging was abnormal in most (n=13, 72%). The most common abnormalities were intracranial hemorrhage (n=7, 39%), vasogenic edema (n=6, 35%), and infarction (n=6, 35%). Clinical outcomes were markedly variable with full recovery seen in 9 (50%), death after a fulminant course in 4 (22%), and residual deficits in 5 (28%). In contrast to prior reports, this group of patients with PPA had a higher proportion of nonbenign outcomes. Most patients who undergo neuroimaging have parenchymal abnormalities, which are most often stroke (hemorrhagic or ischemic) or reversible vasogenic edema."}
{"id": "22218611", "title": "Traumatic middle meningeal artery pseudoaneurysms: diagnosis and endovascular treatment of two cases and review of the literature.", "content": "Traumatic middle meningeal artery pseudoaneurysms: diagnosis and endovascular treatment of two cases and review of the literature. Intracranial pseudoaneurysms are rare and mostly associated with a history of head trauma. Only little is known about their natural development. They are characterized by an unpredictable course with a possibility of causing secondary intracranial hemorrhage with significant morbidity and mortality. We present two cases of traumatic pseudoaneurysms of the middle meningeal artery (MMA) treated via endovascular coil occlusion and review of literature. Pseudoaneurysms of the middle meningeal artery carry a potential risk of rupture. They can be detected via a computed tomography angiogram (CT-A). An endovascular embolization followed by catheter angiography may represent a safe treatment of traumatic middle meningeal artery pseudoaneurysms. Considering the risk of secondary rupture and the potentially catastrophic consequences, we recommend a CT-A in all patients with skull base fractures and intracranial hemorrhage."}
{"id": "22197406", "title": "Perfusion-CT assessment of blood-brain barrier permeability in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Perfusion-CT assessment of blood-brain barrier permeability in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. The goal of this study was to determine which clinical and radiographic variables in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) are associated with in vivo blood-brain barrier permeability (BBBP) assessments obtained using perfusion-CT (PCT) technology. SAH patients with confirmed aneurysm etiology and with PCT and angiogram within 24 hours of each other were included, and relationships between clinical and imaging variables were analyzed using random-effects generalized linear models. One thousand one hundred and sixty two vascular territories from 83 patients were evaluated in this study. The mean BBBP increased by severity of vasospasm on DSA, however, in multivariate analysis, only mean transit time (MTT), cerebral blood volume (CBV), and severity of hydrocephalus were significantly associated with BBBP. Increased BBBP was not associated with angiographic vasospasm severity in multivariate analysis. Perfusion-CT assessment of BBBP may serve as a unique and useful biomarker in conjunction with angiography, additional perfusion-CT parameters, and clinical assessments, especially in characterizing microvascular dysfunction, or even in targeting treatments. However, future prospective studies will be required to definitively establish its clinical utility in the care of SAH patients."}
{"id": "22194363", "title": "Carotid plaque neovascularization and hemorrhage detected by MR imaging are associated with recent cerebrovascular ischemic events.", "content": "Carotid plaque neovascularization and hemorrhage detected by MR imaging are associated with recent cerebrovascular ischemic events. Pathologic studies suggest that neovascularization and hemorrhage are important features of plaque vulnerability for disruption. Our aim was to determine the associations of these features in carotid plaques with previous cerebrovascular ischemic events by using high-resolution CE-MRI. Forty-seven patients (36 men; mean age 72.5 \u00b1 10 years) underwent CE-MRI and MRA examinations for carotid plaque at 3T. IPH presence was recorded. Neovascularity was categorized by the degree of adventitial enhancement (0, absent; 1, <50%; 2, \u226550%). Reader variability was assessed by using weighted \u03ba. Associations with events were determined by using multivariable logistic regression. Intra- and inter-reader agreement for grading adventitial enhancement were good to excellent. IPH was present in 49% of patients and was associated with events (P = .03). Patients grouped by categories 0, 1, and 2 adventitial enhancement had increasing frequencies of events (14% category 0, 48% category 1, 65% category 2; P = .02). Events were associated with IPH (OR, 10.18; 95% CI, 1.42-72.21) and adventitial enhancement (compared with category 0: OR, 14.90, 95% CI, 0.98-225.93 for category 1; OR, 51.17, 95% CI, 3.4-469.8 for category 2) after controlling for age, sex, cardiovascular risk factors, wall thickness, and stenosis. Stenosis was not associated with events. Adventitial enhancement and IPH are independently associated with previous events and may provide important insight into stroke risk not achievable by stenosis."}
{"id": "22186849", "title": "Clinical predictors of cognitive decline in patients with mild cognitive impairment: the Chongqing aging study.", "content": "Clinical predictors of cognitive decline in patients with mild cognitive impairment: the Chongqing aging study. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is considered as the early stage of dementia which currently has no effective treatments. Reducing progression of cognitive decline at the MCI stage could be an important strategy for preventing conversion to dementia. The goal of this work was to screen for clinical predictors indicating the prognosis of MCI comprehensively; therefore, we assumed vascular risk factors (VRFs), carotid stenosis, and white matter changes (WMC) to be independent predictors. A total of 257 patients with MCI underwent collection of VRF information, neuropsychological evaluation, computed tomography angiography (CTA) to investigate carotid stenosis, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to identify severity of WMC. After a 3-year follow-up period, the neuropsychological evaluation, CTA, and MRI were repeated to assess the progression of cognitive decline, carotid stenosis, and WMC. The conversion rate from MCI to dementia was 11.65% per year, and the conversion rate from MCI to Alzheimer's disease was 7.05% per year in our cohort. Cognitive decline (in terms of changes in Mini Mental State Examination scores) was associated with diabetes mellitus (p = 0.004), baseline WMC severity (p < 0.001), baseline carotid stenosis (p < 0.001), and WMC severity change (p < 0.001). Besides, diabetes, baseline WMC severity, baseline moderate-to-severe carotid stenosis, and carotid stenosis change during follow-up were predictors of conversion from MCI to dementia. Given the potential clinical predictors, our findings could imply that controlling blood glucose, removing carotid stenosis, and improving cerebral perfusion could be effective measures to delay cognitive decline in patients with MCI and prevent conversion from MCI to dementia."}
{"id": "22179658", "title": "Preoperative liquid embolization of cerebeller hemangioblastomas using N-butyl cyanoacrylate.", "content": "Preoperative liquid embolization of cerebeller hemangioblastomas using N-butyl cyanoacrylate. We aim to present and discuss clinical outcomes of preoperative liquid embolization of hemangioblastomas (HB) using N-butyl cyanoacrylate (NBCA). From 1999 through 2010, 19 patients presenting with symptoms of vertigo and/or headaches were diagnosed with HB based on preoperative magnetic resonance imaging and cerebral angiographic findings at our institution. Preoperative embolization with NBCA was performed on tumors in 10 of 21 operations for 19 patients. For each of these patients, the lesion was pathologically confirmed as HB. Embolization had a favorable outcome in all patients. No permanent neurological complications were observed after preoperative embolization using NBCA. However, thalamic infarction and minor hemorrhage were observed in two patients with cerebellar HB. The authors recommend NBCA as an embolization material for large cerebellar HB."}
{"id": "22170079", "title": "Dissecting aneurysms of the vertebral artery--angiographic patterns at the dissecting site on balloon test occlusion.", "content": "Dissecting aneurysms of the vertebral artery--angiographic patterns at the dissecting site on balloon test occlusion. At present, the risk of future hemorrhage or ischemic insult from vertebral artery (VA) dissection cannot be estimated from available imaging data. We investigated the relationship between symptoms and the angiographic patterns of the dissecting site on balloon test occlusion (BTO) to develop guidelines for clinical decision-making. We retrospectively reviewed 18 patients with unilateral VA dissection who presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) or cerebral infarction. We analyzed the angiographic findings at the dissecting site on contralateral VA angiograms during BTO of the affected VA, classified the angiographic patterns into two types, and compared the symptoms they presented. Patients with dissection opacified from the distal to the proximal side are more likely to present with cerebral infarction than SAH. Conversely, patients with dissection opacified from the proximal to the distal side had a significantly higher incidence of SAH. Angiographic findings at the dissecting site on contralateral VA angiograms during BTO of the affected VA are helpful for considering the treatment and prognosis of patients with VA dissecting aneurysms."}
{"id": "22162092", "title": "Correction for arterial-tissue delay and dispersion in absolute quantitative cerebral perfusion DSC MR imaging.", "content": "Correction for arterial-tissue delay and dispersion in absolute quantitative cerebral perfusion DSC MR imaging. The singular value decomposition deconvolution of cerebral tissue concentration-time curves with the arterial input function is commonly used in dynamic susceptibility contrast cerebral perfusion MR imaging. However, it is sensitive to the time discrepancy between the arrival of the bolus in the tissue concentration-time curve and the arterial input function signal. This normally causes inaccuracy in the quantitative perfusion maps due to delay and dispersion effects. A comprehensive correction algorithm has been achieved through slice-dependent time-shifting of the arterial input function, and a delay-dependent dispersion correction model. The correction algorithm was tested in 11 healthy subjects and three ischemic stroke patients scanned with a quantitative perfusion pulse sequence at 1.5 T. A validation study was performed on five patients with confirmed cerebrovascular occlusive disease scanned with MRI and positron emission tomography at 3.0 T. A significant effect (P < 0.05) was reported on the quantitative cerebral blood flow and mean transit time measurements (up to 50%). There was no statistically significant effect on the quantitative cerebral blood volume values. The in vivo results were in agreement with the simulation results, as well as previous literature. This minimizes the bias in patient diagnosis due to the existing errors and artifacts in dynamic susceptibility contrast imaging."}
{"id": "22133741", "title": "A case of embolic stroke imitating atherothrombotic brain infarction before massive hemorrhage from an infectious aneurysm caused by Streptococci.", "content": "A case of embolic stroke imitating atherothrombotic brain infarction before massive hemorrhage from an infectious aneurysm caused by Streptococci. Early detection followed by treatment with antibiotics in conjunction with direct or endovascular surgery is integral in the management of patients with intracranial infectious aneurysms. These aneurysms often manifest as massive intracranial hemorrhages, which severely deteriorate the outcome. It is very important to detect infectious aneurysms before they rupture. Although usually associated with infective endocarditis, these aneurysms can occur in a variety of clinical settings. We present a case of \u03b1-Streptococcus-provoked infectious aneurysm in a patient without infective endocarditis, initially presenting as atherothrombotic-like brain infarction, before massive intracranial hemorrhage. The present case alerts clinicians to keep in mind possible development of infectious aneurysms, even in patients who appear to be suffering from atherothrombotic stoke, especially in patients presenting with signs of infection."}
{"id": "22120334", "title": "Surgical treatment of dural arteriovenous fistulas of the petrous apex.", "content": "Surgical treatment of dural arteriovenous fistulas of the petrous apex. To report a series of four patients with dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVF) at the petrous apex with drainage into the deep cerebral venous system and the surgical treatment employed. Four patients with DAVFs at the petrous apex are presented. One patient was admitted with cerebral hemorrhage from a second occipital DAVF, and three patients had cranial nerve palsies. All fistulas were type III or IV according to Cognard's classification with venous drainage into the deep cerebral veins. Transarterial embolization was performed in two patients. Partial transarterial embolization was possible resulting in a marked flow reduction. In one further patient, surgical treatment via a subtemporal approach was attempted, but complete obliteration of the fistula was impossible. In all patients, complete occlusion of the DAVF was achieved by surgical interruption via a standard retrosigmoid approach to the cerebellopontine angle. Treatment of these type III or IV DAVFs was indicated. The fistulas were supplied by multiple meningeal feeders originating from the external and internal carotid and vertebral arteries. Preoperative transarterial embolization resulted in significant flow reduction. Complete cure at low risk was achieved by interruption of the venous drainage via a retrosigmoid approach."}
{"id": "22118795", "title": "Vascular imaging adds value in investigation of basal ganglia hemorrhage.", "content": "Vascular imaging adds value in investigation of basal ganglia hemorrhage. The risk of basal ganglia hemorrhage (BGH) increases in patients of older age and with hypertension. Current guidelines do not recommend routine vascular imaging. However, a proportion of patients with BGH have underlying vascular abnormalities, and these patients may require a different treatment approach. We aimed to assess the proportion of underlying vascular abnormalities in patients with BGH. In this retrospective study, we included all patients who presented with BGH between January 2007 and December 2009 at a single institution. The following data were collected: patient demographics, vascular risk factors, medications, volume of hematoma, CT scans, CT angiogram, magnetic resonance angiography and digital subtraction angiography. We determined the proportion of underlying vascular abnormalities and correlated these findings with risk factors for BGH. A total of 113 consecutive patients with BGH were identified, and vascular imaging was performed in 61. The median age was 62 years and 48 (78.7%) of these patients were male. Forty-two (68.9%) of 61 patients had hypertension. Positive vascular imaging findings were identified in eight of 61 patients (13.1%): three intracranial aneurysms, three cavernous malformations, one Moyamoya disease and one arteriovenous malformation. There were no significant associations between demographic features, vascular risk factors and the hematoma volume between patients with positive and negative vascular imaging. Specifically, an underlying vascular abnormality was not associated with age (\u2265 60 years, 6/36 patients had an underlying vascular abnormality, compared with 2/25 patients< 60 years; p=not significant [n.s.]). There was no relationship with hypertension (5/42 hypertensive patients and 3/19 normotensive patients (n.s.) had an underlying vascular abnormality). We concluded that there is a significant proportion of relevant underlying vascular abnormalities in patients with BGH. This likelihood is not predicted by risk factors such as hypertension and age. These findings indicate the importance of vascular imaging in patients with BGH who are not neurologically devastated."}
{"id": "22104960", "title": "Cerebral computed tomography angiography using a low tube voltage (80 kVp) and a moderate concentration of iodine contrast material: a quantitative and qualitative comparison with conventional computed tomography angiography.", "content": "Cerebral computed tomography angiography using a low tube voltage (80 kVp) and a moderate concentration of iodine contrast material: a quantitative and qualitative comparison with conventional computed tomography angiography. To investigate the feasibility of an 80-kVp protocol using a moderate concentration contrast material (MC-CM) for cerebral computed tomography angiography by comparison with a conventional 120-kVp protocol using a high concentration contrast material (HC-CM). Attenuation values and signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) were determined in a head phantom for 2 tube voltages (80 and 120 kVp) and 2 different iodine concentration contrast materials (HC-CM and MC-CM). Among 90 consecutive patients, 45 patients were scanned with 120 kVp and 150 mAs(eff) after administration of 70 mL of HC-CM (370 mg iodine [mgI]/mL), whereas the other 45 patients were scanned with 80 kVp and 370 mAs(eff) after administration of 70 mL of MC-CM (300 mgI/mL). The Hounsfield units (HU) of the internal carotid artery T junction, SNR, contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), subjective degree of arterial enhancement, image noise, sharpness of the cerebral arterial boundary, and overall diagnostic image quality were compared between the 2 groups. The mean attenuation of the internal carotid artery T junction, SNR, and CNR was significantly higher in the 80 kVp with MC-CM group (379.2, 33.7, and 31.1 HU, respectively) than in the 120 kVp with HC-CM group (282.2, 31.1, and 27.2 HU, respectively). The 80-kVp protocol resulted in significantly higher score in arterial enhancement, sharpness of the cerebral arteries, and overall diagnostic image quality. The effective dose of 80 kVp (0.7 mSv) was 22.2% lower than that of 120 kVp (0.9 mSv). The use of 80 kVp with MC-CM improved arterial enhancement, SNR, and CNR and provided superior quality images using a smaller amount of iodine and a lower radiation dose than the conventional protocol of 120 kVp with HC-CM."}
{"id": "22102409", "title": "Time course of cerebral hemodynamics in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Time course of cerebral hemodynamics in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Vascular complications are important causes of neurologic sequelae among survivors of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). However, little is known about the time course of cerebral hemodynamics and outcome in patients with and without angiographically confirmed cerebral vasospasm. Serial transcranial color-coded sonography (TCCS), angiography, and MRI studies were performed to measure cerebrovascular hemodynamics and assess complications following aneurysmal SAH. Eighteen aneurysmal SAH patients were enrolled. Angiographically confirmed cerebral vasospasm occurred in 14 patients (77.8%), 5 of whom (35.7%) were asymptomatic. The mean blood flow velocity (V(mean) ) of the middle cerebral artery increased significantly as compared with healthy volunteers from day 1 to day 15, and substantially decreased thereafter. The V(mean) of middle cerebral artery was significantly higher in patients with than in patients without angiographically confirmed cerebral vasospasm from day 3 to day 12. Compared to angiography, TCCS detected cerebral vasospasm with 85.7% sensitivity, 100% specificity, 100% positive predictive value, and 66.7% negative predictive value. MRI-evidenced cerebral infarctions occurred in nine patients (50%), three of whom (33.3%) were asymptomatic. This study demonstrated that approximately one-third of acute phase aneurysmal SAH patients have asymptomatic delayed cerebral infarction, which was undetected by TCCS in one-third of them. This may explain why the accuracy of TCCS to predict clinical symptomatic cerebral vasospasm is suboptimal."}
{"id": "22099485", "title": "Updated imaging of traumatic brain injury.", "content": "Updated imaging of traumatic brain injury. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) play important roles in the evaluation of traumatic brain injury. Modern CT scanners allow for rapid and accurate diagnosis of intracranial hemorrhage and mass effect and allow the efficient implementation of emergent CT angiography. Newer sequences, such as gradient recalled echo, susceptibility-weighted imaging, and diffusion-weighted imaging, can provide greater sensitivity for specific types of diffuse posttraumatic brain injury. MR spectroscopy can provide additional chemical information, and diffusion tensor imaging can provide information about white matter injury. Patient treatment can be optimized using the diagnostic and prognostic information derived from current imaging techniques."}
{"id": "22095695", "title": "Arterial spin labeling measurement of cerebral perfusion in children with sickle cell disease.", "content": "Arterial spin labeling measurement of cerebral perfusion in children with sickle cell disease. To evaluate the applicability of arterial spin labeling (ASL) cerebral blood flow (CBF) measurements in children with sickle cell disease (SCD). We included 12 patients and five controls. Conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (T2, fluid attenuated inversion recovery [FLAIR], and MR angiography) was performed to diagnose silent infarcts, vasculopathy, or leukoencephalopathy. Pseudo-continuous ASL was performed to measure CBF using two postlabeling delays to identify transit-time effects. Perfusion estimates were corrected for hematocrit and blood velocity in the labeling plane and compared to phase-contrast MR. CBF asymmetries between the flow maps of the left and right internal carotid arteries were tested for significance using paired t-tests. Significant asymmetries were expressed in terms of an asymmetry ratio (AR = absolute difference/mean). An AR >10% was considered clinically relevant. Mean CBF was higher in patients than in controls. Agreement between CBF and flow improved after applying hematocrit and velocity corrections. At a 2100 msec postlabeling delay one patient had a clinically relevant asymmetry. No association was observed between CBF asymmetries and silent infarcts. Care must be taken in the interpretation of ASL-CBF measurements in SCD patients. A long postlabeling delay with blood velocity correction anticipates overestimation of CBF asymmetries."}
{"id": "22095221", "title": "Long-term clinical and angiographic results of Neuroform stent-assisted coil embolization in wide-necked intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Long-term clinical and angiographic results of Neuroform stent-assisted coil embolization in wide-necked intracranial aneurysms. Neuroform stent-assisted coil embolization facilitates the endovascular treatment of wide-necked intracranial aneurysms. However, the safety and efficacy of its long-term use have not been fully elucidated. To retrospectively examine the long-term results of Neuroform stent usage in conjunction with coil embolization in wide-necked intracranial aneurysms. Between November 2002 and December 2010, 79 patients harboring wide-necked intracranial aneurysms were treated with use of the Neuroform stent. The stenting procedure failed in 2 patients. Therefore, 77 patients harboring 79 intracranial aneurysms were included for analysis. Patient and aneurysm characteristics, progression of aneurysm occlusion, and occurrence of complications were analyzed. Follow-up imaging included digital subtraction angiography (DSA) or magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). Kaplan-Meier analysis, as well as univariate analysis were performed to determine the progression of aneurysm occlusion and to examine the predictive factors for complete aneurysm occlusion, respectively. Overall, complete aneurysm occlusion was observed in 42.4% of the cases immediately after treatment and progressed to 96.5% at 7-year follow-up. The mean angiographic follow-up time was 25.8 months (range, 0-84 months). Eleven aneurysms (14%) were re-treated. Sixty-eight patients (88.3%) had favorable clinical outcome with a modified Rankin Scale (mRS) \u2264 1, 3 patients (3.9%) had an mRS of 2, and 5 patients (6.5%) did not have a clinical follow-up. The mean clinical follow-up time was 45.4 months (range, 3-92 months). One patient (1.3%) died of a procedure-related hemorrhage. Neuroform stent-assisted coil embolization of wide-necked intracranial aneurysms prevents hemorrhage and provides a high rate of aneurysm occlusion at long-term follow-up."}
{"id": "22089755", "title": "Low pulsatility index on transcranial Doppler predicts symptomatic large-vessel vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Low pulsatility index on transcranial Doppler predicts symptomatic large-vessel vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Elevated mean cerebral blood flow velocity (mCBFV) on transcranial Doppler predicts vasospasm of the large intracranial arteries after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH). The pulsatility index (PI) is a measure of distal vascular resistance, which may be low when there is compensatory distal vasodilatation following hypoperfusion caused by large-vessel vasospasm. To study the predictive value of low PI for symptomatic large-vessel vasospasm (SLVVS) after aSAH. Medical records of patients admitted with aSAH between January 2007 and April 2009 were reviewed. Transcranial color-coded duplex (TCCD) sonography was performed daily between days 2 and 14. Patients with unexplained acute neurological decline underwent catheter- or computed tomography-angiography. The lowest recorded PI and the highest mCBFV on TCCD were correlated to the occurrence of SLVVS, angiographic vasospasm, and delayed cerebral infraction in multivariate analysis by use of logistic regression. Functional outcome was assessed at first follow-up. Eighty-one patients met inclusion criteria. Mean lowest PI was 0.71 + 0.19. Median highest mCBFV was 135 cm/s (interquartile range 99-194 cm/s). SLVVS was seen in 21 of 81 (26%) patients, whereas 27 of 55 (49%) patients with repeat angiography had moderate or severe angiographic vasospasm. Following multivariate analysis, only the lowest PI was an independent predictor of SLVVS (P = .03, odds ratio 0.04, 95% confidence interval 0.001-0.54), whereas only the highest mCBFV was an independent predictor of angiographic vasospasm (P = .02, odds ratio 1.01, 95% confidence interval 1.002-1.02). SLVVS was independently associated with functional outcome at follow-up. Low PI on TCCD is an independent predictor of SLVVS after aSAH, whereas mCBFV is a better predictor of angiographic vasospasm."}
{"id": "22036475", "title": "Trigeminal neuralgia related to arteriovenous malformation of the posterior fossa: three case reports and a review of the literature.", "content": "Trigeminal neuralgia related to arteriovenous malformation of the posterior fossa: three case reports and a review of the literature. To describe the rare association of trigeminal neuralgia (TGN) with a brain arteriovenous malformation (bAVM) of the posterior fossa. This is a report of three patients presenting with TGN due to vascular compression by a bAVM of the posterior fossa, with emphasis on clinical presentation, diagnostic imaging, management and follow-up. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed with sequences in thin slices in the same section plane using a 3D time of flight (TOF) and axial T2-weighted driven equilibrium (DRIVE) of the posterior fossa. No bleeding episodes were documented in the three patients. MRI and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) showed a posterior fossa bAVM with a nidus surrounding the trigeminal nerve, fed by arteries from the carotid and vertebrobasilar systems. Within a few days, medical treatment effectively alleviated the symptoms, with no more pain during follow-ups at 6, 10 and 18months. No invasive treatment was performed because the bAVMs were considered to have a low risk of bleeding. TGN related to a bAVM can mimic classical TGN. MRI and DSA are the imaging methods of choice. Medical treatment remains the first line of therapy, but if that fails, multimodal invasive treatment may be an alternative for pain relief."}
{"id": "22033807", "title": "Successful treatment of cerebral hemorrhage using computed tomography angiography in a patient with left-ventricular-assist device.", "content": "Successful treatment of cerebral hemorrhage using computed tomography angiography in a patient with left-ventricular-assist device. Cerebral hemorrhage is one of the common complications associated with left-ventricular-assist device (LVAD) treatment and leads to a high mortality rate because of excessive bleeding due to frequently unknown causes. Cerebral angiography is used to diagnose cerebrovascular events and is well recognized as being very useful for this purpose. We performed a cerebral angiography for a patient with an LVAD who developed cerebral hemorrhage, and the hemorrhagic source was clearly identified. The patient underwent successful neurosurgical treatment, which was followed by heart transplantation."}
{"id": "22015965", "title": "Hyperdensity on non-contrast CT immediately after intra-arterial revascularization.", "content": "Hyperdensity on non-contrast CT immediately after intra-arterial revascularization. Non-contrast enhanced computed tomography (NCCT) is usually performed to estimate bleeding complications immediately after procedures. However, hyperdense areas on NCCT have not yet been understood; different interpretations have been reported in the literature. It remains unclear whether NCCT performed immediately after intra-arterial revascularization (IAR) could be useful for predicting hemorrhagic transformation (HT) or clinical outcomes. Therefore, we investigated the diagnostic values of hyperdense areas on NCCT images obtained immediately after IAR. This was a retrospective study of acute ischemic stroke patients who underwent IAR between October 2007 and December 2010. NCCT scans were routinely obtained immediately after IAR and additional follow-up imaging protocols included diffusion weighted imaging (DWI)/gradient echo imaging (GRE) 24 h after IAR. HT was assessed by means of GRE obtained 24 h after IAR. Hounsfield Unit (HU) of the hyperdensity was measured in the manually drawn regions of interest. A total of 68 patients were analyzed in this study. Twenty-nine patients (42.6%) developed HT on follow-up images. Thirty-eight patients had hyperdense areas on NCCT immediately after IAR. Hyperdensity on NCCT performed immediately after IAR revealed 23 (60.5%) of the 38 patients with six false negative areas. NCCT performed immediately after IAR showed a sensitivity of 79.3%, a specificity of 61.5%, a positive predictive value of 60.5% and a negative predictive value of 80% for HT. The HU value was a predictor of HT without statistical significance (area under curve of 0.629; 95% CI: 0.49-0.76; p = 0.068). In addition, an HU of >90 poorly predicted HT with a low sensitivity (23%) and a high specificity (94%). In conclusion, our results showed that although hyperdensity on NCCT images obtained immediately after IAR had a moderate predictive value for HT, there were limitations to the prediction of subsequent parenchymal hematoma and symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage, with a low specificity and a low positive predictive value."}
{"id": "22003048", "title": "CT angiography spot sign predicts in-hospital mortality in patients with secondary intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "CT angiography spot sign predicts in-hospital mortality in patients with secondary intracerebral hemorrhage. The presence of active contrast extravasation during CT angiography, the spot sign, is a potent predictor of in-hospital mortality in patients with primary intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). However, its predictive value in patients with ICH due to a vascular abnormality, secondary ICH (SICH), is unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the clinical and radiological predictors of a spot sign and in-hospital mortality in patients with SICH. Two experienced readers independently reviewed CT angiograms performed on 215 consecutive patients presenting to the emergency department with SICH over a 10-year period to assess the presence of spot signs according to strict radiological criteria. Differences in reader interpretation were resolved by consensus. Medical records were reviewed for baseline clinical characteristics and in-hospital mortality. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to determine the clinical and radiological predictors of a spot sign and in-hospital mortality in patients with SICH. Spot signs were identified in 31 of 215 patients with SICH (14.4%), four of which were delayed spot signs (12.9%). Spot signs were most common in patients with arteriovenous fistulas (42%), Moyamoya (40%), elevated admission blood glucose (23%) and large intraventricular hemorrhage volumes (29%). Spot signs were most predictive of in-hospital mortality in patients with aneurysms of the anterior cerebral artery (100%) and anterior communicating artery (75%). In univariate analysis, the presence of a spot sign significantly increased the risk of in-hospital mortality in patients with SICH (38.7%, OR 2.2, 95% CI 1.0 to 4.9, p=0.0497). However, in multivariate logistic regression analysis the admission Glasgow Coma Scale was the only independent predictor of in-hospital mortality in patients with SICH (OR 2.8, 95% CI 1.6 to 5.1, p=0.0004). The spot sign identifies patients with SICH at increased risk of in-hospital mortality. However, the admission Glasgow Coma Scale was the only independent predictor of in-hospital mortality in this cohort of patients with SICH."}
{"id": "21990534", "title": "Supernova hemorrhage: obliterative hemorrhage of brain arteriovenous malformations following \u03b3 knife radiosurgery.", "content": "Supernova hemorrhage: obliterative hemorrhage of brain arteriovenous malformations following \u03b3 knife radiosurgery. Hemorrhage represents the most feared complication of cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) in both untreated patients and those treated with gamma knife radiosurgery. Radiosurgery does not immediately lead to obliteration of the malformation, which often does not occur until years following treatment. Post-obliteration hemorrhage is rare, occurring months to years after radiosurgery, and has been associated with residual or recurrent AVM despite prior apparent nidus elimination. Three cases are reported of delayed intracranial hemorrhage in patients with cerebral AVMs treated with radiosurgery in which no residual AVM was found on catheter angiography at the time of delayed post-treatment hemorrhage. That the pathophysiology of these hemorrhages involves progressive venous outflow occlusion is speculated and the possible mechanistic link to subsequent vascular rupture is discussed."}
{"id": "21990506", "title": "Dural tentorial arteriovenous fistula causing isolated trochlear nerve palsy: remission after endovascular embolization.", "content": "Dural tentorial arteriovenous fistula causing isolated trochlear nerve palsy: remission after endovascular embolization. To report an exceptional case of dural arteriovenous fistula of the tentorial incisura presenting as transient and recurrent isolated paresis of the fourth cranial nerve, and treated by endovascular embolization. A 63-year-old man presented several episodes of intermittent diplopia which appeared during sudden head movements and in the left lower gaze. Magnetic resonance and cerebral angiography showed a dural arteriovenous fistula of the right tentorial incisura fed mainly by branches of the right occipital artery as well as intracavernous branches of the right internal carotid artery. Embolization of the occipital artery branches resulted in significantly decreased flow within the fistula and in rapid and complete remission of diplopia. Stereotactic radiosurgery of the residual malformation was then performed. The treatment resulted in a good clinical and radiological outcome at the 5-year follow-up. An arteriovenous fistula of the tentorial incisura may exceptionally cause intermittent diplopia owing to compression of the trochlear nerve due to transient increase of blood flow within the malformation. Remission of diplopia may be achieved by endovascular embolization. Dural arteriovenous fistulas with low risk of hemorrhage and brain neurological symptoms may successfully be treated by partial endovascular embolization and radiosurgery."}
{"id": "21982268", "title": "Dolichoectasic anterior cerebral artery and hemodynamics.", "content": "Dolichoectasic anterior cerebral artery and hemodynamics. Dolichoectasia of the intracranial arteries is a rare condition, and the vertebrobasilar system and the internal carotid artery are the most commonly involved structures. We report a rare case of idiopathic dolichoectasia of the anterior cerebral artery in a 22-year-old female. The patient caused an automobile accident and was brought to our hospital in an ambulance. A computed tomography scan and magnetic resonance imaging revealed no fresh lesions, but showed a prominent serpentine structure with calcification and flow void in the region of the interhemispheric fissure, which was suspicious for arteriovenous malformation or arteriovenous fistula. Cerebral angiography demonstrated extensive dilatation of the anterior cerebral artery, but no evidence of arteriovenous malformation or arteriovenous fistula. Single photon emission computed tomography revealed hypoperfusion of the right frontal lobe at rest. Electroencephalography showed no epileptic discharge. The patient's course was uneventful, and she was discharged with no neurologic deficit. There are few reports of hemodynamic changes in cases of dolichoectasia. In the diagnosis of cerebral dolichoectasia, cerebral hemodynamics should be examined carefully in addition to evaluating vascular disease by angiography."}
{"id": "21975311", "title": "Persistent primitive first cervical intersegmental artery (proatlantal artery II) associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage of unknown origin.", "content": "Persistent primitive first cervical intersegmental artery (proatlantal artery II) associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage of unknown origin."}
{"id": "21918851", "title": "The value of magnetic resonance imaging for the detection of the bleeding source in non-traumatic intracerebral haemorrhages: a comparison with conventional digital subtraction angiography.", "content": "The value of magnetic resonance imaging for the detection of the bleeding source in non-traumatic intracerebral haemorrhages: a comparison with conventional digital subtraction angiography. Conventional digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is currently regarded as the gold standard in detecting underlying vascular pathologies in patients with intracerebral haemorrhages (ICH). However, the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the diagnostic workup of ICHs has considerably increased in recent years. Our aim was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy and yield of MRI for the detection of the underlying aetiology in ICH patients. Sixty-seven consecutive patients with an acute ICH who underwent MRI (including magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and DSA during their diagnostic workup) were included in the study. Magnetic resonance images were retrospectively analysed by two independent neuroradiologists to determine the localisation and cause of the ICH. DSA was used as a reference standard. In seven patients (10.4%), a DSA-positive vascular aetiology was present (one aneurysm, four arteriovenous malformations, one dural arteriovenous fistula and one vasculitis). All of these cases were correctly diagnosed by both readers on MRI. In addition, MRI revealed the following probable bleeding causes in 39 of the 60 DSA-negative patients: cerebral amyloid angiopathy (17), cavernoma (9), arterial hypertension (8), haemorrhagic transformation of an ischaemic infarction (3) and malignant brain tumour with secondary ICH (2). Performing MRI with MRA proved to be an accurate diagnostic tool in detecting vascular malformations in patients with ICH. In addition, MRI provided valuable information regarding DSA-negative ICH causes, and thus had a high diagnostic yield in ICH patients."}
{"id": "21915689", "title": "T2*-weighted MR angiography substantially increases the detection of hemorrhage in the wall of brain abscess: implications in clinical interpretation.", "content": "T2*-weighted MR angiography substantially increases the detection of hemorrhage in the wall of brain abscess: implications in clinical interpretation. The purpose of the present study was to identify the true prevalence of hemorrhage in the abscess using T2*-weighted angiography (SWAN) imaging and to study its influence on diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) metrics. Fifteen patients of brain abscess underwent conventional, SWAN, and DT imaging on a 3-T MRI followed by its confirmation with histology. DTI metrics were quantified by region-of-interest analysis on hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic regions of the abscess wall. Prussian blue staining was performed on excised abscess walls to confirm hemorrhage on histology. Eleven of 15 patients showed evidence of hemorrhage on both Prussian blue staining as well as SWAN imaging. Fractional anisotropy (FA) and linear anisotropy (CL) values were significantly higher, while spherical anisotropy was significantly lower in hemorrhagic compared to non-hemorrhagic regions of the abscess wall. Hemorrhage in the abscess wall is a common feature and may not always indicate neoplasm. The presence of intracellular iron in addition to concentrically laid collagen fibers may have synergistic effect on FA and CL values in the abscess wall. Inclusion of SWAN to MRI protocol will define the true prevalence of hemorrhage in brain abscess."}
{"id": "21808219", "title": "Independent validation of the secondary intracerebral hemorrhage score with catheter angiography and findings of emergent hematoma evacuation.", "content": "Independent validation of the secondary intracerebral hemorrhage score with catheter angiography and findings of emergent hematoma evacuation. The secondary intracerebral hemorrhage (SICH) score, derived from a cohort of patients with intracerebral hemorrhage examined with computed tomographic (CT) angiography, predicts a patient's risk of harboring a vascular etiology. To validate the SICH score in an independent patient population. We retrospectively reviewed all adults with nontraumatic ICH who presented to our institution during a 5.4-year period and were evaluated with catheter angiography or underwent emergent hematoma evacuation, and applied the SICH score to this cohort. Receiver operating characteristic analysis was performed to determine the area under the curve (AUC) and maximum operating point (MOP). Patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage in the basal cisterns were excluded. The study included 341 patients, with a mean age of 57.2 years (range, 18-88). Of these, 179 patients were male (52.5%) and 162 were female (47.5%). Two hundred ninety-two patients were evaluated with catheter angiography (85.6%), and 49 underwent emergent hematoma evacuation (14.4%). The SICH score successfully predicted an increasing risk of underlying vascular etiologies in the independent patient cohort, which was similar to the cohort examined with CT angiography. The MOP was reached at a SICH score >2, with the highest incidence of vascular etiologies in patients with SICH scores of 3 (18.8%), 4 (39%), and 5 (79.2%). There was no significant difference in the AUC between the 2 cohorts (0.82-0.87). The SICH score successfully predicted the risk of a patient with ICH of harboring a vascular etiology in an independent patient population. This scoring system could be used to select patients with ICH for neurovascular evaluation to exclude an underlying vascular abnormality."}
{"id": "21795863", "title": "Carotid artery dissection-related intracranial aneurysm development: case report.", "content": "Carotid artery dissection-related intracranial aneurysm development: case report. We analyzed the physiopathology of the association between cervical artery dissections (CADs), intracranial aneurysms (IAs), and aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. A 43-year-old woman presented with diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage (Fisher 3; Hunt-Hess 1). computed tomography angiography revealed a cervical internal carotid artery dissection and 2 IAs: right paraclinoid and right posterior communicating artery. The patient underwent surgical clipping of the 2 aneurysms. CAD was managed conservatively. Postoperative course was initially uneventful. After 24 hours, digital subtraction angiography (DSA) documented the exclusion of the aneurysms and an improvement of the CAD. After 3 days, the patient's neurological condition suddenly worsened; CT scan documented a subarachnoid rebleeding (Hunt-Hess 4) and DSA revealed the recurrence of CAD and a new right internal carotid artery aneurysm. The patient underwent clipping of the new aneurysm and decompressive craniectomy because of severe brain swelling. Postoperative neurological conditions remained poor. DSA showed the exclusion of the aneurysms and improvement of CAD. Three days later, CT scan performed after a sudden raise in intracranial pressure documented a wide intracerebral hematoma. Computed tomography angiography did not show new vascular malformations. Surgical removal of the hematoma was performed, but poor neurological conditions persisted. CAD-related hemodynamic changes may play a role in the development of IAs. The presence of IAs must be screened carefully in case of CAD, because the dynamic behavior of CAD definitively increases the risk of IA formation, enlargement, and rupture."}
{"id": "21789600", "title": "Accelerated territorial arterial spin labeling based on shared rotating control acquisition: an observer study for validation.", "content": "Accelerated territorial arterial spin labeling based on shared rotating control acquisition: an observer study for validation. Shared rotating control acquisition can shorten the imaging time of territorial arterial spin labeling (tASL) by 33% compared with the normal control acquisition scheme but potentially results in an inaccurate estimate of vascular territories due to imperfect magnetization transfer compensation. Our purpose was to validate the accuracy of the shared rotating control acquisition method in evaluation of vascular territories. Twenty-four patients underwent tASL at a 3.0-T MRI with the conventional normal control acquisition method. Composite vascular territory maps, in which the blood flows from the right and left internal carotid arteries and the posterior circulation were encoded in red-green-blue, were generated as a normal averaged control-label scheme and as a simulated shared rotating control scheme. Two observers independently reported the most dominant territorial flow in 26 brain regions corresponding to the arterial segments at three post-labeling time points. Inter-reader and inter-method agreements were analyzed using \u03ba statistics. Overall inter-reader agreements were excellent for both the normal control and the shared rotating control methods (\u03ba\u2009=\u20090.98, respectively). Overall inter-method agreement was also excellent (\u03ba\u2009=\u20090.98), although relatively low agreement was noted in the bilateral posterior cerebral artery territories (\u03ba\u2009=\u20090.79 to 0.93). Our results suggested that tASL using shared rotating control acquisition can provide information on the vascular territories comparable to that obtained using the normal control acquisition while substantially shortening the imaging time."}
{"id": "21778913", "title": "Pathologically confirmed cryptic vascular malformation as a cause of convexity subarachnoid hemorrhage: case report.", "content": "Pathologically confirmed cryptic vascular malformation as a cause of convexity subarachnoid hemorrhage: case report. We report a rare case of pathologically confirmed cryptic vascular malformation as a cause of primary convexity subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) of unknown etiology. A 48-year-old woman presented with sudden severe headache. Localized right convexity SAH was observed on computed tomography (CT) scan, but the origin could not be detected despite extensive workup covering the entire head by using 3.0-Tesla magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with MR angiography and CT angiography combined with venous-phase imaging with a 320-detector row CT scanner. Subsequent digital subtraction angiography (DSA) performed 2.5 hours after admission failed to reveal any cause of SAH; however, a right frontoparietal avascular region was suspected to be due to a newly developed intracerebral hematoma. The lesion was simultaneously confirmed by angiographic cone-beam CT imaging. Because she remained neurologically intact, we decided to perform a follow-up study later with medical management. However, she developed left hemiparesis 3 hours after DSA. CT scan demonstrated progression of the hematoma, and her symptoms gradually worsened. Emergent surgical exploration along the SAH superficial to the postcentral sulcus and hematoma evacuation were performed, with favorable functional outcome. Pathological examination confirmed cryptic vascular malformation with several abnormally dilated arterioles within the subarachnoid space surrounded by a thick SAH clot. It is important to consider the possibility of ruptured cryptic vascular malformation as a cause of nontraumatic nonaneurysmal convexity SAH when recurrent hemorrhage occurs despite thorough diagnostic workup, because surgical resection may be the only curative treatment option to eliminate the risk of rebleeding and disabling symptoms."}
{"id": "21737309", "title": "Low Alberta stroke program early computed tomography score within 3 hours of onset predicts subsequent symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage in patients treated with 0.6 mg/kg Alteplase.", "content": "Low Alberta stroke program early computed tomography score within 3 hours of onset predicts subsequent symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage in patients treated with 0.6 mg/kg Alteplase. The significance of early ischemic changes (EICs) on computed tomography (CT) in selecting candidates for thrombolysis remains controversial. The Alberta Stroke Program Early CT Score (ASPECTS) provides a semiquantitative scale that scores EICs within the middle cerebral artery territory using a 10-point grading system. We examined whether ASPECTS can predict the response to intravenous thrombolysis within 3 hours of stroke onset and incidence of secondary hemorrhage. Data from the Japan Alteplase Clinical Trial (J-ACT), in which 103 patients were included, were evaluated to assess the efficacy and safety of 0.6 mg/kg alteplase within 3 hours. All CT hardcopies were reevaluated retrospectively using the ASPECTS system. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was undertaken to determine whether an effect of ASPECTS existed on a defined favorable outcome as 0 or 1 on the modified Rankin Scale at 3 months, and symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (sICH) within 36 hours. The median ASPECTS value was 10 (range 3 to 10), and 56.3% revealed no evidence of EICs. ASPECTS had no effect on the patients' outcome, although a higher age and National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score were negatively associated with a favorable outcome. On the other hand, lower ASPECTS was significantly associated with sICH (odds ratio [OR] 2.224; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.227-4.032; P = .0084) and systolic blood pressure (OR 1.090; 95% CI 1.007-1.180; P = .0323) and the pre-ictal use of antiplatelet medications (OR 15.551; 95% CI 1.144-211.374; P = .0393). In J-ACT, patients with low ASPECTS values have an increased risk of thrombolysis-related sICH."}
{"id": "21720896", "title": "A case of cerebellar infarction presenting as thunderclap headache.", "content": "A case of cerebellar infarction presenting as thunderclap headache. Thunderclap headache (TCH) refers to a sudden-onset, severe headache that features in subarachnoid hemorrhage, unruptured intracranial aneurysm, cerebral venous thrombosis, pituitary apoplexy, cervical artery dissection, and hypertensive reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy. TCH is a rare manifestation in cerebral or cerebellar infarctions. Herein, we report on a 60-year-old woman with a thunderclap headache as the first symptom of cerebellar infarction, in the absence of abnormal findings in the brain computed tomography (CT), CT angiography, and lumbar puncture. An urgent brain MRI showed an acute infarction of the right cerebellar hemisphere. The next day, the patient presented with right side ataxia. In emergency cases presenting with thunderclap headache, one should consider an expanded evaluation and/or close observation, with frequent neurological examinations, even though the findings are normal on the initial neurological examination, cerebrospinal fluid analysis, and brain CT."}
{"id": "21667050", "title": "Developmental venous anomalies with capillary stain: a subgroup of symptomatic DVAs?", "content": "Developmental venous anomalies with capillary stain: a subgroup of symptomatic DVAs? Intracranial developmental venous anomalies (DVAs) are considered benign vascular dispositions; they are asymptomatic in the vast majority of cases. They represent extreme variations of the venous drainage and may rarely be responsible for focal venous ischemia leading to neurological dysfunction. The aim of the study is to analyze a group of patients with symptomatic DVAs with capillary stain at angiography. We retrospectively reviewed the clinical and radiological features of patients in which a DVA was considered the cause of a neurological event. In all the patients, the DVA was suspected by angio-CT or MRI and conventional angiography was performed to detail the angioarchitecture of the DVA. A total of 7 patients and 11 DVAs were identified; three patients had multiple DVAs. Three DVAs were frontal, two were parietal, two were thalamic, one was in the midbrain, and three were cerebellar. Patients presented with progressive neurological deficits, seizures, or cerebral hemorrhage. All these DVAs were associated with a peculiar capillary stain at angiography. Although being normal anatomical variations, DVAs may create, because of hemodynamic unbalance, venous ischemia that induces angiogenic phenomena. MRI shows the suffering of the brain and angiography witnesses this angiogenesis under the form of capillary stain. Conventional angiography can thus provide useful information to recognize \"atypical\" symptomatic DVAs."}
{"id": "21641006", "title": "[Our experience in the diagnosis and treatment of cerebral pseudoaneurysms].", "content": "[Our experience in the diagnosis and treatment of cerebral pseudoaneurysms]. To present our experience in the diagnosis and intravascular treatment of cerebral pseudoaneurysms. We present 11 pseudoaneurysms (2 traumatic, 2 mycotic, 3 iatrogenic, and 4 with other causes). We analyze the methods and diagnostic criteria, radiological and clinical outcome, the criteria used in making decisions about treatment, the method of treatment, and the complications. Digital subtraction angiography is the gold standard for the diagnosis of cerebral pseudoaneurysms; the diagnostic criteria in the literature include: aneurysms with early morphological changes and distal aneurysms or proximal aneurysms associated with another distal one, in the context of the right symptoms and signs. In the nine patients treated with endovascular techniques, the treatment objective was achieved and rebleeding did not occur. In cases with clinical suspicion of a pseudoaneurysm, the patient should undergo angiography. This is especially important in patients with inexplicable cerebral hemorrhage and in those with septicemia. CT angiography and MR angiography have good diagnostic accuracy and can replace conventional angiography. However, the treatment of choice is endovascular and treatment should not be delayed unless access to the pseudoaneurysm is impeded, usually due to severe cerebral vasospasm."}
{"id": "21640612", "title": "Gradient echo T2*-weighted magnetic resonance imaging revealing cerebral microbleeds in a patient with microscopic polyangiitis complicated by cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Gradient echo T2*-weighted magnetic resonance imaging revealing cerebral microbleeds in a patient with microscopic polyangiitis complicated by cerebrovascular disease. A 67-year-old woman developed alveolar hemorrhage and was positive for the myeloperoxidase antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (MPO-ANCA). She was diagnosed as having probable microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) in accordance with the Japanese criteria. Brain computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans revealed asymptomatic chronic cerebral hemorrhage and white matter lesions. She also later developed thalamic infarction. Gradient echo T2-weighted MRI showed cerebral microbleeds. Cerebral microbleeds in our patient represent bleeding-prone necrotizing vasculitis, which is a characteristic pathologic feature of MPA. Although cerebrovascular disease is not major complication of MPA, cerebral hemorrhage occurs more frequently than ischemic infarction, and it can be critical and fatal. Brain MRIs, including gradient echo T2-weighted imaging, should be performed on patients diagnosed as or suspected of having MPA to assess the risk of cerebral hemorrhage."}
{"id": "21640609", "title": "A model to prevent fibrinolysis in patients with stroke mimics.", "content": "A model to prevent fibrinolysis in patients with stroke mimics. Many patients with stroke-mimicking conditions receive treatment with intravenous fibrinolysis (IVF), a treatment associated with potentially serious complications. We sought to determine if any clinical or radiographic characteristics can help predict stroke mimics among IVF candidates. This retrospective study was carried out at a single institution. Patients treated with intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA; n = 193) were divided into 3 categories: acute ischemic stroke (n = 142), aborted stroke (n = 21), and stroke mimics (n = 30). Analysis of variance and the chi-square test were used to assess differences, while logistic regression models were computed to predict groups. Mimics treated with rt-PA did not experience complications (intracranial bleeding, systemic hemorrhage, or angioedema), and had better neurologic and functional outcomes than stroke patients (P < .05). Several variables helped differentiate strokes from mimics, including atherosclerosis on computed tomographic angiography (odds ratio [OR] 23.6; 95% confidence interval [CI] 8.4-66.2), atrial fibrillation (OR 11.4; 95% CI 1.5-86.3), age >50 years (OR 7.2; 95% CI 2.8-18.5), and focal weakness (OR 4.15; 95% CI 1.75-9.8). Other variables decreased chances of stroke: migraine history (OR 0.05; 95% CI 0.01-0.4), epilepsy (OR 0.13; 95% CI 0.02-0.8), paresthesia (OR 0.1; 95% CI 0.04-0.3), and precordialgia (OR 0.045; 95% CI 0.002-0.9). A regression model using focal weakness, computed tomographic angiography findings, and precordialgia had a 90.2% predictive accuracy. IVF has low complication rates in stroke mimics. Certain clinical characteristics appear predictive of stroke mimics, particularly normal computed tomographic angiography. If confirmed, this may help prevent giving IVF to patients without stroke."}
{"id": "21632193", "title": "Comparison of the accuracy of subtraction CT angiography performed on 320-detector row volume CT with conventional CT angiography for diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Comparison of the accuracy of subtraction CT angiography performed on 320-detector row volume CT with conventional CT angiography for diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms. The accuracy of diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms by subtraction computed tomography angiography (CTA) was compared with conventional non-subtracted CTA and with digital subtraction angiography (DSA). 56 patients with spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and suspected intracranial aneurysms were evaluated from September 2009 to January 2010. All underwent 320-detector row volume CT-CTA examinations. Non-contrast CT of each patient's head with the same scan range was performed before the routine CTA scan as the mask image for subtraction. The subtraction CTA volume data was obtained by subtracting the mask image volume data from the conventional non-subtracted CTA volume data. Subtraction and conventional CTA volume data were transmitted to a VOXAR workstation and two physicians with experience in diagnostic imaging of the nervous system independently carried out image post-processing and judged the results. Neurosurgeons performed endovascular treatment or surgical clipping based on information available through the CTA alone. In 42 patients, 51 aneurysms were detected by DSA. On a per-aneurysm basis, the diagnostic sensitivity of subtraction CTA was 98.9% for physician 1 and 100% for physician 2. The sensitivity of conventional CTA was 93.7% for physician 1 and 92.6% for physician 2. There was excellent inter-observer agreement (\u03ba=0.84, 95% confidence interval 0.82-0.85). The overall sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive and negative predictive values of subtraction CTA were all 100%. The overall sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive and negative predictive values of non-subtracted CTA were 94%, 100%, 100% and 76%, respectively. Therapeutic decisions could be made for all 42 patients based on subtraction CTA images, whereas conventional non-subtracted CTA provided sufficient information to make therapeutic decisions for only 35 patients. Conventional CTA has lower sensitivity for the detection of very small aneurysms and aneurysms adjacent to the skull when compared to subtraction CTA. Subtraction CTA performed on a 320-detector row volume CT is an accurate diagnostic tool that provides data equivalent to that obtained with three-dimensional-DSA for the detection of intracranial aneurysms."}
{"id": "21611795", "title": "Acetylsalicylic acid does not prevent digital subtraction angiography-related high signal intensity lesions in diffusion-weighted imaging in cerebrovascular patients. A retrospective analysis.", "content": "Acetylsalicylic acid does not prevent digital subtraction angiography-related high signal intensity lesions in diffusion-weighted imaging in cerebrovascular patients. A retrospective analysis. Assuming thromboembolic events to be the origin of silent strokes during cerebral digital subtraction angiography (DSA), antiplatelet therapy with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) should significantly reduce the risk for DSA-related silent stroke. The aim of this retrospective analysis was to assess whether ASA does prevent DSA-related silent stroke in terms of high signal intensity lesions in diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI). All patients underwent a baseline DW-MRI 24 h before DSA and a follow-up DW-MRI 3-24 h after DSA. Patients were considered to have an acute (silent) infarction caused by DSA if there was at least one hyperintense lesion of at least 1 mm in diameter and no neurological deficits. Out of 52 patients in the ASA group 11 (21.2%) had high signal lesions on DW-MRI and 20 out of 123 (16.3%) in the non-ASA group. No significant relationship between the ASA and non-ASA group and the post-angiographic appearance of high signal intensity lesions in DW-MRI could be found (Wilcoxon 2-sample test: p-value 0.9). The use of oral antiplatelet therapy by ASA (100 mg/day) in cerebrovascular patients did not prevent DSA-related high signal intensity lesions in DW-MRI in this study. Despite a potential bias of this retrospective analysis the findings challenge the current theory of thromboembolisms being the predominant origin of silent stroke. The findings therefore support alternative hypotheseses of the etiology of silent strokes, such as air embolism and mobilized embolic material by the catheter at the vessel wall."}
{"id": "21611726", "title": "Diffuse vascular injury: convergent-type hemorrhage in the supratentorial white matter on susceptibility-weighted image in cases of severe traumatic brain damage.", "content": "Diffuse vascular injury: convergent-type hemorrhage in the supratentorial white matter on susceptibility-weighted image in cases of severe traumatic brain damage. Susceptibility-weighted image (SWI) is one of the most sensitive methods for detect microbleeding and useful for evaluation of traumatic brain damage. The purpose of this study is to delineate the characteristics and importance of supratentorial deep white matter hemorrhages detected by SWI in cases of traumatic brain damage. Twenty-one consecutive cases with severe traumatic head injury were included in the current study. MRI examinations were made within 1 month after injury. We evaluated the degree and distribution of the supratentorial hemorrhages on SWI retrospectively. We classified the degree of bleeding into four grades: \"small hemorrhage,\" \"single bead-like hemorrhage,\" \"convergent-type hemorrhage,\" and \"massive hemorrhage.\" We then correlated the degree and distribution of the hemorrhage to clinical outcomes. We also evaluated the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) image of lobes with \"convergent-type hemorrhage.\" Existence of \"massive hemorrhage\" correlated with a poor outcome, that is, worse than \"severely disabled\" on the Glasgow Outcome Scale. The number of lobes affected by \"convergent-type hemorrhage\" also correlated with poor outcome. There were 45 lobes with \"convergent-type hemorrhage\" and 27 of them showed increased diffusivity on ADC images. Supratentorial massive hemorrhages and supratentorial convergent-type multiple hemorrhages were associated with poor prognosis after traumatic brain injury. The increased diffusivity in lobes with convergent-type hemorrhages may indicate that congestion of the proximal medullary vein may play some role for these hemorrhages."}
{"id": "21571549", "title": "Moyamoya disease presenting as thalamic hemorrhage in a patient with neuromyelitis optica and Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome.", "content": "Moyamoya disease presenting as thalamic hemorrhage in a patient with neuromyelitis optica and Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome. A 52-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital with right thalamic hemorrhage. A carotid angiogram revealed occlusion of the terminal portions of the bilateral internal carotid arteries with basal moyamoya vessels, which was diagnosed as moyamoya disease (MMD). At 31 years of age, she was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis because of optic neuritis and myelitis. Paraplegia appeared 14 days after admission. T2-weighted thoracic magnetic resonance imaging revealed a high intensity lesion extending from T4 to T6. Her left upper limb was partially paralytic and her lower limbs exhibited paraplegia and dysesthesia. Anti-aquaporin 4 and anti-Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome-A and -B antibodies were positive. The pathogenesis of neuromyelitis optica may be associated with such immunologic factors, but there are no reports of simultaneous presentations of neuromyelitis optica and MMD. Autoimmunity may be associated with the etiology of MMD."}
{"id": "21541687", "title": "CT angiography for evaluation of cerebral vasospasm following acute subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "CT angiography for evaluation of cerebral vasospasm following acute subarachnoid haemorrhage. Cerebral vasospasm (CV) is one of the most dreaded complications in patients who survive acute subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH), and conventional cerebral angiography (DSA) is the gold standard for its diagnosis. We evaluated CT angiography (CTA) as a non-invasive alternative for diagnosis of CV and assessed if CTA could have a role in choosing appropriate treatment. Consecutive patients with SAH and suspected vasospasm were included when DSA was performed within 24\u00a0h from CTA. Two neuro-radiologists retrospectively analysed CTA and DSA studies independently. Assessment included presence of central and peripheral vasospasm and grading of severity of central CV. A treatment recommendation based on CTA was compared to actual treatment received. Final analysis included 34 patients. CTA was more accurate for diagnosis of central then for peripheral CV with high sensitivity (reader 1, 91%; reader 2, 92%), specificity (reader 1, 73%; reader 2, 90%), accuracy, positive predictive value and negative predictive value for central vasospasm. For grading the severity of CV CTA's sensitivity, specificity and accuracy were high for most central arteries. The reader's recommendation of angioplasty according to CTA was significantly predictive of actual receipt of angioplasty but overestimated actual receipt of triple H treatment. CTA is adequate for detecting central vasospasm in symptomatic SAH patients. A negative result should not prevent further investigation especially when evaluating arterial segments adjacent to metal artefacts from coils or clips. CTA is helpful in treatment decision making specifically regarding the need for balloon angioplasty."}
{"id": "21511496", "title": "Predictors of cerebral venous thrombosis and arterial ischemic stroke in young Asian women.", "content": "Predictors of cerebral venous thrombosis and arterial ischemic stroke in young Asian women. The management and outcome of cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) may be different from that of arterial ischemic stroke (AIS). Clinically differentiating the 2 diseases on clinical grounds may be difficult. The main objective of this study was to identify predictors differentiating CVT from AIS in a large cohort of young Asian women, based on risk factors and investigations. Twelve centers in 8 Asian countries participated. Women aged 15-45 years were included if they had a diagnosis of first-ever symptomatic AIS or CVT confirmed by brain computed tomography scan or magnetic resonance imaging/magnetic resonance venography. Patients with head trauma, cerebral contusions, intracranial hemorrhage, and subarachnoid or subdural hemorrhage were excluded. Data, including demographic data, risk factor assessment, neuroimaging studies, blood tests, and cardiac studies, were collected by retrospective and then prospective chart review between January 2001 and July 2008. Outcome was based on the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score at admission, discharge, and latest follow-up. A total of 958 patients (204 with CVT and 754 with AIS) were included in the study. Age under 36 years, anemia, pregnancy or postpartum state, and presence of hemorrhagic infarcts on computed tomography scan or magnetic resonance imaging were significant predictors of CVT on univariate analysis. Age over 36 years, diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, recent myocardial infarction, electrocardiogram abnormalities, and blood glucose level >150 mg/dL were strong predictors of AIS. On multivariate analysis, postpartum state and hemorrhagic infarct were the strongest predictors of CVT (P < .001). Mortality was comparable in the 2 patient groups. Prognosis was significantly better for patients with CVT than for those with AIS (mRS score 0-2, 74% v 46%; P < .001). There was no difference in outcome between patients with obstetric and nonobstetric CVT. Our data indicate that in young Asian women, predictors of CVT differ from those for AIS. These findings could be useful in the early identification and diagnosis of patients with CVT."}
{"id": "21489706", "title": "Volumetric modulated arc-based hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy for the treatment of selected intracranial arteriovenous malformations: dosimetric report and early clinical experience.", "content": "Volumetric modulated arc-based hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy for the treatment of selected intracranial arteriovenous malformations: dosimetric report and early clinical experience. To evaluate, with a dosimetric and clinical feasibility study, RapidArc (a volumetric modulated arc technique) for hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy treatment of large arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). Nine patients were subject to multimodality imaging (magnetic resonance, computed tomography, and digital subtraction angiography) to determine nidus and target volumes, as well as involved organs at risk (optical structures, inner ear, brain stem). Plans for multiple intensity-modulated arcs with a single isocenter were optimized for a fractionation of 25 Gy in 5 fractions. All plans were optimized for 6-MV photon beams. Dose-volume histograms were analyzed to assess plan quality. Delivery parameters were reported to appraise technical features of RapidArc, and pretreatment quality assurance measurements were carried out to report on quality of delivery. Average size of AVM nidus was 26.2 cm(3), and RapidArc plans provided complete target coverage with minimal overdosage (V(100%)\u00a0= 100% and V(110%) < 1%) and excellent homogeneity (<6%). Organs at risk were highly spared. The D(1%) to chiasm, eyes, lenses, optic nerves, and brainstem (mean \u00b1 SD) was 6.4 \u00b1 8.3, 1.9 \u00b1 3.8, 2.3 \u00b1 2.2, 0.7 \u00b1 0.9, 4.4 \u00b1 7.2, 12.2 \u00b1 9.6 Gy, respectively. Conformity index (CI(95%)) was 2.2 \u00b1 0.1. The number of monitor units per gray was 277 \u00b1 45, total beam-on time was 2.5 \u00b1 0.3 min. Planning vs. delivery \u03b3 pass rate was 98.3% \u00b1 0.9%. None of the patients developed acute toxicity. With a median follow-up of 9 months, 3 patients presented with deterioration of symptoms and were found to have postradiation changes but responded symptomatically to steroids. These patients continue to do well on follow-up. One patient developed headache and seizures, which was attributed to intracranial bleed, confirmed on imaging. Hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy can be successfully delivered using the RapidArc form of volumetric arc technology for intracranial AVMs. The quality of delivery and calculated parameters are in agreement with each other and are in line with published reports for other sites."}
{"id": "21482145", "title": "E-learn computed tomographic angiography: a proposed educational tool for computed tomographic angiography in acute stroke.", "content": "E-learn computed tomographic angiography: a proposed educational tool for computed tomographic angiography in acute stroke. Computed tomographic angiography (CTA) is widely available in emergency rooms to assess acute stroke patients. To standardize readings and educate new readers, we developed a 3-step e-learning tool based on the test-teach-retest methodology in 2 acute stroke scenarios: vascular occlusion and \"spot sign\" in acute intracerebral hemorrhage. We hypothesized that an e-learning program enhances reading skills in physicians of varying experience. We developed an HTML-based program with a teaching segment and 2 matching test segments. Tests were taken before and after the teaching segment; the test size was 40% of the teaching segment size. We assessed diagnostic accuracy and readers' confidence. Results were compared using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. Four neurologic consultants and four radiologic residents completed the program. The vascular occlusion teaching segment increased diagnostic accuracy from 42% to 68% (P = .005). The neurologic consultants showed significant progress, with average scores of 50% versus 75% (P = .027). The radiologic residents showed trend with progress, with average scores of 33% versus 60% (P = .081). The entire group detected spot sign correctly 69% before versus 92% after teaching (P = .009) and reported a median self-perceived diagnostic certainty of 50% versus 75% (P = .030). Self-perceived diagnostic certainty revealed no significant increase for vascular occlusion. The e-learning program is a useful educational tool for users of varying experience, and it enhances diagnostic confidence."}
{"id": "21466929", "title": "Susceptibility-weighted angiography (SWAN) of cerebral veins and arteries compared to TOF-MRA.", "content": "Susceptibility-weighted angiography (SWAN) of cerebral veins and arteries compared to TOF-MRA. High resolution, non-contrast imaging of both cerebral veins and arteries by use of gradient echo T2 star weighted angiography (SWAN) is a new method for susceptibility-weighted imaging with short acquisition times. We assessed the potential of this sequence for the depiction of both cerebral veins and arteries. 15 healthy volunteers were included in the study. MRI was performed on a 3T MR scanner using the following sequences: (1) a 3D multi-echo gradient echo T2 star weighted angiography (SWAN), (2) an arterial 3D TOF MR angiography and (3) a venous 2D TOF. With regard to the SWAN sequence, both MinIP and MIP images were reconstructed and systematically compared to MIP reconstructions of the artTOF and the venTOF. To suggest possible clinical implications of our findings, we additionally included two illustrative cases. With regard to the visualization of the cerebral veins, the MinIP reconstructions of the SWAN sequence were considerably superior compared to the venTOF. Concerning the depiction of the main segments of the big cerebral arteries the value of the MIP reconstructions of the SWAN was comparable to that of the artTOF with limitations in the homogenity and in the depiction of smaller arteries. SWAN allows for high-resolution visualization of both cerebral veins and arteries in one sequence without application of contrast agent and with significantly shortened scan time compared to the combined scan time of TOF-MRA and TOF-MRV. By use of either MinIP or MIP reconstructions, the arteries can be distinguished from the veins."}
{"id": "21376630", "title": "Rapidly progressive cognitive impairment, ataxia, and myoclonus: an unusual presentation of a dural arteriovenous fistula.", "content": "Rapidly progressive cognitive impairment, ataxia, and myoclonus: an unusual presentation of a dural arteriovenous fistula. Dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) have a wide range of clinical presentations, including dementia associated with white matter changes (WMCs). We report a case of DAVF presenting as a rapid progressive dementia and myoclonus without WMCs. A 64-year-old hypertensive and diabetic man was admitted because of a 3-month history of progressive cognitive decline, extrapyramidal and cerebellar signs, and myoclonus. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of the brain showed dilated cerebellar veins and T2WI hypersignal in the basal ganglia without WMCs. After admission, he suffered sequential bilateral deep intracerebral hemorrhages. A repeated angioMRI disclosed thrombosis of the distal sagittal and the proximal lateral sinuses. Angiography revealed a torcullar region DAVF. Embolization of the dural fistula was performed. On follow-up, the patients' cognitive deficits improved and myoclonus disappeared. The clinical picture may be explained by venous hypertension in the deep venous system, producing bilateral basal ganglia/thalamic dysfunction and in the posterior fossa. This case shows that DAVFs can produce subcortical dementia without involvement of the deep white matter."}
{"id": "21316169", "title": "Clinical utility of quantitative magnetic resonance angiography in the assessment of the underlying pathophysiology in a variety of cerebrovascular disorders.", "content": "Clinical utility of quantitative magnetic resonance angiography in the assessment of the underlying pathophysiology in a variety of cerebrovascular disorders. Quantitative MRA (qMRA) is a relatively new technique that uses traditional time-of-flight and phase-contrast MRI to visualize extracranial and intracranial vascular anatomy and measure volumetric blood flow. We aimed to assess the clinical utility of qMRA in assessing the hypothesized pathophysiology (HP) in a range of cerebrovascular diseases. Moreover, we postulated that evaluation of the arterial waveforms, can improve the evaluation of the hypothesized pathophysiology by qMRA. We reviewed studies from 10 patients who underwent qMRA examinations before and after their treatments. Two reviewers assessed the anatomy, volumetric flow rates and arterial waveforms for each vessel sampled and reached a consensus as to whether the above parameters supported the clinical diagnosis/hypothesized pathophysiology and the subsequent management. All 20 qMRA studies were technically adequate. qMRA supported the HP in all 10 patients as determined by abnormal volumetric flow values in the affected vessels before treatment and by the correction of these abnormal values in the patients whose treatment was successful. Each of our five patients with occlusive disease/vasoconstriction demonstrated evidence of dampening of the arterial waveforms distally to the narrowed artery (parvus-tardus phenomenon). The parvus-tardus effect disappeared after treatment. qMRA is unique in combining time-of-flight MRA in a complementary manner with phase-contrast MRA to obtain volumetric flow values and potentially important physiologic information from arterial waveform analysis in patients with a range of cerebrovascular diseases during the course of a single MR examination."}
{"id": "21143549", "title": "Risk assessment of hemorrhagic transformation of acute middle cerebral artery stroke using multimodal CT.", "content": "Risk assessment of hemorrhagic transformation of acute middle cerebral artery stroke using multimodal CT. Multimodal CT with CT angiography (CTA) and CT perfusion (CTP) are increasingly used in stroke triage. Our aim was to identify parameters most predictive of hemorrhagic transformation (HT), especially symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (SICH). This retrospective study included patients evaluated by baseline multimodal CT \u2264 9 hours from ictus with acute nonlacunar middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory infarction. Two readers independently evaluated CTP maps for ischemic severity and CTA source images (CTA-SI) for infarct extent (as measured by ASPECTS). Presence of proximal occlusion (ICA or M1) and degree of collateralization (collateral score) were also assessed on CTA. HT was defined as SICH if associated with deterioration \u2265 4-points on NIHSS. Multivariate logistic regression analysis identified independent predictors of SICH. ROC curves selected optimal thresholds. Of 84 patients reviewed, HT occurred in 22 (26.2%) and SICH in 8 (9.5%). Univariate predictors for SICH were proximal occlusion (OR = 8.65, P= .049), collateral score (OR = .34, P= .017), ASPECTS (OR = .46, P= .001), and CBV (OR = .001, P= .005). Multivariate analysis revealed ASPECTS as the only independent predictor with optimal threshold \u2264 5 and sensitivity and specificity of 75.0% and 85.5%, respectively. For acute MCA infarcts \u2264 9 hours, the strongest predictor of SICH on multimodal CT was ASPECTS on CTA-SI."}
{"id": "21122027", "title": "Interventional neurology: a reborn subspecialty.", "content": "Interventional neurology: a reborn subspecialty. Neurologists have a long history of involvement in cerebral angiography; however, the roots of neurologist involvement in therapeutic endovascular procedures have not been previously documented. As outlined in this article, it has taken the efforts of several early pioneers to lay the ground work for interventional neurology, a specialty that has become one of the fastest growing neurological subspecialties. The ground work, along with a great clinical need, has allowed the modern interventional neurologist to tackle some of the most intractable diseases, especially those affecting the cerebral vasculature. The institutionalization of interventional neurology as a subspecialty was first advocated in 1995 in an article entitled, \"Interventional Neurology, a subspecialty whose time has come.\" The institutions created in the wake of this article have provided the framework that has allowed interventional neurology to transition from \"a subspecialty whose time has come\" to a subspecialty that is here to stay and thrive."}
{"id": "22689844", "title": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome in a postpartum female complicated by subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome in a postpartum female complicated by subarachnoid haemorrhage."}
{"id": "22674700", "title": "Osteogenesis imperfecta presenting as aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage in a 53-year-old man.", "content": "Osteogenesis imperfecta presenting as aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage in a 53-year-old man. The authors describe a case of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage in a 53-year-old man with background of osteogenesis imperfecta (OI). CT brain revealed diffuse subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and cerebral angiogram subsequently confirmed vertebral artery aneurysm rupture leading to SAH. To the authors knowledge this is the first case of vertebral artery aneurysmal SAH described in OI. A previously undiagnosed OI was confirmed by genetic analysis (COL1A1 gene mutation). This aneurysm was successfully treated by endovascular route. Post interventional treatment patient developed stroke secondary to vasospasm. Communicating hydrocephalus, which developed in the process of management, was successfully treated with ventriculo-peritoneal shunt. The aetio-pathogenesis and management of this condition is described. The authors have reviewed the literature and genetic basis of this disease."}
{"id": "22364941", "title": "Sensitivity and specificity for screening of chronic cerebrospinal venous insufficiency using a multimodal non-invasive imaging approach in patients with multiple sclerosis.", "content": "Sensitivity and specificity for screening of chronic cerebrospinal venous insufficiency using a multimodal non-invasive imaging approach in patients with multiple sclerosis. The aim of this study was to investigate whether a combination of Doppler sonography (DS) and magnetic resonance venography (MRV) on 3T MRI increases specificity for detection of chronic cerebrospinal venous insufficiency (CCSVI) in 171 (113 relapsing-remitting, 47 secondary-progressive, 11 primary progressive) patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and 79 age- and sex matched healthy controls (HCs). One hundred ten (64.3%) MS patients and 30 (38%) HCs presented \u22652 venous hemodynamic CCSVI criteria (p<.0001). Both DS and MRV showed relatively high specificity but lower sensitivity for determining a CCSVI diagnosis in patients with MS vs HCs and between MS subgroups. In MS patients this diagnostic specificity increased to over 90% by combining internal jugular vein and vertebral vein abnormal DS and MRV findings, reflux in deep cerebral veins and MRV findings of >1 collateral veins. This study suggests that a multimodal non-invasive approach (DS and MRV) increases the specificity for a diagnosis of CCSVI in patients with MS."}
{"id": "22263392", "title": "Benign angiopathy of the central nervous system or reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome.", "content": "Benign angiopathy of the central nervous system or reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome. Benign angiopathy of the central nervous system is a subset of primary angiitis of the central nervous system characterized by \"benign\" course. It means that changes of cerebral vessels are reversible after treatment with corticosteroids and calcium channel blockers, so these abnormalities are believed to reflect vasospasm rather than true vasculitis. The diagnosis is made on the basis of clinical presentation, brain magnetic resonance imaging and cerebral angiography. We present a young man with acute onset of headache and neurologic impairment secondary to ischemic stroke with intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography showed characteristic findings of diffuse vasculitis but good response to treatment with corticosteroids and calcium channel blockers distinguish this benign angiopathy from the more aggressive form of the central nervous system vasculitis."}
{"id": "22234208", "title": "Dural arteriovenous fistula with spinal perimedullary venous drainage.", "content": "Dural arteriovenous fistula with spinal perimedullary venous drainage. The purpose of this study was to investigate the characteristics of six patients with dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) with drainage directly into the perimedullary venous system. In five patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), cerebral angiography revealed a DAVF with spinal venous drainage located at the petrosal sinus in one, at the tentorium in one, and at the craniocervical junction in four. In the patient with myelopathy, angiographic exploration began with a spinal angiogram. Bilateral vertebral angiography initially failed to demonstrate the fistula, and a tentorial DAVF was established with carotid artery angiography. Patients had no myelopathy when the venous drainage was limited to the cervical cord; myelopathy was present when the venous drainage descended toward the conus medullaris. Diagnosis of a DAVF presenting with myelopathy is more challenging than of those presenting with SAH."}
{"id": "22198106", "title": "Ruptured distal accessory anterior cerebral artery aneurysm--case report.", "content": "Ruptured distal accessory anterior cerebral artery aneurysm--case report. A 48-year-old man presented with an extremely rare aneurysm arising from an accessory anterior cerebral artery (ACA) manifesting as sudden onset of headache lasting for 5 days. Neurological examination on admission revealed no abnormalities. Computed tomography showed subarachnoid hemorrhage of the interhemispheric fissure and intraparenchymal hematoma of the left cingulate gyrus. Magnetic resonance and cerebral angiography revealed a saccular aneurysm of the distal portion of the accessory ACA classified as the bihemispheric type. Neck clipping of the aneurysm was performed via an interhemispheric approach 17 days after symptom onset. The patient made a good postoperative recovery without neurological deficit. Distal accessory ACA aneurysms tend to arise from the first bifurcation and supply parietal branches. The aneurysms tend to occur on the bihemispheric type of distal accessory ACA. Hemodynamic stress may contribute to formation or development of these aneurysms."}
{"id": "22198105", "title": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage due to ruptured posterior cerebral artery aneurysm simultaneously associated with multiple remote intracerebral hemorrhages--case report.", "content": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage due to ruptured posterior cerebral artery aneurysm simultaneously associated with multiple remote intracerebral hemorrhages--case report. A 61-year-old woman presented with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) associated with multiple remote intracerebral hemorrhages (ICHs). She had undergone microsurgical neck clipping for ruptured right middle cerebral artery aneurysm and ventriculo-peritoneal shunting 16 years previously. Computed tomography revealed SAH predominantly in the basal cistern and ambient cistern, in association with multiple ICHs in the bilateral tegmentum of the brain stem and right caudate nucleus. Digital subtraction angiography revealed an aneurysm at the P(1) segment of the left posterior cerebral artery. The ruptured aneurysm was microsurgically clipped via a left subtemporal approach without complications. Simultaneous occurrence of aneurysmal SAH and multiple remote ICHs is rare. The spatial pattern of the ICHs in the present case is apparently unique."}
{"id": "22192555", "title": "Spontaneous post-partum cervical carotid artery dissection in a patient with reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome.", "content": "Spontaneous post-partum cervical carotid artery dissection in a patient with reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome. Post-partum cervicocephalic artery dissection (pp-CAD) is a rare and poorly understood condition. To our knowledge, only 21 cases have been reported. Reversible cerebral segmental vasoconstriction (RCSV) was first described by Call and Fleming in 1988, and its association with pp-CAD has only been reported in three cases. However, in those cases it is unclear whether the pp-CAD may have been caused by straining during labor and therefore merely coincidental to the intracranial arteriopathy. We describe a 41-year-old right-handed African-American woman who developed the syndrome of pp-CAD (headaches, trace subarachnoid hemorrhage and diffuse cerebral arteriopathy on angiogram) two weeks after delivery. In this unique case, the patient had fortuitously undergone an MR study twice over a four day period which included the carotid bifurcations. During that time the patient was an inpatient, on bed rest and subject to continuous cardiac monitoring. The interval studies documented a true spontaneous right internal carotid artery dissection occurring without obvious cause. The patient had noted moderate right neck pain developing between the two MR studies but experienced no neurological deficits. Subsequent conventional angiography confirmed the presence of postpartum cerebral arteriopathy and the cervical dissection. The patient was managed conservatively with antiplatelet medication and had an otherwise uneventful course. We hypothesize whether transient arterial wall abnormalities, postpartum hormonal changes or subtle connective tissue aberrations play a similar role in the pathogenesis of these two associated conditions."}
{"id": "22182824", "title": "[Pathology of small cerebral arteries demonstrated by MRI: a marker of aging?].", "content": "[Pathology of small cerebral arteries demonstrated by MRI: a marker of aging?]. Brain magnetic resonance imaging frequently identifies signal abnormalities in the white matter and cerebral cortex in the elderly. They are related to a degenerative disease of the small vessels that may be of ischemic (leukoaraiosis, lacunae and infarct) or hemorrhagic (microbleeds and hematomas) origin. These lesions are part of the aging process, and compounded by vascular risk factors. They increase the occurrence frequency and severity of ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke. Their importance is also associated with the presence of cognitive and/or affective symptoms, and their impact on the occurrence and evolution of dementia remains to be evaluated. The visible consequences of this microangiopathy on MRI probably represent the focal mark of a widespread cerebrovascular disease in the brain parenchyma."}
{"id": "22128271", "title": "[Case of postpartum intracerebral hemorrhage due to pregnancy induced hypertension].", "content": "[Case of postpartum intracerebral hemorrhage due to pregnancy induced hypertension]. A 32-year-old woman, gravida 0, para 0, was admitted to the obstetrics department of our hospital after a cesarean section at 35 weeks of gestation. The cesarean section was performed because pregnancy induced hypertension (PIH) had worsened. The next day, she suddenly became drowsy and developed right hemiparesis and anisocoria. Computed tomography of the brain showed intracerebral hemorrhage in the parietal lobe with uncal herniation. She underwent an urgent craniotomy and removal of the hematoma. Five days later, magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the brain showed vasospasm of the bilateral intracranial internal carotid arteries, middle cerebral arteries, and anterior cerebral arteries. Thirteen days later, cerebral angiography showed cessation of vasospasm and vascular abnormalities such as moyamoya disease, arteriovenous malformation and cerebral aneurysm were not observed. Twenty-one days later, MRA showed the absence of vasospasm in those arteries, but her right hemiparesis and sensory aphasia persisted. Twenty-six days later, she was transferred to another hospital for further rehabilitation. Neurosurgeons should be aware of the possibility of intracerebral hemorrhage caused by PIH. In this manuscript, we provide a case presentation and review of the literature."}
{"id": "22109300", "title": "Accuracy of on-call resident interpretation of CT angiography for intracranial aneurysm in subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Accuracy of on-call resident interpretation of CT angiography for intracranial aneurysm in subarachnoid hemorrhage. The purpose of this article is to evaluate the accuracy of preliminary on-call radiology resident interpretation of CT angiography (CTA) compared with digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in detecting cerebral aneurysms in subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). A retrospective review compared resident interpretations of head CTA performed after hours for SAH to the results of DSA. The sensitivity and specificity of resident interpretations were classified on a per-patient and per-aneurysm basis. The accuracy of resident interpretations was also determined according to aneurysm location and number. Between January 2007 and December 2009, 83 patients with SAH underwent both CTA and DSA. DSA documented an aneurysm in 53 of 83 patients. Per patient, residents identified at least one aneurysm in 46 of 53 patients (87%). Per aneurysm, resident sensitivity and specificity for detecting aneurysms of any size were 62% and 91%, respectively, which improved for aneurysms 3 mm or larger to 73% and 97%, respectively. The posterior communicating and intracranial internal carotid arteries were resident \"blind spots,\" with aneurysms 3 mm or larger detected with sensitivities of 33% and 50%, respectively. In contrast, anterior communicating artery aneurysms were correctly identified 95% of the time. In only 35% of cases with multiple aneurysms did residents correctly identify more than one aneurysm. The sensitivity of on-call resident interpretation of CTA for aneurysms in SAH is lower than expected, with a potential for delay in diagnosis and management in a small number of patients. Focused training to carefully review apparent blind spots and the frequency of multiple aneurysms may reduce inaccuracies."}
{"id": "22073608", "title": "[A case of Churg-Strauss syndrome with subarachnoid hemorrhage and left phrenic nerve paralysis].", "content": "[A case of Churg-Strauss syndrome with subarachnoid hemorrhage and left phrenic nerve paralysis]. A 60-year-old woman was given a diagnosis of Churg-Strauss syndrome (CSS) in 2000 because of peripheral blood eosinophilia, eosinophilic pneumonia, asthma, polyarticular pain, and limb numbness. She was treated with prednisolone (PSL), and the above symptoms improved but then relapsed on tapering of PSL. In September 2009, after 7 days of tapering of PSL to 5mg/day, the patient developed a subarachnoid hemorrhage and was admitted. MRA and cerebral angiography revealed no aneurysm; the source of bleeding could not be determined, but her symptoms indicated a benign course. A chest X-ray 27 days after admission showed left diaphragmatic elevation, and left phrenic nerve paralysis was diagnosed by a phrenic nerve stimulation test. Peripheral blood eosinophilia had progressed gradually during the admission period, and although it is rare for subarachnoid hemorrhage and phrenic nerve paralysis to be associated with CSS, we regarded these as vasculitis symptoms related to CSS."}
{"id": "22068445", "title": "[Retinal microangiopathy in arterial hypertension as an early marker of a cerebral macroangiopathy].", "content": "[Retinal microangiopathy in arterial hypertension as an early marker of a cerebral macroangiopathy]. A 54-year-old man reported having had nonspecific attacks of dizziness. His BMI was 27.7. Since 11 years he had been treated for arterial hypertension and had received oral medication for type 2 diabetes for one year. The latest blood pressure value was 134/109 mm\u2009Hg during treatment with a combination of atenolol, chlortalidone und hydralazine-HCl; furthermore hr received simvastatin, metformin, glimepirid und ramipril. A standardized telemedical imaging of the retina (\"talkingeyes (\u00ae) \") was undertaken, revealing focal and generalized arteriolar narrowing of the retinal vessels and a retinal microinfarction (cotton wool spot) in the right eye. The arterial/venous ratio was decreased to 0.74 in the right and 0.77 in the left eye. Optical coherence tomographie (OCT) revealed an ischemic microinfarction of the retina with marked axonal swelling. The digital subtraction angiography of the cerebral vessels revealed a 40\u200a% stenosis of the right internal carotid artery and a proximal, highgrade stenosis of the basilary artery. Angioplasty with stent insertion of the basilary artery was performed. Long-term observation showed no restenosis and a reduction in the size of the the retinal microinfarct. Retinal microinfarctions denote localized retinal areas of hypoxia and underperfusion. They may act as markers of a generalized micro- and macroangiopathy. Patients with severe retinal microangiopathic changes should be examined thoroughly to detect early macroangiopathic changes. These can be treated by interventional procedures thus avoiding irreversible end-organ damages."}
{"id": "22051988", "title": "Imaging for carotid stenting.", "content": "Imaging for carotid stenting. Carotid artery stenting (CAS) using embolic protection devices (EPD) has emerged as a viable alternative to carotid endarterectomy (CEA) in select patients. Imaging plays a critical role in the selection of patients for CAS. Duplex ultrasonography alone is insufficient to assess patients for CAS suitability. Advancements in computed tomography angiography (CTA) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) techniques are helping to identify lesions vulnerable to cerebral embolization during carotid interventions - a more prevalent event during CAS in comparison to CEA. Here we review the relevant data on the various imaging techniques available to improve patient selection and minimize neurologic adverse events during carotid artery stenting."}
{"id": "22032506", "title": "Vascular brain pathologies.", "content": "Vascular brain pathologies. Vascular pathologies of brain comprise a heterogeneous group of abnormalities such as vasculitis, dural arteriovenous malformations, carotid-cavernous fistulas, cerebral venous thrombosis, and intracerebral hemorrhage. Modern imaging techniques are increasingly unraveling these vascular lesions of the brain at a stage when many of them are still asymptomatic. This article focuses on acquired vascular pathologies of brain prevalent in tropical countries that are encountered in clinical practice."}
{"id": "22030422", "title": "Gamma knife for cerebral arteriovenous malformations at a single centre.", "content": "Gamma knife for cerebral arteriovenous malformations at a single centre. We report the results of a consecutive series of patients treated with Gamma Knife (GK) Surgery for cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). We retrospectively reviewed 69 patients treated with GK for cerebral AVMs between November 2003 and April 2009, recording clinical data, treatment parameters, and AVM obliteration rates in order to assess our effectiveness with GK in treating these lesions. Ten patients were lost to follow-up. Presentations included: seizure (24), hemorrhage (18), persistent headache (12), progressing neurological signs (10), and incidental (9). In 24 patients (34.8%) treatment planning consisted of digital subtraction angiography (DSA), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and computed tomogram (CT) angiography (CTA). Currently we rely predominantly on CTA and/or MRI scanning only. Fourty-one patients have been followed for a minimum of 3 years; average age 40.9 yr., 58.5% males. Average dose at the 50% isodose line was 20.3 Gy (range 16 to 26.4 Gy). Obliteration was observed in 87.8% by MRI, CT, or DSA. Not all obliteration was confirmed by DSA. Complications occurred in 12 of 59 (20.3%) patients, and in 11 of 41 (26.8%) with 3 year follow-up. Major (temporary) complications for the 59 included symptomatic cerebral edema (7), seizure (2), and hemorrhage (1). Major permanent complications occurred in one patient suffering a cranial nerve V deafferentation, and in two patients suffering a hemorrhage. GKS for cerebral AVM's offers an effective and safe method of treatment, with low permanent complication rate."}
{"id": "22008898", "title": "De-novo headache with transient vertebro-basilar symptoms: role of embryonic hypoglossal artery.", "content": "De-novo headache with transient vertebro-basilar symptoms: role of embryonic hypoglossal artery. We report the case of a 56-year-old man with acute onset of de-novo stabbing, pulsating and diffuse headache with subsequent appearance (within few minutes) of posterior fossa symptoms (vomiting, postural instability, anisocoria, incoordination, dysarthria, retropulsion) lasting 9-12\u00a0h. Recurrent hypertensive crises were detected during the acute observation in the Emergency Room, even in the absence of previous history of hypertension. Once subarachnoid hemorrhage and focal lesions (vascular and non-vascular) were excluded, brain computerized tomography-angiography and digital subtraction angiography disclosed the presence of left persistent primitive hypoglossal artery with bilateral vertebral artery hypoplasia and a slight aneurysmal dilation of the anterior communicating artery. Brain magnetic resonance study performed 24\u00a0h after onset of symptoms was negative for recent ischemic lesions. The clinical features of this rare vascular condition are discussed as a possible cause of magnetic resonance (diffusion weighted imaging) negative vertebro-basilar transient ischemic attack."}
{"id": "22005694", "title": "Bleeding source identification and treatment in brain arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "Bleeding source identification and treatment in brain arteriovenous malformations. Arteriovenous malformation (AVM) patients who initially present with intracerebral haemorrhage may have an identifiable source of bleeding on angiogram, which can be a treatment target. Previous work suggests that the re-bleed rate may be lowered if a weak area is eliminated.A retrospective cohort study was conducted on patients who presented over a six-year period with a bled AVM. Cases were reviewed looking for the source of the hemorrhage by correlating haematoma location on CT or MRI and any angio-architectural weakness seen on digital subtraction angiography (DSA). Neuroendovascular notes were reviewed to identify the treatment targets. One hundred patients presented with a brain AVM with a 1.7:1 male: female ratio, 41 patients had an initial presentation of hemorrhage. The source of hemorrhage was identified in 18 subjects with 11 intranidal false aneurysms, five flow-related aneurysms, two associated aneurysms and one venous pouch. The location of haemorrhage on the presenting scan significantly correlated with the identified bleeding source using Chi-square analysis (P-value 0.039). Partial targeted embolization was used successfully in 90% with a 9% related technical complication rate not resulting in long-term morbidity or mortality. The mean follow-up period was 34 months with an annual hemorrhage rate of 0.7%. In just under half the patients with AVM bleeding a source of haemorrhage can be identified on DSA and in most cases this will be an intranidal false aneurysm. Flow-related and associated aneurysms in patients with brain AVM can cause haemorrhage and these patients are more likely to have SAH than intracerebral haemorrhage.These weak points are a good target for partial endovascular treatment, are usually accessible and may reduce the higher haemorrhage rate expected over the next two years."}
{"id": "21998314", "title": "Ultraearly hematoma growth predicts poor outcome after acute intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Ultraearly hematoma growth predicts poor outcome after acute intracerebral hemorrhage. To investigate the impact of the adjustment of initial intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) volume by onset-to-imaging time (ultraearly hematoma growth [uHG]) on further hematoma enlargement and outcome in patients with acute ICH. We studied 133 patients with acute (<6 hours) supratentorial ICH. Patients underwent baseline and 24-hour CT scans for ICH volume measurement, and a CT angiography (CTA) for the detection of the spot sign. We defined uHG as the relation between baseline ICH volume/onset-to-imaging time, hematoma growth (HG) as hematoma enlargement >33% or >6 mL at 24 hours, early neurologic deterioration (END) as increase \u22654 points in the NIH Stroke Scale score or death at 24 hours, and poor long-term outcome as modified Rankin Scale score >2 at 3 months. The uHG was significantly faster in spot sign patients (p < 0.001), as well as in patients who experienced HG (p = 0.021), END (p < 0.001), 3-month mortality (p < 0.001), and poor long-term outcome (p < 0.001). The uHG improved the accuracy of baseline ICH volume in the prediction of END (sensitivity 93.1% vs 82.8%, specificity 85.3% vs 82.4%) and 3-month mortality (sensitivity 77.5% vs 70%, specificity 87.9% vs 84.6%). A uHG >10.2 mL/hour emerged as the most powerful predictor of HG (odds ratio [OR] 3.55, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.39-9.07, p = 0.008), END (OR 70.22, 95% CI 14.63-337.03, p < 0.001), 3-month mortality (OR 16.96, 95% CI 5.32-54.03, p < 0.001), and poor long-term outcome (OR 6.19, 95% CI 1.32-28.98, p = 0.021). The uHG represents a powerful and easy-to-use tool for improving the prediction of HG and outcome in patients with acute ICH."}
{"id": "21998110", "title": "Transarterial treatment with Onyx of intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula with cortical drainage in 17 patients.", "content": "Transarterial treatment with Onyx of intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula with cortical drainage in 17 patients. Intracranial DAVFs with cortical venous drainage have a high tendency to bleed. Complete closure of these lesions is essential to prevent clinically deleterious events. We describe our experience using Onyx in an arterial approach for treatment of DAVFs in 17 patients. Between 2006 and 2010, we used Onyx for performing transarterial embolization in 17 patients with intracranial DAVFs and cortical venous drainage. Clinical assessment was performed before and after every treatment at discharge and at follow-up. Fourteen patients underwent follow-up MR imaging and MRA, 8 of them also underwent follow-up diagnostic angiography. Fifteen patients (88%) underwent 1 procedure. Complete obliteration by embolization with Onyx was achieved in 16 patients (94% acute obliteration). The mean amount of Onyx injected was 2.3 mL (range, 0.4-4.8 mL). The sole technical complication was an embolus to a branch of the MCA, which was resolved by intra-arterial tPA injection. A clinical complication of transient trochlear nerve palsy in the same patient due to mass effect of Onyx resolved spontaneously within 3 months. Intra-arterial embolization of cranial DAVFs with cortical venous drainage by using Onyx results in a high rate of complete obliteration (94%) with low morbidity (6%). Follow-up DSA in 8 patients revealed no evidence of reopening."}
{"id": "21990840", "title": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage: a case series.", "content": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage: a case series. Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes (RCVS) represent a heterogeneous group of cerebrovascular disease characterized by acute presentations and transient segmental narrowing of the distal intracranial arteries. A series of patients with RCVS were studied to better understand the clinical and imaging characteristics of this rare pathology. A retrospective study was performed on patients that met inclusion criteria for a diagnosis of RCVS. Pertinent clinical and laboratory data, initial and follow-up imaging, treatment and outcomes were studied. 11 patients (10 women, mean age 42 years) diagnosed with RCVS presented with acute onset of severe headache, neurological symptoms and subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Cross sectional imaging (CT/MRI) identified presentations of cortical SAH (n=9) and/or acute infarcts (n=3). Initial cerebral angiography (digital subtraction angiography n=10 or MR angiography n=1) confirmed diffuse vasoconstriction involving the intracranial vasculature. Rheumatological panel (n=9) and CSF analysis (n=8) were not supportive of vasculitis in any patient. In nearly all cases, reversal of vasoconstriction was noted on follow-up cerebral angiography with early resolution in less than 3 months. RCVS classically presents with 'thunderclap' headaches and neurological symptoms but cortical SAH is not an uncommon presentation with a unique and focal distribution overlying the cerebral sulci. Although the initial clinical and angiographic appearance of RCVS may be confused for vasospasm related to aneurysmal SAH or primary angiitis of the CNS, its clinical, laboratory and imaging features assist in diagnosis."}
{"id": "21990835", "title": "Angiographically documented hemorrhagic conversion of a left middle cerebral artery embolic stroke during intra-arterial thrombolysis.", "content": "Angiographically documented hemorrhagic conversion of a left middle cerebral artery embolic stroke during intra-arterial thrombolysis. The clinical benefits of intra-arterial thrombolysis for ischemic stroke must be weighed against the risks, including hemorrhagic conversion. A case of angiographically documented hemorrhagic conversion of an ischemic stroke during intra-arterial thrombolysis is presented. Discussion focuses on recognition and management of risk factors for hemorrhagic conversion during performance of stroke thrombolysis. Recognition and modification of risk factors for hemorrhagic conversion may not prevent this complication during stroke thrombolysis. Identification of the angiographic appearance of hemorrhagic conversion should alert the interventionalist to the likelihood of a poor clinical outcome regardless of vessel patency status."}
{"id": "21990812", "title": "Mural destabilization after aneurysm treatment with a flow-diverting device: a report of two cases.", "content": "Mural destabilization after aneurysm treatment with a flow-diverting device: a report of two cases. Flow-diverting stents have demonstrated great promise for the treatment of cerebral aneurysms; however, clinical experience with the devices remains very preliminary. We present two cases of spontaneous delayed complications-one fatal aneurysm rupture and one symptomatic increase in aneurysm volume-following the treatment of intradural aneurysms with the Pipeline Embolization Device (PED). Two patients with unruptured, intradural aneurysms of the carotid artery underwent uneventful treatment with the PED (eV3, Irvine, California, USA). One patient, with a giant aneurysm of the carotid terminus, experienced worsening headache 5 days after the procedure and ultimately collapsed and became unresponsive. CT of the head demonstrated acute subarachnoid and intraventricular hemorrhage. The patient died the following day. A second patient with a large left posterior communicating artery aneurysm presented with progressive memory loss 3 months after PED reconstruction of the carotid artery. Although serial CT angiograms showed progressive thrombosis of the aneurysm to near-complete occlusion, MR of the brain demonstrated marked interval growth of the collective aneurysm-intra-aneurysmal thrombus mass with extensive edema throughout the adjacent left temporal lobe. Flow-diverting devices have demonstrated tremendous promise for the treatment of complex, unruptured cerebral aneurysms. However, experience with this novel approach to aneurysm treatment is preliminary and the consequences of its application within the cerebrovasculature remain incompletely defined. Mural destabilization resulting in delayed, spontaneous, aneurysm growth and/or rupture may occur in the days to weeks following the application of flow-diverting devices to treat previously unruptured intracranial aneurysms. A better understanding of the incidence and etiology of these complications is essential for this technology to be optimally applied."}
{"id": "21990810", "title": "Intracranial carotid artery stent placement causes delayed severe intracranial hemorrhage in a patient with moyamoya disease.", "content": "Intracranial carotid artery stent placement causes delayed severe intracranial hemorrhage in a patient with moyamoya disease. Moyamoya disease (MMD) is a rare cerebrovascular disease usually characterized by progressive bilateral distal internal carotid artery stenosis or occlusion and its consequences. Direct (ie, extracranial-intracranial bypass) or indirect cerebral revascularization procedures are the most established and effective treatment strategies for MMD. The case history is presented of a patient with MMD with delayed severe intracranial and subarachnoid hemorrhage following intracranial carotid artery stent placement. An 18-year-old women presented with a history of seizures, recurrent episodes of transient right hemiparesis and aphasia. Cerebral catheter angiography and perfusion CT scan with azetozaolamide challenge confirmed impaired left hemispheric perfusion due to severe bilateral carotid artery stenosis combined with pathological collaterals, consistent with moyamoya disease. Endovascular stenting of the left supraclinoidal internal cerebral artery was performed uneventfully. Five hours after treatment the patient presented with sudden headache, nausea and speech disorders and a CT scan revealed intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Due to further rapid clinical deterioration, surgical removal of the hematoma and decompression were required. The patient's poor neurological outcome did not improve during the 2-year follow-up period. This case report illustrates a severe intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage following intracranial stenting of the internal carotid artery in a young patient with MMD. Potentially this complication could be attributed to high perfusion pressure breakthrough phenomenon, a known complication after cerebral high-flow bypass surgery. The role of intracranial stenting, despite established revascularization procedures in patients with MMD, therefore remains highly questionable."}
{"id": "21980207", "title": "Contrast extravasation on computed tomography angiography predicts clinical outcome in primary intracerebral hemorrhage: a prospective study of 139 cases.", "content": "Contrast extravasation on computed tomography angiography predicts clinical outcome in primary intracerebral hemorrhage: a prospective study of 139 cases. Several retrospective studies suggested that contrast extravasation on CT angiography predicts hematoma expansion, poor outcome, and mortality in primary intracerebral hemorrhage. We aimed to determine the predictive value of contrast extravasation on multidetector CT angiography for clinical outcome in a prospective study. In 160 consecutive patients with spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage admitted within 6 hours of symptom onset, noncontrast CT and multidetector CT angiography were performed on admission. A follow-up noncontrast CT was done at 24 hours. Multidetector CT angiography images were analyzed to identify the presence of contrast extravasation. Clinical outcome was assessed by modified Rankin Scale on discharge and at 90 days. A total of 139 patients with primary intracerebral hemorrhage were included in the final analysis. Contrast extravasation occurred in 30 (21.6%) patients. The presence of contrast extravasation was associated with increased hematoma expansion (P<0.0001), in-hospital mortality (P=0.008), prolonged hospital stay (P=0.006), poor outcome on discharge (P=0.025), increased 3-month mortality (P=0.009), and poor clinical outcome (P<0.0001). In multivariate analysis, contrast extravasation was a promising independent predictor (OR, 10.5; 95% CI, 3.2-34.7; P<0.0001) for 90-day poor clinical outcome followed by the presence of intraventricular hemorrhage (OR, 3.4; 95% CI, 1.5-7.7; P=0.003) and initial hematoma volume (OR, 1.0; 95% CI, 1.0-1.1; P=0.013). The presence of contrast extravasation on multidetector CT angiography in patients with hyperacute-stage intracerebral hemorrhage is an independent and strong factor associated with poor outcome. Any patient with intracerebral hemorrhage with such sign on multidetector CT angiography should be monitored intensely and treated accordingly."}
{"id": "21975501", "title": "The role of imaging studies for evaluation of stroke in children.", "content": "The role of imaging studies for evaluation of stroke in children. Stroke is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in children and long-term neurological deficits. Although cerebrovascular disorders occur less often in children than in adults, recognition of stroke in children has probably increased because of the widespread application of noninvasive diagnostic studies such as magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography.Computed tomography (CT) should be the first imaging choice in the emergency setting when stroke is suspected. It will show the presence of hemorrhage (eg, bleeding from arteriovenous malformation). It is often normal within the first hours in arterial ischemic stroke. As in adults, magnetic resonance imaging is the neuroimaging modality to confirm the clinical diagnosis of ischemic stroke. In children, however, magnetic resonance imaging requires sedation and may not be as readily available as CT. Perfusion imaging demonstrates flow within the brain and can detect areas that are at risk of ischemia; however, further studies in the pediatric population need to be validated for this technique in children. Angiography detects arterial disease (eg, aneurysm); however, its use has been largely superseded by better magnetic resonance angiography, which is sensitive enough to visualize lesions in the proximal anterior cerebral artery, middle cerebral artery, and distal internal carotid artery (ICA). Magnetic resonance imaging using diffusion- weighted imaging is the most versatile and sensitive imaging technique for identifying ischemic lesions. In the future, we need to identify the pediatric patient presenting to the emergency department with an acute stroke and develop a pathway for the use of particular imaging techniques (eg, CT vs magnetic resonance imaging)."}
{"id": "21960495", "title": "Using quantitative CT perfusion for evaluation of delayed cerebral ischemia following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Using quantitative CT perfusion for evaluation of delayed cerebral ischemia following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. DCI is a serious complication following aneurysmal SAH leading to permanent neurologic deficits, infarction, and death. Our aim was to prospectively evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of CTP and to determine a quantitative threshold for DCI in aneurysmal SAH. Patients with SAH were prospectively enrolled in a protocol approved by the institutional review board. CTP was performed during the typical time period for DCI, between days 6 and 8 following SAH. Quantitative CBF, CBV, and MTT values were obtained by using standard region-of-interest placement sampling of gray matter. The reference standard for DCI is controversial and consisted of clinical and imaging criteria in this study. In a subanalysis of vasospasm, DSA was used as the reference standard. ROC curves determined the diagnostic accuracy by using AUC. Optimal threshold values were calculated by using the patient population utility method. Ninety-seven patients were included; 41% (40/97) had DCI. Overall diagnostic accuracy was 93% for CBF, 88% for MTT, and 72% for CBV. Optimal threshold values were 35 mL/100 g/min (90% sensitivity, 68% specificity) for CBF and 5.5 seconds (73% sensitivity, 79% specificity) for MTT. In the subanalysis (n = 57), 63% (36/57) had vasospasm. Overall diagnostic accuracy was 94% for CBF, 85% for MTT, and 72% for CBV. Optimal threshold values were 36.5 mL/100 g/min (95% sensitivity, 70% specificity) for CBF and 5.4 seconds (78% sensitivity, 70% specificity) for MTT. CBF and MTT have the highest overall diagnostic accuracy. Threshold values of 35 mL/100 g/min for CBF and 5.5-second MTT are suggested for DCI on the basis of the patient population utility method. Absolute threshold values may not be generalizable due to differences in scanner equipment and postprocessing methods."}
{"id": "21905532", "title": "Intracranial hemorrhage from undetected aneurysmal rupture complicating transphenoidal pituitary adenoma resection.", "content": "Intracranial hemorrhage from undetected aneurysmal rupture complicating transphenoidal pituitary adenoma resection. We report a case of a 39-year-old man who presented with a nonfunctioning pituitary macroadenoma which extended into the suprasellar region. He underwent a transcranial resection of the tumor followed eight months later by transsphenoidal surgery for the residual tumor. Postoperatively he developed massive subarachnoid and intraventricular hemorrhage. A cerebral angiogram revealed a leaking anterior communicating artery aneurysm which was not seen on the computed tomography angiography and magnetic resonance angiography before the surgery. Complications of transsphenoidal surgery, particularly vascular hemorrhagic complications, and risk of rupture of undetected aneurysms are discussed."}
{"id": "21878697", "title": "[Progress in NIRS monitoring of cerebral blood flow].", "content": "[Progress in NIRS monitoring of cerebral blood flow]. Various studies have demonstrated the usefulness of near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) for detecting cerebral ischemia during a carotid endarterectomy; however, it is difficult to apply NIRS to the diagnosis of ischemic stroke, since commercially available NIRS, which uses continuous-wave light, does not provide quantitative values of baseline hemoglobin (Hb) concentrations. In contrast, time-resolved near-infrared spectroscopy (TRS) permits quantitative measurement of Hb concentrations. We applied TRS to detection of cerebra vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). We investigated 11 age-matched controls and 14 aneurysmal SAH patients that comprised 10 patients with World Federation of Neurological Societies (WFNS) grade V and 4 patients with WFNS grade II. Employing TR-NIRS, we measured the cortical oxygen saturation (CoSO2) and baseline Hb concentrations in the middle cerebral artery territory. The CoSO2 and Hb concentrations remained stable after SAH in 6 patients; digital subtraction angiography (DSA) did not reveal vasospasm in these patients. In 8 patients, however, CoSO2 and total Hb decreased abruptly between 5 and 9 days after SAH. DSA revealed diffuse vasospasms in 6 of 8 patients. The reduction of CoSO2 predicted occurrence of vasospasm at a cutoff value of 3.9%-6.4% with 100% sensitivity and 85.7% specificity. Trans cranial Doppler (TCD) failed to detect vasospasm in 4 cases, whereas TR-NIRS could. Finally, TRS performed on day 1 after SAH revealed significantly higher CoSO2 than that of the controls (p = 0.048), but there was no significant difference in total Hb. TRS detected vasospasm by evaluating the CBO in the cortex and may be more sensitive than TCD, which assesses the blood flow velocity in the M1 portion. TRS may be useful for the diagnosis of ischemic events in stroke patients."}
{"id": "21878694", "title": "[Diagnostic imaging of cerebrovascular disease on multi-detector row computed tomography (MDCT)].", "content": "[Diagnostic imaging of cerebrovascular disease on multi-detector row computed tomography (MDCT)]. In this study, we reviewed characteristic diagnostic findings of vascular diseases in the central nervous system with 3-dimensional computed tomographic angiography (3D-CTA) using multi-detector row computed tomography (MDCT) and a novel 320-row area detector CT (320-ADCT). With coverage of 160 mm in a single rotation, 320-ADCT enables acquisition of both 4-dimensional CT angiography (dynamic 4D-CTA) and whole-brain CT perfusion imaging. We describe our experience of investigating cerebrovascular diseases with MDCT and 320-ADCT, as well as several postprocessing techniques to acquire images useful for diagnosis, therapy planning, and simulation of neurosurgical and endovascular intervention. 3D-CTA demonstrates has high accuracy in detecting and evaluating cerebral aneurysms and steno-occlusive diseases. Angiographic analysis, including information of surrounding tissues on 3D-CTA, allows assessment of the feasibility of neurosurgical or endovascular approaches and the technique to accomplish the therapy. However, 3D-CTA using MDCT is limited in its detection of aneurysms less than 3 mm in size and aneurysms embedded in the skull base region. In addition, discrimination between intradural paraclinoid aneurysms and extradural intracavernous aneurysms remains an unresolved problem in imaging of cerebral aneurysms. 320-ADCT may solve this problem with its high accuracy in discriminating arteries from the venous system. 3D-CTA could be used as an alternative to DSA for detection of severe carotid artery disease. 3D-CTA enables measurement of the lesions, plaque imaging, prediction of anatomical variants, screening for asymptomatic vascular lesions, and exclusion of patients with risk factors from carotid endoarterectomy (CEA) or carotid artery stenting (CAS). The diagnosis of intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) with CTA is challenging. Recently, several authors proposed diagnostic findings of ADVF by CTA and reported high sensitivity and specificity. 320-ADCT may offer comprehensive information for diagnosis and therapy planning of intracranial DAVF. Although DSA is a standard modality to detect spinal vascular malformations, selective catheterization requires considerable time and a certain amount of contrast medium, and is associated with a risk of neurological complications. Spinal 3D-CTA prior to DSA is useful in selective catheterization to arteries at certain spinal levels as well as when considering treatment options and therapy planning."}
{"id": "21868620", "title": "Carotid plaque enhancement and symptom correlations: an evaluation by using multidetector row CT angiography.", "content": "Carotid plaque enhancement and symptom correlations: an evaluation by using multidetector row CT angiography. The identification of plaque characteristics that determine its vulnerability is extremely important. The purpose of this work was to evaluate CPE after administration of contrast material and to assess whether there is a statistical association between CPE and cerebrovascular symptoms. Ninety-seven consecutive patients (69 men, 28 women; mean age, 62 years; age range, 39-82 years), studied by using an MDCT scanner, were retrospectively analyzed. Examinations were performed before and after administration of contrast medium. Plaque enhancement was analyzed, and the obtained data were compared with the patient's symptoms. Patients were classified as symptomatic (TIA or stroke with a temporal window of 6 months) or asymptomatic according to neurologic assessment and the TOAST criteria. The ROC curve and Az were calculated, and multiple logistic regression analysis was performed. Thirty-nine patients were excluded because they had calcified plaques (40.2%). CPE was observed in 74% of the remaining 58 patients. A statistically significant difference was observed between symptomatic and asymptomatic patients for the presence of CPE (P = .0013; OR = 7.5). Moreover, we observed that CPE was higher in fatty plaques (P = .035) than in mixed ones and more frequent in the former (P = .0119). The ROC curve demonstrated that a threshold of 15 HU is associated with a specificity and sensitivity of 83.33% and 76.47%, respectively. Multiple logistic regression showed that CPE and symptoms are associated (P = .0315). The results of our study suggest that for noncalcified carotid plaques, the presence of CPE is associated with cerebrovascular symptoms. Fatty plaques are more likely to have CPE compared with mixed plaques."}
{"id": "21862932", "title": "Cerebrospinal fluid tenascin-C in cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Cerebrospinal fluid tenascin-C in cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Tenascin-C (TNC) has been reported to be a useful biomarker for the activity of inflammatory diseases. This study investigated the association between TNC levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and symptomatic vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), and the prognostic value of TNC levels. TNC levels were measured in CSF in 33 consecutive patients diagnosed with aneurysmal SAH of Fisher computed tomography group III and were compared between those with and without subsequent cerebral vasospasm. Factors influencing symptomatic vasospasm were determined using multivariate logistic regression analyses. The receiver-operating characteristic curve technique was used to assess specificity and sensitivity in the prediction of symptomatic vasospasm. The CSF TNC levels peaked immediately after SAH and were significantly higher in patients who subsequently developed symptomatic vasospasm than in those who did not. On multivariate analyses, higher TNC levels in the CSF (odds ratio, 1.059; 95% confidence interval, 1.023-1.096; P<0.001) and World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies grades IV to V on admission (odds ratio, 3.238; 95% confidence interval, 1.033-10.152; P<0.05) significantly predicted symptomatic vasospasm. To predict the onset of symptomatic vasospasm, 16.2 ng/mL was considered as an appropriate cut-off value for CSF TNC on days 1 through 6, giving a sensitivity of 81.0% and a specificity of 79.5% (negative and positive predictive values: 82.3% and 76.7%, respectively). TNC in the CSF may be a useful biomarker for predicting subsequent development of cerebral vasospasm."}
{"id": "21849779", "title": "Uncertainties in the assessment of cortical flow by perfusion-weighted MRI in acute stroke.", "content": "Uncertainties in the assessment of cortical flow by perfusion-weighted MRI in acute stroke."}
{"id": "21849778", "title": "Search for a map and threshold in perfusion MRI to accurately predict tissue fate: a protocol for assessing lesion growth in patients with persistent vessel occlusion.", "content": "Search for a map and threshold in perfusion MRI to accurately predict tissue fate: a protocol for assessing lesion growth in patients with persistent vessel occlusion. The MRI-based mismatch concept has been used to estimate the risk of infarction in ischemic stroke. Based on multiple studies on magnetic resonance perfusion imaging, it seems unlikely that any perfusion parameter threshold will provide a reliable prediction of radiological or clinical outcome for all patients. The goal of our study was to find a minimally biased yet maximally useful perfusion postprocessing protocol which would offer the treating physician a useful estimate of tissue fate. One hundred and forty-five acute ischemic stroke patients, admitted within 24 h after stroke to the Charit\u00e9-University Medicine Hospital in Berlin between March 2008 and November 2009, were included in this study. Using three different software packages (Perfscape/Neuroscape, PMA and Stroketool), maps of mean transit time, cerebral blood flow (CBF) and T(max) were created. Three different thresholds were applied on each parameter map and subsequent volumes of hypoperfused tissue were calculated. Overall, the maps and thresholds giving the least amount of overestimation of the final infarct volume were T(max) 8 s in Perfscape/Neuroscape, CBF 20 ml/100 g/min in PMA and CBF 15% (of the highest value on the scale for a given patient) in Stroketool. In patients with persistent vessel occlusion, a CBF map with a restrictive threshold showed volumes of tissue at definite risk of infarction in up to 100% of patients. The additional use of a CBF map with a high threshold enabled identification of patients without penumbras. No combination of software, map and threshold was able to give a reliable estimate of tissue fate for either all patients or any subgroup of patients. However, in patients with vessel occlusion, combination of a CBF map with a low and a high threshold can enable calculation of the minimum volume of brain tissue that will inevitably be lost if the occlusion persists."}
{"id": "21830179", "title": "Diagnostic and therapeutic considerations for \"mycotic\" cerebral aneurysms: 2 case reports and review of the literature.", "content": "Diagnostic and therapeutic considerations for \"mycotic\" cerebral aneurysms: 2 case reports and review of the literature. Cerebral aneurysms of an infectious etiology, so-called \"mycotic\" aneurysms, are rare neurovascular pathologies. Primary treatment may be targeted on the aneurysm, but care has to be driven by the underlying pathology to prevent an often fatal clinical course with a mortality rate reaching 90%. 2 case reports are presented, and the diagnostic and therapeutic issues outlined by reviewing the literature. A 33-year-old female was admitted to our hospital with a sudden left-sided hemiparesis following a 3-week history of fever. An atypical intracerebral hemorrhage of the right parietal lobe due to a ruptured aneurysm of the distal middle cerebral artery (MCA) was diagnosed. Blood cultures containing Streptococcus sanguinus were the only finding for an infectious origin. Antibiotic therapy was started, followed by neurosurgical evacuation of the hematoma and clipping of the aneurysm. In a second case, endovascular coiling was the choice of treatment in a 38-year-old male presenting with a distal bifurcation aneurysm of the frontal MCA insular branch. An aortic valve replacement had been previously performed due to a congenital heart condition. The primary site of infection remained unclear and a 4-week course of broad-spectrum antibiotics was given intravenously. Cerebral aneurysms far distal to the usual sites of congenital aneurysms, organisms in blood chemistry, endocarditis, symptoms of infection, atypically located intracerebral hemorrhages, and young patients with immunodeficiency are strong factors for an infectious aneurysm. Cerebral angiography is mandatory to exclude aneurysms at other sites and early targeted antimicrobial treatment is crucial in these cases. Elimination of the aneurysm itself should be evaluated carefully because treating these aneurysms remains challenging compared to the ordinary group of cerebral aneurysms. Reconstructive procedures without sacrificing the parent artery often fail due to the fusiform and fragile aneurysm wall. Cerebral aneurysms of an infectious origin often have a disastrous clinical course in which morbidity and mortality can be reduced by early diagnosis, appropriate antimicrobial therapy, and aneurysm elimination by an experienced team. Apart from the initial treatment, major attention should be focused on a thorough follow-up to confirm complete cure of the primary site of infection."}
{"id": "21812738", "title": "Intra-arterial nicardipine for the treatment of cerebral vasospasm in postpartum cerebral angiopathy: a case study and review of literature.", "content": "Intra-arterial nicardipine for the treatment of cerebral vasospasm in postpartum cerebral angiopathy: a case study and review of literature. Postpartum cerebral angiopathy is one of the many neurological complications seen during pregnancy and the postpartum period. Management of these patients consists of optimal blood pressure control, and general supportive critical care. We present a case of diffuse cerebral vasospasm, which improved with intra-arterial nicardipine. This brief report addresses the utility of interventional management in cases of postpartum cerebral angiopathy. A 28-year-old female presented 1 week after cesarean delivery with altered mental status, endotracheal intubation for airway protection, thrombocytopenia, and hypofibrinogenemia. Cerebral angiogram revealed anterior and posterior circulation vasospasm, which responded to repeated selective intra-arterial injections of nicardipine. This treatment coupled with optimal blood pressure control resulted in complete recovery. Our case report highlights the importance of cerebral angiography for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with postpartum cerebral angiopathy. Although nicardipine is used in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage for the treatment of cerebral vasospasm, this agent has the potential to be used in patients with cerebral vasospasm due to other etiologies. Intra-arterial nicardipine is one of the therapeutic measures available to physicians in the management of patients with cerebral vasospasm. In patients with postpartum cerebral angiopathy, early cerebral angiography should be considered to quantify and treat cerebral vasospasm with either angioplasty or selective intra-arterial injections of nicardipine."}
{"id": "21807345", "title": "ACR Appropriateness Criteria\u00ae on cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "ACR Appropriateness Criteria\u00ae on cerebrovascular disease. Stroke is the sudden onset of focal neurologic symptoms due to ischemia or hemorrhage in the brain. Current FDA-approved clinical treatment of acute ischemic stroke involves the use of the intravenous thrombolytic agent recombinant tissue plasminogen activator given <3 hours after symptom onset, following the exclusion of intracerebral hemorrhage by a noncontrast CT scan. Advanced MRI, CT, and other techniques may confirm the stroke diagnosis and subtype, demonstrate lesion location, identify vascular occlusion, and guide other management decisions but, within the first 3 hours after ictus, should not delay or be used to withhold recombinant tissue plasminogen activator therapy after the exclusion of acute hemorrhage on noncontrast CT scans. MR diffusion-weighted imaging is highly sensitive and specific for acute cerebral ischemia and, when combined with perfusion-weighted imaging, may be used to identify potentially salvageable ischemic tissue, especially in the period >3 hours after symptom onset. Advanced CT perfusion methods improve sensitivity to acute ischemia and are increasingly used with CT angiography to evaluate acute stroke as a supplement to noncontrast CT. The ACR Appropriateness Criteria(\u00ae) are evidence-based guidelines for specific clinical conditions that are reviewed every 2 years by a multidisciplinary expert panel. The guideline development and review include an extensive analysis of current medical literature from peer-reviewed journals and the application of a well-established consensus methodology (modified Delphi) to rate the appropriateness of imaging and treatment procedures by the panel. In those instances in which evidence is lacking or not definitive, expert opinion may be used to recommend imaging or treatment."}
{"id": "21805286", "title": "Endoscopic third ventriculostomy for hydrocephalus after perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage: initial experience in three patients.", "content": "Endoscopic third ventriculostomy for hydrocephalus after perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage: initial experience in three patients. To review the outcome after endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) for symptomatic, persistent hydrocephalus in three patients with perimesencephalic angiographically negative subarachnoid hemorrhage (PNH) who were dependent on an external ventricular drain (EVD). All patients initially presented with severe headache, nuchal rigidity, confusion and lethargy (Hunt-Hess Grade II or III), and persistent, EVD-dependent hydrocephalus. Cranial CT images in each revealed acute hydrocephalus and perimesencephalic hemorrhage pattern with a heavy clot burden (Fisher grade 3). A 3D-CT angiogram on admission and two four-vessel cerebral angiograms failed to demonstrate a bleeding source. All three patients failed trial EVD clamping, with clinical deterioration and elevated intracranial pressure (ICP). ETV was performed with a 0-degree endoscope in a 4.6-mm irrigating sheath using an endoscopic-coring/\"cookie-cut\" technique. An EVD was left in place for postoperative ICP monitoring but was clamped. ETV was accomplished in all patients. In one case, a tiny basilar tip aneurysm was seen during the endoscopic procedure. Intraoperatively, the prepontine cistern revealed dense, degraded blood products. Postprocedure ICP measurements were reduced to normal range. Clinical improvement, normal ICP readings, and/or radiographic evidence of resolution of hydrocephalus allowed uneventful removal of the EVD within 36-48 h post-ETV in all patients. All remained headache-free, with a normal neurological examination, during a follow-up period of 10, 11, and 12\u00a0months, respectively. To our knowledge, this is the first report of ETV for PNH with hydrocephalus and the first report of a basilar tip microaneurysm seen intraoperatively during ETV. ETV is a viable treatment option for refractory hydrocephalus secondary to a perimesencephalic pattern of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Its early application can avoid placement of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt, curtail the extended use of an EVD, and reduce the associated infection risks. Despite thorough angiographic investigation for an aneurysmal cause of SAH, a \"microaneurysm\" of the basilar artery was found at ETV. No complication or rebleeding was encountered."}
{"id": "21786435", "title": "Application of magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance angiography as diagnostic measures for the first attack of suspected cerebrovascular diseases in Korea.", "content": "Application of magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance angiography as diagnostic measures for the first attack of suspected cerebrovascular diseases in Korea. No precise data are available showing how magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) can be applied to diagnosis for the first attack of a suspected cerebrovascular disease in Korea. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the application level of MRI and MRA as diagnostic tools and the related factors to the use of these techniques. This study used the health benefit claim data of 89,890 patients who were hospitalized for the first time due to suspected cerebrovascular disease in 2007 without having visited medical institutions as an outpatient or inpatient from 2003 to 2006. Of the 89,890 cases, 28.4% took both MRI and MRA, 10.7% took only MRI and 6.9% took only MRA. The related factors identified in the multivariate logistic regression analysis were gender, type of insurance, type of medical institution, type of department, duration of hospitalization, and type of disease. This study showed that the application level of MRI and MRA as diagnostic measures for the first attack of a suspected cerebrovascular diseases varied depending on several factors. It is necessary to study more accurate levels of computerized tomography (CT), computerized tomography angiography (CTA), MRI or MRA as measures to diagnose a first attack of suspected cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "21767130", "title": "An association between cerebral aneurysm re-bleed and CT angiography--more than a coincidence?", "content": "An association between cerebral aneurysm re-bleed and CT angiography--more than a coincidence? Rupture of cerebral aneurysm during CT angiogram is a rare occurrence. Here we present such a case where an aneurysmal re-rupture during CT angiogram was demonstrated."}
{"id": "21752651", "title": "Postpartum cerebral angiopathy presenting with non-aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Postpartum cerebral angiopathy presenting with non-aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Parturition increases the risk of strokes of various types, including postpartum cerebral angiopathy (PCA), which is characterized by reversible multifocal vasoconstriction of the cerebral arteries. We describe an unusual presentation of PCA associated with postpartum non-aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). A 31-year-old multiparous woman complained of sudden headache 3 hours after an uncomplicated vaginal delivery. She had no history of pregnancy-induced hypertension. SAH was found over the bilateral frontoparietal convexities with multifocal vasculopathy. Her symptoms resolved completely within 1 week. The findings of a follow-up neurological examination, cerebral angiography, and brain MRI were normal after 2 months. PCA syndrome may be associated with postpartum non-aneurysmal SAH."}
{"id": "21751105", "title": "The importance of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging in valve surgery for active infective endocarditis.", "content": "The importance of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging in valve surgery for active infective endocarditis. Valve surgery for active infective endocarditis (IE) can cause fatal brain hemorrhage. Our current study aimed to evaluate the incidence of septic cerebral lesions in active IE patients by performing preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) including T(2)*- weighted sequences and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) before urgent valve surgery, and to investigate whether such preoperative evaluation affects postoperative outcomes. Eighteen patients were referred to our department for native valve IE during 2006-2010. Urgent surgery was indicated in cases of hemodynamic failure resulting from valve destruction, refractory sepsis, and mobile vegetations measuring >10 mm. For these patients, we performed preoperative MRI and MRA. Males comprised 67% of the subjects, with average age 53 \u00b1 15 years. No clinical evidence of acute stroke was noted. Of the 18 patients, urgent surgery was indicated in 15; of these, 10 (67%) showed a brain lesion related to IE: 6 patients had acute or subacute brain infarctions, 2 patients had brain infarction with brain abscess, and 2 patients had hemorrhagic brain infarction and so did not undergo urgent surgery. Thus, 13 patients underwent urgent valve surgery. Among the 5 patients who did not undergo urgent surgery, 4 patients later underwent valve surgery for healed IE. No hospital deaths or neurological complications occurred. MRI of patients with active IE revealed a high incidence of cerebral lesions caused by IE. The use of MRI to detect septic embolism and intracerebral hemorrhage may provide important information for better surgical outcomes."}
{"id": "21750351", "title": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome: a rare entity in children presenting with thunderclap headache.", "content": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome: a rare entity in children presenting with thunderclap headache. Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome is characterized by a reversible segmental and multifocal vasoconstriction of cerebral arteries, and severe headaches with or without focal neurologic deficits or seizures. A 15-year-old boy presented with thunderclap headache. He had severe hypertension, although his neurologic examination was normal. Initial workup for thunderclap headache to exclude subarachnoid or intracranial hemorrhage, meningitis, pituitary apoplexy, or venous sinus thrombosis was negative. Brain magnetic resonance angiography and cerebral angiography demonstrated bilateral anterior and posterior circulation diffuse, multifocal, vascular irregularities (beading and stenosis) suggestive of underlying vasculopathy or vasculitis. He was started on verapamil. There was complete reversal of the vascular abnormalities in 6 weeks evident by magnetic resonance angiography, with resolution of headache and normalization of blood pressure. Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome has been rarely reported in children. This case report highlights the diagnostic dilemma and management of the rare childhood presentation of this condition."}
{"id": "21748499", "title": "Detection and monitoring of vasospasm and delayed cerebral ischemia: a review and assessment of the literature.", "content": "Detection and monitoring of vasospasm and delayed cerebral ischemia: a review and assessment of the literature. Delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) after subarachnoid hemorrhage can be evaluated using clinical assessment, non-invasive and invasive techniques. An electronic literature search was conducted on English-language articles investigating DCI in human subjects with subarachnoid hemorrhage. A total of 31 relevant papers were identified evaluating the role of clinical assessment, transcranial Doppler, computed tomographic angiography, and computed tomographic perfusion. Clinical assessment by bedside evaluations is limited, especially in patients initially in poorer clinical condition or who are receiving sedative medication for whom deterioration may be more difficult to identify. Transcranial Doppler is a useful screening tool for middle cerebral artery vasospasm, with less utility in evaluating other intracranial vessels. Computed tomographic angiography correlates well with digital subtraction angiography. Computed tomographic perfusion may help predict DCI when used early or identify DCI when used later."}
{"id": "21722830", "title": "Silent cerebral events in asymptomatic carotid stenosis.", "content": "Silent cerebral events in asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Approximately 20% of strokes are attributable to carotid stenosis. However, the number of asymptomatic patients needed to prevent one stroke or death with endarterectomy is high at 17 to 32. There is a clear need to identify asymptomatic individuals at high risk of developing future ischemic events to improve the cost-effectiveness of surgery. Our aim was to examine the evidence for subclinical microembolization and silent brain infarction in the prediction of stroke in asymptomatic carotid stenosis using transcranial Doppler (TCD), computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The review was conducted according to the preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. Articles regarding humans between 1966 and 2010 were identified through systematic searches of Pubmed, MEDLINE, and EMBASE electronic databases using a predetermined search algorithm. Fifty-eight full text articles met the inclusion criteria. A median of 28% of microemboli positive patients experienced a stroke or transient ischemic attack during follow-up compared with 2% of microemboli negative patients (P = .001). The same was true for the end point of stroke alone with a median of 10% of microemboli positive patients experiencing a stroke vs 1% of microemboli negative patients (P = .004). A specific pattern of silent CT infarctions was related to future stroke risk (odds ratio [OR] = 4.6; confidence interval [CI] = 3.0-7.2; P < .0001). There are no prospective MRI studies linking silent infarction and stroke risk. There is level 1 evidence for the use of TCD to detect microembolization as a risk stratification tool. However, this technique requires further investigation as a stroke prevention tool and would be complemented by improvements in carotid plaque imaging."}
{"id": "21707269", "title": "Haemorrhagic shearing lesions associated with diffuse axonal injury: application of T2 star-weighted angiography sequence in the detection and clinical correlation.", "content": "Haemorrhagic shearing lesions associated with diffuse axonal injury: application of T2 star-weighted angiography sequence in the detection and clinical correlation. To assess the diagnostic value of T2 star-weighted angiography (SWAN) sequence for diffuse axonal injury (DAI) by virtue of correlation analysis between the number, volume and regional distribution of haemorrhagic lesions determined with SWAN sequence and clinical variables. Twenty-eight DAI patients were included in our study and were divided into subgroups in compliance with dichotomized clinical variables separately. Global and regional number, volume and distribution of haemorrhagic lesions were compared between groups by non-parametric Mann-Whitney U test (two tailed) and independent samples t test. Spearman's rank correlation analysis was performed to compare the dichotomized clinical variables with the global and regional number and volume of lesions. Patients with lower Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score (\u22648, n\u200a=\u200a16) or prolonged coma (>4 days, n\u200a=\u200a15) or abnormal pupillary light reflex (PLR, n\u200a=\u200a15) had a greater global number (p \u2264 0.01) and apparent volume (p \u2264 0.01) of haemorrhagic lesions. In our study, haemorrhage extent in most brain regions, such as frontal white matter (FW), parietotemporaloccipital white matter (PTOW), corpus callosum (CC), thalamus (THAL), brain stem (BS), were greater in the lower GCS group, in the prolonged coma group and in the abnormal PLR group (p \u2264 0.05). Significant correlations were found between haemorrhage extent in global range and the dichotomized clinical variables (p \u2264 0.01). Correlations were also found between haemorrhage extent in most regions, such as FW, PTOW, CC, THAL and BS, and the dichotomized clinical variables (p \u2264 0.05). The number of involved regions was much more higher in the lower GCS group and the prolonged coma group (p < 0.0001). More accurate and objective assessment of injury can be obtained in DAI patients via SWAN sequence."}
{"id": "21696650", "title": "Adult presentation of PHACES syndrome.", "content": "Adult presentation of PHACES syndrome. A significant percentage of children with hemangiomas may have PHACES syndrome which refers to the association of posterior fossa malformations, facial hemangiomas, arterial cerebrovascular abnormalities, cardiovascular anomalies, eye abnormalities and ventral defects like sternal clefting or supraumbilical raphe. A variety of factors have led to under diagnosis of PHACES syndrome in the past including lack of awareness and limited imaging modalities. Also, patients with PHACES syndrome with arterial cerebrovascular abnormalities can present with acute ischemic stroke. However, these patients usually present before one year of age. We describe a 29-year-old woman with no history of cerebrovascular disease who initially presented with symptoms of a stroke and was subsequently diagnosed to have PHACES syndrome exhibiting an array of multiple unusual imaging findings. We also discuss the current literature and recommendations about PHACES syndrome."}
{"id": "21691757", "title": "Aneurysmatic subarachnoidal haemorrhage: incidence and location of small ruptured cerebral aneurysms - a retrospective population-based study.", "content": "Aneurysmatic subarachnoidal haemorrhage: incidence and location of small ruptured cerebral aneurysms - a retrospective population-based study. The purpose of this retrospective population-based study was to investigate the incidence of subarachnoid haemorrhage from small (5 mm and below) cerebral aneurysms and their localisation in consecutive patients surgically treated in the State of Vorarlberg/Austria. Altogether, during the last 4 years, 82 patients after spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage (mean age 53.7 years, range 21-84 years, 47 females and 35 males) were referred to the Neurosurgical Department of the Academic Teaching Hospital Feldkirch, serving for all 360,000 inhabitants of the State (corresponding to a subarachnoid haemorrhage incidence of 5.7/100,000/year). In 70 patients (85.4%), a cerebral aneurysm was detected by computed tomography angiography and/or digital cerebral angiography. Out of these, 47 patients (66.2%, mean age 52.1 years, range 24-77 years) were treated with aneurysm clipping and included in the study. Preoperatively, computed tomography, computed tomography angiography and/or digital cerebral angiography were assessed for amount of blood, aneurysm size and localisation, respectively. Clinical status was graded according to the Hunt and Hess classification at admission and according to the Glasgow Outcome Scale at discharge. According to Koivisto categories, 18 aneurysms were localised at the anterior cerebral artery, 17 aneurysms at the middle cerebral artery, 11 at the internal carotid artery, and 1 at the vertebrobasilar artery. The mean aneurysm diameter was 7.7 mm (range 3-30 mm). In 34% of the aneurysms the diameter was 5 mm or smaller (n = 16), in 51% between 6 and 10 mm (n = 24) and in 15% between 11 and 30 mm (n = 7). Only 1/17 ruptured middle cerebral artery aneurysms (5.9%), 4/11 internal carotid artery aneurysms (36.4%) and the vertebrobasilar artery aneurysm were small. However, in 10/18 anterior cerebral artery aneurysms (55.6%) the diameter was 5 mm or below. In conclusion, in our consecutive patient series with clipped cerebral aneurysms after subarachnoid haemorrhage, one third had small ruptured aneurysms, with the anterior cerebral artery complex as the main predilection site. Therefore, despite the previously reported low rupture risk, incidental small aneurysms should also be considered for therapy, depending on localisation and individual risk factors."}
{"id": "21682149", "title": "Extracranial carotid artery stenting: the Puerto Rico medical center endovascular neurosurgery service experience.", "content": "Extracranial carotid artery stenting: the Puerto Rico medical center endovascular neurosurgery service experience. Extracranial carotid artery stenting (CAS) represents a viable alternative for high-risk surgical patients. The aim of this study was to determine the clinical features and outcome of 25 patients that underwent CAS at the Puerto Rico Medical Center. A retrospective review of a series of 25 high-risk surgical patients that underwent CAS from June 2005 to January 2010 was performed. Patients were followed-up at clinics with computed tomography angiography and/or digital subtraction angiography. Patient ages ranged from 52 to 88 years. Twenty-one of the patients had severe cervical carotid stenosis (more than 80%). Those with moderate stenosis (from 50% to 80%) were treated when they were symptomatic or when stenosis recurred after carotid endarterectomy. Among the 25 patients, only 2 presented with restenosis (more than 50% luminal diameter). Both had a history of radiation-induced disease, but neither required retreatment. Five patients required post-stenting angioplasty due to a less than 50% improvement in luminal diameter. There was 1 death, and 1 patient presented delayed neurocognitive deterioration. The combined long-term morbidity and mortality in the subgroup with at least two years of follow-up was 8.3%. There were no intracerebral hemorrhages or recurrent strokes/transient ischemic attacks. The restriction of post-stenting angioplasty to only those cases without significant revascularization appears to help reduce restenosis rates while ensuring a gradual increase in intracranial blood flow. The latter may not apply to patients with a prior history of radiotherapy."}
{"id": "21680086", "title": "Large middle cerebral artery dissecting aneurysm mimicking hemorrhagic stroke.", "content": "Large middle cerebral artery dissecting aneurysm mimicking hemorrhagic stroke. Dissection of intracranial arteries is a rare cause of cerebrovascular diseases commonly presenting as an ischemic stroke. We report a patient with middle cerebral artery dissection who developed a large middle cerebral artery dissecting aneurysm mimicking a hemorrhagic stroke."}
{"id": "21640296", "title": "CT perfusion imaging in acute stroke.", "content": "CT perfusion imaging in acute stroke. Computed tomographic perfusion (CTP) imaging is an advanced modality that provides important information about capillary-level hemodynamics of the brain parenchyma. CTP can aid in diagnosis, management, and prognosis of acute stroke patients by clarifying acute cerebral physiology and hemodynamic status, including distinguishing severely hypoperfused but potentially salvageable tissue from both tissue likely to be irreversibly infarcted (\"core\") and hypoperfused but metabolically stable tissue (\"benign oligemia\"). A qualitative estimate of the presence and degree of ischemia is typically required for guiding clinical management. Radiation dose issues with CTP imaging, a topic of much current concern, are also addressed in this review."}
{"id": "21640295", "title": "Advanced CT imaging in the evaluation of hemorrhagic stroke.", "content": "Advanced CT imaging in the evaluation of hemorrhagic stroke. Multidetector computed tomographic (CT) angiography is rapidly becoming a pivotal examination in the initial evaluation of patients with hemorrhagic stroke. This article provides an update of the literature on this dynamic topic, focusing on (1) the utility of CT angiography in the identification of hemorrhagic stroke patients who harbor an underlying vascular etiology and the role of the secondary intracerebral hemorrhage score, as well as (2) the clinical value of the CT angiography spot sign and spot sign score in patients with primary intracerebral hemorrhage."}
{"id": "21636817", "title": "A cost-utility analysis of mechanical thrombectomy as an adjunct to intravenous tissue-type plasminogen activator for acute large-vessel ischemic stroke.", "content": "A cost-utility analysis of mechanical thrombectomy as an adjunct to intravenous tissue-type plasminogen activator for acute large-vessel ischemic stroke. Mechanical thrombectomy has the potential to improve recanalization rates and outcomes for patients with ischemic stroke, but potential gains could be offset by procedural complications and costs. We evaluated the cost and utility of combined intravenous (IV) tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) and mechanical thrombectomy compared to IV tPA alone for acute large-vessel ischemic stroke. We constructed a decision tree for a hypothetical 68-year-old with a large-vessel ischemic stroke who is eligible for IV tPA. The interventional strategy was IV tPA, a cerebral angiogram, and mechanical thrombectomy and thrombolysis if indicated. Recanalization, hemorrhage complications, and outcomes for the interventional strategy were from the Multi-MERCI study. The medical strategy was IV tPA using inputs from a comprehensive systematic review. Costs were estimated from Medicare reimbursements. We modeled lifetime costs and utilities for disability using a Markov model and Monte-Carlo multivariable sensitivity analysis. For the baseline scenario, the recanalization rate was 72.9% for the interventional strategy and 46.2% for the medical strategy. For the interventional strategy, the symptomatic hemorrhage rate was 8.6% with recanalization and 15.4% without. For the medical strategy, the corresponding rates were 3.6% and 13.3%, respectively. The interventional strategy was cost-effective in 97.6% of simulations (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio $16 001/quality-adjusted life year; 95% CI, $2736-$39,232). Based on observational data, the combination of IV tPA and mechanical thrombectomy for large-vessel ischemic stroke appears to be cost-effective compared to IV tPA alone. These findings require additional validation with randomized trial data."}
{"id": "21613762", "title": "Unusual cisternal coil migration in the follow-up period after aneurysm perforation during endovascular coiling.", "content": "Unusual cisternal coil migration in the follow-up period after aneurysm perforation during endovascular coiling. A 61-year-old woman suffered cisternal coil migration in the follow-up period after endovascular coil embolization for a ruptured cerebral aneurysm. She presented with sudden onset of headache. Computed tomography demonstrated diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage, and cerebral angiography disclosed a left anterior choroidal artery aneurysm. The aneurysm was treated by endovascular embolization with Guglielmi detachable coils. During the embolization procedure, the microcatheter perforated the aneurysm. For direct closure of the perforation site with coils, the microcatheter was withdrawn and coils were deployed partially in the subarachnoid space and partially in the aneurysm sac. The coil mass was spread in the subarachnoid space around the aneurysm immediately after embolization. The patient was discharged with no neurological deficit. Three months later, follow-up radiography demonstrated obvious reduction in the size and compaction of the coil mass. Magnetic resonance angiography and digital subtraction angiography demonstrated stable occlusion of the aneurysm. The coil mass probably spread in the cistern around the aneurysm and was compacted by the shape memory of the coils and pulsation of the brain and vessels, as the subarachnoid clots around the aneurysm had disappeared. This case suggests that cisternal coil migration should be considered in the follow up of intracranial aneurysm treated with detachable coils."}
{"id": "21574114", "title": "Aneurysms of the distal anterior cerebral artery: a clinical series.", "content": "Aneurysms of the distal anterior cerebral artery: a clinical series. Distal anterior cerebral artery (DACA) aneurysms, also called pericallosal or A2 aneurysms, are rare and comprise about 1.5 to 9% of all intracranial aneurysms. In this study, a series of 10 patients with DACA aneurysms who were surgically treated in our clinic is presented and discussed, focusing on their clinical features and sur-gical outcomes. A total of 344 patients with cerebral aneurysms were operated on in our clinic and 10 patients (2.9%) with DACA aneurysms were studied retrospectively. All patients underwent a computed tomography (CT) scan followed by four-vessel digital subtraction angiography (DSA). Initial CT revealed intracerebral haematoma (ICH) in 7 patients (70%) and in 2 of them the haematoma was over 3 cm in diameter. The pericallosal-callosomarginal bifurcation was the most common location in 9 patients (90%). Four cases (40%) showed multiple aneurysms. The mean waiting time for the operation was 4.8 days. Surgical clipping was performed in all the cases. Multiple aneurysms required two different craniotomies in the same session. The patients with ICH over 3 cm in diameter, in addition to poor preoperative grade, are likely to have a poor outcome, and so clinical grade is the definite factor affecting the surgical outcome of patients. DACA aneurysms are usually small and bleeding occurs irrespective of their size because of the lack of resistant arachnoid membranes at the level of the pericallosal cisterns. All DACA aneurysms, even if very small in size or discovered incidentally, should be aggressively treated because of the high tendency to rupture."}
{"id": "21571479", "title": "Semiautomated detection of cerebral microbleeds in magnetic resonance images.", "content": "Semiautomated detection of cerebral microbleeds in magnetic resonance images. Cerebral microbleeds (CMBs) are increasingly being recognized as an important biomarker for neurovascular diseases. So far, all attempts to count and quantify them have relied on manual methods that are time-consuming and can be inconsistent. A technique is presented that semiautomatically identifies CMBs in susceptibility weighted images (SWI). This will both reduce the processing time and increase the consistency over manual methods. This technique relies on a statistical thresholding algorithm to identify hypointensities within the image. A support vector machine (SVM) supervised learning classifier is then used to separate true CMB from other marked hypointensities. The classifier relies on identifying features such as shape and signal intensity to identify true CMBs. The results from the automated section are then subject to manual review to remove false-positives. This technique is able to achieve a sensitivity of 81.7% compared with the gold standard of manual review and consensus by multiple reviewers. In subjects with many CMBs, this presents a faster alternative to current manual techniques at the cost of some lost sensitivity."}
{"id": "21565507", "title": "Cerebral infarction secondary to vasospasm after perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Cerebral infarction secondary to vasospasm after perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage. Perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage (pSAH) has been described as a distinct form of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) associated with good outcomes. We report a 48-year-old female who developed cerebral infarction due to severe diffuse vasospasm following pSAH. The patient presented with non-aneurysmal pSAH and was discharged home on day 5. However, one week later she developed an acute onset of right hemiparesis. A brain MRI showed acute infarctions on diffusion weighted imaging and her cerebral angiogram showed diffuse vasospasm. The patient received intra-arterial diltiazem and hypervolemic-hypertensive-hemodilution therapy with resulting resolution of the vasospasm and hemiparesis. While not as common as in SAH, there is a potential for the occurrence of cerebral infarction due to vasospasm after pSAH."}
{"id": "21555660", "title": "Time trends in pulmonary embolism in the United States: evidence of overdiagnosis.", "content": "Time trends in pulmonary embolism in the United States: evidence of overdiagnosis. Computed tomographic pulmonary angiography (CTPA) may improve detection of life-threatening pulmonary embolism (PE), but this sensitive test may have a downside: overdiagnosis and overtreatment (finding clinically unimportant emboli and exposing patients to harms from unnecessary treatment). To assess the impact of CTPA on national PE incidence, mortality, and treatment complications, we conducted a time trend analysis using the Nationwide Inpatient Sample and Multiple Cause-of-Death databases. We compared age-adjusted incidence, mortality, and treatment complications (in-hospital gastrointestinal tract or intracranial hemorrhage or secondary thrombocytopenia) of PE among US adults before (1993-1998) and after (1998-2006) CTPA was introduced. Pulmonary embolism incidence was unchanged before CTPA (P = .64) but increased substantially after CTPA (81% increase, from 62.1 to 112.3 per 100,000; P < .001). Pulmonary embolism mortality decreased during both periods: more so before CTPA (8% reduction, from 13.4 to 12.3 per 100,000; P < .001) than after (3% reduction, from 12.3 to 11.9 per 100,000; P = .02). Case fatality improved slightly before (8% decrease, from 13.2% to 12.1%; P = .02) and substantially after CTPA (36% decrease, from 12.1% to 7.8%; P < .001). Meanwhile, CTPA was associated with an increase in presumed complications of anticoagulation for PE: before CTPA, the complication rate was stable (P = .24), but after it increased by 71% (from 3.1 to 5.3 per 100,000; P < .001). The introduction of CTPA was associated with changes consistent with overdiagnosis: rising incidence, minimal change in mortality, and lower case fatality. Better technology allows us to diagnose more emboli, but to minimize harms of overdiagnosis we must learn which ones matter."}
{"id": "21550961", "title": "A smartphone client-server teleradiology system for primary diagnosis of acute stroke.", "content": "A smartphone client-server teleradiology system for primary diagnosis of acute stroke. Recent advances in the treatment of acute ischemic stroke have made rapid acquisition, visualization, and interpretation of images a key factor for positive patient outcomes. We have developed a new teleradiology system based on a client-server architecture that enables rapid access to interactive advanced 2-D and 3-D visualization on a current generation smartphone device (Apple iPhone or iPod Touch, or an Android phone) without requiring patient image data to be stored on the device. Instead, a server loads and renders the patient images, then transmits a rendered frame to the remote device. Our objective was to determine if a new smartphone client-server teleradiology system is capable of providing accuracies and interpretation times sufficient for diagnosis of acute stroke. This was a retrospective study. We obtained 120 recent consecutive noncontrast computed tomography (NCCT) brain scans and 70 computed tomography angiogram (CTA) head scans from the Calgary Stroke Program database. Scans were read by two neuroradiologists, one on a medical diagnostic workstation and an iPod or iPhone (hereafter referred to as an iOS device) and the other only on an iOS device. NCCT brain scans were evaluated for early signs of infarction, which includes early parenchymal ischemic changes and dense vessel sign, and to exclude acute intraparenchymal hemorrhage and stroke mimics. CTA brain scans were evaluated for any intracranial vessel occlusion. The interpretations made on an iOS device were compared with those made at a workstation. The total interpretation times were recorded for both platforms. Interrater agreement was assessed. True positives, true negatives, false positives, and false negatives were obtained, and sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of detecting the abnormalities on the iOS device were computed. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of detecting intraparenchymal hemorrhage were 100% using the iOS device with a perfect interrater agreement (kappa=1). The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of detecting acute parenchymal ischemic change were 94.1%, 100%, and 98.09% respectively for reader 1 and 97.05%, 100%, and 99.04% for reader 2 with nearly perfect interrater agreement (kappa=.8). The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of detecting dense vessel sign were 100%, 95.4%, and 96.19% respectively for reader 1 and 72.2%, 100%, and 95.23% for reader 2 using the iOS device with a good interrater agreement (kappa=.69). The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of detecting vessel occlusion on CT angiography scans were 94.4%, 100%, and 98.46% respectively for both readers using the iOS device, with perfect interrater agreement (kappa=1). No significant difference (P<.05) was noted in the interpretation time between the workstation and iOS device. The smartphone client-server teleradiology system appears promising and may have the potential to allow urgent management decisions in acute stroke. However, this study was retrospective, involved relatively few patient studies, and only two readers. Generalizing conclusions about its clinical utility, especially in other diagnostic use cases, should not be made until additional studies are performed."}
{"id": "21550251", "title": "Brain abscess following intra-arterial thrombolytic treatment for acute brain ischemia.", "content": "Brain abscess following intra-arterial thrombolytic treatment for acute brain ischemia. Brain abscess formation is a rare complication of intracranial endovascular treatment. To our knowledge, all previous reports of brain abscess formation have been associated with treatments involving the introduction of foreign materials. A 75-year-old man was admitted to hospital for acute stroke. Cerebral angiography revealed occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA) at the origin of the M2 segment. Intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy was administered but a hemorrhagic event occurred during this process. A brain CT scan revealed a hematoma extending from the left basal ganglia to the left frontal lobe and expansion of the infarct in the left MCA territory. A brain abscess at the hemorrhagic site developed 3 months after symptom onset. This is the first report of a patient with brain abscess formation following intra-arterial thrombolytic treatment. It is important to ensure aseptic technique during endovascular procedures irrespective of the involvement of foreign materials."}
{"id": "21546463", "title": "Cerebral microbleeds on MR imaging: comparison between 1.5 and 7T.", "content": "Cerebral microbleeds on MR imaging: comparison between 1.5 and 7T. The detection of microbleeds differs strongly between studies, due to differences in scan protocol. This study aims to compare the visualization of microbleeds with 3D T2*-weighted imaging at 1.5T with 3D dual-echo T2*-weighted imaging at 7T. Thirty-four patients (29 male; mean age, 58 \u00b1 12 years) with atherosclerotic disease from the Second Manifestations of ARTerial Disease study were included. 3D T2*-weighted imaging at 1.5T and dual-echo T2*-weighted imaging at 7T were done in all patients. The presence and number of definite microbleeds were recorded on minimal intensity projections. Inter- and intraobserver reliability was assessed with Cohen \u03ba test and the ICC. The difference in presence and number of microbleeds was tested with the McNemar test and Wilcoxon signed rank test. The interobserver ICC at 7T was 0.61 and the intraobserver ICC was 0.94, whereas at 1.5T the interobserver ICC was 0.50 and the intraobserver ICC was 0.59. Microbleeds were detected in significantly more patients on 7T (50%) than on 1.5T scans (21%) (P = .001). The number of microbleeds was also higher at 7T (median, 0.5; range, 0-5) than on 1.5T (median, 0.0; range, 0-6) (P = .002). 3D dual-echo T2*-weighted imaging at 7T results in better and more reliable detection of microbleeds compared with 3D T2*-weighted imaging at 1.5T."}
{"id": "21507569", "title": "Chronic encapsulated expanding hematoma after gamma knife stereotactic radiosurgery for cerebral arteriovenous malformation.", "content": "Chronic encapsulated expanding hematoma after gamma knife stereotactic radiosurgery for cerebral arteriovenous malformation."}
{"id": "21503806", "title": "Search for genetic variants in the ryanodine receptor 1 gene in patients with symptomatic cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Search for genetic variants in the ryanodine receptor 1 gene in patients with symptomatic cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral vasospasm is one of the most serious complications after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The cerebral artery diameter is regulated by complex physiological mechanisms. Among them the regulation of intracellular calcium homeostasis seems to play a crucial role. Recent data suggest that ryanodine receptors (RYRs) are involved in regulating the luminal calcium concentration in vascular smooth muscle cells. In this gene association investigation, we studied the question as to whether variants in the gene for the ryanodine receptors subtype 1 (RYR1) are associated with symptomatic cerebral vasospasm following SAH. After informed consent genomic DNA analysis was performed from a whole blood sample in 46 patients suffering from aneurysmal SAH. 16 Patients were affected by symptomatic vasospasm. The RYR1 gene was screened for possible genetic variants by means of direct sequencing. The association of these variants was correlated to the development of symptomatic vasospasm, which was confirmed by clinical examination combined with cerebral angiography, transcranial doppler sonography, or CT scan. Three different genetic RYR1 variants (c.5360C>T, c.6178G>T, and c.7244G>A) were identified in the study. The G/T genotype of RYR1 c.6178G>T was associated with an increased risk for development of symptomatic vasospasm (odds ratio 6.4; 95% CI 1.1-37.8; P\u00a0=\u00a00.04). Our pilot study suggests that RYRs are involved in the complex pathophysiology of vasospasm development following SAH. The potential role of RYR1 as a biomarker for prediction of cerebral vasospasm after SAH has to be confirmed in a larger clinical trial."}
{"id": "21499160", "title": "Incidence of blunt craniocervical artery injuries: use of whole-body computed tomography trauma imaging with adapted computed tomography angiography.", "content": "Incidence of blunt craniocervical artery injuries: use of whole-body computed tomography trauma imaging with adapted computed tomography angiography. The incidence of traumatic craniocervical artery dissection varies in published trauma series. To determine the frequency of traumatic craniocervical artery injury in polytrauma patients by using standardized whole-body trauma computed tomography with adapted computed tomography angiography of the craniocervical vessels. A total of 718 consecutive patients requiring whole-body trauma computed tomography (16-row multislice) because of the mechanism of their injury patterns and an Injury Severity Scale score greater than 16 were analyzed prospectively. After a cranial scan, computed tomography angiography of the craniocervical vessels with 40 mL of iodinated contrast agent was performed using bolus tracking. The overall incidence of blunt carotid and vertebral injuries (BCVIs) in the screened population was 1.7%. BCVIs were observed in 27.3% of patients with detected isolated cervical spine injuries and in 3.9% of patients with isolated cranial fractures with or without intracranial hemorrhage, whereas 5.3% of patients with combined cervical and cranial lesions were associated with BCVIs. In addition, 0.4% of BCVIs occurred in patients without evidence of head or neck trauma. Whole-body trauma computed tomography with an adapted scanning protocol for the craniocervical vessels is a fast, safe, and feasible method for detecting vascular injuries. It allows prompt further treatment if necessary. Computed tomography angiography could be a part of a broad screening protocol for craniocervical vessels in documented injuries of the head and neck and in trauma mechanisms influencing the craniocervical region as well."}
{"id": "21498167", "title": "[Meningovascular neurosyphilis as the cause of ischemic cerebrovascular disease in a young man].", "content": "[Meningovascular neurosyphilis as the cause of ischemic cerebrovascular disease in a young man]. Authors report a case of a 35-year-old male with right-sided mild paresis, incontinence, dysexecutive syndrome, short-term memory loss and behavioral changes. Bilateral cerebral infarcts in the region of the caudate nuclei and the adjacent white matter were proved by brain MRI and multiple stenoses of the branches of Willis-circle were confirmed by MR angiography. Elevated protein level and pleocytosis were found in the cerebrospinal fluid with intrathecal IgG synthesis. Serum rapid plasma reagin, Treponema pallidum Particle Agglutination test, Treponema pallidum ELISA, liquor Venereal Disease Research Laboratory tests were positive. Meningovascular neurosyphilis was diagnosed. 24M U/day intravenous penicillin-G treatment was given for 14 days. The patient has vascular dementia due to the bilateral strategic infarcts disconnecting the prefrontal circuits; his symptoms are similar to general paresis. Laboratory and radiologic improvement was observed. Still, the patient have severe residual cognitive decline."}
{"id": "21495812", "title": "Multiple spinal and cranial dural arteriovenous fistulas.", "content": "Multiple spinal and cranial dural arteriovenous fistulas. Synchronous multiplicity of cranial and spinal dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) is known but uncommon. The authors report on a patient with the unusual finding of multiple cranial and multiple separate spinal DAVFs. The patient initially presented with vague visual symptoms in 2004. A cranial DAVF was identified along the left transverse sinus with cortical venous reflux and another DAVF was identified along the posterior part of the superior sagittal sinus with no cortical venous reflux. The first DAVF was treated both endovascularly and surgically and the second was left untreated. The follow-up angiogram showed multiple spinal DAVFs at the levels of C-1, C-2, and C-6 on the left side and at the C-3 level on the right side along with another cranial DAVF along the anterior part of the superior sagittal sinus with cortical venous reflux. A retrospective analysis of the digital subtraction angiogram and MR images suggested that the cervical spinal DAVFs were already present in 2004 (6 years previously). Multiple DAVFs, although rare, do exist and it is important to look for any evidence of their presence when evaluating patients with symptoms suggestive of arteriovenous fistulas."}
{"id": "21493907", "title": "Measurement of cerebrovascular reactivity in pediatric patients with cerebral vasculopathy using blood oxygen level-dependent MRI.", "content": "Measurement of cerebrovascular reactivity in pediatric patients with cerebral vasculopathy using blood oxygen level-dependent MRI. Cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR) is an indicator of cerebral hemodynamics. In adults with cerebrovascular disease, impaired CVR has been shown to be associated with an increased risk of stroke. In children, however, CVR studies are not common. This may be due to the difficulties and risks associated with current CVR study methodologies. We have previously described the application of precise control of end-tidal carbon dioxide partial pressure for CVR studies in adults. Our aim is to report initial observations of CVR studies that were performed as part of a larger observational study regarding investigations in pediatric patients with cerebral vascular disease. Thirteen patients between the ages of 10 and 16 years (10 with a diagnosis of Moyamoya vasculopathy and 3 with confirmed, or suspected, intracranial vascular stenosis) underwent angiography, MRI, and functional blood oxygen level-dependent MRI mapping of CVR to hypercapnia. The results of the CVR study were then related to both the structural imaging and clinical status. Sixteen blood oxygen level-dependent MRI CVR studies were performed successfully in 13 consecutive patients. Twelve of the 13 patients with angiographic abnormalities also had CVR deficits in the corresponding downstream vascular territories. CVR deficits were also seen in 8 of 9 symptomatic patients and 2 of the asymptomatic patients. Notably, in patients with abnormalities on angiography, the reductions in CVR extended beyond the ischemic lesions identified with MR structural imaging into normal-appearing brain parenchyma. This is the first case series reporting blood oxygen level-dependent MRI CVR in children with cerebrovascular disease. CVR studies performed so far provide information regarding hemodynamic compromise, which complements traditional clinical assessment and structural imaging."}
{"id": "21493767", "title": "Is it possible to recognize cervical artery dissection on stroke brain MR imaging? A matched case-control study.", "content": "Is it possible to recognize cervical artery dissection on stroke brain MR imaging? A matched case-control study. Extracranial CAD accounts for nearly 20% of cases of stroke in young adults. The mural hematoma frequently extends cranially to the petrous carotid segment in cCAD or is distally located in vCAD. We hypothesized that standard brain MR imaging could allow the early detection of CAD of the upper portion of carotid and vertebral arteries. Our prospectively maintained stroke data base was retrospectively queried to identify all patients with the final diagnosis of CAD. In the 103 consecutive patients studied, analysis of cervical fat-suppressed T1-weighted sequences demonstrated that the mural hematoma was located in the FOV of brain MR imaging in 77 patients. Subsequent to enrollment of a patient, a control patient was extracted from the same data base, within a similar categories for sex, age, NIHSS score, and stroke on DWI. Two blinded observers independently reviewed the 5 brain MR sequences of each examination and determined whether a CAD was present. Fifty-nine of the 77 patients with CAD (76.6%) and 73 of the 77 patients without CAD (94.8%) were correctly classified. Brain MR imaging demonstrated cCAD more frequently than vCAD in 54/58 (93.1%) and 5/19 (26.3%) patients, respectively, (P < .0001). Initial brain MR imaging can correctly suggest CAD in more than two-thirds of patients. This may have practical implications in patients with stroke with delayed cervical MRA or in those who are not initially suspected of having CAD."}
{"id": "21487222", "title": "Location and size of ruptured intracranial aneurysm and serious clinical outcomes early after subarachnoid hemorrhage: a population-based study in Australasia.", "content": "Location and size of ruptured intracranial aneurysm and serious clinical outcomes early after subarachnoid hemorrhage: a population-based study in Australasia. It is uncertain whether the location and size of a ruptured intracranial aneurysm (IA) independently influences the outcome of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). To determine the independent relationship of location and size of a ruptured IA with serious clinical outcomes after SAH in an Australasian population-based study. From 432 first-ever cases of primary SAH registered prospectively over 12 months in 4 Australasian cities between 1995 and 1998, the demographics, clinical features, risk factors and results of investigations were obtained, including the location and size of any ruptured IA as assessed by cerebral angiography, computed tomography and/or magnetic resonance imaging. Location was classified as either anterior (i.e. anterior communicating artery, internal carotid artery and middle cerebral artery) or posterior circulation (i.e. posterior communicating artery, posterior inferior cerebellar artery, basilar artery and vertebral artery), and size was classified as <5, 5-9 and \u226510 mm. Outcomes recorded during hospitalization were rebleeding, delayed ischemia, hydrocephalus, residual neurological impairment and in-hospital death. Logistic regression analysis was used to evaluate the effects of IA location and size on outcome, independent of other potential prognostic factors. Data are reported with odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI). IA location and size were confirmed separately in 299 and 252 patients, respectively. Patients with a posterior circulation IA had a lower rate of rebleeding than those with an anterior circulation IA (adjusted OR: 0.11; 95% CI: 0.02-0.87), but otherwise there was no significant relationship between IA location and outcome. Patients with a larger ruptured IA had higher risks of rebleeding (p = 0.02 for trend) and in-hospital death (p = 0.001) after controlling for age, sex, ethnicity, location of the ruptured IA and neurosurgical intervention. IA location in the posterior circulation was associated with a lower risk of rebleeding than IA in the anterior circulation. A larger IA size was associated with higher risks of rebleeding and in-hospital death."}
{"id": "21483117", "title": "Computed tomography angiography based emergency microsurgery for massive intracranial hematoma arising from arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "Computed tomography angiography based emergency microsurgery for massive intracranial hematoma arising from arteriovenous malformations. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) and magnetic resonance angiography are the imaging modalities for the detection of intracranial arteriovenous malformations. However, these modalities are time consuming and cannot be used in emergency conditions. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) has also been shown to reliably detect vascular disorders such as cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness CTA in the surgical treatment of AVMs and the hematoma evacuation. Case records of 18 patients with massive intracranial hematoma secondary to AVMs were retrospectively reviewed. All patients had emergent brain CT and CTA. Follow-up DSA was performed two to three weeks after surgery. The outcome was assessed using Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS). Results : Emergent CTA demonstrated AVMs and defined the feeding arteries, abnormal vascular nest, and draining veins in all the patients. Fourteen patients underwent hematoma evacuation and total resection of the AVMs, and four patients had hematoma evacuation and a partial resection. Follow-up DSA demonstrated complete resection of AVM in 14/18 patients and partial resection in 4 patients. There were no deaths and none of the patients had rebleeding in the follow up. A GOS scores during follow-up were: GOS 3 in 12 patients, GOS 4 in 4 patients and GOS 2 in 2 patients. CTA can be a reliable and rapid diagnostic tool for detecting underlying AVM in patients presenting with intracranial hematoma and for the pretreatment planning of emergency craniotomy."}
{"id": "21482916", "title": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes: analysis of 139 cases.", "content": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes: analysis of 139 cases. To compare the clinical, laboratory, and imaging features of patients with reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes evaluated at 2 academic centers, compare subgroups, and investigate treatment effects. Retrospective analysis. Massachusetts General Hospital (n = 84) or Cleveland Clinic (n = 55). One hundred thirty-nine patients with reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes. Clinical, laboratory, and imaging features; treatment; and outcomes. The mean age was 42.5 years, and 81% were women. Onset with thunderclap headache was documented in 85% and 43% developed neurological deficits. Prior migraine was documented in 40%, vasoconstrictive drug exposure in 42%, and recent pregnancy in 9%. Admission computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging was normal in 55%; however, 81% ultimately developed brain lesions including infarcts (39%), convexity subarachnoid hemorrhage (34%), lobar hemorrhage (20%), and brain edema (38%). Cerebral angiographic abnormalities typically normalized within 2 months. Nearly 90% had good clinical outcome; 9% developed severe deficits; and 2% died. In the combined cohort, calcium channel blocker therapy and symptomatic therapy alone showed no significant effect on outcome; however, glucocorticoid therapy showed a trend for poor outcome (P = .08). Subgroup comparisons based on prior headache status and identified triggers (vasoconstrictive drugs, pregnancy, other) showed no major differences. Patients with reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes have a unique set of clinical imaging features, with no significant differences between subgroups. Prospective studies are warranted to determine the effects of empirical treatment with calcium channel blockers and glucocorticoids."}
{"id": "21464569", "title": "Does ICA occlusion frequently have intracerebral hemorrhage after IV tissue plasminogen activator therapy for ischemic stroke?", "content": "Does ICA occlusion frequently have intracerebral hemorrhage after IV tissue plasminogen activator therapy for ischemic stroke? The main predictors of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) are clinical stroke severity and large ischemic lesions. Therefore, ICA occlusion as severe stroke is thought to frequently have ICH after tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) therapy. The aim of this study was to investigate whether ICA occlusion more frequently had ICH after t-PA therapy compared with other occluded arteries. We prospectively studied consecutive stroke patients treated with t-PA within 3 h of onset. We investigated the frequency of ICH after t-PA therapy for each occluded artery. 165 patients were enrolled. Initial MRA demonstrated ICA occlusion in 38 patients, M1 in 48, M2 in 28, and BA and PCA in 12. At 24 h after t-PA infusion, 113 (68.5%) patients (non-HT group) did not have hemorrhagic transformation, 37 (22.4%; HI group) had hemorrhagic cerebral infarction and 15 (9.1%; ICH group) had ICH. The ICH group most frequently had M2 occlusion, NIHSS \u226515, and \u22651/3 of the MCA territory among the three groups. The frequency of ICH was 2.6% in no occlusion, 10.5% in ICA occlusion, 6.3% in M1, 21.4% in M2, and 8.3% in PCA and BA (p = 0.1016). Patients with ICA occlusion did not have ICH more frequently after t-PA therapy in comparison to other occluded arteries."}
{"id": "21447850", "title": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage due to a ruptured intracranial vertebral artery aneurysm associated with cerebrovascular fibromuscular dysplasia: case report].", "content": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage due to a ruptured intracranial vertebral artery aneurysm associated with cerebrovascular fibromuscular dysplasia: case report]. Fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) is comprised of a group of nonatherosclerotic and noninflammatory arterial diseases. Cerebrovascular FMD occurs more frequently in women, and the mean age at which it is diagnosed is 50 years. The most common angiographic pattern of cerebrovascular FMD is the \"string-of-beads\" deformity at the extracranial internal carotid artery. We report the case of a 52-year-old woman who presented with a sudden severe headache and went into a deep coma. She had been complaining of headaches for 2 weeks, but no specific imaging findings were obtained. A computed tomography scan obtained on admission showed a diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) from the cerebellomedullary cistern to the basal cistern with evidence of clot in the fourth and third ventricles. We performed digital subtraction angiography and made the diagnosis of cerebrovascular FMD. Right carotid angiography and left vertebral angiography showed the classic \"string-of-beads\" pattern with multiple constrictions of the lumen. Left carotid angiography showed a long segment of tubular stenosis. Right vertebral angiography also revealed the \"string-of-beads\" pattern and a ruptured aneurysm at the intracranial segment, which presented as a diverticulum-like outpouching. The patient was treated with conservative measures but passed away on the 23rd day of hospitalization. An autopsy was not performed. To our knowledge, during the last three decades, there are only four previous reports which showed intracerebral ruptured aneurysms of the vertebral artery or its branch in adults with cerebrovascular FMD. We demonstrate and discuss the radiologic findings here."}
{"id": "21442557", "title": "[Nonenhanced MR angiography techniques].", "content": "[Nonenhanced MR angiography techniques]. Especially in regard to the potential risks for the development of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) following the administration of Gadolinium-based contrast material, nonenhanced MR angiography (MRA) methods are becoming ever more important. Besides well-established time-of-flight (TOF) and phase-contrast (PC) MRA, alternative imaging techniques based on balanced steady-state free precession (bSSFP) and turbo-spin-echo (TSE) sequences are increasingly used in combination with or without arterial spin labeling (ASL) strategies. This article provides an overview of the principles and clinical values of different nonenhanced MRA techniques. In addition, recent nonenhanced MRA developments are presented."}
{"id": "21436228", "title": "Perfusion-diffusion mismatch in MRI to indicate endovascular treatment of cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "Perfusion-diffusion mismatch in MRI to indicate endovascular treatment of cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid haemorrhage. Endovascular treatments such as transluminal balloon angioplasty and intra-arterial nimodipine represent rescue therapy for cerebral vasospasm (CVS) after aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH). Both indication and data regarding its efficacy in the prevention of cerebral infarct are, however, inconsistent. Therefore, an MR based perfusion weighted imaging/diffusion weighted imaging (PWI/DWI) mismatch was used to indicate this treatment and to characterise its effectiveness. MRI was performed for suspicion of CVS. For quantitative evaluation, the brain was partitioned into 19 arbitrary segments of comparable volume. Segments with PWI/DWI mismatch were defined as 'segment at risk (SR)'. In these cases, MRI was followed by angiography (digital subtraction angiography (DSA)) including endovascular treatment. 48 \u00b1 12 h after treatment, a second MRI was performed and the treatment was repeated if new or remaining SR were observed. Efficacy was classified as the percentage of reduced diameter of the proximal cerebral arteries on DSA following the treatment: mild (\u226533%), moderate (34-66%) or severe (\u226567%). 48 treatment cycles, each consisting of MRI, DSA and a second MRI, were performed in 25 patients. During these cycles, 95 SR were identified. The infarct rate was significantly higher in SR (37%) compared with segments without risk (4%). The infarct rate in SR was significantly reduced if mild proximal CVS could be achieved. In the case of persistent severe CVS, infarcts occurred in all SR. The present series suggests that PWI/DWI mismatch is predictive of the development of infarct in the case of CVS. The infarct rate could, however, be improved if proximal CVS was sufficiently reduced."}
{"id": "21402376", "title": "Cross-sectional imaging for diagnosis and clinical outcome prediction of acute basilar artery thrombosis.", "content": "Cross-sectional imaging for diagnosis and clinical outcome prediction of acute basilar artery thrombosis. Basilar artery occlusion is a potentially fatal condition and imaging findings can be subtle. Prompt diagnosis is vital, as recognition may lead to therapeutic recanalization that may improve functional outcome and survival. Furthermore, cross-sectional imaging signs may help predict eventual outcome and, therefore, guide which patients should be subjected to aggressive treatment. Computed tomography (CT) signs include a hyperdense basilar artery that has a high specificity, accuracy, positive and negative predictive value. Evidence regarding the prognostic significance of the hyperdense basilar artery sign is conflicting. Early magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) features include loss of flow void, seen as increased signal intensity within the basilar artery on T2-weigted images and identification of acute thrombus, seen as intermediate signal on T1-weighted images. MRI sequences are more sensitive for early detection of acute ischaemia or infarction, ideally with diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). Both CT and MR angiography are sensitive for detection of acute thrombus, seen as a filling defect or occlusion. These are the non-invasive imaging techniques of choice to confirm diagnosis, with perhaps the speed and accessibility of CT angiography resulting in this technique being valuable in the acute setting. Several new scoring systems based on arterial segmentation rather than global volume assessment using CT angiography source images and DWI have shown early promise in the prediction of eventual clinical outcome in order to isolate those patients who may benefit from therapeutic recanalization."}
{"id": "21399981", "title": "Ischemic stroke following intracranial hemorrhage from moyamoya disease.", "content": "Ischemic stroke following intracranial hemorrhage from moyamoya disease."}
{"id": "21384275", "title": "Cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage associated with reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome after elective triplet cesarean delivery.", "content": "Cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage associated with reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome after elective triplet cesarean delivery. Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes (RCVS) comprise a group of disorders characterized by prolonged, but reversible vasoconstriction of the cerebral arteries, usually associated with acute-onset, severe, recurrent headaches, with or without additional neurological signs and symptoms. Various complications of this condition have been observed, such as cortical subarachnoid hemorrhages (cSAH), intracerebral hemorrhages, reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy, ischaemic strokes and transient ischaemic attacks. It is important to include RCVS in thunderclap headache differential diagnosis and among non-aneurismatic subarachnoid hemorrhage causes. In the past years, thanks to the major diffusion of new diagnostic tools such as magnetic resonance, computed tomography and digital subtraction angiography, RCVS have been demonstrated to be more frequent than previously thought. We report an illustrative case of a woman affected by a small cSAH, associated to RCVS, after elective triplet cesarean delivery. To our knowledge, this is the first case of cSAH associated to RCVS after a triplet pregnancy."}
{"id": "21372573", "title": "Hematoma volume affects the accuracy of computed tomographic angiography 'spot sign' in predicting hematoma expansion after acute intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Hematoma volume affects the accuracy of computed tomographic angiography 'spot sign' in predicting hematoma expansion after acute intracerebral hemorrhage. We hypothesized that the presence of tiny, enhancing foci ('spot sign') within acute hematomas is associated with hematoma expansion. We retrospectively analyzed the effect of hematoma volume on accuracy of computed tomographic angiography (CTA) in predicting hematoma expansion in 312 patients with acute intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The patients were divided into 2 groups according to their initial hematoma volume (<30 vs. \u226530 ml). CTA was performed at admission and 24 h after initial presentation. The <30-ml group consisted of 203 patients of whom 42 had hematoma expansion (20.9%). The \u226530-ml group consisted of 109 patients of whom 34 had hematoma expansion (31.19%). In the <30-ml group, the sensitivity and specificity of CTA in predicting hematoma expansion were 71.4 and 93.8%, respectively. In the \u226530-ml group, the sensitivity and specificity of CTA were 85.7 and 91.9%, respectively. For all 312 patients, the area under the curve was 0.86 (p < 0.001, 95% CI 0.80-0.92); the sensitivity and specificity of CTA were 77.9 and 93.2%, respectively. CTA can reliably predict hematoma expansion in clinical practice, especially for hematomas >30 ml."}
{"id": "21371698", "title": "Whole-brain dynamic CT angiography and perfusion imaging.", "content": "Whole-brain dynamic CT angiography and perfusion imaging. The availability of whole brain computed tomography (CT) perfusion has expanded the opportunities for analysing the haemodynamic parameters associated with varied neurological conditions. Examples demonstrating the clinical utility of whole-brain CT perfusion imaging in selected acute and chronic ischaemic arterial neurovascular conditions are presented. Whole-brain CT perfusion enables the detection and focused haemodynamic analyses of acute and chronic arterial conditions in the central nervous system without the limitation of partial anatomical coverage of the brain."}
{"id": "21358153", "title": "Ruptured internal carotid artery bifurcation aneurysm presenting with only intracerebral hemorrhage without subarachnoid hemorrhage--case report.", "content": "Ruptured internal carotid artery bifurcation aneurysm presenting with only intracerebral hemorrhage without subarachnoid hemorrhage--case report. A 55-year-old man presented with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) without subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) manifesting as acute onset of consciousness disturbance and right hemiparesis. Computed tomography showed ICH mainly localized in the left putamen, but no evidence of SAH. Magnetic resonance angiography demonstrated a cerebral aneurysm originating from the bifurcation of the left internal carotid artery, which was considered to be responsible for the ICH. The patient underwent emergent intravascular surgery for coil embolization of the aneurysm, and his neurological symptoms gradually recovered with rehabilitation after surgery. Although ICH without SAH is a rare presentation of cerebral aneurysm, ruptured cerebral aneurysm should be considered as a potential cause of ICH. The localization and extent of ICH may be suggestive of latent cerebral aneurysm in such cases."}
{"id": "21350201", "title": "Angiographic vasospasm is strongly correlated with cerebral infarction after subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Angiographic vasospasm is strongly correlated with cerebral infarction after subarachnoid hemorrhage. The long-standing concept that delayed cerebral infarction after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage results exclusively from large artery vasospasm recently has been challenged. We used data from the CONSCIOUS-1 trial to determine the relationship between angiographic vasospasm and cerebral infarction after subarachnoid hemorrhage. We performed a post hoc exploratory analysis of the CONSCIOUS-1 data. All patients underwent catheter angiography before treatment and 9\u00b12 days after subarachnoid hemorrhage. CT was performed before and after aneurysm treatment, and 6 weeks after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Angiograms and CT scans were assessed by centralized blinded review. Angiographic vasospasm was classified as none/mild (0%-33% decrease in arterial diameter), moderate (34%-66%), or severe (\u226567%). Infarctions were categorized as secondary to angiographic vasospasm, other, or unknown causes. Logistic regression was conducted to determine factors associated with infarction. Complete data were available for 381 of 413 patients (92%). Angiographic vasospasm was none/mild in 209 (55%) patients, moderate in 118 (31%), and severe in 54 (14%). Infarcts developed in 6 (3%) of 209 with no/mild, 12 (10%) of 118 patients with moderate, and 25 (46%) of 54 patients with severe vasospasm. Multivariate analysis found a strong association between angiographic vasospasm and cerebral infarction (OR, 9.3; 95% CI, 3.7-23.4). The significant association persisted after adjusting for admission neurological grade and aneurysm size. Method of aneurysm treatment was not associated with a significant difference in frequency of infarction. A strong association exists between angiographic vasospasm and cerebral infarction. Efforts directed at further reducing angiographic vasospasm are warranted."}
{"id": "21349959", "title": "Frequency of adequate contrast opacification of the major intracranial venous structures with CT angiography in the setting of intracerebral hemorrhage: comparison of 16- and 64-section CT angiography techniques.", "content": "Frequency of adequate contrast opacification of the major intracranial venous structures with CT angiography in the setting of intracerebral hemorrhage: comparison of 16- and 64-section CT angiography techniques. DVST is an important cause of ICH because its treatment may require anticoagulation or mechanical thrombectomy. We aimed to determine the frequency of adequate contrast opacification of the major intracranial venous structures in CTAs performed for ICH evaluation, which is an essential factor in excluding DVST as the ICH etiology. Two readers retrospectively reviewed CTAs performed in 170 consecutive patients with ICH who presented to our emergency department during a 1-year period to determine by consensus whether qualitatively, contrast opacification in each of the major intracranial venous structures was adequate to exclude DVST. \"Adequate contrast opacification\" was defined as homogeneous opacification of the venous structure examined. \"Inadequate contrast opacification\" was defined as either inhomogeneous opacification or nonopacification of the venous structure examined. Delayed scans, if obtained, were reviewed by the same readers blinded to the first-pass CTAs to determine the adequacy of contrast opacification in the venous structures according to the same criteria. In patients who did not have an arterial ICH etiology, the same readers determined if thrombosis of an inadequately opacified intracranial venous structure could have potentially explained the ICH by correlating the presumed venous drainage path of the ICH with the presence of inadequate contrast opacification within the venous structure draining the venous territory of the ICH. CTAs were performed in 16- or 64-section CT scanners with bolus-tracking, scanning from C1 to the vertex. Patients with a final diagnosis of DVST were excluded. We used the Pearson \u03c7(2) test to determine the significance of the differences in the frequency of adequate contrast opacification within each of the major intracranial venous structures in scans obtained using either a 16- or 64-section MDCTA technique. Fifty-eight patients were evaluated with a 16-section MDCTA technique (34.1%) and 112 with a 64-section technique (65.9%). Adequate contrast opacification within all major noncavernous intracranial venous structures was significantly less frequent in first-pass CTAs performed with a 64-section technique (33%) than in those performed with a 16-section technique (60%, P value < .0001). Delayed scans were obtained in 50 patients, all of which demonstrated adequate contrast opacification in the major noncavernous intracranial venous structures. In 142 patients with supratentorial or cerebellar ICH without an underlying arterial etiology, we found that thrombosis of an inadequately opacified major intracranial venous structure could have potentially explained the ICH in 38 patients (26.8%), most examined with a 64-section technique (86.8%). Inadequate contrast opacification of the major intracranial venous structures is common in first-pass CTAs performed for ICH evaluation, particularly if performed with a 64-section technique. Acquiring delayed scans appears necessary to confidently exclude DVST when there is strong clinical or radiologic suspicion."}
{"id": "21347657", "title": "Influence of plasma and cerebrospinal fluid levels of endothelin-1 and NO in reducing cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage during treatment with mild hypothermia, in a dog model.", "content": "Influence of plasma and cerebrospinal fluid levels of endothelin-1 and NO in reducing cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage during treatment with mild hypothermia, in a dog model. Using vascular heat-exchange controller implemented mild hypothermia treatment, the authors established the cerebral vasospasm model in which blood was injected twice into dog's foramen magnum; and it was discussed the influence of the concentration of endothelin-1 and NO in blood plasma and cerebrospinal fluid through continuing treatment of mild hypothermia at different times in secondary brain vasospasm model after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Thirty healthy mongrel dogs were randomly divided into five groups; artificial cerebrospinal fluid group (group A), normal temperature control group (group C), mild hypothermia 8\u00a0h group (group H1), mild hypothermia 16\u00a0h group (group H2), and mild hypothermia 32\u00a0h group (group H3). The authors injected the artificial CSF into dog's foramen magnum in group A while the other four groups were injected with autologous arterial blood. The normal group's temperature maintained 38.5\u00b0C. The authors set the temperature at 33.5\u00b0C in mild hypothermia groups and this was maintained for 8, 16, and 32\u00a0h, respectively. ET-1 and NO levels in the cerebrospinal fluid and plasma were assayed in each group on days 0, 7, 14, and 21. Then the changes of the diameter of blood vessels of cerebral basilar artery and overall performance categories score in each group through application of CT angiography were recorded. In the cerebral vasospasm model which was constructed by injecting the blood to dog twice, mild hypothermia treatment, through the application of vascular heat-exchange controller, could reduce cerebral vasospasm. It was observed that the duration of the mild hypothermia is directly proportional to the longer duration of the relieving of cerebral vasospasm. The reciprocal changes observed in the levels of ET-1 and NO in cerebrospinal fluid and plasma revealed that it might be possible to reduce the cerebral vasospasm by regulating the rising amplitude of ET-1 and the decrease in NO in CSF and plasma."}
{"id": "21346342", "title": "Fully automated postprocessing carries a risk of substantial overestimation of perfusion deficits in acute stroke magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Fully automated postprocessing carries a risk of substantial overestimation of perfusion deficits in acute stroke magnetic resonance imaging. Due to the risk of rater bias and time restrictions in clinical practice, an automated approach to delineation of hypoperfused tissue in patients with acute ischemic stroke would be preferred to a manual one. We tested the hypothesis that existing software solutions, on account of numerous artifacts, produce hypoperfused tissue even in a cohort of patients with no ischemia. Thirty-nine patients, all admitted for exclusion of cerebral ischemia or hemorrhage and without a final diagnosis of stroke imaged between September 2008 and May 2009 were included in the study. Using 3 different software packages (PerfScape/NeuroScape, PMA and Stroketool), perfusion maps of mean transit time, cerebral blood flow and T(max) were created for each patient. Three different thresholds were applied to each parameter map, and subsequent volumes of hypoperfused tissue were calculated. The median volume of hypoperfused tissue for all the subjects was 92.9 ml (interquartile range, IQR: 13.3-323.4 ml) when calculated by PerfScape/NeuroScape, 30.42 ml (IQR: 13.9-71.4 ml) when calculated by PMA and 78.71 ml (IQR: 40.3-140.8 ml) when calculated by Stroketool. The volumes derived via the different software applications mostly showed only a weak-to-moderate association with each other (Spearman's correlation coefficient between 0.02 and 0.76). Although automated protocols show promise, the programs Stroketool, PerfScape and PMA require substantial improvement in order to be able to automatically and reliably differentiate between patients with a credible region of ischemia-related hypoperfusion and those without."}
{"id": "21344968", "title": "Treatment of complex ruptured anterior communicating arterial aneurysms by endovascular coil embolisation of the anterior communicating artery.", "content": "Treatment of complex ruptured anterior communicating arterial aneurysms by endovascular coil embolisation of the anterior communicating artery. The current study evaluates the feasibility and safety of coil embolisation of the anterior communicating artery (ACoA) for the treatment of complicated anterior communicating arterial aneurysms (ACoAAs). Five patients presented with a subarachnoid haemorrhage caused by a ruptured ACoAA. The ACoAA morphologies were well defined by three-dimensional digital subtraction angiography (3D-DSA) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). Two of the ACoAAs were tiny (<3\u2009mm in diameter), and the remaining three ACoAAs were small (3-5\u2009mm in diameter). All of the aneurysms were localised to the ACoA. The projection of the aneurysm dome was defined as being oriented superiorly or posteriorly in all five aneurysms. We performed a superselective catheterisation of each aneurysm, and we subsequently performed coil embolisation with balloon, stent or microcatheter assistance. Angiography and clinical follow-up occurred 3-6 months after the procedure. Clinical follow-up data were collected and retrospectively analysed, and patient responses were categorised as fully recovered, improved, unchanged or aggravated. All five patients with ACoAA were treated successfully using coil embolisation. In three patients, both the aneurysm sac and the ACoA were embolised using coils, and in two patients, only the ACoA was embolised. Acute angiography showed occlusion of the aneurysm and ACoA. Follow-up angiography confirmed complete occlusion of the aneurysm sac, and no ACoAA recurrence was detected in any of the patients. In clinical follow-up visits, none of the patients had haemorrhaged or had a stroke. Combined coil embolism of the aneurysm sac and the ACoA could be a feasible and safe method for the treatment of complicated ACoAAs without bilateral aplasia of the A1 segment."}
{"id": "21336217", "title": "The association between symptomatic delayed cerebral infarction and serum adhesion molecules in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "The association between symptomatic delayed cerebral infarction and serum adhesion molecules in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Serum concentrations of adhesion molecules may be connected to the pathogenesis of delayed cerebral infarction (DCI) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). To test the hypothesis that levels of adhesion molecules are substantially increased after DCI and decreased thereafter and that these levels can predict treatment outcomes. Serial circulating markers of adhesion molecules were examined in 21 consecutive SAH patients and 2 risk control subjects. All underwent cerebral angiography and magnetic resonance imaging to confirm the DCI. The timing of magnetic resonance imaging was fixed in the acute phase and before hospital discharge. Symptomatic DCI developed in 33% of the patients (7 of 21). Statistical analysis of levels of adhesion molecules between patients with and those without DCI revealed that soluble (s) L-selectin, sP-selectin, and sE-selectin concentrations significantly increased after symptomatic DCI (P=.003, .013, and .043, respectively). Only higher sL-selectin level on presentation (cutoff value > 636 ng/mL) was significantly associated with poor outcome after 6 months of follow-up. Increased sL-selectin, sP-selectin, and sE-selectin levels imply risks of symptomatic DCI after aneurysmal SAH. The high frequency of symptomatic DCI and higher sL-selectin level on presentation may be associated with worse outcomes."}
{"id": "21332288", "title": "Combined endovascular embolization and stereotactic radiosurgery in the treatment of large arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "Combined endovascular embolization and stereotactic radiosurgery in the treatment of large arteriovenous malformations. Large cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are often not amenable to direct resection or stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) treatment. An alternative treatment strategy is staged endovascular embolization followed by SRS (Embo/SRS). The object of this study was to examine the experience at Washington University in St. Louis with Embo/SRS for large AVMs and review the results in earlier case series. Twenty-one cases involving patients with large AVMs treated with Embo/SRS between 1994 and 2006 were retrospectively evaluated. The AVM size (before and after embolization), procedural complications, radiological outcome, and neurological outcome were examined. Radiological success was defined as AVM obliteration as demonstrated by catheter angiography, CT angiography, or MR angiography. Radiological failure was defined as residual AVM as demonstrated by catheter angiography, CT angiography, or MR angiography performed at least 3 years after SRS. The maximum diameter of all AVMs in this series was > 3 cm (mean 4.2 cm); 12 (57%) were Spetzler-Martin Grade IV or V. Clinical follow-up was available in 20 of 21 cases; radiological follow-up was available in 19 of 21 cases (mean duration of follow-up 3.6 years). Forty-three embolization procedures were performed; 8 embolization-related complications occurred, leading to transient neurological deficits in 5 patients (24%), minor permanent neurological deficits in 3 patients (14%), and major permanent neurological deficits in none (0%). Twenty-one SRS procedures were performed; 1 radiation-induced complication occurred (5%), leading to a permanent minor neurological deficit. Of the 20 patients with clinical follow-up, none experienced cerebral hemorrhage. In the 19 patients with radiological follow-up, AVM obliteration was confirmed by catheter angiography in 13, MR angiography in 2, and CT angiography in 1. Residual nidus was found in 3 patients. In patients with follow-up catheter angiography, the AVM obliteration rate was 81% (13 of 16 cases). Staged endovascular embolization followed by SRS provides an effective means of treating large AVMs not amenable to standard surgical or SRS treatment. The outcomes and complication rates reported in this series compare favorably to the results of other reported therapeutic strategies for this very challenging patient population."}
{"id": "21279660", "title": "Incidental major artery aneurysms in patients with non-hemorrhagic moyamoya disease.", "content": "Incidental major artery aneurysms in patients with non-hemorrhagic moyamoya disease. Major artery aneurysms may be found incidentally while evaluating moyamoya disease (MMD). The purpose of this study was to delineate the prevalence and characteristics of these uncommon aneurysms with a brief mention of their management and outcomes. We conducted a retrospective review of 249 adult patients who were diagnosed with non-hemorrhagic MMD. Cerebral angiograms obtained at the time of initial diagnosis were carefully reviewed to identify incidental aneurysms located on a major intracranial artery or near its tributaries. Aneurysms originating from distal peripheral arteries or moyamoya vessels were ineligible for this study. Nine patients (3.6%) were found to have 13 major artery aneurysms, 7 (54%) of which were located in the posterior circulation, especially in older patients with bilateral MMD. The sizes of all aneurysms were less than 10\u00a0mm. Surgical clipping was performed on two aneurysms, and endovascular coiling on six (five posterior circulation aneurysms). Ischemic complications occurred in two patients after clipping of an anterior communicating artery aneurysm and in one patient after the second coiling of a recanalized basilar tip aneurysm. Incidental major artery aneurysms can be found in 3.6% of adult patients with non-hemorrhagic MMD, an observed frequency that increases with age. About half of these aneurysms are located in the posterior circulation, particularly in older patients with bilateral MMD. Considering the risks of treatment-related complications, more information about the natural course of these aneurysms is needed to design proper management strategies both for the aneurysms and MMD."}
{"id": "21273754", "title": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by pilocytic astrocytoma--case report.", "content": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by pilocytic astrocytoma--case report. A 20-year-old woman presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in the frontal interhemispheric fissure, and a cystic lesion in the left frontal lobe. Cerebral angiography demonstrated no aneurysm or vascular abnormalities. T(1)-weighted magnetic resonance imaging with contrast medium revealed an enhanced lesion along the falx. The lesion and cyst were removed, and histological examination revealed a pilocytic astrocytoma. Spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage from pilocytic astrocytoma is rare, with only 15 reported cases mostly involving intratumoral hemorrhage in the parenchyma of hypothalamic and cerebellar tumors. SAH caused by cerebral hemisphere pilocytic astrocytoma is extremely rare. This case suggests that interhemispheric fissure SAH, not associated with aneurysm or abnormal vascularity, could originate from small, low-grade glioma in the superficial cerebral hemisphere."}
{"id": "21273741", "title": "Cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by cerebral venous thrombosis.", "content": "Cortical subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by cerebral venous thrombosis. Patients with non-traumatic, non-aneurysmal, and non-perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) tend to have clots circumscribed along the cortical convexity, a condition referred to as acute cortical SAH. Cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) is a potential cause of cortical SAH. The study tried to establish the diagnosis and management of cortical SAH caused by CVT. Retrospective review of 145 patients with non-traumatic SAH identified 15 patients with no ruptured aneurysm. Clinical features were investigated with a specific focus on patients with SAH caused by CVT. Eight of the 15 patients had perimesencephalic SAH, and 7 had cortical SAH. SAH caused by CVT was diagnosed in 4 of the 7 patients with cortical SAH. The cortical SAH involved the unilateral convexity or sylvian cistern and spared the basal cistern on computed tomography in all 4 patients. CVT occurred in the transverse sinus and cortical vein (1 patient), insular vein (1 patient), and cortical vein (2 patients). Identification of thrombosed veins or sinuses was established directly by T(2)*-weighted and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in the acute stage and diffusion-weighted and T(1)-weighted MR imaging in the subacute stage. All patients had cortical swelling without findings of venous hemorrhagic infarction on T(2)*-weighted MR imaging. None of the 4 patients received active treatment, and all had favorable outcomes. CVT in patients with non-traumatic cortical SAH should be first excluded as a potential hemorrhagic cause by MR imaging for thrombosed veins or sinuses before initiating antifibrinolytic therapy."}
{"id": "21270478", "title": "[Exacerbation of radiation induced meningioma due to hemorrhage after cerebral angiography: a case report].", "content": "[Exacerbation of radiation induced meningioma due to hemorrhage after cerebral angiography: a case report]. We report the case of a 34-year-old woman who exhibited acute deterioration in her condition after cerebral angiography for evaluation of a large meningioma. She had undergone surgery and irradiation for a glioma in the right occipital lobe 23 years before this episode. She experienced incapacity at work. On CT and MRI, a large meningioma was detected on the left frontal convexity; this tumor was thought to be radiation-induced. Cerebral angiography was performed to assess the vascularization of the tumor. Her condition began to deteriorate 2.5 h after the cerebral angiography. CT revealed an increase in the mass of the tumor, and a high density area in the tumor. We immediately removed the tumor. Histopathological examination revealed the tumor to be a meningothelial meningioma. New hemorrhagic foci were identified in the tumor. In addition, macrophages containing hemosiderin were detected, and some of the tumor vessels exhibited hyaline degeneration. We suspected that angiography triggered bleeding in the meningioma, which was already predisposed to hemorrhage."}
{"id": "21255395", "title": "Cerebral aneurysm exclusion by CT angiography based on subarachnoid hemorrhage pattern: a retrospective study.", "content": "Cerebral aneurysm exclusion by CT angiography based on subarachnoid hemorrhage pattern: a retrospective study. To identify patients with spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage for whom CT angiography alone can exclude ruptured aneurysms. An observational retrospective review was carried out of all consecutive patients with non-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage who underwent both CT angiography and catheter angiography to exclude an aneurysm. CT angiography negative cases (no aneurysm) were classified according to their CT hemorrhage pattern as \"aneurismal\", \"perimesencephalic\" or as \"no-hemorrhage.\" Two hundred and forty-one patients were included. A CT angiography aneurysm detection sensitivity and specificity of 96.4% and 96.0% were observed. All 35 cases of perimesencephalic or no-hemorrhage out of 78 CT angiography negatives also had negative angiography findings. CT angiography is self-reliant to exclude ruptured aneurysms when either a perimesencephalic hemorrhage or no-hemorrhage pattern is identified on the CT within a week of symptom onset."}
{"id": "21227617", "title": "Comparison of carotid and cerebrovascular disease between diabetic and non-diabetic patients using dual-source CT.", "content": "Comparison of carotid and cerebrovascular disease between diabetic and non-diabetic patients using dual-source CT. To clarify the differences of the carotid and cerebrovascular disease between patients with and without type 2 diabetes using dual-source CT angiography. Dual-source CT angiography of the carotid and cerebrovascular arteries was performed in 79 type 2 diabetic patients and 207 non-diabetic patients. The type, extent and distribution of plaques, and luminal stenosis were compared. Compared with non-diabetic patients, diabetic patients had a higher overall incidence of plaque (p<0.05) and cerebral infarction (p<0.05). Among these plaques, no differences were observed in the subtype of plaques between these two cohorts (all p>0.05), as well as for the number of diseased segments and the distribution of plaques; both mainly involved the bilateral cavernous segment of the internal carotid artery. As for the stenosis, non-obstructive lesions were more common in diabetic patients (p<0.05). There was no difference in the segment number of stenosis (\u226530% and \u226570%) between these two groups (all p>0.05). Diabetes is associated with a higher incidence of plaque and non-obstructive stenosis. However, no significant differences were observed in the type, extent and distribution of involved plaques between diabetic and non-diabetic patients."}
{"id": "21227615", "title": "The use of routine imaging data in diagnosis of cerebral pseudoaneurysm prior to angiography.", "content": "The use of routine imaging data in diagnosis of cerebral pseudoaneurysm prior to angiography. A false aneurysm is rare and underdiagnosed complication of intracranial hemorrhage. Objective of the study was to point out diagnostic imaging signs of false aneurysm and to determine frequency and diagnostic significance of these signs. Cerebral arteriography performed in our center from November 2007 to September 2010 revealed the false aneurysm in 8 patients (4 male, 4 female, mean age was 38 years). During the same angiographic procedure 6 patients were treated by endovascular embolization using coils, mixture of Histoacryl and Lipiodol or Onyx (liquid embolic material). Authors retrospectively analyzed preprocedural studies (computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging) and angiographic findings to identify signs specific to false aneurysm. Computed tomographic findings that are not specific but should raise suspicion of the false aneurysm include: enlargement of parenchymal hematoma dimensions, unusual or delayed evolution of hematoma and spot sign associated with acute hematoma expansion. More specific signs can be revealed in digital subtraction angiography that shows a globular shaped neckless aneurysmal sac, delayed filling and emptying of contrast agent and stagnation of contrast with regard to the head position. Although preangiographic imaging studies findings in patients with false aneurysms are not specific, they should lead to angiographic validation, especially enlarging parenchymal hematoma and atypical hematoma evolution. Digital subtraction angiography makes it possible to diagnose the lesion and to use endovascular embolization techniques, which are currently the method of choice for treatment of pseudoaneurysms."}
{"id": "21216088", "title": "Analysis of multiple factors affecting surgical outcomes of proximal middle cerebral artery aneurysms.", "content": "Analysis of multiple factors affecting surgical outcomes of proximal middle cerebral artery aneurysms. We analyzed multiple factors including anatomical characteristics that influence the surgical outcomes of proximal middle cerebral artery (M1) aneurysms. Between January 1999 and February 2007, 189 patients had middle cerebral artery aneurysms and 60 had M1 aneurysms. Eleven patients were excluded from this study. The aneurysms were classified into two groups (superior- and inferior-wall type). Retrospectively, we evaluated characteristics of these patients and investigated factors affecting surgical outcomes. Of the 49 patients, 28 had ruptured aneurysms and 43 had aneurysms sized less than 10mm in diameter. There were no giant aneurysms, the incidence of multiple aneurysms was high (22 patients, 45%), and intracerebral hematomas (ICH) were recognized in 13 patients (27%). The superior-wall group included 29 patients (59.2%) and the inferior-wall group had 20 (40.8%). Overall mortality and morbidity rates were 6.1% and 24.5%, respectively. Thirty-four patients (69%) showed good outcomes (GOS 4-5). Eleven and five patients showed unfavorable outcomes from the superior- and inferior-wall group, respectively. Of the four operation-related morbidity patients, three were from the superior-wall and one from the inferior-wall group. There were no statistically significant differences with respect to clinical outcome between the superior- and inferior-wall groups. Patients with poor Hunt-Hess (H-H) grades on admission showed worse outcomes than those with good H-H grades (p=0.002) and those patients without ICH revealed better outcomes than those with ICH (p=0.004). In patients with M1 aneurysms, clinical status on admission and the presence of ICH were significant factors for surgical outcome. Surgical morbidity seems to be related to the direction of the aneurysm. It is critical to save the lenticulostriate arteries and their branches in patients with superior-wall type aneurysms. Thorough preoperative angiographic evaluation, careful brain retraction, and meticulous inspection for hidden small branches are crucial to successful outcomes."}
{"id": "21215581", "title": "Histologic characterization of mobile and nonmobile carotid plaques detected with ultrasound imaging.", "content": "Histologic characterization of mobile and nonmobile carotid plaques detected with ultrasound imaging. Although mobile plaques in the carotid arteries detected by duplex ultrasound imaging are considered to cause unstable neurologic symptoms such as crescendo transient ischemic attack or progressive stroke, the histology of mobile plaques has not been sufficiently documented. This study examined the histopathologic features of mobile plaques of the carotid artery and compared the histopathology between mobile and nonmobile plaques. Of 228 carotid plaques assessed by preoperative carotid ultrasound imaging, 21 (9.3%) were diagnosed as mobile symptomatic plaques. Of these, 18 were intact after excision by endarterectomy and enrolled for histologic examination. From the remaining 207 nonmobile plaque specimens, 17 nonmobile but symptomatic plaque specimens were extracted for histologic comparison. An investigator blinded to the ultrasound findings assessed both plaque specimens for fibrous cap thickness, fibrous cap rupture, fibrous cap area, necrotic core size, inflammatory cells, intraplaque hemorrhage, and mural thrombus. Clinical data, including progressive ischemic symptoms after admission, were also examined. Progressive ischemic symptoms were more frequently seen in patients with mobile plaques than in those with nonmobile plaques (33.3% vs 0%, P = .02). The ratio of the cross-sectional area of the necrotic core to that of the entire plaque was significantly larger for mobile plaques than for nonmobile plaques (mean, 0.660 vs 0.417, P < .0001). Mural thrombus was more prevalent among mobile plaques (89%) than among nonmobile plaques (59%), but the difference was not significant (P = .06). The median minimum thickness of the fibrous cap was extremely small in both groups (80 \u03bcm in mobile plaques and 100 \u03bcm in nonmobile plaques, P = .33). The histologic characteristics of mobile carotid plaques are different from those of nonmobile symptomatic plaques, especially in the area of the necrotic core. This histologic difference may partly explain the unstable neurologic presentations of patients with mobile carotid plaques."}
{"id": "21212995", "title": "Ischaemic stroke after acute intracranial haemorrhage in patients with moyamoya disease: six new cases and a short literature review.", "content": "Ischaemic stroke after acute intracranial haemorrhage in patients with moyamoya disease: six new cases and a short literature review. We report six new cases of ischaemic stroke after cerebral haemorrhage in patients with moyamoya disease (MMD) and analyse their clinical and radiological characteristics, together with cases reported in the literature, to deduce the mechanism of cerebral infarct. Six (2%) of 246 patients with MMD who were admitted to our hospitals between 1993 and 2009 suffered cerebral infarct after intracranial haemorrhage. Ten patients identified in the literature with the PubMed search engine were also included in this study. All the ischaemic lesions in these 16 patients were analysed according to their location, size, and number and were compared according to the spatial relationship between the haemorrhage and infarct, as follows: (1) anterior vs posterior involvement, (2) cortical vs subcortical involvement, (3) watershed vs non-watershed infarct, (4) small vs large infarct, (5) single vs multiple infarct, and (6) adjacent vs distant involvement. Acute synchronous multiple brain infarcts occurred in six (38%) patients and recurrent infarcts in three patients (19%). Cerebral infarcts had mainly cortical (72%), anterior (66%), and distant involvement (75%) and were large (69%) and non-watershed (66%). Adjacent infarct had significantly anterior involvement (P\u2009<\u20090.05), and distant infarcts tended to have cortical involvement. Non-watershed infarcts had significantly cortical involvement (P\u2009<\u20090.05). Watershed infarcts tended to be large. Vasospasm was confirmed either pathologically or angiographically in two patients with large cerebral infarcts. We suggest that thromboembolism or vasospasm plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of cerebral infarction after acute intracranial haemorrhage in patients with MMD."}
{"id": "21212661", "title": "Evaluation of symptomatic carotid plaques by tissue characterization using integrated backscatter ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Evaluation of symptomatic carotid plaques by tissue characterization using integrated backscatter ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging. Unstable carotid plaques that consist of large lipid pool and intraplaque hemorrhage are more likely to cause cerebral infarction. We previously developed an integrated backscatter (IBS) ultrasound color-coded mapping method to evaluate the tissue characteristics of plaques. The purpose of this study was to determine whether 3-dimensional IBS color-coded mapping and signal intensity ratio (SIR) from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) could distinguish the early symptomatic plaques from late symptomatic plaques. We performed quantitative tissue characterization of carotid plaques measuring IBS values and the SIR from T(1)-weighted MRI images in 95 carotid plaques (>50% stenosis) in 95 patients (45 symptomatic, 50 asymptomatic). The percent unstable component volume (UCV) that consisted of lipid pool and intraplaque hemorrhage and the SIR of symptomatic carotid plaques were higher than those of asymptomatic plaques (57.8 \u00b1 25.1 vs. 46.8 \u00b1 25.1%, p = 0.036; 1.31 \u00b1 0.25 vs. 1.21 \u00b1 0.26, p = 0.047). In patients that were imaged within 3 days of symptom onset, the %UCV and SIR were significantly higher than the values in patients that were imaged 30-180 days after symptom onset (73.1 \u00b1 18.4 vs. 38.7 \u00b1 18.4%, p < 0.001; 1.38 \u00b1 0.22 vs. 1.22 \u00b1 0.26, p = 0.031). From the analysis of receiver operating characteristic curves, a %UCV of 50% (measured by IBS) and an SIR of 1.25 (measured by MRI) were the most optimal cutoff values for identifying early symptomatic plaques. Noninvasive quantitative tissue characterization of atherosclerotic lesions in carotid arteries using IBS ultrasound and MRI is useful to distinguish early symptomatic plaques from late symptomatic plaques."}
{"id": "21182123", "title": "Low-dose 3D time-resolved magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the supraaortic arteries: correlation with high spatial resolution 3D contrast-enhanced MRA.", "content": "Low-dose 3D time-resolved magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the supraaortic arteries: correlation with high spatial resolution 3D contrast-enhanced MRA. To evaluate the feasibility of low-dose, 3D time-resolved contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (TR-CEMRA) in the assessment of the supraaortic vessel, and to compare the results with high-resolution contrast-enhanced MRA (HR-CEMRA). This was an Institutional Review Board-approved retrospective study. Forty-five consecutive patients underwent contrast-enhanced 3D TR-CEMRA and 3D HR-CEMRA for evaluation of neurovascular disease at 3.0 T. Gadobutrol was administered at a constant dose of 1 mL for TR-CEMRA (independent of patient weight), and 0.1 mmol/kg for HR-CEMRA. Two readers evaluated image quality using a four-point scale (from 0 = excellent to 3 = nondiagnostic), and subsequently graded each stenosis into clinically relevant categories: normal (0%), mild stenosis (<50%), moderate to severe (>50%), and occlusion. The overall image quality for low-dose TR-CEMRA was in the diagnostic range (median 0, range 0-3). On the grading of stenosis, TR-CEMRA using the TWIST sequence correlated with HR-CEMRA (r = 0.668, P < 0.001). In terms of the comparison of TR-CEMRA with HR-CEMRA, of the 675 supraaortic arterial segments evaluated for stenosis or occlusion, agreement occurred in 611 of 675 (90.5%), overestimation in 41 of 675 (6.1%), and underestimation 23 of 675 (3.4%). TR-CEMRA achieved by administration of a small contrast dose (1 cc) yields rapid and important functional and anatomical information in the evaluation of supraaortic arteries. Due to limited spatial resolution, TR-CEMRA at the current parameters has a tendency to overestimate the stenosis of smaller intracranial arteries compared to HR-CEMRA."}
{"id": "21150642", "title": "Underdiagnosis of posterior communicating artery aneurysm in noninvasive brain vascular studies.", "content": "Underdiagnosis of posterior communicating artery aneurysm in noninvasive brain vascular studies. Expert interpretation of modern noninvasive neuroimaging such as computed tomographic angiography (CTA) or MRA should detect nearly all aneurysms responsible for an isolated third nerve palsy. Whether a catheter angiogram should still be obtained in cases with negative CTA or MRA remains debated and mostly relies on whether the noninvasive study was correctly performed and interpreted. The aim of our study was to review the diagnostic strategies used to evaluate patients with isolated aneurysmal third nerve palsy at a large academic center. Retrospective review of all cases with posterior communicating artery (PCom A) aneurysmal third nerve palsies seen at our institution since 2001. We identified 417 cases with third nerve palsy, aneurysm, or subarachnoid hemorrhage, among which 17 presented with an acute isolated painful third nerve palsy related to an ipsilateral PCom A aneurysm (mean age: 52 years; range: 33-83 years). Patients were classified into 3 groups based on the results of the noninvasive imaging obtained at initial presentation. Group I included 4 cases with subarachnoid hemorrhage on initial noncontrast head CT initially obtained in an emergency department for evaluation of their isolated third nerve palsy. Group II included 5 cases with isolated third nerve palsy and normal noncontrast head CT at presentation, immediately correctly diagnosed with a PCom A aneurysm at the referring institution. Group III included the 8 remaining cases who all had aneurysms that were missed on noninvasive studies at outside institutions. Review of these outside studies at our institution showed a PCom A aneurysm, confirming misinterpretation of these tests by the outside radiologists, rather than inadequate technique. Absence of specific training in neuroradiology and inaccurate clinical information provided to the interpreting radiologist were associated with test misinterpretation at the outside institutions. The average size of PCom A aneurysms causing an isolated third nerve palsy across all 3 groups was 7.3 mm and was similar in each group. Our study suggests that aside from an accurate history, the training and experience of the interpreting radiologist is probably the most important factor in determining the reliability of a noninvasive scan in patients with isolated third nerve palsies."}
{"id": "21140127", "title": "Evolution from an infundibulum of the posterior communicating artery to a saccular aneurysm.", "content": "Evolution from an infundibulum of the posterior communicating artery to a saccular aneurysm. An infrequent case of a de novo aneurysm formation originating from an infundibulum at the origin of the posterior communicating artery (PcomA) is presented. The aneurysm developed within 7 years in a patient who initially presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) from a saccular aneurysm of the vertebral artery. A 43-year-old female patient was admitted to our hospital on 16th June 2000 after an acute onset of massive occipital headache. A computed tomography (CT) scan showed a subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) around the brainstem and 4-vessel angiography revealed an aneurysm originating from the V4 segment of the right vertebral artery (VA) as the cause of the SAH. A small aneurysm at the basilar artery (BA)/superior cerebellar artery (SCA) bifurcation was also found. Injection of the left internal carotid artery (ICA) showed a diffuse enlargement at the origin of the left PcomA, which at this time was considered to be a so-called infundibulum. The VA aneurysm was treated by coil occlusion. Follow-up digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in 2005 showed a de novo aneurysm formation at the VA junction, again treated by coil occlusion. The PcomA infundibulum at the left ICA was not examined. Follow-up angiography performed in 2007 revealed a saccular de novo aneurysm of the left ICA arising from the origin of the left PcomA with a maximum diameter of 12 mm. Coil occlusion of the PcomA aneurysm was subsequently carried out. Infundibular widening of cerebral arteries can develop into true aneurysms. Mid-term and long-term follow-up MRI (e.g., in yearly intervals) is advised for infundibula with a diameter of 3 mm or more. In patients with other aneurysm(s), with a documented de novo aneurysm formation or with a familial occurrence of aneurysms, the risk of evolution of an infundibulum to a saccular aneurysm may be increased and follow-up should be even more stringent."}
{"id": "21135554", "title": "CT-angiographic collateralization predicts final infarct volume after intra-arterial thrombolysis for acute anterior circulation ischemic stroke.", "content": "CT-angiographic collateralization predicts final infarct volume after intra-arterial thrombolysis for acute anterior circulation ischemic stroke. Final infarct volume after thrombolysis for acute ischemic stroke depends on time to, and degree of reperfusion and residual blood flow, which is influenced by leptomeningeal collateralization. We evaluated the role of collateralization in the ischemic territory as a predictor of infarct size. Twenty-five patients (17 women, 8 men, mean age: 67.6 \u00b1 12.4 years) selected by non-contrast-enhanced CT and CT angiography (CTA) underwent intra-arterial thrombolysis (iaT) within 6 h after symptom onset (mean 4.1 \u00b1 1.3 h) for middle cerebral and terminal internal carotid artery (MCA/ICA) stroke. CTA was evaluated for collateralization using thick-slice coronal and axial maximum-intensity projection reconstructions according to a simple score, the CTA collateralization score (CTA-cs): 0 = no collateral filling, 1 = \u226450%, 2 = >50% but <100%, and 3 = 100% collateral filling. We analyzed the association between the final infarct volume on CT 5 days after the intervention and the CTA-cs, successful reperfusion (Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction, TIMI, grades 2 and 3) and time to treatment in a prospective study approved by our institutional review board, with informed consent from all patients. Reperfusion was achieved in 72%. Asymptomatic and symptomatic parenchymal hemorrhage occurred in 2 patients (8%) each and hemorrhagic transformation in 4 (16%). CTA-cs (r = -0.63; p < 0.001) and postinterventional TIMI grade (r = -0.403; p = 0.046) were inversely associated with final infarct volume. After multiple regression analysis, CTA-cs and reperfusion remained as independent predictors of final infarct volume whereas time to treatment and initial stroke severity did not. The extent of collateralization and reperfusion are independent predictors of final infarct volume in acute MCA/ICA stroke treated with iaT. Time to treatment and stroke severity had no independent effect on final infarct volume."}
{"id": "21125477", "title": "Neuroimaging research on cerebrovascular spasm and its current progress.", "content": "Neuroimaging research on cerebrovascular spasm and its current progress. The cerebrovascular spasm is a common complication of subarachnoid hemorrhage. The prognosis is affected severely with regard to quality of life of patients, and earlier determination of the cerebral vasospasm becomes very important. In recent years, there have been many research results in early judgment of cerebrovascular spasm, and imaging technology research is particularly prominent in this area. This article summarizes the advantages and disadvantages and the specific roles of several common imaging technologies to determine the early stage of cerebral vasospasm. Transcranial Doppler (TCD) was the first used to examine cerebral vasospasm and mainly detected vascular hemodynamic changes of cerebrovascular spasm in patients. Digital subtraction angiography is the gold standard for diagnosis of cerebral vasospasm, but its efficacy in determining severity of cerebrovascular spasm indexing is still in dispute. It is invasive, it is difficult to repeat the examination, and it can induce complications, so its clinical application is limited. CT imaging technology is a hot topic in this area. There is an important guiding significance in early diagnosis and treatment of cerebral vasospasm in CT perfusion imaging (PCT) and CT angiography (CTA). PCT mainly performs qualitative and quantitative analysis through hemodynamic parameters such as cerebral blood flow, cerebral blood volume, and mean transit time. CTA is minimally invasive, fast, and reliable as an efficient imaging technology, and will possibly replace DSA for the assessment of vasospasm, particularly in critically ill patients with cerebral vasospasm in an urgent examination. This means it has greater value and helps to improve the prognosis of patients. MR imaging in the early stages to judge cerebral vasospasm has great value. DWI can effectively assess the cerebral vascular spasm earlier to detect trace bleeding sites and reflect the damage of cerebral vasospasm by apparent diffusion coefficient. Combined with DWI and PWI, perfusion can be understood in all regions and can be found in ischemic penumbra, which is a more accurate way to determine cerebral vasospasm and more beneficial in guiding the treatment of patients and improving their prognosis. However, there have been false-negatives and false-positives when detecting cerebrovascular spasm post-SAH. It is of great importance to select accurate, convenient, non-invasive imaging technologies that judge cerebrovascular spasm and guide treatment that improves the prognosis of these patients and other aspects."}
{"id": "21125475", "title": "Vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage: a 3D rotational angiography study.", "content": "Vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage: a 3D rotational angiography study. the purpose of this study was to investigate the clinical value of 3D rotational angiography (3DRA) for evaluation of cerebral vasospasm in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) by comparison with 2D digital subtraction angiography (DSA). forty-six patients who had undergone 2D DSA and 3DRA for evaluation of cerebral vasospasm following SAH were retrospectively analyzed. 3DRA was routinely performed after standard 2D DSA. 3D volume rendering images were created from 3DRA dataset and compared with DSA for the detection and characterization of vasospasm. Of the 46 patients investigated, 25 had vasospasm on 2D DSA images. No vasospasm was observed in 21 patients with aneurysmal SAH. According to the reference standard of DSA, 46 spastic segments were found in 25 patients with vasospasms. A total of 51 spastic segments were found on 3DRA volume rendering angiograms. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values of 3DRA for detecting vasospasm were 100, 76, 90, 100%, respectively. the pseudo-spasm phenomenon was frequently observed on 3DRA volume rendering images. 3DRA was less useful than 2D DSA for evaluation of vasospasm after SAH."}
{"id": "21125463", "title": "A numerical approach to patient-specific cerebral vasospasm research.", "content": "A numerical approach to patient-specific cerebral vasospasm research. cerebral vasospasm (CVS) is a devastating sequela of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Among the many factors that are associated with the pathogenesis of CVS, the cerebral blood flow (CBF) and underlying haemodynamics play an important role. In this paper we present an integrated clinical-engineering approach to CVS research. after an admission CT scan, CT angiography (CTA) and/or Digital Subtraction Angiography (DSA) scans are performed for SAH patients. The anatomy of cerebral vasculature and its geometric parameters are monitored and compared with follow-up CTA and/or DSA scans. The governing equations for blood flow are numerically solved for the arteries and the computational results are analysed. in the particular CVS case presented in this paper, the numerical results indicate that blood flow velocity increases in moderate and severely spastic vessels (A1, M1 segment) that perfuse brain tissues. However, decreased vessel diameters in A1 and M1 arteries create larger resistance to CBF and hence lead to reduced flow in the inner carotid artery (ICA). a numerical approach to patient-specific CVS analysis has been established, and some initial results are achieved via application to an actual spasm case. The undergoing and future work include applying the approach to more CVS cases and incorporating computational models of different scales into the current framework for CVS and SAH research."}
{"id": "21125350", "title": "Possibility of delayed cerebral infarction after pretruncal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Possibility of delayed cerebral infarction after pretruncal subarachnoid hemorrhage. A pretruncal subarachnoid hemorrhage has been accepted as a \"benign\" entity. Here we present two patients with delayed cerebral infarction following pretruncal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Case report. Two patients with possible delayed cerebral infarction after pretruncal subarachnoid hemorrhage were identified. Both patients developed basilar artery vasospasm within 2 weeks of their bleeding events. Although they remained clinically asymptomatic, the location and the timing of infarction implicated the observed focal arterial vasospasm. Clinicians should bear in mind the possibility of arterial vasospasm and ensuing cerebral infarction in patients with pretruncal subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "21111128", "title": "Hemorrhagic stroke.", "content": "Hemorrhagic stroke. When patients present to the emergency room with sudden onset of focal neurologic symptoms or altered consciousness, hemorrhagic stroke is a major focus of emergency diagnostic evaluation. The entities that compose hemorrhagic stroke, intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage, are readily diagnosed with advanced imaging. This article reviews current imaging options for the detection of acute hemorrhage, along with the expected imaging findings for each modality. Common and unusual causes and their distinguishing imaging features are discussed. Imaging strategies and recent work in specific imaging findings that may guide patient management in the future are also addressed."}
{"id": "21094960", "title": "Intracerebral haemorrhage, a possible presentation in Churg-Strauss syndrome: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Intracerebral haemorrhage, a possible presentation in Churg-Strauss syndrome: case report and review of the literature. Churg-Strauss syndrome (CSS) is a rare systemic vasculitis, almost invariably accompanied by asthma, nasal polyposis, paranasal sinus abnormalities, and increased peripheral blood eosinophil count. Neurological involvement as peripheral neuropathy is a common feature, whereas cerebral involvement is extremely rare. Herein, we report the case of a young man who presented with sudden onset of right-side emiparesis and aphasia, whose head CT scan showed the presence of large haemorrhage in the left striatum nucleus involving part of the temporal lobe. Based on clinical and laboratory findings (asthma, eosinophilia >10%, paranasal sinus abnormalities and mononeuritis multiplex) a diagnosis of CSS was made. Cerebral angiography resulted normal, excluding the presence of vascular malformations or signs of vessel abnormalities. Pharmacotherapy with (intravenous and afterwards oral) corticosteroid and immunosuppressors (cyclophosphamide and then azathioprine) was initiated. The outcome was good with neurological follow-up showing a nearly complete recover. Our case points out that intracerebral haemorrhage can be, despite rare, a presenting feature of CSS. Previously reported patients affected by cerebral haemorrhage and CSS are summarized and briefly reviewed."}
{"id": "21088245", "title": "Accuracy of susceptibility-weighted imaging for the detection of arteriovenous shunting in vascular malformations of the brain.", "content": "Accuracy of susceptibility-weighted imaging for the detection of arteriovenous shunting in vascular malformations of the brain. to determine the accuracy of susceptibility-weighted MRI (SWI) for the detection of arteriovenous shunting (AVS) in vascular malformations of the brain (BVM). we retrospectively identified 60 patients who had been evaluated for known or suspected BVM by both SWI and digital subtraction angiography, without intervening treatment, during a 3-year period. SWI images were retrospectively assessed by 2 independent reviewers for the presence of AVS as determined by the presence of signal hyperintensity within a venous structure in the vicinity of the BVM. Discrepancies were resolved by consensus among a panel of 3 neuroradiologists. Accuracy parameters of SWI for the detection of AVS were calculated using digital subtraction angiography as the reference standard. a total of 80 BVM were identified in the 60 patients included in our study. Of the 29 BVM with AVS on digital subtraction angiography, 14 were untreated arteriovenous malformations, 10 were previously treated arteriovenous malformations, and 5 were untreated dural arteriovenous fistulas. Overall, SWI was 93% sensitive and 98% specific for the detection of AVS in BVM, with excellent interobserver agreement (\u03ba=0.94). In the 14 previously treated arteriovenous malformations, SWI was 100% sensitive and specific for the detection of AVS. In the 28 BVM associated with intracerebral hemorrhage, SWI was 100% sensitive and 96% specific for the detection of AVS. SWI is accurate for the detection of arteriovenous shunting in vascular malformations of the brain and, for some patients, SWI may offer a noninvasive alternative to angiography in screening for or follow-up of treated BVM."}
{"id": "21088241", "title": "Computed tomographic angiography and venography for young or nonhypertensive patients with acute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Computed tomographic angiography and venography for young or nonhypertensive patients with acute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. we compared the effectiveness of using computed tomographic angiography and venography (CTAV) with digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in young or nonhypertensive patients with acute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. we prospectively recruited 109 young (age between 18 and 45 years) or nonhypertensive patients with acute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage for this comparative study. All patients had CTAV using multidetector CT with 64 detectors. They were then scheduled to have catheter angiography the next day. Radiological data were collected for blinded analysis. DSA-positive pathologies causing hemorrhage were identified in 37 (33%) patients, which included cerebral arteriovenous malformation in 22 cases. The positive and negative predictive values of CTAV for DSA-positive pathologies causing hemorrhage were 97.3% (95% CI, 88.3%-99.9%) and 100% (95% CI, 95.9%-100%), respectively. CTAV was able to detect DSA-positive pathologies causing acute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage in young (age between 18 and 45 years) or nonhypertensive patients with high positive and negative predictive values."}
{"id": "21071532", "title": "CT angiography for differentiation between intracerebral and intra-sylvian hematoma in patients with ruptured middle cerebral artery aneurysms.", "content": "CT angiography for differentiation between intracerebral and intra-sylvian hematoma in patients with ruptured middle cerebral artery aneurysms. ISHs and ICHs from ruptured MCA aneurysms can be difficult to distinguish on NCE-CT but may have a different impact on admission status and outcome. The presence of IHCEV on CTA may differentiate ISHs and ICHs. Two observers independently reviewed non-contrast-enhanced CT scans and CTAs of 71 patients with MCA aneurysm hematomas for the site of the hematoma, according to predefined characteristics, and for the presence of IHCEV. We compared CTAs with NCE-CT scans in which both observers were confident about hematoma localization. We calculated \u03ba statistics for interobserver agreement, and RRs for poor clinical condition and poor outcome. Agreement for IHCEV was almost perfect (\u03ba, 0.87; 95% CI, 0.74-0.99). After consensus reading, 30 of 71 patients had IHCEV. In 28 of the 71 NCE-CT scans, both observers were confident as to the the site of the hematoma (\u03ba, 0.55; 95% CI, 37%-73%). IHCEV were present in 10 of these 28 patients, of whom 9 had an ISH based on NCE-CT (positive predictive value, 90%; 95% CI, 55%-100%). In all 18 of 28 patients without IHCEV, the hematoma was not intra-Sylvian (negative predictive value, 100%; 95% CI, 82%-100%). Poor admission status occurred in 50% of patients with IHCEV and in 60% without IHCEV (RR, 1.2; 95% CI, 0.8-1.9). Poor outcome occurred in 63% of patients with IHCEV and in 65% without IHCEV (RR, 1.0; 95% CI, 0.7-1.5). Although CTA could reliably and accurately differentiate the hematoma types, admission status and outcome were similar for both groups."}
{"id": "21058041", "title": "Ruptured aneurysm at an anastomotic artery extending from the vertebral artery to the posterior inferior cerebellar artery: a case report.", "content": "Ruptured aneurysm at an anastomotic artery extending from the vertebral artery to the posterior inferior cerebellar artery: a case report. A 51-year-old hypertensive man presented with subarachnoid haemorrhage. He had a past history of cerebellar infarction due to occlusion of the right posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) 4 years earlier. Digital subtraction angiography showed a saccular aneurysm above an arterial loop extending from the vertebral artery to the distal part of the PICA, reminiscent of peripheral PICA branches. We performed aneurysmal neck clipping with excellent outcome. Aneurysms at anastomotic arteries are extremely rare and can result from increased haemodynamic stress. We report the first case of a ruptured aneurysm at an anastomotic artery in the posterior circulation territory."}
{"id": "21051516", "title": "Fluid-attenuated inversion recovery vascular hyperintensities: an important imaging marker for cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Fluid-attenuated inversion recovery vascular hyperintensities: an important imaging marker for cerebrovascular disease. Vascular hyperintensities have been noted on FLAIR sequences obtained in the setting of acute stroke and intracranial steno-occlusive disease. The presence of FVHs likely represents disordered blood flow, often from collaterals distal to arterial occlusion or stenosis. As opposed to other vessel signs seen in arterial insufficiency, FVH is unique in that it does not represent thrombus, but rather sluggish or disordered blood flow through vessels. This review will discuss the diagnostic and prognostic value of FVH and its impact on clinical decision-making."}
{"id": "21030145", "title": "Central fever as an early predictor of vasospasm in a child with isolated intraventricular hemorrhage.", "content": "Central fever as an early predictor of vasospasm in a child with isolated intraventricular hemorrhage."}
{"id": "20970274", "title": "Descriptive retrospective analysis of the diagnostic yield and morbidity of four vessel catheter-directed cerebral angiography and multidetector computed tomographic angiography (MDCTA) performed at Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital (IALCH).", "content": "Descriptive retrospective analysis of the diagnostic yield and morbidity of four vessel catheter-directed cerebral angiography and multidetector computed tomographic angiography (MDCTA) performed at Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital (IALCH). Imaging studies are indispensable in order to determine the source, location and pattern of intra and extra-axial brain haemorrhages. In our study of 277 patients carried out over an 18 month period, the most common reason of referral was subarachnoid haemorrhage followed by trauma. Aneurysms were the most common diagnosis (36%) with anterior and posterior communicating arteries being the most common locations. Fifty percent (50%) of patients investigated had a normal study. Our findings show that the yield from MDCTA and conventional angiography was relatively comparable, however, conventional angiography was superior in detection of aneurysms; hence, in cases were the MDCTA result was found to be normal despite a high index of suspicion for a subarachnoid haemorrhage, a follow-up MDCTA study or conventional angiography is useful. Moreover, conventional angiography was superior in detection of multiple aneurysms."}
{"id": "20950938", "title": "Factor XIII deficiency related recurrent spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage: a case and literature review.", "content": "Factor XIII deficiency related recurrent spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage: a case and literature review. Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in young adults under 50 years of age is an uncommon occurrence associated with considerable morbidity and mortality. The differential diagnosis of ICH in this population differs from that of older individuals and includes vascular, toxic, inflammatory, oncologic, infectious and hematologic conditions. We present a case based observation of a spontaneous and recurrent ICH in a 25-year-old female secondary to undetected Factor XIII (FXIII) deficiency with no prior associated stigmata of hematologic disturbance admitted to a tertiary care neuroscience intensive care unit (NICU). Our patient was admitted after spontaneous development of left thalamic hemorrhage with ventricular extension. Initial management included external drain placement (EVD) and fresh frozen plasma administration. Diagnostic evaluation was unrevealing including CT angiography, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with venography, conventional cerebral angiogram, and hematologic and rheumatologic screens. Our patient recovered but represented 6 months later with five foci of spontaneous ICH. She underwent vascular, infectious, oncologic, hematologic, and rheumatologic evaluations. She expired secondary to ICH expansion with uncal herniation. The results of our investigation revealed markedly diminished FXIII activity. The pathophysiology, diagnosis and treatment of this disease are reviewed. FXIII deficiency should be considered in a case of cryptogenic ICH presenting with multifocal, recurrent ICH and a normal coagulation profile. Early diagnosis and initiation of factor replacement therapy offer the best strategies to reduce the morbidities associated with this disease."}
{"id": "20947643", "title": "Blood-brain barrier permeability assessed by perfusion CT predicts symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation and malignant edema in acute ischemic stroke.", "content": "Blood-brain barrier permeability assessed by perfusion CT predicts symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation and malignant edema in acute ischemic stroke. SHT and ME are feared complications in patients with acute ischemic stroke. They occur >10 times more frequently in tPA-treated versus placebo-treated patients. Our goal was to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of admission BBBP measurements derived from PCT in predicting the development of SHT and ME in patients with acute ischemic stroke. We retrospectively analyzed a dataset consisting of 32 consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke with appropriate admission and follow-up imaging. We calculated admission BBBP by using delayed-acquisition PCT data and the Patlak model. Collateral flow was assessed on the admission CTA, while recanalization and reperfusion were assessed on the follow-up CTA and PCT, respectively. SHT and ME were defined according to ECASS III criteria. Clinical data were obtained from chart review. In our univariate and forward selection-based multivariate analysis for predictors of SHT and ME, we incorporated both clinical and imaging variables, including age, admission NIHSS score, admission blood glucose level, admission blood pressure, time from symptom onset to scanning, treatment type, admission PCT-defined infarct volume, admission BBBP, collateral flow, recanalization, and reperfusion. Optimal sensitivity and specificity for SHT and ME prediction were calculated by using ROC analysis. In our sample of 32 patients, 3 developed SHT and 3 developed ME. Of the 3 patients with SHT, 2 received IV tPA, while 1 received IA tPA and treatment with the Merci device; of the 3 patients with ME, 2 received IV tPA, while 1 received IA tPA and treatment with the Merci device. Admission BBBP measurements above the threshold were 100% sensitive and 79% specific in predicting SHT and ME. Furthermore, all patients with SHT and ME--and only those with SHT and ME--had admission BBBP measurements above the threshold, were older than 65 years of age, and received tPA. Admission BBBP, age, and tPA were the independent predictors of SHT and ME in our forward selection-based multivariate analysis. Of these 3 variables, only BBBP measurements and age were known before making the decision of administering tPA and thus are clinically meaningful. Admission BBBP, a pretreatment measurement, was 100% sensitive and 79% specific in predicting SHT and ME."}
{"id": "20935079", "title": "Intracranial aneurysms in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage: CT angiography as a primary examination tool for diagnosis--systematic review and meta-analysis.", "content": "Intracranial aneurysms in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage: CT angiography as a primary examination tool for diagnosis--systematic review and meta-analysis. To calculate the sensitivity and specificity of computed tomographic (CT) angiography in the diagnosis of cerebral aneurysms in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) at presentation. A systematic search for relevant studies was performed of the PubMed/MEDLINE and EMBASE databases. Two reviewers independently assessed the methodologic quality of each study by using the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies tool. The inclusion criteria were met by 50 studies. Heterogeneity was tested, and the presence of publication bias was visually assessed (by using a funnel plot). A meta-analysis of the reported sensitivity and specificity of each study with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) was performed on a per-patient level. Concerning sensitivity, the selected studies showed moderate heterogeneity. For specificity, low heterogeneity was observed. Moderate-heterogeneity studies that investigated only sensitivity or specificity were excluded from the pooled analyses by using a bivariate random effects model. The majority of the studies (n = 30) used a four-detector row CT scanner. The studies had good methodologic quality. Pooled sensitivity was 98% (95% CI: 97%, 99%), and pooled specificity was 100% (95% CI: 97%, 100%). Potential sources of variability among the studies were variations in the methodologic features (quality score), CT examination procedure (number of rows on the multidetector CT scanner), the standard of reference used, and the prevalence of ruptured intracranial aneurysms. There was evidence for publication bias, which may have led to overestimation of the diagnostic accuracy of CT angiography. Multidetector CT angiography can be used as a primary examination tool in the diagnostic work-up of patients with SAH."}
{"id": "20931239", "title": "Clinicopathological study on chronic encapsulated expanding hematoma associated with incompletely obliterated AVM after stereotactic radiosurgery.", "content": "Clinicopathological study on chronic encapsulated expanding hematoma associated with incompletely obliterated AVM after stereotactic radiosurgery. Chronic encapsulated expanding hematoma is a rare, but highly morbid, severe complication after stereotactic radiosurgery for intracerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). The aim of this study was to clarify the clinical features and possible mechanisms of formation and expansion of this type of hematoma based on histopathological findings. The patients were comprised of three males and one female. Three of these patients had AVMs in the basal ganglia, while the remaining one in the frontal lobe. Cerebral angiograms performed 6 months to 11 years after radiosurgery demonstrated major, but incomplete, obliteration of the nidi. Each patient developed localized enhancing mass lesions at 2, 3, 5, and 11 years after radiosurgery. The lesions expanded slowly, but progressively over time in association with marked perifocal edema. The perifocal edema disappeared immediately after removal of the hematoma; their neurological symptoms improved partially or completely. Histopathologically, the hematomas were well-encapsulated and the capsule walls uniformly consisted of an outer fibrocollagenous layer and an inner granulation layer. Immunohistochemistry revealed vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in the endothelium of newly formed blood vessels and myofibroblasts in the hematoma capsule inner layer. Myofibroblasts also expressed VEGFR-1. The activation of VEGF pathway may lead to neovascularization in the granulation layer of the hematoma capsule that serves as a continual source of bleeding and perifocal edema. Thus, radical resection of the capsule and residual nidus is strongly recommended for the management of both bleeding and edema."}
{"id": "20890761", "title": "Dual energy bone subtraction in computed tomography angiography of extracranial-intracranial bypass: feasibility and limitations.", "content": "Dual energy bone subtraction in computed tomography angiography of extracranial-intracranial bypass: feasibility and limitations. To assess the feasibility of dual energy (DE)-CTA images with DE-bone removal (DEBR) for visualization of extra- to intracranial (EC/IC) arterial bypass compared to digital subtraction angiography (DSA). Prospectively, 24 patients underwent DE-CTA and DSA for evaluation of EC/IC-bypass. Using 5-point scales (0=poor to 4=excellent) two examiners rated image quality, quality of bone removal, and vessel integrity of bypass for three segments (extracranial, trepanation, intracranial) in CTA images with and without DEBR in comparison to DSA. Scores were evaluated by Friedmann's- and post-hoc Wilcoxon rank test. Image quality was high in CTA with and without DEBR and DSA (3.78 \u00b1 0.36, 3.78 \u00b1 0.36, 3.27 \u00b1 0.46). No significant bone remnants were present using DEBR. Mean scores of bypass visualization were not significantly different for the extra- and intracranial segments. However, in the trepanation segment pseudo-lesions of the bypass were present in DEBR-CTA (6 out 24 cases) with a negative effect on visualization scores compared to DSA (p < 0.05). CTA with DEBR for assessment of EC/IC-bypass is feasible with reliable removal of cranial bones. Readers should be aware of a potential pitfall showing focal pseudostenosis/-occlusion of the bypass close to bone at the trepanation margin."}
{"id": "20849218", "title": "Cerebral watershed hypoperfusion in subarachnoid hemorrhage: computed tomography perfusion analysis.", "content": "Cerebral watershed hypoperfusion in subarachnoid hemorrhage: computed tomography perfusion analysis. A better understanding of the pathophysiology of vasospasm-induced delayed cerebral ischemia and earlier detection of hypoperfusion before ischemic injury are needed to guide therapy in subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The cerebrovascular physiology of the major arterial territories differs from that of the watershed zones (WZs) in a way that would suggest a differential topographic sensitivity of the brain to vasospasm. The primary end point of the study was to investigate the vasospasm-induced hypoperfusion in relation to cerebrovascular topography and timing from the onset of SAH. Forty-one patients were prospectively enrolled and scheduled for perfusion-weighted (PW) CT at 3 time points (\u2264 3 days, Days 4-8, and Days 9-15 after SAH). Perfusion-weighted CT maps were visually assessed for side-to-side perfusion asymmetry. The PW CT topographic pattern was categorized into absence of asymmetry, WZ, and vascular territory hypoperfusion. Perfusion-weighted CT revision was performed by investigators blinded to clinical information. The null hypothesis for the primary end point was that there would be no difference in hypoperfusion space-time distribution among the different vascular territories. Multivariate logistic regression and Cox proportional hazards modeling were used for statistical analysis. Delayed cerebral ischemia occurred in 26 patients and its predicting variables were increasing age (p = 0.045), Fisher grade (p = 0.007), and hypoperfusion on the PW CT performed within the 1st 72 hours after SAH (p = 0.004). The timing of the PW CT with respect to the day of SAH affected the topographic pattern of hypoperfusion: watershed-zone hypoperfusion was more common within the first 3 days after SAH (p = 0.018), while the proportion of territorial hypoperfusion increased subsequently. Among the different covariates, a young age was independently associated with a higher risk of developing hypoperfusion in the WZs (p = 0.02). This study suggests the existence of a cerebral topographic heterogeneity to the hemodynamic effects of SAH and differential pathogenetic mechanisms of hypoperfusion according to timing, age, and brain topography. Hypoperfusion in the WZs may be an early precursor to more profound ischemic events. The PW CT detection of such brain-sensitive zones could offer a warning signal of the early hemodynamic effects of SAH and cerebral vasospasm."}
{"id": "20824304", "title": "A fast and fully automatic method for cerebrovascular segmentation on time-of-flight (TOF) MRA image.", "content": "A fast and fully automatic method for cerebrovascular segmentation on time-of-flight (TOF) MRA image. The precise three-dimensional (3-D) segmentation of cerebral vessels from magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) images is essential for the detection of cerebrovascular diseases (e.g., occlusion, aneurysm). The complex 3-D structure of cerebral vessels and the low contrast of thin vessels in MRA images make precise segmentation difficult. We present a fast, fully automatic segmentation algorithm based on statistical model analysis and improved curve evolution for extracting the 3-D cerebral vessels from a time-of-flight (TOF) MRA dataset. Cerebral vessels and other tissue (brain tissue, CSF, and bone) in TOF MRA dataset are modeled by Gaussian distribution and combination of Rayleigh with several Gaussian distributions separately. The region distribution combined with gradient information is used in edge-strength of curve evolution as one novel mode. This edge-strength function is able to determine the boundary of thin vessels with low contrast around brain tissue accurately and robustly. Moreover, a fast level set method is developed to implement the curve evolution to assure high efficiency of the cerebrovascular segmentation. Quantitative comparisons with 10 sets of manual segmentation results showed that the average volume sensitivity, the average branch sensitivity, and average mean absolute distance error are 93.6%, 95.98%, and 0.333 mm, respectively. By applying the algorithm to 200 clinical datasets from three hospitals, it is demonstrated that the proposed algorithm can provide good quality segmentation capable of extracting a vessel with a one-voxel diameter in less than 2 min. Its accuracy and speed make this novel algorithm more suitable for a clinical computer-aided diagnosis system."}
{"id": "20813554", "title": "Cerebral microbleeds and dilative remodeling of the basilar artery: a magnetic resonance imaging study.", "content": "Cerebral microbleeds and dilative remodeling of the basilar artery: a magnetic resonance imaging study. This study was conducted to examine the relationship between cerebral microbleeds (CMBs), one of the manifestations of small-vessel diseases (SVDs), and basilar artery (BA) dilatation on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Clinical information and MRI images were reviewed for 149 outpatients aged 46-90 years, excluding those who had a previous symptomatic cerebrovascular event. CMBs were evaluated on T2\u2217-weighted MRI, and BA diameters were measured as the maximal width of the flow void on axial T2-weighted MRI to assess dilatation. Patients were divided into 2 groups, with CMBs and without CMBs, and clinical information and BA diameters were compared between the groups. Regression analyses of the data also were performed. The 2 groups had significant differences in mean blood pressure (MBP), low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and uricemic acid levels, and BA diameter. Adjusted logistic regression analysis showed that MBP (odds ratio [OR], 1.059 per 1 mm Hg; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.019-1.101; P = .0035), LDL (OR, 0.976 per 1 mg/dL; 95% CI, 0.960-0.994; P = .0072), and BA diameter (OR, 3.266 per 1 mm; 95% CI, 1.504-7.103; P = .0028) each had an independent association with the presence of CMB. Adjusted multiple regression analysis showed that only BA diameter (\u03b2 coefficient, 0.240; 95% CI, 0.775-3.734; P = .0031) was independently associated with the number of CMBs. Our data indicate that CMB, a manifestation of SVD, shows a strong association with BA dilatation."}
{"id": "20729022", "title": "Comparison of 16-row multislice CT angiography with conventional angiography for detection and evaluation of intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Comparison of 16-row multislice CT angiography with conventional angiography for detection and evaluation of intracranial aneurysms. The aim of this study is to compare the diagnostic performance of 16-row computed tomographic angiography (MDCTA) with digital subtraction angiography (DSA) for the detection and characterization of intracranial aneurysms in patients with nontraumatic subarachnoid hemorrhages (SAH). One-hundred and twelve consecutive patients with suspected intracranial aneurysm underwent both 16-row MDCTA and DSA. The MDCT angiograms were interpreted in a blinded fashion by using combination with VRI, MIP and MPR techniques. Sensitivity specificity and accuracy were calculated for the CTA and DSA. The results were compared with each other. The DSA reader's interpretation was accepted as the reference standard. A total of 164 aneurysms were detected at DSA in 112 patients, no aneurysms were detected by DSA and MDCTA in 16 patients. Eight aneurysms were missed by MDCTA. The overall sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of MDCTA on a per-aneurysm basis were 95.1%, 94.1%, and 95%, respectively. According to the size of the aneurysm less than 3mm; sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic accuracy of MDCTA were 86.1%, 94.1%, 88.6%, respectively. This study suggests that MDCTA is equally as sensitive as DSA in the detection of intracranial aneurysms of greater than 3mm, and it also reveals 100% detection rate for ruptured aneurysms."}
{"id": "20617876", "title": "Perfusion CT scanning and CT angiography in the evaluation of extracranial-intracranial bypass grafts.", "content": "Perfusion CT scanning and CT angiography in the evaluation of extracranial-intracranial bypass grafts. Extracranial-intracranial (EC-IC) bypass surgery remains an important treatment alternative for patients with occlusive cerebrovascular disease. The aim of the present study was to use perfusion CT and CT angiography (CTA) to evaluate cerebral hemodynamics and bypass patency in patients with occlusive cerebrovascular disease before and after EC-IC bypass surgery. Ten patients underwent perfusion CT and CTA before and after bypass surgery. Preoperative and postoperative digital subtraction angiography served as the diagnostic gold standard. An artery bypass was established from the superficial temporal artery to a cortical branch of the middle cerebral artery. Perfusion CT scanning was performed at the level of the basal ganglia. Color-coded perfusion maps of cerebral blood volume, cerebral blood flow, and time to peak were calculated. Preoperative perfusion CT showed significant prolonged time to peak and reduced cerebral blood flow of the affected hemisphere. Postoperative neurological deterioration did not develop in any patient. Computed tomography angiography provided adequate evaluation of the anastomoses as well as the course and caliber of the bypass and confirmed bypass patency in all patients. Postoperative perfusion CT showed improved cerebral hemodynamics with a return to nearly normal perfusion parameters. Computed tomography angiography is a noninvasive and reliable tool for evaluating patients with EC-IC bypass. Perfusion CT allows monitoring of hemodynamic changes after bypass surgery. The combination of both modalities enables noninvasive anatomical and functional analysis of superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery anastomoses using a single CT protocol. Hemodynamic evaluation of patients with occlusive cerebrovascular disease before and after surgery may improve the prediction of outcome and may help identify patients in whom a bypass procedure can be performed."}
{"id": "20563798", "title": "Flow-sensitive alternating inversion recovery (fair) imaging for retrograde cortical venous drainage related to intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula.", "content": "Flow-sensitive alternating inversion recovery (fair) imaging for retrograde cortical venous drainage related to intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula. To evaluate the hypothesis that flow-sensitive alternating inversion recovery (FAIR) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging can detect retrograde cortical venous drainage (RCVD) in patients with intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF). Seven patients with angiographically confirmed DAVF with RCVD and two DAVF patients without RCVD underwent examinations with conventional MR imaging and FAIR, five of these seven patients with RCVD also underwent examination with dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC) MR imaging. The ability of FAIR to depict prominent cerebral veins was evaluated, and FAIR was compared with the relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV) maps created with DSC. In all DAVF patients with RCVD, FAIR clearly showed prominent veins on the surface of the brain in affected hemisphere, and FAIR corresponded well with the areas of increased rCBV. In all DAVF patients without RCVD, FAIR showed no prominent veins. FAIR can detect RCVD in patients with DAVF."}
{"id": "20540601", "title": "Myelopathy due to intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula: a potential diagnostic pitfall. Case report.", "content": "Myelopathy due to intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula: a potential diagnostic pitfall. Case report. Intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) is rare and potentially life-threatening disease often presenting as vascular myelopathy. The early and proper diagnosis is challenging because the clinical manifestations are related to the distribution of the draining vein, not the fistula site, and imaging findings are similar to demyelinating disease of the spinal cord. The authors present the case of a 45-year-old man who developed acute progressive quadriplegia and respiratory difficulty with an enhancing, longitudinally extensive cervical cord lesion. These symptoms were highly suspicious for transverse myelitis but were caused by an intracranial DAVF. Intracranial DAVF with venous reflux to the brainstem and spinal cord is a rare but important differential diagnosis of progressive worsening myelopathy that is treatment resistant and gives the diagnostic impression of transverse myelitis."}
{"id": "20414856", "title": "Transcranial Doppler in brain death confirmation in clinical practice.", "content": "Transcranial Doppler in brain death confirmation in clinical practice. Transcranial Doppler (TCD) can be used as a confirmatory test in brain death. The aim was to present the usefulness of TCD in brain death confirmation. Forty-four patients with severe brain lesions leading to brain death were treated over a 4-year period. After the clinical diagnosis of brain death was made, the appropriate confirmatory test was chosen according to patient condition, taking into consideration the restrictions of the test protocol. Due to the inconclusive test results, some patients underwent repeat testing. Among 44 patients, 19 had neurotrauma, 11 massive aneurysmal subarachnoidal hemorrhages, 1 arteriovenous subarachnoidal and parenchymal hemorrhage, 12 hypertensive parenchymal hemorrhages, and 1 ischemic stroke. As a primary test, TCD was used in 30, brain scintigraphy in 2, multislice CT angiography (CTA) in 10, and cerebral angiography in 2 patients, and the diagnosis was confirmed in 26, 3, 9 and 2 patients, respectively. Due to inconclusive results CTA was repeated in five patients. In patients in whom TCD was applied, the time to confirm the diagnosis was the shortest, and in most (61 %) cerebral circulatory arrest was confirmed within 2 hours of clinical diagnosis. TCD is a favorable confirmatory test for cerebral circulatory arrest in brain death diagnosis."}
{"id": "22736216", "title": "Ataxia, hypoacusis, and dementia.", "content": "Ataxia, hypoacusis, and dementia."}
{"id": "21990653", "title": "Three dimensional CT angiography versus digital subtraction angiography in the detection of intracranial aneurysms in subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Three dimensional CT angiography versus digital subtraction angiography in the detection of intracranial aneurysms in subarachnoid hemorrhage. Ruptured intracranial aneurysms are responsible for over 90% of cases of spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Conventional digital subtraction angiography (DSA) remains the gold standard for diagnosing the source of SAH. A prospective study is presented wherein SAH patients underwent three dimensional CT angiography (CTA) prior to DSA in order to assess the specificity and sensitivity of this non-invasive modality to detect aneurysms. 179 consecutive patients with spontaneous SAH presented over 36 months, as identified by screening CT and CTA. Patients with negative CTA findings underwent DSA within 24 h of presentation. All patients who were determined to have angiographically negative SAH underwent follow-up DSA 2 weeks later. Of the 179 patients screened by CTA, 13 (7%) were negative for aneurysms or other vascular lesions (arteriovenous malformation or dural fistula) on CTA and underwent DSA. No new lesions were identified on six vessel angiography, resulting in a 0% false negative rate (sensitivity 100%, predictive value 100%). MRI to rule out thrombosed aneurysms and repeat angiography at the 2 week follow-up were negative. Sensitivity and specificity were higher than previously reported, suggesting that CTA may be used as an initial screening tool in lieu of DSA. Further studies are necessary to determine if CTA can supplant DSA in ruling out all forms of vascular disease in idiopathic SAH."}
{"id": "21540618", "title": "Ruptured brain arteriovenous malformations in children: correlation of clinical outcome with admission parameters.", "content": "Ruptured brain arteriovenous malformations in children: correlation of clinical outcome with admission parameters. To gain a better understanding of how clinical outcome in children with ruptured brain arteriovenous malformations (bAVMs) correlates with clinical and imaging parameters on admission. The authors retrospectively reviewed patients with bAVMs, aged 18 or below, managed at their hospital between January 1992 and December 2008. Clinical outcome was assessed using the modified Rankin Scale (mRS). Patients with ruptured bAVMs were analyzed; their clinical parameters and computerized tomography findings on admission were recorded. Clinical outcome was then evaluated against admission scores using the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS), the World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies Grading System of Subarachnoid Hemorrhage (WFNS-SAH), the Spetzler-Martin grade, the intracerebral hemorrhage score and 2 other independent parameters, namely pupillary response and significant focal neurological injuries. Spearman's correlation coefficient, linear regression analysis and multivariate logistic regression analysis were used for data analysis. 40 pediatric patients with bAVMs were found and 32 of them presented with hemorrhage (80%). In the 32 children with ruptured bAVMS, follow-up ranged between 7 and 204 months (median 100.5 months). The complete excision/obliteration rate as confirmed by digital subtraction angiography was 73.3%. The mRS scores at the last follow-up were: grades 0-II in 87.5%; grades IV-V in 6.25%, and grade VI in 6.25%. The Spetzler-Martin grade, the intracerebral hemorrhage score, the WFNS-SAH grade, the GCS scores, and a combined scoring scale consisting of the GCS, pupillary response and significant focal neurological injuries correlated significantly with clinical outcome 6 months after hemorrhage. However, on the scatter diagrams, it appeared that only the combined scoring scale might be valid for clinical practice. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that the combined scoring scale was a statistically significant independent predictor of clinical outcome 6 months after hemorrhage. In this series of pediatric patients with ruptured bAVMs, although various grading scales correlated significantly with clinical outcome 6 months after hemorrhage, only the combined scoring scale might have the potential to be applied to predict clinical outcome in these children."}
{"id": "21389917", "title": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage with neurocardiogenic stunning.", "content": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage with neurocardiogenic stunning. A well-recognized complication of acute neurologic injury from intracranial bleeding is cardiotoxicity with electrocardiographic changes and transient left ventricular dysfunction. The phenomenon, called neurocardiogenic stunning (NCS), occurs in 20% to 30% cases of patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). In this article, we describe a patient with acute SAH complicated by NCS and use this case to highlight the pathogenesis, diagnostic challenges, and management dilemmas that arise in such patients. We also review conventional surgical and medical treatment and present new therapeutic options for this problem."}
{"id": "21305868", "title": "Cerebrovascular symptomatic involvement in sarcoidosis.", "content": "Cerebrovascular symptomatic involvement in sarcoidosis. Clinical reports of cerebrovascular system involvement in sarcoidosis are extremely rare though pathological studies frequently describe granulomatous cerebral arterial and venous lesions. We report the case of a 47-year-old man with a history of pulmonary sarcoidosis at age 32 and abducens palsy at age 40, who presented cerebral pseudotumoral histologically proven sarcoidosis. He was admitted for acute left hemiplegia. Brain CT scan and MRI demonstrated a right posterior parietal haematoma associated with a superior sagittal sinus occlusion. He received intravenous corticosteroids and anticoagulant therapy. Six months later, he presented a right motor status epilepticus. MRI revealed new parenchymal haematomas. Cerebral angiography demonstrated cerebral vasculitis."}
{"id": "21219787", "title": "[Evaluation of intracranial aneurysms using dual-source computed tomographic angiography and digital subtraction angiography].", "content": "[Evaluation of intracranial aneurysms using dual-source computed tomographic angiography and digital subtraction angiography]. To compare the values of dual-source computed tomographic angiography (DSCTA) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in evaluating intracranial aneurysms in patients with nontraumatic subarachnoid hemorrhages (SAH) . Totally 80 nontraumatic SAH patients were evaluated with both DSCTA and DSA. With the results of DSA as the gold standards, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of DSCTA was calculated, and the agreement between these two modes was analyzed. A total of 73 aneurysms were detected by DSCTA in 65 patients, 74 aneurysms were detected by DSA in 63 patients. 2 cases were false positive and 3 aneurysms were missed by DSCTA. The sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of DSCTA were 95.5%, 88.2%, and 94% on a per-patient basis and were 95.9%, 88.2%, and 94.5% on a per-aneurysm basis. For patients with nontraumatic SAH, DSCTA and DSA have comparable abilities in detecting and displaying aneurysms."}
{"id": "21211386", "title": "[Surgical treatment of vertebral artery-posterior inferior cerebellar artery dissecting aneurysms].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of vertebral artery-posterior inferior cerebellar artery dissecting aneurysms]. To study an effective method for vertebral artery-posterior inferior cerebellar artery (VA-PICA) dissecting aneurysms. Five patients with VA-PICA dissecting aneurysms were treated surgically between December 2007 and February 2010, who were all males, aged from 40 to 55 years. Four of them presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), 1 of them suffered from an intermittent headache on occipital area about 4 months. All the aneurysms were trapped via a far-lateral approach after revascularization of the PICAs by occipital artery-posterior inferior cerebellar artery (OA-PICA) bypass. Among the 5 patients, 1 of them got a good outcome without any neurological deficit after surgery, 3 of them had postoperative lower cranial nerve palsy, 1 of them complicated with bleeding in the operative field after postoperative antithrombotic treatment, and suffered from contralateral hemiplegia after second surgery of removing hematoma. Postoperative cerebral angiographies (received by 2 patients) and CT angiographies (received by 3 patients) all showed patent bypasses and no filling of the aneurysms. During the follow-up from 2 to 29 months, 4 patients got good outcomes, 1 patient still suffered from moderate hemiplegia. Trapping the aneurysms after revascularization of PICA by OA-PICA bypass should be an effective method to treat the VA-PICA dissecting aneurysms, but individualized strategies also need to be considered based on different cases."}
{"id": "21206184", "title": "Paradoxical association of moyamoya syndrome with large middle cerebral artery aneurysm and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Case report.", "content": "Paradoxical association of moyamoya syndrome with large middle cerebral artery aneurysm and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Case report. A 69-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of fluctuating dysarthria during the past 2 months. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed old cerebral infarction of the left cerebral hemisphere with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage in the left sylvian fissure. Cerebral angiography showed a large saccular aneurysm, 14 mm in diameter, at the bifurcation of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA) in association with moyamoya vasculopathy with atherosclerosis, including steno-occlusive changes at the bilateral terminal internal carotid arteries and abnormal net-like vessels at the base of the brain. She underwent microsurgical neck clipping of the large aneurysm followed by superficial temporal artery-MCA anastomosis without complication. Intraoperative findings showed no evidence of aneurysm rupture, suggesting that the subarachnoid hemorrhage was due to the intrinsic pathology of moyamoya vasculopathy. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient was discharged without neurological deficit. Association of moyamoya syndrome with large MCA aneurysm is extremely rare, and formation of large aneurysm at the vascular territory of an occluded vessel is apparently unique."}
{"id": "21206183", "title": "Aneurysm on the cortical branch (P4 segment) of the posterior cerebral artery. Case report.", "content": "Aneurysm on the cortical branch (P4 segment) of the posterior cerebral artery. Case report. A 75-year-old woman presented with a rare aneurysm on the distal portion (P(4)) of the posterior cerebral artery (PCA) causing subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and manifesting as sudden onset of headache, nuchal rigidity, and nausea. Computed tomography on admission revealed thin SAH in the left parietooccipital sulcus. Cerebral angiography demonstrated a small saccular aneurysm on the cortical branch of the left PCA. The aneurysm was successfully clipped via the occipital interhemispheric approach. Distal PCA aneurysms frequently affect middle-aged persons and tend to be small, with good clinical course but may cause visual field defects. Direct aneurysm clipping is recommended for patients without visual defect from the onset. Parent artery occlusion by the endovascular technique should be considered for patients with visual loss caused by the initial hemorrhage."}
{"id": "21132343", "title": "The utility of angiographic CT in the diagnosis and treatment of neurovascular pathologies in the vicinity of cranial base.", "content": "The utility of angiographic CT in the diagnosis and treatment of neurovascular pathologies in the vicinity of cranial base. This study aims to explore the utility of angiographic computed tomography (CT) in the diagnosis and treatment of neurovascular pathologies in the vicinity of cranial base. Two cases of cranial base dural arteriovenous fistula, one internal carotid pseudoaneurysm and one PICA aneurysm were demonstrated utilizing the angiographic CT for obtaining significant image details on the relative location of the diseases against the neighboring bony structure. An angiography suite outfitted with conventional DSA and rotational volume cone-beam was used, angiographic CT images being concomitantly produced together with the routine angiographic modalities. By virtue of the angiographic CT images integrating the selective angiography and reconstructed cranial base tomography, we succeeded in getting significant information on the relative location of various vascular diseases to the skull base, greatly facilitating the diagnosis and treatment procedures."}
{"id": "21129599", "title": "[Catastrophes caused by neurologic diagnostic procedures].", "content": "[Catastrophes caused by neurologic diagnostic procedures]. Serious complications (catastrophes) resulting from diverse neurological diagnostic procedures can be caused by erroneous indication and omission, as well as by delay and erroneous execution or interpretation. Headache, caused by cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) hypotension, is a frequent complication of lumbar puncture; hematic patch is a therapeutic option for severe cases. The most serious complication is cerebral herniation and, for its prevention, computed tomography (CT) or cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) must always be performed before lumbar puncture: a lesion with evident mass effect is a contraindication. Some cases of minor subarachnoid hemorrhages can produce sentinel headache: when the findings of CT scans are normal, lumbar puncture must be performed for diagnosis and prevention of a catastrophic recurrence. Edrophonium testing can be complicated with bradycardia and/or asystole. The lack of indication of this procedure is a cause of under-diagnosis of myasthenia gravis, especially in older people. Electromyography produces few complications (rare cases of paraspinal hematomas and pneumothorax). Ultrasound, CT angiography and MR angiography examinations have decreased the indications for cerebral angiography, whose main complications -in addition to contrast reactions, hemorrhage and infection at the injection site- are neurological deficits caused by vascular dissection or atheromatous embolus. Video-electroencephalogram (EEG) recording with medication suppression can be used in the presurgical evaluation of epilepsy, which can precipitate repeated seizures with the risk of injuries and status epilepticus. The possible complications of studies performed with invasive electrodes are infections and intracranial hemorrhages. Cerebral biopsy is indicated when treatable disease is suspected but the therapeutic options (radiotherapy, chemotherapy) have potential serious adverse effects. Furthermore, cerebral biopsy can aggravate previous neurological deficits or produce new deficits. Genetic testing is not indicated in healthy children when an untreatable disease is suspected. In adults, genetic testing is appropriate in selected cases, but detailed previous information should be gathered and the possibility of triggering serious emotional reactions should always be considered."}
{"id": "21123988", "title": "Intracerebral hemorrhage from a ruptured aneurysm at the site of anastomosis 27 years after superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery bypass.", "content": "Intracerebral hemorrhage from a ruptured aneurysm at the site of anastomosis 27 years after superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery bypass. A 77-year-old female presented with a very rare case of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) from a ruptured aneurysm at the site of the anastomosis 27 years after superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery (STA-MCA) bypass manifesting as sudden onset of unconsciousness and right hemiparesis. Computed tomography (CT) on admission demonstrated massive ICH in the left frontoparietal region. Magnetic resonance angiography showed good patency of the anastomosis and no obvious aneurysm, but three-dimensional CT (3D-CT) angiography revealed a small aneurysm at the site of the left STA-MCA anastomosis. Emergency evacuation of the hematoma was performed, and the aneurysm was trapped and resected after ligation. After the operation, she continued to exhibit deep consciousness disturbance. Unfortunately, her general condition grew steadily worse and she died 3 months later. Patients who undergo STA-MCA anastomosis should be carefully followed up by periodical imaging examinations. 3D-CT angiography is very useful to detect aneurysm formation at the anastomosis site."}
{"id": "21121782", "title": "Radiosurgery for dural carotid-cavernous sinus fistulas: Gamma Knife compared with XKnife radiosurgery.", "content": "Radiosurgery for dural carotid-cavernous sinus fistulas: Gamma Knife compared with XKnife radiosurgery. In the modern era, stereotactic radiosurgery is an important part of the multidisciplinary and multimodality approach used to treat dural carotid-cavernous fistulas (DCCFs). Based on the ease of performance of techniques to fuse cerebral angiography studies with MR images or CT scans during the radiosurgical procedure, the Gamma Knife and XKnife are 2 of the most popular radiosurgical instruments for patients with DCCF. In this study, the authors compared the efficacy, neurological results, and complications associated with these 2 radiosurgical devices when used for DCCF. Records for 41 patients with DCCF (15 treated using the XKnife and 26 with Gamma Knife surgery [GKS]) were retrieved from a radiosurgical database encompassing the period of September 2000 to August 2008. Among these patients, at least 2 consecutive MR imaging or MR angiography studies obtained after radiosurgery were available for determining radiological outcome of the fistula. All patients received regular follow-up to evaluate the neurological and ophthalmological function at an interval of 1-3 months. The symptomatology, obliteration rate, radiation dose, instrument accuracy, and adverse effects were determined for each group and compared between 2 groups. The data were analyzed using the Student t-test. The mean age of the patients was 63 \u00b1 2.6 years, and the mean follow-up period was 63.1 \u00b1 4.4 months (mean \u00b1 SD). Thirty-seven patients (90%) achieved an obliteration of the DCCF (93% in the XKnife cohort and 88% for the GKS cohort). In 34 of 40 patients (85%) with chemosis and proptosis of the eyes, these symptoms were resolved after treatment (4 had residual fistula and 2 had arterializations of sclera). All 5 patients with high intraocular pressure demonstrated clinical improvement. Ten (71%) of 14 patients with cranial nerve palsy demonstrated improvement following radiosurgery. Significant discrepancies of treatment modalities existed between the XKnife and GKS groups, such as radiation volume, conformity index, number of isocenters, instrument accuracy, peripheral isodose line, and maximum dosage. The XKnife delivered significantly higher radiation dosage to the lens, optic nerve, optic chiasm, bilateral temporal lobe, and brainstem. Few adverse events occurred, but included 1 patient with optic neuritis (GKS group), 1 intracranial hemorrhage (XKnife group), 1 brainstem edema (XKnife), and 3 temporal lobe radiation edemas (XKnife). Radiosurgery affords a substantial chance of radiological and clinical improvement in patients with DCCFs. The Gamma Knife and XKnife demonstrated similar efficacy in the obliteration of DCCFs. However, a slightly higher incidence of complications occurred in the XKnife group."}
{"id": "21121781", "title": "Gamma Knife surgery for large cerebral arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "Gamma Knife surgery for large cerebral arteriovenous malformations. Treatment of arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) is problematic due to many factors, including lesion size, lesion location, unacceptable complications, and negative outcomes. To overcome the limitation imposed by a large nidus volume, neurosurgeons have used Gamma Knife surgery (GKS) in a variety of ways, including combined with other treatment modalities, as volume-staged radiosurgery, and as repeat radiosurgery. We performed repeat radiosurgeries in patients who harbored large AVMs (> 30 cm(3)) and analyzed the AVM obliteration rates and complications. The authors reviewed the cases of 44 patients at a single institution who underwent GKS between 1992 and 2007 for treatment of an AVM whose nidus was 30 cm(3) or larger. The mean age of the patients was 27 years (range 4.5-62.3 years), and the median duration of follow-up was 109.4 months (range 27-202 months). The mean AVM nidus volume was 48.8 cm(3) (range 30.3-109.5 cm(3)), and the mean radiation dose delivered to the margin of the nidus was 13.9 Gy (range 8.4-17.5 Gy). The authors determined complete AVM nidus obliteration based on findings on both MR images and digital subtraction angiograms. When they did not detect complete obliteration after GKS, they performed 1 or more additional GKSs separated by a minimum interval of 3 years. The overall obliteration rate following repeat GKS was 34.1%, and the estimated obliteration rate at 120 months was 41.8%. Three patients (6.8%) experienced hemorrhages after GKS, and 2 patients (4.5%) developed cysts. One patient (2.3%) experienced a newly developed seizure following GKS, and another patient (2.3%) was found to have radiation necrosis. Even though complete obliteration of the large AVMs after repeat GKS took a long time, the complication rate was quite acceptable. In addition, the estimated obliteration rate at long-term follow-up was respectable. Repeat GKS should be considered as a primary treatment option for symptomatic large AVMs to overcome the limitation imposed on successful obliteration by the large volume of the nidus."}
{"id": "21088087", "title": "Treatment of acute middle cerebral artery occlusion with a Solitaire AB stent: preliminary experience.", "content": "Treatment of acute middle cerebral artery occlusion with a Solitaire AB stent: preliminary experience. We report our initial experience with a Solitaire AB neurovascular remodeling stent device in performing cerebral embolectomy in seven patients presenting to our institution with acute stroke who were resistant to iv thrombolytic drug treatment. The main inclusion criteria were: National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score \u226510; treatment performed within 8 h from the onset of symptoms and no large hypodensity on CT; and occlusion of a major cerebral artery on the CT angiogram. An admission and a post-interventional NIHSS score were calculated for all patients by two different neurologists. Efficacy was assessed radiologically by post-treatment thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) scores and clinically by a 30-day Modified Rankin Scale (MRS) score. The mean duration of neurointerventional treatment was 84 min. All interventions were successful, with TIMI scores of 2 or 3 achieved in 100% of patients. There was one procedural complication in our series owing to a self-detached stent and one patient had a small asymptomatic basal ganglia haemorrhage. There was improvement of more than 4 points on the NIHSS score in 5 (72%) of the patients following treatment, of whom 4 (57%) had a 30-day MRS score of \u22642. The use of a Solitaire stent in acute stroke was safe, time-efficient and encouraging; however, a larger sample size will be required to further evaluate the use of this device, which could benefit a significant number of stroke patients."}
{"id": "21043182", "title": "[Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome. Acute headache which can be complicated by stroke and epileptic seizures].", "content": "[Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome. Acute headache which can be complicated by stroke and epileptic seizures]."}
{"id": "20980761", "title": "Combined use of pulsed arterial spin-labeling and susceptibility-weighted imaging in stroke at 3T.", "content": "Combined use of pulsed arterial spin-labeling and susceptibility-weighted imaging in stroke at 3T. In acute stroke it is no longer sufficient to detect simply ischemia, but also to try to evaluate reperfusion/recanalization status and predict eventual hemorrhagic transformation. Arterial spin labeling (ASL) perfusion may have advantages over contrast-enhanced perfusion-weighted imaging (cePWI), and susceptibility weighted imaging (SWI) has an intrinsic sensitivity to paramagnetic effects in addition to its ability to detect small areas of bleeding and hemorrhage. We want to determine here if their combined use in acute stroke and stroke follow-up at 3T could bring new insight into the diagnosis and prognosis of stroke leading to eventual improved patient management. We prospectively examined 41 patients admitted for acute stroke (NIHSS >1). Early imaging was performed between 1 h and 2 weeks. The imaging protocol included ASL, cePWI, SWI, T2 and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), in addition to standard stroke protocol. We saw four kinds of imaging patterns based on ASL and SWI: patients with either hypoperfusion and hyperperfusion on ASL with or without changes on SWI. Hyperperfusion was observed on ASL in 12/41 cases, with hyperperfusion status that was not evident on conventional cePWI images. Signs of hemorrhage or blood-brain barrier breakdown were visible on SWI in 15/41 cases, not always resulting in poor outcome (2/15 were scored mRS = 0-6). Early SWI changes, together with hypoperfusion, were associated with the occurrence of hemorrhage. Hyperperfusion on ASL, even when associated with hemorrhage detected on SWI, resulted in good outcome. Hyperperfusion predicted a better outcome than hypoperfusion (p = 0.0148). ASL is able to detect acute-stage hyperperfusion corresponding to luxury perfusion previously reported by PET studies. The presence of hyperperfusion on ASL-type perfusion seems indicative of reperfusion/collateral flow that is protective of hemorrhagic transformation and a marker of favorable tissue outcome. The combination of hypoperfusion and changes on SWI seems on the other hand to predict hemorrhage and/or poor outcome."}
{"id": "20953221", "title": "Christchurch experience of pulmonary embolism with and without thrombolysis.", "content": "Christchurch experience of pulmonary embolism with and without thrombolysis. Thrombolysis for normotensive patients with large clot burden pulmonary embolism remains debatable. We aim to document our current management of pulmonary embolism, examining determinants of therapy and outcomes. A retrospective chart-based review of all patients admitted with pulmonary embolism under Cardiology service in Christchurch Hospital between 2002-2007. All related CT pulmonary angiograms were also reviewed for quantification of clot burden and evidence of right ventricular strain. 120 patients were admitted during the audit period. Hypotensive patients had a significantly higher troponin level and Qanadli scores. RV/LV ratio >1 in CTPA was 80% sensitive and 57% specific in predicting RV strain on echocardiogram. Forty-six patients were thrombolysed, most with large clot burden and right ventricular strain. No treatment related death or intracranial haemorrhages occurred; however six patients required blood transfusion and six patients had persistent pulmonary hypertension at 6 months. There was a higher in-patient event rate in thrombolysed group, due to increased bleeding, compared to non-thrombolysed patients. Thrombolysis was successfully performed with relatively low in-patient and 6-month event rate. Long term advantage over routine anticoagulation was not demonstrated. The role of thrombolysis in normotensive patients with large clot burden remains uncertain. CTPA markers of RV strain correlated well with echocardiography."}
{"id": "20920934", "title": "Bedside monitoring of cerebral blood oxygenation and hemodynamics after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage by quantitative time-resolved near-infrared spectroscopy.", "content": "Bedside monitoring of cerebral blood oxygenation and hemodynamics after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage by quantitative time-resolved near-infrared spectroscopy. Early detection of vasospasm is essential for the treatment of delayed ischemic neurological deficits in subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). We evaluated cerebral blood oxygenation (CBO) changes after SAH employing quantitative time-resolved near-infrared spectroscopy (TR-NIRS) for this purpose. We investigated 11 age-matched controls and 14 aneurysmal SAH patients, including 10 patients with WFNS grade V and 4 patients with grade II. Employing TR-NIRS, we measured the cortical oxygen saturation (CoSO(2)) and baseline hemoglobin concentrations in the middle cerebral artery territory. Measurements of TR-NIRS and transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) were performed repeatedly after SAH. In six patients, the CoSO(2) and hemoglobin concentrations remained stable after SAH; digital subtraction angiography (DSA) did not reveal vasospasm in these patients. In eight patients, however, CoSO(2) and total hemoglobin decreased abruptly between 5 and 9 days after SAH. DSA revealed diffuse vasospasms in six of eight patients. The reduction of CoSO(2) predicted occurrence of vasospasm at a cutoff value of 3.9%-6.4% with 100% of sensitivity and 85.7% of specificity. TCD failed to detect the vasospasm in four cases, which TR-NIRS could detect. Finally, TR-NIRS performed on Day 1 after SAH revealed significantly higher CoSO(2) than that of controls (p = .048), but there was no significant difference in total hemoglobin. TR-NIRS detected vasospasm by evaluating the CBO in the cortex and may be more sensitive than TCD, which assesses the blood flow velocity in the M1 portion. The cerebral oxygen metabolism in SAH might be reduced by brain damage due to aneurysmal rupture."}
{"id": "20885090", "title": "Improved visualization of intracranial vessels by gradient moment nulling in hybrid of opposite-contrast magnetic resonance angiography (HOP MRA).", "content": "Improved visualization of intracranial vessels by gradient moment nulling in hybrid of opposite-contrast magnetic resonance angiography (HOP MRA). Hybrid of opposite-contrast (HOP) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is a new method that combines the advantages of 3-dimensional (3D) time-of-flight (TOF) MRA and black-blood (BB) MRA without prolonging acquisition time. In phantom and clinical studies, we focused on image differences when we applied gradient moment nulling (GMN) to 2 or 3 axes in the first echo. We made an original phantom with a semicircular tube of 3- and 5-mm internal diameter, with flow rate in the tube of 0, 20, 60, 80, or 120 cm/s. In original images of the phantom obtained with TOF MRA and flow-sensitive BB MRA and in filter frequency-weighted subtraction (FWS) processed images acquired with HOP MRA, we measured the contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) of both the inside and outside of the tubes. In FWS processed images with GMN applied to 2 axes, the CNR was high at various flow rates in both straight and bending portions of the tubes in comparison with TOF images. In a clinical study in 15 patients, we evaluated vessel visualization in images obtained using conventional TOF MRA with magnetization transfer contrast (MTC) and HOP MRA. In clinical studies, visualization scores of HOP MRA were equivalent to those of conventional TOF MRA in the bilateral internal carotid arteries (ICA) and inferior in the basilar arteries. However, visualization of the peripheral portion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) improved significantly in HOP MRA with GMN applied to 2 and 3 axes. Visualization of the main trunk of the ICA and MCA was superior in HOP MRA with GMN applied to 2 axes. HOP MRA with 2-axis GMN may be useful for excellent visualization of both major arteries and peripheral vessels in the head."}
{"id": "20881555", "title": "Patient age and vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Patient age and vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) from a ruptured intracranial aneurysm is a devastating disease with high mortality and morbidity. The incidence of SAH increases with advancing age. To determine whether age is an independent predictor of angiographic vasospasm, delayed ischemic neurological deficits (DINDs), or abnormal transcranial Doppler (TCD) measurements in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Data from CONSCIOUS-1 (Clazosentan to Overcome Neurological Ischemia and Infarct Occurring After Subarachnoid Hemorrhage study), a dose-finding study of clazosentan, were used. Data on angiographic vasospasm, DINDs, and TCD abnormalities were prospectively recorded as well as baseline characteristics and treatment data. Patient age was considered in 3 ways: as a continuous variable, dichotomized at age 65 years, and categorized by decade. Age was investigated as the main variable, whereas other possible confounding variables were adjusted for in the multiple logistic regression modeling with each of 3 dichotomized vasospasm outcome measures, presence or absence of angiographic vasospasm, DINDs, and TCD abnormalities as the dependent variable. The proportions of patients with angiographic vasospasm, DINDs, and TCD abnormalities were 45%, 19%, and 81%, respectively. Age, whether considered as a continuous, dichotomous, or a categorical variable, was not significantly associated with angiographic vasospasm, DINDs, or abnormal TCD measurements. Age does not seem to be a significant predictor for cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "20852544", "title": "Spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage: a clinical review.", "content": "Spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage: a clinical review. This article provides a clinical overview of spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage, focusing on clinical aspects of the aetiology, diagnosis and management (both in the emergency department and in a critical care environment) of this important and devastating condition."}
{"id": "20846980", "title": "Dynamic nature of the CT angiographic \"spot sign\".", "content": "Dynamic nature of the CT angiographic \"spot sign\". The \"spot sign\", first described in 2007, has shown that a focal area of contrast extravasation within an intracerebral haematoma (ICH) can be correlated with haematoma expansion. We describe a case where time-resolved dynamic CT angiography (dCTA) shows the appearance of the \"spot sign\" only in later images. This finding highlights the importance of timing of the static CT angiogram which, if performed too early, might result in a false-negative diagnosis."}
{"id": "20836782", "title": "What are the unintended consequences of changing the diagnostic paradigm for subarachnoid hemorrhage after brain computed tomography to computed tomographic angiography in place of lumbar puncture?", "content": "What are the unintended consequences of changing the diagnostic paradigm for subarachnoid hemorrhage after brain computed tomography to computed tomographic angiography in place of lumbar puncture?"}
{"id": "20825065", "title": "[Early changes in the visual system connected with brain's aneurysm rupture].", "content": "[Early changes in the visual system connected with brain's aneurysm rupture]. To evaluate frequency and type of early changes in the visual system connected with brain's aneurysm rupture. 45 patient, 34 women and 11 men, with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) after brain's aneurysm rupture were enclosed in this study. To identify aneurysm, cerebral angiography as well as CT or MR angiography were applied. Conventional ophthalmologic examination and Doppler sonography of the retrobulbar vessels were performed in all patients before and two or three days after neurosurgical procedure. The mean age of patients with SAH was 47.6 years. Female/male ratio was 3:1. The most common site of aneurysm was at the origin of the middle cerebral artery (37.8%), or anterior communicating artery (28.9%). In 73.3% of patients aneurysm were asymptomatic at diagnosis. The rest patients had some prodromal symptoms, including ocular signs (wide pupil, opressive feeling on the globe, diplopia or visual disturbances), in 15% of one's. Sudden headache (80%), was the most characteristic symptom of brain aneurysm rupture. In 20% the first sign of SAH was loss of consciousness. Papilledema and intraocular hemorrhages occurred in 25 patients (55.6%), and wide pupil in 4 person (8.9%). Among patients with hemorrhagic changes 3 person (6.7%), had Terson syndrome. Female gender seem to increase the risk for intracranial aneurysm formation. Among symptoms, which are presenting manifestations of brain's aneurysm, ocular signs play the important role. Brain's aneurysm rupture is always connected with severe neurological symptoms. More than half of patients with SAH after intracranial aneurysm rupture have fundal hemorrhagic changes in fundus."}
{"id": "20817467", "title": "The missing button sign as a tool for detecting proximal internal carotid artery occlusion.", "content": "The missing button sign as a tool for detecting proximal internal carotid artery occlusion. The aim of this study was to develop a simple and reliable sign for detecting proximal internal carotid artery occlusion (ICAO) using conventional CT scanning. The missing button sign (MBS) is defined as the absence of the ICA at the level of the foramen magnum on contrast-enhanced CT (CECT) scans. Two raters independently reviewed random CECT samples from consecutive patients with acute ischaemic stroke. A total of 399 patients with 798 carotid arteries were analysed. Rater A identified the MBS in 41 (5%) of the carotid arteries, and did not identify the MBS in 735 (92%) carotid arteries. Rater B identified the MBS in 45 (6%) of the arteries, and lack of the MBS in 731 (91%) arteries. The kappa value for agreement was 0.90 (95% CI 0.84-0.95). Compared with CT angiography, Rater A's sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value for detecting proximal ICAO were 85%, 100%, 100%, and 99%, respectively, while Rater B's values were 87%, 99%, 93%, and 99%, respectively. This study indicated that the MBS on CECT scanning is both a consistent and specific tool for the early identification of proximal ICAO."}
{"id": "20813999", "title": "The spot sign is more common in the absence of multiple prior microbleeds.", "content": "The spot sign is more common in the absence of multiple prior microbleeds. Mural thickening and permeability changes in patients with amyloid angiopathy (CAA) and chronic hypertension are implicated in the pathophysiology of multiple, chronic subclinical microbleeds. The Spot sign, contrast extravasation on CT angiography, predicts hematoma expansion and is presumed to represent acute vessel damage. We hypothesize that the Spot sign is more common in patients without multiple prior chronic microbleeds. A retrospective study was conducted of 59 patients presenting within 6 hours of primary intracranial hemorrhage onset undergoing CT angiography and MRI. CT angiography spot sign presence was documented blinded to MRI. Hematoma expansion was defined as >6 mL or 30% enlargement. The Boston criteria were applied to microbleed interpretation dichotomizing subjects into probable and negative CAA. Basal ganglia, thalamic, and brain stem microbleed location were interpreted as chronic hypertensive pattern. Univariate logistic regression and ordinal logistic regression analysis identified significant predictive factors between spot-positive and -negative patients or microbleed pattern. The incidence of spot positivity was 42%, 22%, and 0% for CAA-negative, chronic hypertensive, and CAA-positive patients, respectively (P=0.01). CAA-negative patients had higher baseline National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (P=0.039), larger follow-up hematoma volume (P=0.02), and poorer Rankin score (P=0.049) than chronic hypertensive or CAA-positive patients. After age adjustment, spot-positive (P=0.023), age-related white matter change (P=0.041), number of microbleeds (P<0.0001), and modified Rankin score (P=0.027) remained significantly different between groups. Boston criteria-defined CAA-negative status demonstrates the highest risk of spot positivity compared with patients with probable CAA and chronic hypertension."}
{"id": "20813994", "title": "Endovascular treatment or neurosurgical clipping of ruptured intracranial aneurysms: effect on angiographic vasospasm, delayed ischemic neurological deficit, cerebral infarction, and clinical outcome.", "content": "Endovascular treatment or neurosurgical clipping of ruptured intracranial aneurysms: effect on angiographic vasospasm, delayed ischemic neurological deficit, cerebral infarction, and clinical outcome. The effects of aneurysm treatment modality (clipping or coiling) on the incidence of cerebral vasospasm and infarction after subarachnoid hemorrhage have not been clearly defined. We hypothesized that there may be a difference in angiographic and clinical vasospasm, cerebral infarction, and clinical outcome between patients undergoing clipping compared to coiling. A retrospective, exploratory analysis of 413 patients randomized into the CONSCIOUS-1 trial was conducted. Patients underwent baseline and follow-up catheter angiography and computed tomography, as well as clinical assessments. Radiology end points were adjudicated by central blinded review, and angiographic vasospasm was quantified by measurements of arterial diameters on catheter angiography. The effect of method of aneurysm treatment (clipping [n=199] or coiling [n=214]) on angiographic vasospasm, delayed ischemic neurological deficit, cerebral infarction, and clinical outcome was analyzed using univariate and multivariate logistic regression. Propensity matching was used to adjust for differences in baseline risk factors between clipped and coiled patients. In all patients and the propensity-matched subset, aneurysm coiling was associated with a significantly reduced risk of angiographic vasospasm and delayed ischemic neurological deficit compared to clipping. Cerebral infarction and clinical outcome were not associated with clipping or coiling. In this exploratory analysis, aneurysm coiling was associated with less angiographic vasospasm and delayed ischemic neurological deficit than surgical clipping, whereas no effect on cerebral infarction or clinical outcome was observed. Whether this is attributable to differences in baseline risk factors between clipped and coiled patients or a true difference cannot be proven here."}
{"id": "20813875", "title": "Intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula with retrograde cortical venous drainage: use of susceptibility-weighted imaging in combination with dynamic susceptibility contrast imaging.", "content": "Intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula with retrograde cortical venous drainage: use of susceptibility-weighted imaging in combination with dynamic susceptibility contrast imaging. SWI is a new MR imaging method that maximizes sensitivity to magnetic susceptibility effects with phase information for visualizing small cerebral veins. The purpose of this study was to report the use of SWI in combination with DSC in examining related RCVD in patients with intracranial DAVFs. Ten patients with angiographically confirmed DAVFs with RCVD underwent conventional MR imaging, SWI, and DSC. The ability of SWI to depict dilated cerebral veins was evaluated and then compared with DSC. The hemispheres of patients with DAVFs were grouped into affected (with RCVD) or nonaffected (without RCVD) categories by angiography. Four patients had bilaterally affected hemispheres. A total of 14 affected hemispheres in patients with DAVFs with RCVD were evaluated. SWI showed dilated cerebral veins on the surface of the brain in all (100%) of the 14 affected hemispheres in patients with DAVFs with RCVD and deep in the brain in 9 (64%). T2-weighted imaging showed prominent flow-voids on the surface of the brain in 10 (71%) of the 14 affected hemispheres in patients with DAVFs with RCVD and deep in the brain in 5 (36%). DSC showed increased cerebral blood volume in all of the 14 affected hemispheres. The SWI findings regarding dilated veins on the surface of the brain corresponded well with the areas of increased cerebral blood volume. SWI in combination with DSC could be used to characterize the presence of RCVD in patients with DAVFs."}
{"id": "20805650", "title": "Delayed parenchymal hemorrhage following successful embolization of brainstem arteriovenous malformation. Case report.", "content": "Delayed parenchymal hemorrhage following successful embolization of brainstem arteriovenous malformation. Case report. A 64-year-old man presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage from a small brainstem arteriovenous malformation (AVM). Cerebral angiography showed a small AVM in the lateral midbrain, which was fed by a basilar perforating artery, and drained into the right transverse pontine vein and superior petrous vein. Endovascular embolization in the acute stage was selected to occlude the arteriovenous shunt and provide additional intensive treatment for cerebral spasm with lower risk of rebleeding. The AVM was occluded by embolization using n-butyl cyanoacrylate. Intraparenchymal hemorrhage in the ipsilateral pons was detected 1 month after treatment. The causes of the hemorrhage remain unclear."}
{"id": "20805649", "title": "Recurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage due to the rupture of cerebral aneurysms in a patient with Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome. Case report.", "content": "Recurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage due to the rupture of cerebral aneurysms in a patient with Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome. Case report. A 52-year-old woman with Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome presented with multiple cerebral aneurysms, which resulted in recurrent subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) manifesting as severe headache. Computed tomography (CT) showed SAH. Cerebral angiography revealed aneurysms of the anterior communicating artery and the left middle cerebral artery. The necks of the aneurysms were successfully clipped. Postoperative course was uneventful and she was discharged without neurological deficit. Thirteen years later, she suddenly lost consciousness and was brought to our hospital. CT demonstrated recurrence of SAH. Cerebral angiography revealed cerebral aneurysms of the right internal carotid artery and the right middle cerebral artery. The clipped aneurysms were stable. The internal carotid artery aneurysm was successfully treated with endovascular coil embolization. However, she regained no neurological function and died. Patients with Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome may develop cerebral aneurysm complicated with SAH."}
{"id": "20726761", "title": "Anomalous cerebral venous sinus drainage.", "content": "Anomalous cerebral venous sinus drainage. The case discussed is a 58 year old female that presented with sudden onset of headache, a Glasgow Coma Score of 15 and no neurological deficit. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the brain did not show any evidence of haemorrhage. CT angiography revealed a left sided cerebellar ateriovenous malformation with the Digital Subtraction Angiography (DSA) also showing anomalous posterior fossa venous sinus anatomy. In this case the occipital sinus provided the only drainage pathway for both the superior sagittal sinus (SSS) and the straight sinus. Of clinical significance is during the routine method of access to midline posterior fossa surgery the occipital sinus is ligated and divided. This would have resulted in massive venous infarction. Highlighting the importance of reviewing the venous anatomy on radiological images prior to neurosurgical procedures."}
{"id": "20697149", "title": "[Removal of an arteriovenous malformation near the pyramidal tract using the neuronavigation system: a case report].", "content": "[Removal of an arteriovenous malformation near the pyramidal tract using the neuronavigation system: a case report]. A 20-year-old female presented with sudden severe headaches. Computed tomography showed an intraventricular hemorrhage and slightly dilated lateral ventricles. Her neurological examinations revealed no abnormalities. Magnetic resonance (MR) images and cerebral angiography revealed arteriovenous malformation (AVM) in the right parietal lobe. The size of the nidus was 1.8 cm, and it was located in the deep white matter. It was fed by middle cerebral arteries and drained by the vein of Galen. Diffusion tensor tractography (DTT) demonstrated that the right pyramidal tract was situated close to the nidus. The AVM was surgically resected completely, without any complications, using intraoperative neuronavigation image guidance. Neuronavigation images combined with DTT are useful for surgical resection of AVM that is located close to the pyramidal tract."}
{"id": "20688343", "title": "Intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy for acute intracranial large artery occlusive disease in patients selected by magnetic resonance image.", "content": "Intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy for acute intracranial large artery occlusive disease in patients selected by magnetic resonance image. We reported an experience of intra-arterial thrombolysis (IAT) study triaged by emergent MRI. Patients were recruited if vascular occlusions were identified by emergent MRA. Urokinase was infused hyperselectively within 6h after onset to a maximum dose of 900,000IU or recanalization achieved with mechanical thrombus disruption. Heparin infusion was discontinued after 2 hemorrhage in the first 7 patients. TIMI grade 2 and 3 recanalization was recognized as successful. Favorable outcomes were mRS 0-3 at 3months. Among 4225 ischemic stroke patients during the 29months study period, 52 patients met the inclusion criteria with 49 screened by MRA and 3 screened by CT, 30 patients were enrolled and 25 were treated. Three patients (10%) were unable for the MRI examination due to time or equipment limit. There were 5 ICA, 13 MCA, and 7 VBA occlusions. Among 27 patients screened from MRA, 25 patients had the same occluded vessels and 2 patients had compatible occluded vessels confirmed by cerebral angiography. The median NIHSS was 26 and median time from symptom onset to IAT was 283min. Successful recanalization was achieved in 68% (17/25). Intracerebral hemorrhage was recognized as symptomatic in 3 (12%) and asymptomatic in 8 (32%) at 3months. Mortality was 32%. 36% patients had a mRS of 0-3 at 3months. Patients with lower initial NIHSS score (20.9 vs. 28.4, P=0.02) and MCA occlusions (69.3%, 9/13, P<0.001) tend to have favorable outcomes. Though the incidence was low, IAT triage with emergent MRI appeared to be feasible. MRI screening might be incorporated in the future IAT studies. Mechanical thrombus disruption and heparin infusion in IAT might need further investigation in this area."}
{"id": "20687364", "title": "[Application 3D DSA and angiographic CT in interventional neuroradiology].", "content": "[Application 3D DSA and angiographic CT in interventional neuroradiology]. Modern angiographs used in interventional neuroradiology are equipped with advanced imaging techniques like three-dimensional angiography (3D DSA) and Angiographic CT. The aim of this paper is presentation of application these methods based on our experience. Both method--Angiographic CT and 3D DSA--use \"C\" arm rotation technique around the patient. Obtained data are processed to three-dimensional images (in 3D DSA) or (in Angiographic CT) to computer tomography (CT)--like reconstruction: multiplanar (MPR), maximum intensity (MIP) and volume rendering (VR). Angiography 3D DSA is nowadays a basic method in diagnostics of cerebral aneurysms. Three-dimensional images allow for precise evaluation of the aneurysm, qualification for treatment, facilitate embolisation procedures and evaluation of efficiency of the treatment. Angiographic CT (like CT) allows for evaluation of the most important brain structures like: ventricular system, subarachnoid cisterns and less brain tissue. The main application of this technique is evaluation of endo-vascular procedures in respect of hemorrhagic complications. Possibility of quick imaging of the brain and detection of intracranial hematoma, intraventricular hemorrhage with developing hydrocephalus, brain edema, allows for immediately reaction. 3D DSA and Angiographic CT are methods which in interventional neuroradiology make easier preparing the diagnosis of vascular pathologies and performing intravascular treatment. Angiographic CT allows for quick evaluation of potential complications after endovascular procedures without transfer patient outside angiographic room."}
{"id": "20680650", "title": "Hyponatremia is predictable in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage--clinical significance of serum atrial natriuretic peptide.", "content": "Hyponatremia is predictable in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage--clinical significance of serum atrial natriuretic peptide. Serum atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) that is elevated after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) causes diuresis and natriuresis (cerebral salt wasting) and might exacerbate delayed ischemic neurological deficit (DIND). We investigated relationships among hyponatremia, serum ANP elevation, and the onset of DIND after SAH. Thirty-nine consecutive patients (15 women and 24 men) with SAH were assigned to a normonatremia group or a group that developed hyponatremia after SAH. Serum ANP and brain natriuretic peptide were assessed after SAH. All patients remained normovolemic and normotensive. We attributed DIND to vasospasm only in the absence of other causes and when supported by cerebral angiography. Hyponatremia developed after SAH in 11 patients (28.2%), among whom serum ANP concentrations at 0 and 3 days thereafter were significantly increased. Furthermore, DIND developed in five (45.5%) and two (7.1%) hyponatremic and normonatremic patients, respectively (P\u2009<\u20090.05). The serum ANP levels on day 0 after SAH were higher in Hunt and Kosnik grades 3-4 than in 1-2 and in Fisher groups 3-4 than in 1-2 (P\u2009<\u20090.05). Increasing serum ANP concentrations were independently associated with hyponatremia resulting in DIND. Early treatment of hyponatremia might prevent DIND in patients after SAH."}
{"id": "20671384", "title": "Simultaneous occurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage and cerebral infarction caused by anterior cerebral artery dissection treated by endovascular trapping.", "content": "Simultaneous occurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage and cerebral infarction caused by anterior cerebral artery dissection treated by endovascular trapping. A 48-year-old man presented with a rare dissection of the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) causing simultaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and cerebral infarction manifesting as sudden onset of headache and left hemiparesis. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging showed SAH localized in the interhemispheric fissure and cerebral infarction in the territory of the right ACA. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) demonstrated segmental narrowing and dilatation at the right A(1) and A(2) portions of the ACA, leading to a diagnosis of ACA dissection. Fourteen days after the onset, DSA confirmed the enlarged fusiform dilatation of the right A(2) portion with distal narrowing, suggesting the risk of rerupture of the dissection. Endovascular obliteration of the aneurysm with parent artery occlusion was performed without anastomosis on day 16. The aneurysm was catheterized and obliterated with detachable coils. Postoperative DSA revealed complete obliteration of the dissection and parent artery. The patient was doing well without recurrence of the dissection 8 months after the intervention. The simultaneous occurrence of SAH and cerebral infarction in patients with ACA dissection is extremely rare, and the optimal treatment has not yet been established. Endovascular treatment is safe and effective for the treatment of ACA dissection."}
{"id": "20660506", "title": "The clinical importance of white matter hyperintensities on brain magnetic resonance imaging: systematic review and meta-analysis.", "content": "The clinical importance of white matter hyperintensities on brain magnetic resonance imaging: systematic review and meta-analysis. To review the evidence for an association of white matter hyperintensities with risk of stroke, cognitive decline, dementia, and death. Systematic review and meta-analysis. PubMed from 1966 to 23 November 2009. Prospective longitudinal studies that used magnetic resonance imaging and assessed the impact of white matter hyperintensities on risk of incident stroke, cognitive decline, dementia, and death, and, for the meta-analysis, studies that provided risk estimates for a categorical measure of white matter hyperintensities, assessing the impact of these lesions on risk of stroke, dementia, and death. Population studied, duration of follow-up, method used to measure white matter hyperintensities, definition of the outcome, and measure of the association of white matter hyperintensities with the outcome. 46 longitudinal studies evaluated the association of white matter hyperintensities with risk of stroke (n=12), cognitive decline (n=19), dementia (n=17), and death (n=10). 22 studies could be included in a meta-analysis (nine of stroke, nine of dementia, eight of death). White matter hyperintensities were associated with an increased risk of stroke (hazard ratio 3.3, 95% confidence interval 2.6 to 4.4), dementia (1.9, 1.3 to 2.8), and death (2.0, 1.6 to 2.7). An association of white matter hyperintensities with a faster decline in global cognitive performance, executive function, and processing speed was also suggested. White matter hyperintensities predict an increased risk of stroke, dementia, and death. Therefore white matter hyperintensities indicate an increased risk of cerebrovascular events when identified as part of diagnostic investigations, and support their use as an intermediate marker in a research setting. Their discovery should prompt detailed screening for risk factors of stroke and dementia."}
{"id": "20660505", "title": "Do white matter hyperintensities on MRI matter clinically?", "content": "Do white matter hyperintensities on MRI matter clinically?"}
{"id": "20648688", "title": "Removal of CSF pixels on brain MR perfusion images using first several images and Otsu's thresholding technique.", "content": "Removal of CSF pixels on brain MR perfusion images using first several images and Otsu's thresholding technique. Brain MR perfusion imaging is used to evaluate local perfusion in patients with cerebral vascular disease. Quantitative measurements on the hemodynamic parameters and volume of brain with abnormal perfusion provide an estimation of the severity of the brain perfusion defect. However, quantitative measurements of these focal cerebral hemodynamic parameters are limited by the presence of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pixels. We noticed that the CSF has a higher signal than other tissue types on the first perfusion image, which is usually discarded in routine parametric image calculations. This signal difference, however, can be used to segment CSF pixels on the perfusion images. An image division was used to generate ratio images to compensate for spatially dependent signal variation caused by the inhomogeneity of excitation radiofrequency field. By applying an appropriate signal threshold to the ratio images, CSF pixels can be identified and removed from the parametric images. With the removal of CSF pixels, the volume of delayed-perfusion brain parenchyma can be better visualized and the interference from the CSF can be avoided. The proposed technique is simple, fast, automatic, and effective, and no extra scanning is needed to use this technique."}
{"id": "20644280", "title": "Cerebral miliary micro aneurysms in polyarteritis nodosa: report of two cases.", "content": "Cerebral miliary micro aneurysms in polyarteritis nodosa: report of two cases. Cerebral involvement is rare in polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) and is mostly characterized by ischemic events and intracranial hemorrhages secondary to cerebral aneurysms is extremely rare. We report two patients of PAN with multiple intracranial aneurysms. One patient presented with intracerebral hemorrhage and in the other patient multiple intracranial aneurysms were incidental findings and were asymptomatic. Both our cases suggest that multiple intracranial aneurysms are not very uncommon in PAN and cerebral angiography should be considered while doing abdominal angiogram in these patients."}
{"id": "20636713", "title": "Fibromuscular dysplasia of cervical and intracranial arteries.", "content": "Fibromuscular dysplasia of cervical and intracranial arteries. Fibromuscular dysplasia is an uncommon, segmental, nonatherosclerotic arterial disease of unknown aetiology. The disease primarily affects women and involves intermediate-sized arteries in many areas of the body, including cervical and intracranial arteries. Although often asymptomatic, fibromuscular dysplasia can also be associated with spontaneous dissection, severe stenosis that compromises the distal circulation, or intracranial aneurysm, and is therefore responsible for cerebral ischaemia or subarachnoid haemorrhage. Fibromuscular dysplasia affects middle and distal portions of the internal carotid and vertebral arteries, and occasionally, intracranial arteries. Several pathological and angiographic patterns exist. The most frequent pathological type is medial fibromuscular dysplasia, which is associated with the 'string of beads' angiographic pattern. Unifocal lesions are less common and can be associated with several pathological subtypes. The pathophysiology of the disease is widely unknown. Fibromuscular dysplasia may in fact result from various causes and reflect a non-specific response to different insults. The poor knowledge of the natural history and the lack of randomised trials that compared the different treatment options do not allow any satisfactory judgement to be made regarding the need for or the efficacy of any treatment."}
{"id": "20632608", "title": "Automatic segmentation of intracranial arteries and veins in four-dimensional cerebral CT perfusion scans.", "content": "Automatic segmentation of intracranial arteries and veins in four-dimensional cerebral CT perfusion scans. CT angiography (CTA) scans are the current standard for vascular analysis of patients with cerebrovascular diseases, such as acute stroke and subarachnoid hemorrhage. An additional CT perfusion (CTP) scan is acquired of these patients to assess the perfusion of the cerebral tissue. The aim of this study is to extend the diagnostic yield of the CTP scans to also include vascular information. CTP scans are acquired by injecting contrast material and repeatedly scanning the head over time. Therefore, time-intensity profiles are available for each voxel in the scanned volume, resulting in a 4D dataset. These profiles can be utilized to differentiate not only between vessels and background but also between arteries and veins. In this article, a fully automatic method is proposed for the segmentation of the intracranial arteries and veins from 4D cerebral CTP scans. Furthermore, a vessel enhanced volume is presented, in which the vasculature is highlighted and background structures are suppressed. Combining this volume with the artery/vein segmentation results in an arteriogram and a venogram, which could serve as additional means for vascular analysis in patients with cerebrovascular diseases. The artery/vein segmentation is quantitatively evaluated by comparing the results to manual segmentations by two expert observers. Results (paired two-tailed t-test) show that the accuracies of the proposed artery/vein labeling are not significantly different from the accuracies of the expert observer manual labeling (ground truth). Moreover, sensitivity and specificity of the proposed artery/vein labeling, relative to both expert observer ground truths, were similar to the sensitivity and specificity of the expert observer labeling compared to each other. The proposed method for artery/vein segmentation is shown to be very accurate for arteries and veins with normal perfusion. Combining the artery/vein segmentation with the vessel enhanced volume produces an arteriogram and a venogram, which have the potential to extend the diagnostic yield of CTP scans and replace the additional CTA scan, but could also be helpful to radiologists in addition to the CTA scan."}
{"id": "20609874", "title": "Computed tomography angiography of the carotid and cerebral circulation.", "content": "Computed tomography angiography of the carotid and cerebral circulation. As a result of the development of multidetector row computed tomography (CT) technology, multidetector CT angiography is rapidly becoming the preferred examination for the initial evaluation of an increasing number of clinical neurovascular applications such as carotid artery steno-occlusive disease, acute ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and cerebral vasospasm. This article reviews the most recent literature on these topics, provides the reader with useful clinical tips for performing and interpreting these increasingly complex diagnostic examinations, presents illustrative cases, and looks at future developments in this vibrant area of neuroradiology research."}
{"id": "20603085", "title": "Magnetic resonance venography of intracranial venous diseases.", "content": "Magnetic resonance venography of intracranial venous diseases."}
{"id": "20596870", "title": "Non-invasive imaging of intracranial pediatric vascular lesions.", "content": "Non-invasive imaging of intracranial pediatric vascular lesions. The goal of this review is to discuss the different non-invasive imaging techniques as well as the age-specific pediatric vascular pathologies and their imaging features. Ultrasound, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging features of pediatric ischemic stroke, intracranial hemorrhage, aneurysms, cavernomas, developmental venous anomalies, and arteriovenous malformations are presented. In addition, multiple non-invasive angiographic techniques (CT and MR angiography) and functional MRI sequences (diffusion, perfusion, and susceptibility-weighted imaging) are discussed. Neurovascular imaging plays a central role in the early, sensitive, and specific diagnosis of pediatric intracranial vascular disorders. A detailed knowledge of the quality and exact angioarchitecture of pediatric vascular pathologies as well as their impact on the cerebral hemo-dynamics is essential to guide and monitor treatment options and to predict functional outcome."}
{"id": "20551632", "title": "Validation of the jugular venous reflux animal model by three-dimensional time-of-flight MRA with a clinical scanner.", "content": "Validation of the jugular venous reflux animal model by three-dimensional time-of-flight MRA with a clinical scanner. A rat model of jugular venous reflux (JVR) is widely used in studies of cerebral arteriovenous fistula, cerebral venous hypertension and chronic cerebral hypoperfusion. However, methods to validate the effectiveness of the operation are needed. We performed neck 3-dimensional time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) with a clinical scanner in a rat model of JVR before and after the operation. High-resolution arterial angiography of the rat neck was acquired with maximum intensity projection. In the JVR model, the success of the operation was validated by enhanced venous structures on MRA. The angiogram also provided information on the height of JVR and the status of other neck vessels. In conclusion, neck 3-dimensional time-of-flight MRA is a useful noninvasive method for monitoring the blood flow in multiple cerebral vessels in this animal model. It also revealed the height of JVR, collateral development and changes in vessels over time in longitudinal studies. This information should be considered in the evaluation of the animal model."}
{"id": "20548036", "title": "Teaching NeuroImages: spontaneous asymptomatic occlusion of a cerebral arteriovenous malformation.", "content": "Teaching NeuroImages: spontaneous asymptomatic occlusion of a cerebral arteriovenous malformation."}
{"id": "20547633", "title": "Neurological picture: Cerebral microbleeds in Pompe disease.", "content": "Neurological picture: Cerebral microbleeds in Pompe disease."}
{"id": "20532584", "title": "MR angiography in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage: adequate to evaluate vasospasm-induced vascular narrowing?", "content": "MR angiography in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage: adequate to evaluate vasospasm-induced vascular narrowing? The diagnosis of cerebral vasospasm (CVS) following subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is still challenging. We evaluate the accuracy of time of flight MR angiography (TOF-MRA) to assess the arterial diameters of the circle of Willis in SAH patients with suspected CVS. MR examinations (1.5 Tesla) including 3D TOF-MRA with maximum intensity projections (MIP) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) were performed within 24\u00a0h in 21 patients with acute aneurysmal SAH and suspicion of CVS. Arterial diameters of the circle of Willis including the distal internal carotid artery (ICA) were measured as ratios to the extradural ICA in standard projections. The diagnosis of CVS was established by comparing the luminal size of baseline and follow-up DSA. The correlation between the arterial ratios measured on MIP angiograms and on follow-up DSA was assessed with Pearson's linear regression analysis. Arterial ratios on MIP angiograms were categorized as correct, overestimated, and underestimated compared to the ratios on follow-up DSA. Pearson's correlation coefficient between the ratios of MIP angiograms and DSA was r\u2009=\u20090.5799 and the regression coefficient was b\u2009=\u20090.4775. Highest correlation was found for the category of severe CVS (r\u2009=\u20090.8201). Of all MIP angiograms, 34.9% showed consistent results compared to the DSA, while 44.2% of MIP images overestimated the vascular narrowing. Standard MIP angiograms from TOF-MRA are not accurate to assess vascular narrowing in patients with suspected CVS after aneurysmal SAH. The multifocal arterial stenoses in CVS may induce severe changes in blood flow dynamics, which compromise the diagnostic accuracy of the TOF-MRA."}
{"id": "20495396", "title": "Choroid plexus metastasis from papillary thyroid carcinoma presenting with intraventricular hemorrhage: case report.", "content": "Choroid plexus metastasis from papillary thyroid carcinoma presenting with intraventricular hemorrhage: case report. Metastases to the choroid plexus from extracranial tumors are rare. Kidney, lung, and colon are the common primary origins of choroid plexus metastases. Choroid plexus metastases from thyroid carcinoma are very rare, with only 2 cases reported thus far. We report the third case of choroid plexus metastasis from thyroid carcinoma. A 75-year-old man presented with severe headache, nausea, and vomiting. He had a history of thyroid carcinoma, which had metastasized to the lymph nodes and lung. Computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and magnetic resonance angiography revealed right intraventricular hemorrhage with mild hydrocephalus, without evidence of a bleeding source. The bleeding source was assumed to be the choroid plexus metastasis in the trigone of the right lateral ventricle (following second admission). Surgery was performed using a navigation-assisted system. The tumor was entirely removed, including some choroid plexus tissue. A ventriculoperitoneal shunt was also performed to treat the hydrocephalus. Histopathological examination revealed brain metastasis from papillary thyroid carcinoma. Postoperatively, the patient showed good recovery, with nausea and vomiting improved, and gait disturbance diminished. The patient was discharged from the hospital one month later. Choroid plexus metastasis from papillary thyroid carcinoma is very rare, and this is the first case of intraventricular hemorrhage reported."}
{"id": "20483008", "title": "Vascular involvement in the pathogenesis of mitochondrial encephalomyopathies.", "content": "Vascular involvement in the pathogenesis of mitochondrial encephalomyopathies. The aim of this study was to perform perfusion CT imaging in the acute phase of myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS), to assess whether these patients had cerebral perfusion abnormalities. Furthermore, the pathology of muscle vessel was evaluated, to explore the role of vasculopathy and ischemic events in the pathogenesis of mitochondrial encephalomyopathies. Computed tomography perfusion (CTP) imaging was applied to the evaluation of brain perfusion during the symptomatic period of mitochondrial encephalomyopathies. Mitochondria structures in the blood vessels wall within muscle fibers were observed by light and electron microscopy analyses. Neuroimaging studies demonstrated uni- and bilateral lesions predominantly in the occipital and temporal-parietal lobes. Compared with the healthy control subjects, significant decreases in cerebral blood flow and cerebral blood volume were noted in affected brain areas of individuals with MELAS. In particular, mean transit time and the time to peak were prolonged both in lesion and non-lesion brain areas. Muscle pathology showed large granular deposits on vessel wall as demonstrated by succinic acid dehydrogenase staining. Electron microscopy of blood vessels revealed swelling of cristae and a striking increase in the number of mitochondria in the smooth muscle and endothelial cells. Insufficient cerebral perfusion or vascular reserve and secondary metabolic dysfunction may represent an important feature of the pathogenesis of the stroke-like episodes in MELAS."}
{"id": "20479649", "title": "Intravascular functional maps of common neurovascular lesions derived from volumetric 4D CT data.", "content": "Intravascular functional maps of common neurovascular lesions derived from volumetric 4D CT data. Current computed tomography angiography (CTA) postprocessing tools do not support quantitative assessment of intravascular physiology. Dynamic volumetric CT, acquired at a sufficiently high temporal resolution, is ideal for such analysis. Following preliminary experiments in flow phantoms, we examine the segmentation of blood vessels from 4D CT angiography by curve fit and encoding of functional blood flow information into the resulting functional intravascular maps. Flow phantoms were constructed consisting of a single pipe input and 4 simultaneous outputs of varying flow rates. Two outflow pipe diameters were tested. Bolus transit time (TT), time to peak (TTP), and time of arrival (TOA) were analyzed using contrast bolus profiles generated from 4D volumetric CT examinations on a 320 detector scanner in regions of interest placed 10 cm apart in all outflow pipes. Six subjects with various neurovascular lesions were next examined using a volumetric contrast-enhanced 4D CT angiography protocol. Segmentation was performed by quadratic curve fit after comparative analysis and optimization of the segmentation technique using quadratic curves, the gamma variate function, and a simplified formulation of the gamma variate function. After segmentation, quantitative analysis of spatially congruent intravascular voxels including TTP, rise, TT, and slope of the contrast upstroke was employed to encode physiologic information into the segmentations and produce intravascular functional maps. Comparison was made in each case to the patient's routine imaging. Increasing volumetric flow rates correspond to reduction of bolus TT in flow phantoms. TT elongation was observed as the contrast bolus moved distally in all pipes, with greater elongation seen at slower flow rates and larger pipe diameters. A greater difference was observed between TTP proximally and distally in pipes compared with TOA, an effect most prominent at slower flow rates and larger pipe lumens, and thus TTP was chosen for functional encoding into segmentations of the clinical series. In vivo, the quadratic function demonstrated the lowest coefficient of variation when fit to intravascular time density series and outperformed 2 formulations of the gamma variate function. After segmentation with quadratic curves, Gaussian distributions were chosen over gamma variate functions to characterize contrast bolus profiles while neglecting recirculation and to calculate functional parameters for spatial encoding. Intravascular functional maps free of bone artifacts were created in every case that demonstrated all appropriate vessels and showed agreement with conventional imaging modalities in terms of vessel delineation and the diagnosis of vascular pathology. The most useful and interesting functional maps are discussed in each case. The above approach to quantitative CT angiography provides a method of evaluating dynamic CTA data by means of intravascular functional maps. The techniques are broadly applicable in the clinical assessment of a variety of vascular diseases."}
{"id": "20471835", "title": "Relationship between brain interstitial fluid tumor necrosis factor-\u03b1 and cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Relationship between brain interstitial fluid tumor necrosis factor-\u03b1 and cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) has a crucial role in the onset of hemolysis-induced vascular injury and cerebral vasoconstriction. We hypothesized that TNF-alpha measured from brain interstitial fluid would correlate with the severity of vasospasm following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH). From a consecutive series of 10 aSAH patients who underwent cerebral microdialysis (MD) and evaluation of vasospasm by CT angiogram (CTA) or digital subtraction angiography (DSA), TNF-alpha levels from MD were measured at 8-hour intervals from aSAH days 4-6 using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. An attending neuroradiologist blinded to the study independently evaluated each CTA and DSA and assigned a vasospasm index (VI). Five patients had a VI<2 and 5 patients had a VI>2, where the median VI was 2 (range 0-13). The median log TNF-alpha area under the curve (AUC) was 1.64pg/mL *day (interquartile range 1.48-1.71) for the VI<2 group, and 2.11pg/mL *day (interquartile range 1.95-2.47) for the VI>2 group (p<0.01). Thus, in this small series of poor-grade aSAH patients, the AUC of TNF-alpha levels from aSAH days 4-6 correlates with the severity of radiographic vasospasm. Further analysis in a larger population is warranted based on our preliminary findings."}
{"id": "20451010", "title": "Bone subtraction CTA for transcranial arteries: intra-individual comparison with standard CTA without bone subtraction and TOF-MRA.", "content": "Bone subtraction CTA for transcranial arteries: intra-individual comparison with standard CTA without bone subtraction and TOF-MRA. To evaluate the impact of bone subtraction computed tomography angiography (BS-CTA) for the assessment of transcranial arteries in comparison with standard CTA (S-CTA) without bone removal and time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography (TOF-MRA). Cranial unenhanced CT and S-CTA were performed in 53 patients with suspected cerebrovascular disease. BS-CTA datasets were reconstructed from the S-CTA and unenhanced CT source images. TOF-MRA was performed within 24h after CTA on a 1.5 T MRI system. Two radiologists, in consensus, evaluated the segments of the internal carotid artery (C2-C7), the vertebral artery (V4), and the basilar artery for the degree of stenosis. A five-step scale (0-49, 50-69, 70-89, 90-99% and occlusion) for the degree of stenosis was applied for all segments. Wilcoxon's signed rank test was used for statistical analysis. Seven hundred and fifty vessel segments (ICA:636, VA:106, BA:53) were analysed. The degree of stenosis on S-CTA was consistent with TOF-MRA in all segments. BS-CTA showed a trend towards higher stenosis scores in cases of calcified plaques compared to S-CTA (p=0.11) and TOF-MRA (p=0.09), which was not statistically significant. In transcranial segments, BS-CTA revealed equivalent scores compared to S-CTA and TOF-MRA (p=0.25; p=0.20). BS-CTA produced similar results to TOF-MRA and S-CTA and can be applied as a non-invasive imaging method for the transcranial arteries. However, BS-CTA shows a trend towards overestimation of the degree of stenosis."}
{"id": "20450095", "title": "[Pitfalls in diagnosing cerebrovascular diseases using magnetic resonance angiography].", "content": "[Pitfalls in diagnosing cerebrovascular diseases using magnetic resonance angiography]. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is one of the important methods for neurological imaging. Currently, time-of-flight (TOF) MRA, phase contrast (PC) MRA, and contrast-enhanced MRA are being studied for their potential for diagnosing cerebrorascular diseases. Many specific flow signal patterns and artifacts are observed on MRI. MRA has recently been developed on the basis of the studies on the MR flow phenomenon. However, flow artifacts are observed even in MRA, and most of the pitfalls associated with MRA have arisen due to the MR flow phenomenon. To avoid false-negative and false-positive results in MRA, it is very important to understand the MR flow phenomenon and flow artifacts. The purpose of this paper is to explain the MR flow phenomenon, flow artifacts, and the principle of MRA. Furthermore, the technical development of TOF MRA and the pitfalls observed while evaluating clinical cases have been discussed. This paper also clarifies MR flow artifacts and the current status of cerebral 3D TOF MRA, and explains how to avoid false negative and false positive results in MRA."}
{"id": "20450093", "title": "[Pitfall in the interpretation of head CT and CT angiography].", "content": "[Pitfall in the interpretation of head CT and CT angiography]. With the continuous increase in the volume of clinical imaging data continues to increase, there is an increasing demand for efficient and the capable people who can make accurate diagnosis on the basis of imaging findings. In general, errors in the interpretation of routine brain imaging, which is used as a screening tool, can be categorized as either perceptual or cognitive. Minimizing errors in the image interpretation is extremely essential for superior diagnostic and patient care. While performing head CT, it is important to consider the anatomical site and imaging aspects that may lead to false-positive and true-negative interpretation. In this manuscript, we discuss and present example of the various pitfalls of interpreting head CT images. With the knowledge of the process of image interpretation process, it is important to evaluate symmetrical findings such as brain edema, the median site such as the para-sellar region, the superior and inferior border images, and beam hardening artifact of the posterior fossa. In addition, CT angiography is being widely used as diagnostic tool for the cerebrovascular disease such as intracranial aneurysm. In this manuscript, we discuss the precaution that should be taken during the diagnosis of intracranial aneurysm with CT angiography findings."}
{"id": "20448426", "title": "Cerebral vasospasms after intraventricular hemorrhage from an arteriovenous malformation: case report.", "content": "Cerebral vasospasms after intraventricular hemorrhage from an arteriovenous malformation: case report. A 33-year-old female presented with a rare case of severe vasospasm following the rupture of an arteriovenous malformation (AVM) without subarachnoid hemorrhage. Initial computed tomography (CT) revealed a subcutaneous hematoma and cast formation of intraventricular clots without the deposition of subarachnoid blood in any basal cistern. Cerebral angiography revealed a small AVM located in the right parietal lobe without aneurysmal formations. Repeat CT demonstrated no evidence of subarachnoid clots expected with the presence of intraventricular clots and she was transferred to a general ward. She suffered sudden onset of motor aphasia and disturbance of consciousness on Day 17 after the hemorrhage. Magnetic resonance imaging indicated diffuse cortical infarction and subsequent magnetic resonance angiography revealed severe narrowing of the bilateral internal carotid arteries. Three-dimensional CT angiography on the same day indicated similar findings. She was transferred back to the intensive care unit for critical treatment. However, she suffered persistent mild right hemiparesis and motor aphasia. The characteristic features of vasospasm after intraventricular hemorrhage from AVMs are delayed onset, acute deterioration of consciousness, female predominance, and localization to the bilateral internal carotid arteries. Treatment of patients with AVM rupture should consider the risk of severe vasospasm, even if there is no subarachnoid clot."}
{"id": "20448014", "title": "Quality-evaluation scheme for cerebral time-resolved 3D contrast-enhanced MR angiography techniques.", "content": "Quality-evaluation scheme for cerebral time-resolved 3D contrast-enhanced MR angiography techniques. No practical tool has been reported in the literature to evaluate the quality of cerebral TR-3D-CE-MRA techniques. Our study assessed a large list of parameters used to propose a quality-evaluation scheme for TR-3D-CE-MRA. A large list of visual and quantitative parameters used to study the quality of images was collected from the literature and evaluated in 19 healthy patients and 11 patients with arteriovenous shunts who had undergone both CENTRA keyhole TR-3D-CE-MRA at 3T and CCA. Several observers evaluated the visual parameters, such as the diagnostic confidence index, artifacts, maximum vascular signal intensity, arterial-to-venous separation, and visibility of 17 arteries and 7 veins; and quantitative parameters, such as maximum arterial SI, arteriovenous transit time, arteriovenous contrast curve, and ADW. A statistical analysis was used to determine interobserver reproducibility of the visual parameters, to calculate the sensitivity of TR-3D-CE-MRA for detecting each vessel (with CCA as standard of reference), and to compare the results of the visual and quantitative evaluations. Diagnostic confidence index, artifacts, arterial-to-venous separation, and 4 vessels-the PICA, ophthalmic and occipital arteries, and the ISS-demonstrated high reproducibility and sensitivity. The ADW was the most reliable dynamic quantitative parameter and was correlated with arterial-to-venous separation. The image quality of TR-3D-CE-MRA can be effectively evaluated with a scheme of 1 quantitative and 7 visual parameters."}
{"id": "20437562", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography in reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography in reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes. To investigate the evolution and clinical significance of vasoconstriction on magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) in patients with reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes (RCVS). Patients with RCVS were recruited and followed up with MRA examinations until normalization of vasoconstriction or for 6 months. The vasoconstriction severity of the major cerebral arterial segments (M1, M2, A1, A2, P1, P2, and basilar artery) was scored on a 5-point scale: 0 (0-<10%), 1 (10-<25%), 2 (25-<50%), 3 (50-<75%), and 4 (> or =75%). Subjects with at least 1 segment with a vasoconstriction score > or =2 were eligible for the study. Initial mean scores of single or combined arterial segments were used to predict ischemic complications. Seventy-seven patients with RCVS (8 men/69 women; average age 47.7 +/- 11.6 years) finished the study with a total of 225 MRAs performed. The mean number of arterial segments involved was 5.3 +/- 3.0 in the initial MRA. Vasoconstriction scores reached their maximum 16.3 +/- 10.2 days after headache onset, close to the average timing of headache resolution (16.7 +/- 8.6 days). Vasoconstriction evolved in a parallel trend among different arterial segments. Seven (9.1%) patients developed posterior reversible encephalopathy syndromes (PRES). Six (7.8%) patients had ischemic stroke. A logistic regression model demonstrated that the M1-P2 combined score was associated with highest risk of PRES (odds ratio [OR], 11.6, p = 0.005) and ischemic stroke (OR, 3.4; p = 0.026). MRA evaluation in patients with RCVS is valid. Vasoconstriction was pervasive and outlasted headache resolution. Vasoconstrictions in M1 and P2 are important determinants for PRES and ischemic stroke."}
{"id": "20437558", "title": "Recurrent spreading depolarizations after subarachnoid hemorrhage decreases oxygen availability in human cerebral cortex.", "content": "Recurrent spreading depolarizations after subarachnoid hemorrhage decreases oxygen availability in human cerebral cortex. Delayed ischemic neurological deficit (DIND) contributes to poor outcome in subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) patients. Because there is continuing uncertainty as to whether proximal cerebral artery vasospasm is the only cause of DIND, other processes should be considered. A potential candidate is cortical spreading depolarization (CSD)-induced hypoxia. We hypothesized that recurrent CSDs influence cortical oxygen availability. Centers in the Cooperative Study of Brain Injury Depolarizations (COSBID) recruited 9 patients with severe SAH, who underwent open neurosurgery. We used simultaneous, colocalized recordings of electrocorticography and tissue oxygen pressure (p(ti)O(2)) in human cerebral cortex. We screened for delayed cortical infarcts by using sequential brain imaging and investigated cerebral vasospasm by angiography or time-of-flight magnetic resonance imaging. In a total recording time of 850 hours, 120 CSDs were found in 8 of 9 patients. Fifty-five CSDs ( approximately 46%) were found in only 2 of 9 patients, who later developed DIND. Eighty-nine ( approximately 75%) of all CSDs occurred between the 5th and 7th day after SAH, and 96 (80%) arose within temporal clusters of recurrent CSD. Clusters of CSD occurred simultaneously, with mainly biphasic CSD-associated p(ti)O(2) responses comprising a primary hypoxic and a secondary hyperoxic phase. The frequency of CSD correlated positively with the duration of the hypoxic phase and negatively with that of the hyperoxic phase. Hypoxic phases significantly increased stepwise within CSD clusters; particularly in DIND patients, biphasic p(ti)O(2) responses changed to monophasic p(ti)O(2) decreases within these clusters. Monophasic hypoxic p(ti)O(2) responses to CSD were found predominantly in DIND patients. We attribute these clinical p(ti)O(2) findings mainly to changes in local blood flow in the cortical microcirculation but also to augmented metabolism. Besides classical contributors like proximal cerebral vasospasm, CSD clusters may reduce O(2) supply and increase O(2) consumption, and thereby promote DIND."}
{"id": "20425108", "title": "Imaging and clinical characteristics of children with multiple foci of microsusceptibility changes in the brain on susceptibility-weighted MRI.", "content": "Imaging and clinical characteristics of children with multiple foci of microsusceptibility changes in the brain on susceptibility-weighted MRI. Microsusceptibility changes in the brain are well known to correspond with microbleeds or micrometal fragments in adults, but this phenomenon has not been explored well in children. To assess imaging and clinical characteristics of children with multiple foci of microsusceptibility changes using susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI). Between 2006 and 2008, 12 children with multiple foci of microsusceptibility on SWI without corresponding abnormal signal on conventional MRI were identified and were retrospectively assessed. The locations of foci of microsusceptibility included the cerebral white matter, basal ganglia, brainstem and cerebellar white matter, without any clear systematic anatomic distribution. CT (n=5) showed no calcification at the locations corresponding to the microsusceptibility on SWI. Conventional MR imaging showed white matter volume loss (n=5), delayed myelination (n=2), acute infarction (n=1), chronic infarction (n=1), meningitis (n=1), slight signal abnormality in the white matter (n=1) and no abnormal findings (n=1). Follow-up SWI (n=3) showed no change of the microsusceptibility foci. Interestingly, all children had a history of heart surgery under extracorporeal circulation for congenital heart disease. Multiple foci of microsusceptibility can be seen in the brain on SWI in children with congenital heart disease who underwent heart surgery with extracorporeal circulation."}
{"id": "20422468", "title": "Pretruncal nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage causing basilar artery vasospasm.", "content": "Pretruncal nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage causing basilar artery vasospasm. Pretruncal nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (PNSAH), more commonly known as perimesencephalic nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage, is characterized by the presence of subarachnoid hemorrhage anterior to the midbrain with no evidence of an intracranial aneurysm on four vessel craniocervical angiogram. Although vasospasm is a common occurrence after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and can lead to significant morbidity and mortality, vasospasm in the setting of PNSAH is rare. The purpose of this report is to describe the case of a patient with PNSAH who developed significant radiographic vasospasm of the basilar artery that altered clinical management. The current literature on this uncommon disease entity and management considerations are discussed. A four-vessel cerebral angiogram was performed on hospital day (HD) two that did not demonstrate any apparent vascular abnormality or vasospasm. A repeat craniocervical angiogram on HD 8 demonstrated significant stenosis of the basilar artery consistent with vasospasm. The patient continued to be neurologically intact. A repeat cerebral angiogram performed on HD 15 demonstrated resolving vasospasm. There continued to be no evidence of a source of his initial hemorrhage. PNSAH is associated with an excellent clinical course that is rarely associated with long-term sequelae. Although cerebral vasospasm rarely develops radiographically or clinically in patients with PNSAH, evidence suggests that clinical observation comparable to that performed in patients with aneurysmal SAH should be performed until a second confirmatory study has conclusively ruled out an aneurysmal source and until clinical and radiographic evidence of resolution of severe vasospasm is obtained."}
{"id": "20416949", "title": "Perfusion CT to quantify the cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Perfusion CT to quantify the cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage. After subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), vasospasm is frequent and increases the risk of stroke and poor clinical outcome. The purpose of this study was to identify the best perfusion parameters in perfusion-CT (PCT) able to predict vasospasm diagnosed by angiography after SAH. Seventy-six patients with SAH were investigated by PCT and cerebral angiography. Using regions of interest (ROI) on parametric maps of mean transit time (MTT), time to peak (TTP), cerebral blood volume (CBV) and cerebral blood flow (CBF), PCT data were compared to an arteriographic score in two categories (severe vasospasm: \u2265 50% and non-severe vasospasm: <50%) for each artery. Best PCT predictors of the arteriographic score were tested using multiparametric logistic regression. Among the 76 patients, PCT data were reliable in 65 patients. Twenty-seven patients had a severe vasospasm. Logistic regression showed that MTT was the best predictor of the arteriographic score. Using MTT, odds ratios having a vasospasm were superior to 3.1 and the occurrence of a vasospasm was accurately predicted in 78.5 to 100%, depending on the artery considered. However, no absolute value of the MTT could be identified to predict the occurrence of vasospasm. In fact, abnormal values of MTT ranged from 123 to 221% (m=146%) of the control values. PCT may accurately identify severe vasospasm and might be used as a convenient noninvasive imaging modality to monitor patients with SAH. When detected, severe vasospasm could be confirmed and managed using angiography and endovascular treatment, appropriately."}
{"id": "20404380", "title": "Effect of early cerebral magnetic resonance imaging on clinical decisions in infective endocarditis: a prospective study.", "content": "Effect of early cerebral magnetic resonance imaging on clinical decisions in infective endocarditis: a prospective study. Neurologic complications of endocarditis can influence diagnosis, therapeutic plans, and prognosis. To describe how early cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) affects the diagnosis and management of endocarditis in hospitalized adults. Single-center prospective study between June 2005 and October 2008. (ClinicalTrials.gov registration number: NCT00144885) Tertiary care university hospital in France. 130 patients with endocarditis. Cerebral MRI with angiography performed up to 7 days after admission and before any surgical intervention. 2 experts jointly established the endocarditis diagnostic classification (according to Duke-modified criteria) and therapeutic plans just before and after MRI and then compared them. Endocarditis was initially classified as definite in 77 patients and possible in 50 and was excluded in 3. Sixteen patients (12%) had acute neurologic symptoms. Cerebral lesions were detected by MRI in 106 patients (82% [95% CI, 75% to 89%]), including ischemic lesions in 68, microhemorrhages in 74, and silent aneurysms in 10. Solely on the basis of MRI results and excluding microhemorrhages, diagnostic classification of 17 of 53 (32%) cases of nondefinite endocarditis was upgraded to either definite (14 patients) or possible (3 patients). Endocarditis therapeutic plans were modified for 24 (18%) of the 130 patients, including surgical plan modifications for 18 (14%). Overall, early MRI led to modifications of diagnosis or therapeutic plan in 36 patients (28% [CI, 20% to 36%]). Investigators did not assess whether the MRI-related changes in diagnosis and therapeutic plans improved patient outcomes or led to unnecessary procedures and increased costs. Cerebral lesions were identified by MRI in many patients with endocarditis but no neurologic symptoms. The MRI findings affected both diagnostic classifications and clinical management plans. French Ministry of Health."}
{"id": "20399676", "title": "Importance of cerebral artery risk evaluation before off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting to avoid perioperative stroke.", "content": "Importance of cerebral artery risk evaluation before off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting to avoid perioperative stroke. Cerebrovascular atherosclerotic disease is a widely known risk factor for stroke after conventional coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). The aim of this study is to evaluate the incidence of stroke in patients with significant cerebrovascular disease after off-pump CABG. In this retrospective study, 611 patients, who underwent off-pump CABG, were divided into high-risk (n=196) and low-risk groups (n=415) for perioperative stroke using preoperative brain magnetic resonance angiography/imaging and cervical Doppler sonography, and the incidence of stroke in the two groups was compared. No 'intra-operative' stroke was observed. However, seven patients (3.6%) in the high-risk group and one patient (0.2%) in the low-risk group developed 'delayed stroke' between the day of surgery and postoperative day 18 (mean postoperative day 8.8). The predominant aetiology of delayed stroke was thrombo-embolism. Assignment to the high-risk group had a significant association with the occurrence of delayed stroke (p=0.011). The person-time incidence rate of stroke in the high-risk group was much higher within 1 month (3.57) after CABG than beyond 1 month (0.14). Patients with significant cerebrovascular disease did not develop intra-operative stroke after off-pump CABG. However, these patients were likely to suffer from delayed stroke within 30 days of surgery."}
{"id": "20387576", "title": "[Case of ruptured multiple cerebral aneurysms associated with primary aldosteronism].", "content": "[Case of ruptured multiple cerebral aneurysms associated with primary aldosteronism]. Primary aldosteronism (PA) has been recognized as a relatively benign form of hypertension associated with a low incidence of vascular complications. Recent reports, however, indicate that cerebrovascular accidents are common in PA. We report a case of multiple aneurysms with PA in a middle-aged woman who presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage. A 47-year-old woman with a history of untreated hypertension was referred to our hospital for subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography showed multiple small aneurysms. The initial intervention was aneurysm clipping for a ruptured aneurysm at the bifurcation of the right middle cerebral artery. Despite medication, she continued to suffer from uncontrolled hypertension and hypokalemia. She was diagnosed with PA on the basis of elevated plasma aldosterone, suppressed plasma rennin, and a right adrenal tumor detected by abdominal CT scanning. She underwent several more neck clippings for the remaining aneurysms (unruptured), followed by a total right adrenectomy. Histological examination revealed an adrenal adenoma. After the operation, her blood pressure returned to normal without any vasodepressors. Recent studies have demonstrated that hyperaldosteronism might have direct vasculo-toxic actions, including remodeling, fibrosis, and proliferation. Cerebrovascular accidents caused by PA are reported to have high rates of mortality and recurrence when the PA is overlooked or untreated. Physicians must be alert to the possibility of PA in patients with hypertension and persistent hypokalemia, especially in those who are young or middle-aged. We also recommend screening for intracranial aneurysms by low-invasive magnetic resonance angiography."}
{"id": "20380939", "title": "Choice of echo time on GRE T2*-weighted MRI influences the classification of brain microbleeds.", "content": "Choice of echo time on GRE T2*-weighted MRI influences the classification of brain microbleeds."}
{"id": "20360343", "title": "Feasibility of angiographic CT in peri-interventional diagnostic imaging: a comparative study with multidetector CT.", "content": "Feasibility of angiographic CT in peri-interventional diagnostic imaging: a comparative study with multidetector CT. The ability to perform neuroimaging on the angiography suite is important in making decisions during neurointerventions. Our aim was the evaluation of ACT as a fast available diagnostic tool during and after neuroendovascular procedures and the comparison of ACT with postinterventional MDCT. Eighty-four peri-interventional ACT acquisitions were obtained and evaluated: 38 after coil embolization of cerebral aneurysms, 16 after intracranial angioplasty with stent placement, and 30 after endovascular mechanical thrombectomy and lysis. Interventions and ACTs were performed on a biplane angiography system equipped with flat panel detectors. Postprocessing was performed on a dedicated workstation, and multiplanar reformations were generated. Reference studies were performed on a 16- or 128-section MDCT scanner. All studies were independently evaluated by 3 blinded neuroradiologists. The Wilcoxon test was applied for the statistical analysis. ACT and MDCT images were of equal diagnostic quality in most cases related to the supratentorial ventricular system and the detection of hemorrhages (subarachnoidal, intraparenchymal, and intraventricular). Regarding the supratentorial ventricular system, an adequate diagnostic quality was assigned to 94% of the ACT acquisitions. For the detection of hemorrhage, no statistically significant difference was noted between ACT and MDCT. However, for the infratentorial region, ACT performed relatively poorly compared with MDCT. The diagnostic evaluation of gray matter (basal ganglia, insular cortex, and central cortex) by ACT is not sufficient, with <20% of the acquisitions scoring a diagnostic value. After neuroendovascular procedures and within the angiography suite, ACT enables an immediate detection of peri-interventional hemorrhage or hydrocephalus. However, for the detection of cerebral infarction, ACT is not yet reliable."}
{"id": "20350973", "title": "Teaching NeuroImages: neonatal intracerebral hemorrhage associated with aortic coarctation.", "content": "Teaching NeuroImages: neonatal intracerebral hemorrhage associated with aortic coarctation."}
{"id": "20339272", "title": "Massive intracranial hemorrhage associated with pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma--case report.", "content": "Massive intracranial hemorrhage associated with pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma--case report. A 60-year-old woman with a history of intermittent headaches and frequent seizures for 30 years presented with a massive intracranial hematoma in the left medial temporal lobe with thick subarachnoid hemorrhage. She had been treated with anticonvulsant medication under a diagnosis of left mesial temporal sclerosis based on magnetic resonance imaging findings. Cerebral angiography on admission revealed occlusion of the P(2) segment of the left posterior cerebral artery (PCA) and extravasation of contrast medium during the procedure. The patient underwent left temporal lobectomy including the lesioned mesial temporal cortex, and the ruptured P(2) segment of the PCA was removed as well. The operative finding of the ruptured aneurysm was pseudoaneurysm. Histological examination of the resected PCA segment demonstrated a pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma invading the outer wall of the PCA. Presumably the bleeding was caused by the rupture of a pseudoaneurysm secondary to leptomeningeal involvement of this typically benign tumor."}
{"id": "20339270", "title": "Coil embolization of a ruptured aneurysm arising from a middle cerebral artery fenestration--case report.", "content": "Coil embolization of a ruptured aneurysm arising from a middle cerebral artery fenestration--case report. An 81-year-old woman was transferred to our hospital after suffering loss of consciousness. Computed tomography revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage. Angiography revealed middle cerebral artery fenestration and a ruptured aneurysm arising from the inferior limb of the fenestrated artery. Coil embolization of the aneurysm and the proximal portion of the inferior limb was performed, and she showed good recovery after the procedure. Ruptured aneurysms associated with middle cerebral artery fenestration are very rare, but may occasionally have complex structures that complicate lesion treatment, so coil embolization should be considered in some cases."}
{"id": "20307787", "title": "Intracranial vascular lesions and anatomical variants all residents should know.", "content": "Intracranial vascular lesions and anatomical variants all residents should know. The purpose of this article is to extensively illustrate pathologically and clinically proven cases of intracranial vascular lesions and variants accumulated at a tertiary referral center. These are organized by normal anatomy and variants, arterial lesions, and venous lesions. High-quality computed tomography, computed tomographic angiography, magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance angiography, 3D reconstruction, and angiographic figures illustrate the findings and complement a succinct review of this category of disease. Some cases are accompanied by histopathologic correlation. The reader of this article will gain or refresh information about intracranial vascular lesions and variants for clinical practice and for preparation for certifying examinations and clinical practice. The text and figures aid recognition of these entities and emphasize anatomy, clinical context, and differential diagnosis. These can aid the radiologist in arriving at the appropriate diagnosis."}
{"id": "20227278", "title": "Comparisons of DSA and MR angiography with digital subtraction angiography in 151 patients with subacute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Comparisons of DSA and MR angiography with digital subtraction angiography in 151 patients with subacute spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. To exclude underlying vascular abnormalities in patients with spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage, the traditional paradigm requires investigation using digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in both the acute and subacute phases. We investigated whether MRI and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), in the subacute stage of intracerebral hematoma, had high positive predictive values (PPV) and negative predictive values (NPV) in screening for vascular abnormality in the routine clinical setting. In a regional neurosurgical center in Hong Kong, we retrospectively reviewed 151 patients investigated with both MRI and DSA for underlying structural vascular abnormalities during the subacute phase. Sensitivity, specificity, and intermodality agreement were assessed. A total of 70/151 (46%) vascular lesions accountable for the hemorrhage were found. Patients with vascular abnormalities tended to be younger (mean age+/-standard deviation [SD], 33+/-15years), less likely to be hypertensive (6.3%), and the lesion was more likely to be accompanied by intraventricular hemorrhage (22%). In terms of cerebral arteriovenous malformation and dural arteriovenous fistulas, MRI/MRA had a PPV of 0.98 and a NPV of 1.00. We concluded that MRI/MRA was able to detect most structural vascular abnormalities in the subacute phase in most patients and, thus, its use is recommended as the screening test."}
{"id": "20124736", "title": "Brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity predicts silent cerebrovascular diseases in patients with end-stage renal diseases.", "content": "Brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity predicts silent cerebrovascular diseases in patients with end-stage renal diseases. Cerebrovascular disease (CVD) is a major determinant of the prognosis in end-stage renal diseases (ESRD). The purpose of this study was to examine whether factors associated with arterial stiffness contributed to the development of CVD in patients with ESRD. CVD (lacunes and carotid/intracranial artery stenosis) was evaluated with brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and carotid/intracranial artery magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) in 44 pre-dialytic patients. The severity of CVD was evaluated by the number of lacunes and the degree of stenosis, respectively. The association between CVD and atherosclerotic parameters was evaluated. Patients with severe lacunes (n=18) manifested older age, lower diastolic blood pressure, serum creatinine and albumin, and higher CRP and serum calcium than those with absent-moderate lacunes (n=26). When assessed by multivariate analysis, only baPWV was adopted as an independent risk factor for severe lacunes. Furthermore, baPWV and i-PTH were associated with the severity of carotid/intracranial artery stenosis, both of which were independent of other risk factors, including age and diabetes. Arterial stiffness may constitute a novel determinant predicting the severity of CVD in pre-dialytic patients besides classical risk factors."}
{"id": "20110380", "title": "Cerebral microvascular disease predicts renal failure in type 2 diabetes.", "content": "Cerebral microvascular disease predicts renal failure in type 2 diabetes. Abnormalities in small renal vessels may increase the risk of developing impaired renal function, but methods to assess these vessels are extremely limited. We hypothesized that the presence of small vessel disease in the brain, which manifests as silent cerebral infarction (SCI), may predict the progression of kidney disease in patients with type 2 diabetes. We recruited 608 patients with type 2 diabetes without apparent cerebrovascular or cardiovascular disease or overt nephropathy and followed them for a mean of 7.5 years. At baseline, 177 of 608 patients had SCI, diagnosed by cerebral magnetic resonance imaging. The risk for the primary outcome of ESRD or death was significantly higher for patients with SCI than for patients without SCI [hazard ratio, 2.44; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.36 to 4.38]. The risk for the secondary renal end point of any dialysis or doubling of the serum creatinine concentration was also significantly higher for patients with SCI (hazard ratio, 4.79; 95% CI 2.72 to 8.46). The estimated GFR declined more in patients with SCI than in those without SCI; however, the presence of SCI did not increase the risk for progression of albuminuria. In conclusion, independent of microalbuminuria, cerebral microvascular disease predicted renal morbidity among patients with type 2 diabetes."}
{"id": "20108106", "title": "Preoperative demonstration of the neurovascular compression characteristics with special emphasis on the degree of compression, using high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging: a prospective study, with comparison to surgical findings, in 100 consecutive patients who underwent microvascular decompression for trigeminal neuralgia.", "content": "Preoperative demonstration of the neurovascular compression characteristics with special emphasis on the degree of compression, using high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging: a prospective study, with comparison to surgical findings, in 100 consecutive patients who underwent microvascular decompression for trigeminal neuralgia. Surgical outcome after microvascular decompression (MVD) for primary trigeminal neuralgia (TN) has been demonstrated as being related to the characteristics of the neurovascular compression (NVC), especially to the degree of compression exerted on the root. Therefore, preoperative determination of the NVC features could be of great value to the neurosurgeon, for evaluation of conflicting nature, exact localization, direction and degree of compression. This study deals with the predictive value of MRI in detecting and assessing features of vascular compression in 100 consecutive patients who underwent MVD for TN. The study included 100 consecutive patients with primary TN who were submitted to a preoperative 3D MRI 1.5 T with T2 high-resolution, TOF-MRA, and T1-Gadolinium. Image analysis was performed by an independent observer blinded to the operative findings and compared with surgical data. In 88 cases, image analysis showed NVC features that coincided with surgical findings. There were no false-positive results. Among 12 patients that did not show NVC at image analysis, nine did not have NVC at intraoperative observation, resulting in three false-negative cases. MRI sensitivity was 96.7% (88/91) and specificity 100% (9/9). Image analysis correctly identified compressible vessel in 80 of the 91 cases and degree of compression in 77 of the 91 cases. Kappa-coefficient predicting degree of root compression was 0.746, 0.767, and 0.86, respectively, for Grades I (simple contact), II (distortion), and III (marked indentation; p < 0.01). 3D T2 high-resolution in combination with 3D TOF-MRA and 3D T1-Gadolinium proved to be reliable in detecting NVC and in predicting the degree of the root compression."}
{"id": "20107775", "title": "Accuracy of 3\u00a0T MR angioraphy in vertebral artery stenosis and coincidence with other cerebrovascular stenoses.", "content": "Accuracy of 3\u00a0T MR angioraphy in vertebral artery stenosis and coincidence with other cerebrovascular stenoses. Ostium of vertebral artery (VA) is a common site of pseudostenosis on contrast-enhanced MR angiography (CE-MRA). The purpose of this study was to determine the diagnostic accuracy of CE-MRA at 3\u00a0T in the evaluation of ostial stenosis of VA and to find associated coincidental stenoses using logistic regression analysis. One hundred and thirty-five VA ostial regions from 72 patients who received CE-MRA of neck vessels, intracranial time of flight (TOF) MRA, and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) were retrospectively reviewed. The sensitivity and specificity of the CE-MRA in detection of ostial stenosis were calculated with reference standard of DSA. Ostial stenosis on MRA was correlated with coincidental lesions in intracranial and cervical arteries by logistic regression analysis. The sensitivity and specificity of the CE-MRA were 100% and 80.4% for detection of significant stenosis. In case of significant stenoses, CE-MRA showed a tendency of overestimation with a false-positive rate of 52.5%. Logistic regression analysis showed that the stenoses of middle cerebral artery (MCA) on TOF MRA was associated with significant stenoses of VA ostia (OR\u2009=\u20095.84, 95% confidence intervals 1.41-24.17). CE-MRA is sensitive in detection of VA ostial stenosis although it has high false-positive rate. True positive ostial stenosis should be considered in cases of coincidental stenoses of MCA on TOF MRA."}
{"id": "20098031", "title": "Intracranial hemorrhage associated with convexity meningioma after cerebral angiography--case report.", "content": "Intracranial hemorrhage associated with convexity meningioma after cerebral angiography--case report. A 63-year-old female developed left hemiparesis caused by intracranial intratumoral and peritumoral hemorrhage with cerebral herniation 4 days after cerebral angiography to evaluate right convexity and petrosal meningiomas. The cerebral angiography procedure may have caused the tumoral edema and intracranial hemorrhage because computed tomography on admission revealed the right convexity meningioma as slightly low density compared to before the hemorrhage. Administration of contrast medium is known to cause complications involving microcirculatory collapse and blood-brain barrier dysfunction associated with brain tumors. Therefore, the contrast medium may have affected the meningioma after cerebral angiography."}
{"id": "20075341", "title": "Effects of 0.6 mg/kg intravenous alteplase on vascular and clinical outcomes in middle cerebral artery occlusion: Japan Alteplase Clinical Trial II (J-ACT II).", "content": "Effects of 0.6 mg/kg intravenous alteplase on vascular and clinical outcomes in middle cerebral artery occlusion: Japan Alteplase Clinical Trial II (J-ACT II). The purpose of this study was to evaluate further the efficacy of 0.6 mg/kg intravenous alteplase on vascular and clinical outcomes in patients with middle cerebral artery occlusion in a postmarketing Phase IV trial of prospective cohort study design. Alteplase was given intravenously at 0.6 mg/kg to patients with ischemic stroke within 3 hours of onset with MR angiography-documented middle cerebral artery occlusion. Vascular outcome was evaluated by MR angiography at 6 and 24 hours after symptom onset based on the modified Mori grade. The primary end points also included a favorable outcome (modified Rankin Scale 0 to 1 at 3 months after onset) and incidence of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage within 36 hours after treatment. The impact of recanalization on clinical outcome was assessed by stepwise logistic regression analysis. Fifty-eight patients were enrolled. Recanalization was noted in 51.7% on 6-hour MR angiography and 69.0% on 24-hour MR angiography. A favorable clinical outcome was achieved in 46.6%. None had symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage. In logistic regression models, recanalization on either 6-hour or 24-hour MR angiography was an independent predictor for clinical outcome as well as the baseline National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score. Early recanalization of an occluded middle cerebral artery can be provoked by 0.6 mg/kg intravenous alteplase and may induce a favorable clinical outcome. The rates of recanalization and favorable outcome are comparable to that previously reported with the 0.9-mg/kg dose."}
{"id": "20039076", "title": "Retrospective analysis of predictors of cerebral vasospasm after ruptured cerebral aneurysm surgery: influence of the location of subarachnoid blood.", "content": "Retrospective analysis of predictors of cerebral vasospasm after ruptured cerebral aneurysm surgery: influence of the location of subarachnoid blood. The amount of blood on computed tomography (CT) has been shown to be a predictor of cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). However, the influence of the location of the blood on the incidence of vasospasm remains unclear. We retrospectively assessed the association of the blood volumes in the individual components (cisterns and fissures) of CT scans with angiographic vasospasm after SAH. One hundred forty-nine SAH patients scheduled for cerebral aneurysm clipping were enrolled. The amount of subarachnoid blood was classified using the Fisher CT grade. The amounts of subarachnoid blood in 5 cisterns or 3 fissures were also evaluated using SAH scores ranging from 0 to 3 (0, no blood; 3, completely filled with blood). Cerebral vasospasm was diagnosed by the results of angiography. Angiographic vasospasm developed in 51 of 149 patients (34%). Of those, 26 patients were symptomatic. The Fisher CT grade and SAH scores in the right and left sylvian fissures and suprasellar cisterns were significantly higher in patients with angiographic vasospasm than in those without it. Univariate logistic regression analysis revealed that a high Fisher CT grade and high SAH scores in the right and left sylvian fissures and suprasellar cisterns were predictors of angiographic vasospasm. Multivariate analysis indicated that the SAH score in the right sylvian fissure was an independent predictor of angiographic vasospasm (odds ratio, 3.6; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.7-7.7; P = 0.01). The results indicated that the amount of blood in the right sylvian fissure was significantly associated with the development of angiographic vasospasm after SAH."}
{"id": "20037134", "title": "Influenza A encephalopathy, cerebral vasculopathy, and posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome: combined occurrence in a 3-year-old child.", "content": "Influenza A encephalopathy, cerebral vasculopathy, and posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome: combined occurrence in a 3-year-old child. Encephalopathy is an uncommon complication of childhood influenza infection, typically recognized during influenza epidemics. Imaging hallmarks include characteristic thalamic lesions, thalamic necrosis and hemispheric edema. We describe a child with acute influenza A associated necrotizing encephalopathy with MR angiographic evidence of significant cerebral vasculopathy and a hemispheric edema pattern consistent with PRES. This case reinforces that significant cerebral vasculopathy can accompany influenza infection and that influenza is a likely trigger for PRES."}
{"id": "20036151", "title": "Transient CT hyperattenuation after Merci clot retrieval and intraarterial thrombolysis in acute stroke mimicking subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Transient CT hyperattenuation after Merci clot retrieval and intraarterial thrombolysis in acute stroke mimicking subarachnoid hemorrhage. Unenhanced computed tomography (CT) revealed hyperattenuating lesions in two patients with acute stroke immediately after clot retrieval with the Merci device in one patient and after intraarterial thrombolysis in the other. These areas of hyperattenuation were noted in the middle cerebral artery territory in the first patient and involving the brainstem, cerebellum, and tentorium in the second. Both were falsely interpreted as subarachnoid hemorrhage. The area of hyperattenuation resolved within a few hours in both patients, reflecting contrast medium extravasation/leakage. This report highlights the need to improve physician skill in recognizing contrast medium extravasation that is common following neuroendovascular procedures, which are becoming commonplace in modern day medicine."}
{"id": "20029193", "title": "The spot sign in intracerebral hemorrhage: the importance of looking for contrast extravasation.", "content": "The spot sign in intracerebral hemorrhage: the importance of looking for contrast extravasation. The 'spot sign' is a bright spot on computerized tomography angiography (CTA) source images predictive of hematoma growth. Contrast extravasation (CE) is seen on routine head CT following CTA as pooling of contrast within the hematoma. Our aim was to re-evaluate the predictive value of both the spot sign and CE and measure the reliability of scoring them. Consecutive cases of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) presenting within 4 h. The presence of a 'spot' and CE, ICH and intraventricular hemorrhage volume at baseline and on follow-up scans were assessed. Clinical outcome was captured using the modified Rankin Scale on hospital discharge. We identified 28 patients with a mean age of 56.8 years, median ICH volume of 19 ml, and median NIH Stroke Scale score on admission of 17.5. 11/27 (40.7%) had a positive spot and 13/22 (59.1%) had CE. Interrater reliability was 0.812 (95% CI 0.57-0.91, p < 0.001) for the spot sign and 0.952 (95% CI 0.89-0.98, p < 0.001) for CE. ICH volume increased in 16/28 (57.1%) patients. Both the spot sign and CE were associated with ICH growth (p < 0.001) and poor outcome (p < 0.001). In ICH patients, the presence of the spot sign or CE is highly correlated with early ICH growth. In our experience, CE is a more sensitive predictor of ICH growth with a better negative predictive value than the spot sign; CE is more consistently identified even by experienced clinicians. Postcontrast CT should be done routinely after CTA in patients presenting with ICH within 4 h. Patients who are CE-positive may be candidates for hemostatic therapies or early surgical intervention."}
{"id": "20027582", "title": "Imaging cerebral microbleeds using susceptibility weighted imaging: one step toward detecting vascular dementia.", "content": "Imaging cerebral microbleeds using susceptibility weighted imaging: one step toward detecting vascular dementia. To monitor changes in the number of cerebral microbleeds (CMBs) in a longitudinal study of healthy controls (HC) and mild-cognitively impaired (MCI) patients using susceptibility weighted imaging (SWI). SWI was used to image 28 HC and 75 MCI patients annually at 1.5 Tesla over a 4-year period. Magnitude and phase data were used to visualize CMBs for the first and last scans of 103 subjects. Preliminary analysis revealed that none of the 28 HC had more than three CMBs. In the 75 MCI patients, five subjects had more than three CMBs in both first and last scans, while one subject had more than three bleeds only in the last scan. In five of these six MCI patients, the number of CMBs increased over time and all six went on to develop progressive cognitive impairment (PCI). Of the 130 total CMBs seen in the last scans of the six MCI cases, most were less than 4 mm in diameter. SWI can reveal small CMBs on the order of 1 mm in diameter and this technique can be used to follow their development longitudinally. Monitoring CMBs may be a means by which to evaluate patients for the presence of microvascular disease that leads to PCI."}
{"id": "20027573", "title": "Hybrid of opposite-contrast MRA of the brain by combining time-of-flight and black-blood sequences: initial experience in major trunk stenoocclusive diseases.", "content": "Hybrid of opposite-contrast MRA of the brain by combining time-of-flight and black-blood sequences: initial experience in major trunk stenoocclusive diseases. To assess the feasibility of a new MR angiography (MRA) technique named hybrid of opposite-contrast MRA (HOP MRA) that combined the time-of-flight (TOF) MRA with a flow-sensitive black-blood (FSBB) sequence in the diagnosis of major trunk stenoocclusive diseases. On a 1.5 Tesla imager using a dual-echo three-dimensional (3D)-gradient-echo sequence, we obtained the first echo for TOF MRA followed by the second echo for FSBB. We then subtracted the FSBB data set from that of TOF MRA followed by maximum intensity projection. In four normal volunteers and 19 patients with chronic stenoocclusive disease of the major trunk, we performed HOP MRA along with 3D-TOF MRA and compared the findings. In the volunteer group, the HOP MRA technique improved the demonstration of distal arterial branches. In 12 of the 19 patients, the HOP MRA better visualized branches distal to the lesion as well as distal branches of normal trunks than 3D-TOF MRA, while both techniques provided equivalent depiction of branches distal to the lesion but better depiction of normal distal branches in three patients. The HOP-MRA technique is promising in major trunk stenoocclusive diseases as it better demonstrates distal branches probably representing collaterals than 3D-TOF MRA."}
{"id": "20012004", "title": "[Corpus callosum. Landmark of the origin of cerebral diseases].", "content": "[Corpus callosum. Landmark of the origin of cerebral diseases]. Diseases of the corpus callosum include developmental disorders, immunomodulated CNS diseases, vascular malformations, disturbances of metabolism including the electrolyte homeostasis, secondary degenerations and mechanical injuries. This report provides information on the differential diagnosis of reversible and irreversible pathological changes of the corpus callosum with special focus on the localization, which often allows conclusions on the pathogenesis to be drawn."}
{"id": "20004607", "title": "Automated detection of intracranial aneurysms based on parent vessel 3D analysis.", "content": "Automated detection of intracranial aneurysms based on parent vessel 3D analysis. The detection of brain aneurysms plays a key role in reducing the incidence of intracranial subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) which carries a high rate of morbidity and mortality. The majority of non-traumatic SAH cases is caused by ruptured intracranial aneurysms and accurate detection can decrease a significant proportion of misdiagnosed cases. A scheme for automated detection of intracranial aneurysms is proposed in this study. Applied to the segmented cerebral vasculature, the method detects aneurysms as suspect regions on the vascular tree, and is designed to assist diagnosticians with their interpretations and thus reduce missed detections. In the current approach, the vessels are segmented and their medial axis is computed. Small regions along the vessels are inspected and the writhe number is introduced as a new surface descriptor to quantify how closely any given region approximates a tubular structure. Aneurysms are detected as non-tubular regions of the vascular tree. The geometric assumptions underlying the approach are investigated analytically and validated experimentally. The method is tested on 3D-rotational angiography (3D-RA) and computed tomography angiography (CTA). In our experiments, 100% sensitivity was achieved with average false positives rates of 0.66 per study on 3D-RA data and 5.36 false positive rates per study on CTA data."}
{"id": "19996624", "title": "Anticoagulation for cerebral venous thrombosis with subarachnoid hemorrhage: a case report.", "content": "Anticoagulation for cerebral venous thrombosis with subarachnoid hemorrhage: a case report. To report the success of anticoagulation (AC) treatment in a case of cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in view of the limited evidence seen in the literature supporting such a treatment option. A 38-year-old lady with CVT and SAH presented 12 h after the onset of symptoms. AC with low-molecular-weight heparin was started 4 days later, when the repeated brain CT showed regression of the SAH. Heparin was changed to warfarin, and she was asymptomatic over a 12-month follow-up period. In a limited number of small studies, AC has been found to be beneficial for cases of CVT with hemorrhagic complications. The proper time to start AC in such cases was not clearly defined, and a delay of 4-33 days was observed after the onset of symptoms. In cases of spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) in general, active bleeding is usually confined to the first 6 h, and chances of hematoma enlargement are higher in the first 24 h. On the other hand, it has been advised to rule out a coincidental vascular malformation and to radiologically confirm regression (or at least non-progression) of the ICH before starting AC. AC for cases of CVT may remain beneficial in the presence of SAH. The time to start AC for CVT with hemorrhagic complications is unclear; however, AC was successful when given 4 days after the onset of symptoms in our case. It may be wise to repeat CT after at least 24 h from the onset of symptoms (to confirm regression or at least non-progression of the ICH) before starting AC. It may also be prudent to perform magnetic resonance angiography, or digital subtraction angiography to rule out a coincidental intracranial aneurysm before AC."}
{"id": "19960272", "title": "CT perfusion evidence of early global cerebral hypoperfusion after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage with cardiac arrest.", "content": "CT perfusion evidence of early global cerebral hypoperfusion after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage with cardiac arrest. Cardiac arrest and aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage both cause sudden, severe cerebral hypoperfusion at ictus. Animal studies indicate that the resultant microvascular dysfunction and cerebral perfusion abnormalities are important determinants of the associated cerebral injury in both conditions. Although this suggests that perfusion imaging might be a useful tool for prognostication in patients with these conditions, this hypothesis has not been thoroughly investigated in humans. Case report. A 49-year-old man developed cardiac arrest upon rupture of an intracranial aneurysm. When he arrived at our institution 10 h later, he was comatose, had neurogenic hyperventilation, absent corneal reflexes, and continuous multifocal myoclonus. Despite normal intracranial pressure, normal cerebral perfusion pressure, normal flow in the proximal cerebral arteries on CT angiography, and a lack of diffuse cerebral edema, CT perfusion imaging performed 12 h after ictus showed severe, diffuse hypoperfusion. After the development of refractory intracranial hypertension, physiologic support was withdrawn and the patient died. Early global cerebral hypoperfusion can be demonstrated by CT perfusion imaging after cardiac arrest associated with high-grade aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and may be indicative of poor neurologic outcome. CT perfusion should be investigated as a prognostic tool in these conditions."}
{"id": "19918208", "title": "Semiquantitative software SPECT analysis in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage-related vasospasm.", "content": "Semiquantitative software SPECT analysis in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage-related vasospasm. Cerebral vasospasm is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among patients after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) from ruptured intracranial aneurysms. Patients are often monitored using transcranial Doppler (TCD) ultrasound and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) techniques. Historically SPECT has been evaluated qualitatively, though quantitative analysis software is now used to evaluate other cerebral pathologies. Our aim was to evaluate the utility of semiquantitative SPECT using Hermes brain registration and analysis software (BRASS) relative to TCD ultrasound and qualitative SPECT interpretation within a cohort of patients, all with cerebral vasospasm as measured by digital subtraction angiography. Retrospective analysis of 32 nonconsecutive patients, admitted for aneurysmal SAH examining perfusion deficits in terms of anterior, middle, and posterior vascular distributions using both TCD ultrasonography and brain perfusion SPECT studies. McNemar analysis of accuracy between modalities showed a better overall performance trend for qualitative SPECT versus BRASS SPECT (Fisher exact = 0.99) and a statistically significant better performance of qualitative SPECT versus TCD in measuring anterior cerebral artery vasospasm (Fisher exact = 0.035). BRASS SPECT, however, performed better than qualitative SPECT in diagnosing posterior circulation vasospasm (Fisher exact = 0.180 vs. 0.358) and had greater specificity in determining anterior circulation vasospasm (71 vs. 57%). BRASS SPECT is a useful method for evaluating cerebral perfusion and needs further optimization, particularly as it pertains to establishing semiquantitative cerebral perfusion parameters. It can serve as an adjunct to traditional SPECT evaluation of SAH particularly in determining subtle changes in the perfusion of the anterior and posterior arterial distributions."}
{"id": "19910545", "title": "The spot sign score in primary intracerebral hemorrhage identifies patients at highest risk of in-hospital mortality and poor outcome among survivors.", "content": "The spot sign score in primary intracerebral hemorrhage identifies patients at highest risk of in-hospital mortality and poor outcome among survivors. The spot sign score is a potent predictor of hematoma expansion in patients with primary intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). We aim to determine the accuracy of this scoring system for the prediction of in-hospital mortality and poor outcome among survivors in patients with primary ICH. Three neuroradiologists retrospectively reviewed CT angiograms (CTAs) performed in 573 consecutive patients who presented to our Emergency Department with primary ICH over a 9-year period to determine the presence and scoring of spot signs according to strict criteria. Baseline ICH and intraventricular hemorrhage volumes were independently determined by computer-assisted volumetric analysis. Medical records were independently reviewed for baseline clinical characteristics and modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at hospital discharge and 3-month follow-up. Poor outcome among survivors was defined as a mRS > or =4 at 3-month follow-up. We identified spot signs in 133 of 573 CTAs (23.2%), 11 of which were delayed spot signs (8.3%). The presence of any spot sign increased the risk of in-hospital mortality (55.6%, OR 4.0, 95% CI 2.6 to 5.9, P<0.0001) and poor outcome among survivors at 3-month follow-up (50.8%, OR 2.5, 95% CI 1.4 to 4.3, P<0.0014). The spot sign score successfully predicted an escalating risk of both outcome measures. In multivariate analysis, the spot sign score was an independent predictor of in-hospital mortality (OR 1.5, 95% CI 1.2 to 1.9, P<0.0002) and poor outcome among survivors at 3-month follow-up (OR 1.6, 95% CI 1.1 to 2.1, P<0.0065). The spot sign score is an independent predictor of in-hospital mortality and poor outcome among survivors in primary ICH."}
{"id": "19907164", "title": "The hyperdense anterior cerebral artery sign (HACAS) as a computed tomography marker for acute ischemia in the anterior cerebral artery territory.", "content": "The hyperdense anterior cerebral artery sign (HACAS) as a computed tomography marker for acute ischemia in the anterior cerebral artery territory. Hyperdense arteries in cranial CT of acute stroke patients have been described as a sign for acute ischemia in various brain-feeding arteries. However, only 1 case of a hyperdense anterior cerebral artery sign (HACAS) has been published to date. In this study, the frequency and association of HACAS with clinical symptoms and outcome are described. Our radiological databases were searched for patients with infarcts in the territory of the anterior cerebral artery (ACA). Only patients who received an initial CT and a follow-up CT or MRI were included. The presence of a HACAS was rated by 2 independent observers using the Cohen kappa-statistics. Further data recorded were early ischemic signs, final size of infarct, symptoms, initial NIHSS (National Institute of Health Stroke Scale) score, latency between symptom onset and initial CT, etiology, modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score at discharge and secondary hemorrhage. A HACAS could be visualized in 11/24 patients (46%). Interobserver agreement was substantial with Cohen's kappa = 0.66. Patients with a HACAS had a significantly higher NIHSS score (9.45 +/- 8.41; median: 8) than those without (3.69 +/- 2.09; median: 4). A HACAS was visible more frequently when the CT was performed early (<2.5 h after symptom onset). There was no correlation with single symptoms, size of infarct, etiology, mRS or the tendency to hemorrhage. HACAS is associated with a higher NIHSS score. It is an early sign of ischemia which can be reversible over time. It can be helpful in the detection of ischemia in the territory of the ACA."}
{"id": "19898967", "title": "Sequential escalation of therapy in \"malignant\" cerebral venous and sinus thrombosis.", "content": "Sequential escalation of therapy in \"malignant\" cerebral venous and sinus thrombosis. The best treatment of fulminant or progressive cerebral venous and sinus thrombosis (CVST) despite dose-adjusted heparin remains controversial. Local thrombolysis has been successfully performed in several cases. In cases of impending herniation hemicraniectomy has been suggested as ultima ratio. We describe sequential escalation of therapy in \"malignant\" CVST. Case report. We report a case of fulminant CVST in whom sequential escalation of therapy with intravenous heparin, local thrombolysis, and hemicraniectomy was necessitated by the progressive clinical course. The patient survived with a relatively good outcome. This first description on the combined treatment with local thrombolysis and hemicraniectomy illustrates that even in severely affected individuals, therapeutic nihilism is unwarranted and that all available therapeutic options including local thrombolysis and hemicraniectomy should be taken into consideration."}
{"id": "19855924", "title": "Acute subdural hematoma from ruptured cerebral aneurysm.", "content": "Acute subdural hematoma from ruptured cerebral aneurysm. The combination of ruptured aneurysms with acute subdural hematomas (aSDHs) is a rare presentation. Patients with aSDH associated with aneurysmal bleeding represent a subgroup within the spectrum of aneurysmatic hemorrhage. We summarize the clinical characteristics, diagnostic evaluation, and management of a series of cases presenting with aSDH associated with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Medical records and surgical reports of 743 consecutive patients admitted to our institution with SAH from January 1995 to December 2007 were screened to detect cases of associated aSDH. Admission evaluations included the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) and the subarachnoid grade of the World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies (WFNS). Radiological assessment included computer tomography (CT) scan, CT angiography (CTA), and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). The presence and volume of SAH, intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), and aSDH were documented. Outcome was measured in terms of Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) and modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at 4-8 months. A total of seven cases (0.9%) presenting with aSDH (mean width: 11.2 mm +/- 4.8 mm, range: 5-20 mm) attributable to SAH were documented. Three of these patients were admitted with a suspicion of trauma. Five patients presented with WFNS grade 5, one patient with WFNS grade 3, and one patient with WFNS grade 1. All patients underwent evacuation of the aSDH. In four patients, surgical obliteration of the aneurysm was achieved in the same procedure. Two patients underwent delayed occlusion of the aneurysm: one by coiling and one by clipping. Three of the seven patients recovered completely from their neurological deficits (GOS 5, mRS 0-1), three recovered with mild disability (GOS 4, mRS 2-3), and one died within 8 h after the decompressive procedure. The incidence of aSDH associated with SAH is low. Most of the patients with aSDH due to a ruptured aneurysm present in exceptionally poor neurological condition. Nevertheless, rapid surgical treatment of the hematoma and aneurysm obliteration can lead to a favorable outcome. Routine CTA should be performed in all patients presenting with an aSDH associated with SAH and no clear history of trauma."}
{"id": "19840882", "title": "Symptomatic Moyamoya disease: clinical features and outcome after indirect bypass surgery in four French adults.", "content": "Symptomatic Moyamoya disease: clinical features and outcome after indirect bypass surgery in four French adults. There are a few reports of moyamoya disease (MMD) in the European Caucasian adult population. We present the clinical manifestations, the neuroradiological aspects, the treatment, and the outcome after surgical revascularization of four French patients with MMD. We identified four adults (age >18 years; three women and one man) with MMD who underwent digital subtraction catheter angiography at our institution from 1997 through 2006. The median age at symptom onset was 35 years (range, 22 to 41 years). The initial clinical presentation was intracerebral hemorrhage in three patients and ischemic stroke in one patient. Three patients underwent bilateral surgical revascularization and one patient underwent unilateral surgical revascularization. All patients underwent the same surgical revascularization procedure (encephalo-duro-arterio-myo-synangiosis). The mean (+/-SD) period of follow-up after diagnosis of MMD was 6 years and 9 months (+/-3 years and 5 months). No patient experienced any recurrent hemorrhagic or ischemic stroke. No perioperative stroke occurred. No patient was severely disabled or unable to walk. Three patients out of four were employed. Our data suggest safety and a potential benefit of surgical revascularization (indirect bypass surgery) in European adult patients with symptomatic MMD. Further long-term prospective multicenter studies are needed. The establishment of a registry would be useful in order to accumulate data in large numbers of European patients with this uncommon disease."}
{"id": "19833792", "title": "Overlying fluoroscopy and preacquired CT angiography for road-mapping in cerebral angiography.", "content": "Overlying fluoroscopy and preacquired CT angiography for road-mapping in cerebral angiography. We describe our preliminary experience using a road-mapping procedure that involves combining preacquired CTA with real-time fluoroscopy. This maneuver facilitates navigation in supra-aortic vessels from the arch to skull base levels. It requires less contrast than is used for traditional road-mapping while potentially reducing the hazard of thromboembolic events associated with direct catheterization. The accuracy of registration between the 2 volume datasets seems satisfactory for clinical practice."}
{"id": "19830465", "title": "Hypersexuality from resection of left occipital arteriovenous malformation.", "content": "Hypersexuality from resection of left occipital arteriovenous malformation. The authors report their experience on one patient with hypersexuality from resection of left occipital arteriovenous malformation. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case reported in the literature. A 35-year-old right-handed female farmer suffered a sudden left occipital hemorrhage with subarachnoid and subdural hemorrhages of the left hemisphere. Transient left uncal herniation occurred at the onset and was released by conservative treatment. Digital subtraction angiography showed a brain left occipital arteriovenous malformation. After microsurgical resection of the arteriovenous malformation, the patient developed hypersexual behavior. Positron emission tomography showed hypermetabolism in the left frontal region and left posterior hippocampal gyrus and hypometabolism in the left anterior hippocampal gyrus and the left occipital surgical area. Theories concerning normal pressure perfusion breakthrough and specific areas in the brain responsible for the human sexual response are discussed."}
{"id": "19813172", "title": "Intracranial arterialized venous angioma: case report with new insights from functional brain MRI.", "content": "Intracranial arterialized venous angioma: case report with new insights from functional brain MRI. We present the case of a 58-year-old man who suffered a left thalamic intracerebral hemorrhage. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed an incidental venous angioma in the left frontal lobe. Further elucidated by cerebral angiography and functional MRI, this venous angioma exhibited arteriovenous shunting. The arterialized venous angioma represents an uncommon, \"mixed\" intracranial vascular lesion whose natural history remains unknown."}
{"id": "19811796", "title": "[Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome].", "content": "[Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome]. Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) is characterized by severe headaches, as well as vasoconstriction of cerebral arteries, which resolves spontaneously in one to three months. This condition has a moderate female preponderance. The mean age of onset is around 45 years. About 60% of the cases are secondary, mainly occurring during postpartum and/or after exposure to vasoactive substances. The main clinical presentation includes multiple recurrent thunderclap headaches over one to three weeks. The major complications of RCVS are localized cortical subarachnoid hemorrhages (cSAH) (20-25%) and parenchymal strokes (5-10%). Complications occur with different time courses: hemorrhages (cSAH and intracerebral hemorrhages), and posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome are early events occurring during the first week, while ischemic events including TIAs and cerebral infarcts occur significantly later, during the second week. Diagnosis requires the demonstration of the \"string and beads\" aspect of cerebral arteries by a cerebral angiogram (MRA, CTA or conventional) and the demonstration of the complete or marked normalisation of arteries by a repeat angiogram performed within 12 weeks of onset. Treatment is based on nimodipine that seems to reduce thunderclap headaches within 48h. However, nimodipine has not proven any efficacy against the hemorrhagic and ischemic complications of RCVS. Relapses are possible but rare and have not been reported yet in prospective series. It seems appropriate to advise the patients to avoid sympathomimetic and serotoninergic substances."}
{"id": "19782403", "title": "Stenting of a cerebral venous thrombosis.", "content": "Stenting of a cerebral venous thrombosis. Cerebral venous and sinus thrombosis (CVT) is a rare but potentially alarming condition, which remains a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. Endovascular procedure may be a therapeutic option when evolution is unfavourable despite medical treatment, but the use of stenting is rarely reported in CVT treatment. We report the case of a man who presented a jugular vein thrombosis responsible for severe intracranial hypertension. Because of clinical worsening despite intravenous heparin and symptomatic treatment, endovascular procedure including the placement of five venous stents, thrombolysis and balloon angioplasty, was performed and led to venous recanalization with successful clinical outcome. The patient is still asymptomatic 3 years later. Our report shows that venous stenting could represent an efficient alternative in the management of decoagulation refractory CVT."}
{"id": "19779000", "title": "Persistent falcine sinus: is it really rare?", "content": "Persistent falcine sinus: is it really rare? The falcine sinus has been considered as a rare variation of the venous pathway between the dural layers of the falx cerebri. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the incidence of falcine sinus and its anatomic characteristics by using CTA. A total of 586 consecutive patients were enrolled in this study. A falcine sinus on CTA was defined as a midline venous structure connecting the vein of Galen or the internal sagittal sinus with the superior sagittal sinus. When present, anatomic features of the falcine sinus were evaluated. Falcine sinuses were present in 12 patients (2.1%). Only 1 case was associated with a congenital anomaly, a dysplastic tentorium. Eight patients had absent or rudimentary straight sinuses, and 4 patients had normal straight sinuses. In contrast to previous reports, falcine sinuses were not rare in the adult population, and most falcine sinuses were not associated with a congenital anomaly or sinus occlusion. Knowledge and recognition of these falcine sinuses are useful and important during the interpretation of brain CTA."}
{"id": "19686316", "title": "Perfusion CT in hyperacute cerebral hemorrhage within 3 hours after symptom onset: is there an early perihemorrhagic penumbra?", "content": "Perfusion CT in hyperacute cerebral hemorrhage within 3 hours after symptom onset: is there an early perihemorrhagic penumbra? In the recent years numerous studies have been undertaken to study cerebral perfusion in the surrounding of intracerebral hemorrhage, addressing the question of whether there is a secondary ischemic damage. Most of these studies found a reduced perfusion adjacent to the hematoma. However, the meaning of these findings remains controversial. We used perfusion computed tomography in 17 patients to study time to peak, cerebral blood flow, and cerebral blood volume as markers of the perihemorrhagic perfusion within 3 hours after symptom onset to search for an early difference between the extent of edema and reduced perfusion. All patients showed a significant reduction of all perfusion parameters in the perihemorrhagic area, while there was no difference between the latitude of the reduced perfusion and the edema. We did not find a difference between the extension of edema and that of restricted perfusion at a very early time point and therefore could not identify any tissue at risk of ischemia. Our findings suggest reduced perfusion and edema to have a common cause rather than presupposing one another."}
{"id": "19394183", "title": "High spatial resolution magnetic resonance imaging of experimental cerebral venous thrombosis with a blood pool contrast agent.", "content": "High spatial resolution magnetic resonance imaging of experimental cerebral venous thrombosis with a blood pool contrast agent. The purpose of this study was to investigate the feasibility of clot visualization in small sinus and cortical veins with contrast enhanced MRA in a cerebral venous thrombosis animal model using a blood pool contrast agent, Gadofosveset, and high spatial resolution imaging. For induction of cerebral venous thrombosis a recently developed combined interventional and microsurgical model was used. Cerebral sinus and cortical vein thrombosis was induced in six pigs. Two further pigs died during the procedure. Standard structural, time-of-flight- and phase contrast-angiograms were followed by fast time resolved high resolution 3D MRA (4D MRA) and subsequent high spatial resolution 3D MRA in the equilibrium phase with and without addition of parallel imaging. Visualization of the clots using the different sequences was subjectively compared and contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) was assessed. In the remaining six animals the procedure and MR-imaging protocol including administration of Gadofosveset was successfully completed. The 3D high resolution MRA in the equilibrium phase without the addition of parallel imaging was superior to all the other applied MR measurement techniques in terms of visualization of the clots. Only applying this sequence bridging vein thromboses were also seen as a small filling defect with a high CNR of >18. Only the non-accelerated high spatial resolution 3D MRA in the equilibrium in conjunction with the blood pool agent Gadofosveset allows for high-contrast visualization of very small clots in the cerebral sinus and cortical veins. STATEMENT CLINICAL IMPACT: Detection of cortical vein thrombosis is of high clinical impact. Conventional MRI sequences often fail to visualize the clot. We could demonstrate that, in contrast to conventional sequences, with high spatial resolution 3D MRA in the equilibrium in conjunction with the blood pool agent Gadofosveset very small clots in the cerebral sinus and cortical veins could be successfully visualized. We think that with the presented approach cortical vein thrombosis might also be sufficiently visualized in patients."}
{"id": "19187480", "title": "MRI features of pontine autosomal dominant microangiopathy and leukoencephalopathy (PADMAL).", "content": "MRI features of pontine autosomal dominant microangiopathy and leukoencephalopathy (PADMAL). Cerebral small vessel disease is a topic of growing interest for both the scientific community and the aging society. We report the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) characteristics of a recently found autosomal dominantly inherited microangiopathy. Eighteen members (35 to 77 years) of a large German family underwent MR scanning with a standardized MRI protocol for cerebrovascular diseases. Images were evaluated independently by two neuroradiologists. Six family members revealed an unequivocally pathological phenotype on MRI with lacunar infarcts of the pons (6/6) and lesions of the subcortical and periventricular white matter (5/6). Lesions in the temporal lobes (1/6) and cerebral microbleeds (1/6) were uncommon. None of the patients revealed atherosclerotic changes in MR angiography. Retrospective analysis of 5 brain autopsies from previously reported patients of the same family confirmed the regular involvement of the pons. This cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with pontine infarcts and leukoencephalopathy is characterized by a special lesion pattern strikingly different from CADASIL. The distinct MRI characteristics with pontine lesions and rare occurrence of temporal lesions argue for a new nosological entity and may be helpful for the differential diagnosis."}
{"id": "20232671", "title": "[Usefulness of transcranial Doppler in brain death confirmation].", "content": "[Usefulness of transcranial Doppler in brain death confirmation]. Brain death is a clinical diagnosis and must be confirmed by one paraclinical test. This report presents the usefulness of paraclinical tests applied during a 4-year period. Forty-four patients with severe brain lesions leading to brain death were treated during the 2004-2007 period. The appropriate test was chosen according to test availability and patient condition, appreciating restrictions according to the test protocol. Since the results of some tests were inconclusive, some patients underwent repeat testing with the same or different methods. Among 44 patients, 19 had neurotrauma, 11 massive aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage, 1 massive arteriovenous subarachnoid and parenchymal hemorrhage, 12 hypertensive parenchymal hemorrhage, and 1 ischemic stroke. As a primary test, transcranial Doppler (TCD) was used in 30, brain scintigraphy in 2, multislice computed tomography angiography (MSCTA) in 10, and cerebral angiography in 2 patients; the diagnosis was confirmed in 26, 3, 9 and 2 patients, respectively. Due to inconclusive test results, MSCTA had to be repeated in 4 patients twice, and in one patient three times. Four patients where TCD was used died during the observation period, and in one patient the hemodynamic spectrum was inconclusive. In most patients (65%), TCD confirmed the clinical diagnosis of brain death, and in 61% the diagnosis was confirmed within a 2-hour period. TCD was the most useful confirmatory test for cerebral circulatory arrest in brain death diagnosis."}
{"id": "20220744", "title": "Bilateral intracavernous carotid artery aneurysms presenting as abducens nerve palsy: case report.", "content": "Bilateral intracavernous carotid artery aneurysms presenting as abducens nerve palsy: case report. Bilateral intracavernous carotid artery aneurysms are very rare and can be usually observed in patients with multiple intracranial aneurysms. Here we present the case of a 73 year-old woman who experienced worsening diplopia due to progressive bilateral paresis of the lateral rectus muscles. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examinations showed bilateral roundish parasellar and intracavernous masses, with homogeneous contrast-enhancement and absence of subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH). Cerebral angiography revealed bilateral aneurysms of the intracavernous carotid artery. Once considered the age of the patient, the anatomical features of the aneurysms and the risks of traditional or endovascular surgery, we decided not to proceed to any treatment other than the orthoptic correction of the diplopia and the careful correction of arterial hypertension. We provide a brief review of the literature on bilateral intracavernous aneurysms and a discussion about their treatment."}
{"id": "20029781", "title": "[Stroke].", "content": "[Stroke]. Ischemic stroke is a very frequent neurological disorder. It's incidence is increasing as western societies are aging. Effective therapies that reduce mortality and increase the chances of living symptom-free or, at least, in independence are available. Intravenous or intraarterial thrombolysis is an effective treatment with a number needed to treat of 6 if given within 4.5 hours after symptom onset. The safe use of thrombolysis requires an effective and repeatedly trained workflow established within a team of a neurologist and specialized nursing staff in an optimized environment (admission, imaging facility, laboratory, stroke unit). After peracute treatment, the patient should be transferred to a stroke unit. This unit is a spatially defined intermediate care unit with specifically trained personnel (physicians, nurses, therapists). Treating the patient in a stroke unit is as effective in improving outcome as thrombolysis and also reduces the length of hospital stay. In contrast to thrombolysis, which can be provided, on average, to only 5% of stroke patients, stroke unit care is applicable to most. The organization of medical care in most European countries and in Switzerland separate the acute phase from subacute rehabilitation and chronic stroke treatment. This can be highly confusing for the patient who, during the course of the disease, meets different physicians, nurses and therapists with often diverging opinions about prognosis and therapies. Consistent treatment approaches and patient/caregiver information is necessary and can only be implemented by providing a homogeneous pathway for continuous stroke care."}
{"id": "19997139", "title": "[Diagnostic challenges in a man with subarachnoidal haemorrhage].", "content": "[Diagnostic challenges in a man with subarachnoidal haemorrhage]. A 39-year-old man with multiple sclerosis was admitted to the Neurological department because of sudden and intense headache, photophobia, nausea and vomiting. A subarachnoidal haemorrhage was suspected and cerebral CT scanning showed small amounts of subarachnoidal blood distributed symmetrically over both cerebral hemispheres - an unusual location for aneurismal bleeding. Liquor analysis revealed erythrocytes, positive bilirubin and slightly elevated protein. Subsequent cerebral MRI showed no signs of aneurysm, vascular malformation, venous sinus thrombosis or infarction. An intraarterial cerebral angiography was then performed and showed bilateral widespread segmental vasoconstriction in the anterior, middle and posterior cerebral arteries. A diagnostic workup on systemic vasculitis was negative. The patient's good general condition in spite of extensive angiographic findings rendered the diagnosis cerebral vasculitis unlikely. A state of reversible cerebral segmental vasoconstriction was suspected and the patient was treated with the calcium antagonist nifedipine and observed for four weeks. Cerebral angiography was then repeated and found to be normal. This case report highlights a less recognized and probably underdiagnosed cause of subarachnoidal bleeding."}
{"id": "19953061", "title": "[Clinical and imaging features of diffuse cerebral vasoconstriction].", "content": "[Clinical and imaging features of diffuse cerebral vasoconstriction]. To report clinical and imaging features of diffuse cerebral vasoconstriction and to discuss the role of non-invasive imaging modalities for the diagnosis and the follow-up. Retrospective study including 13 consecutive patients with a diffuse cerebral vasoconstriction. Evaluation of the sensitivity of Doppler US and magnetic resonance angiography for the diagnosis. The diagnosis is based on the association of a thunderclap headache, declenching factors found in 50% of cases and of stenosis involving middle and small cerebra arteries. In some cases cerebral hemorrhage may be present. Diffuse cerebral vasoconstriction is a rare cause of thunder clap headhache, which needs to exclude other causes such as subarchnoid hemorrhage from aneurysm rupture. Non contrast CT of the head, frequently normal, may be falsely reassuring. It is therefore necessary to further assess the cerebral arteries to exclude an aneurysm but also to detect the presence of stenoses that would suggest the diagnosis. Non-invasive imaging modalities (MRA and Doppler US) are favored for detection and follow-up of proximal lesions."}
{"id": "19950046", "title": "[The dural arteriovenous fistula - an unimposing morphological correlate with imposing consequences].", "content": "[The dural arteriovenous fistula - an unimposing morphological correlate with imposing consequences]. Dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) are abnormal arteriovenous shunts located within the dura mater representing approximately 10 - 15 % of all arteriovenous shunts in the central nervous system. The aetiology of spontaneous DAVFs remains to be elucidated. The symptoms associated with DAVFs can be highly variable and dependent upon the direction of the blood flow, the amount of arteriovenous shunting and the specific location of the fistula. Considering the diversity of clinical presentation in the setting of unremarkable imaging results, diagnosing a DAVF can be difficult. To avoid permanent neurological deficits due to DAVFs, it is important to consider the possibility of a DAVF whenever one encounters unclear neurological symptoms and to initiate appropriate diagnostic procedures including intraarterial DSA and MRI/MRA. The current DAVF classification accounts for the disparity of clinical symptoms, therapeutic/interventional implications as well as vital complications depending on each particular fistula subtype. While type I DAVFs drain anterogradely into a cerebral sinus and mainly cause functional deficits, the risk for severe intracerebral bleeding increases when DAVFs drain retrogradely (type II), or into cortical (types III and IV), perimedullar or radiculo-medullar veins (type V), respectively. In particular in the case of type IIb to V DAVFs, the appropriate treatment option is a complete fistula occlusion by transvenous embolization, transarterial glue or particulate embolization or surgery. In the following we systematically explain the differential anatomy underlying DAVFs and discuss possible symptoms and necessary diagnostic and therapeutic means. In that, we are seeking to increase attention for this rare, but clinically relevant neurological disease."}
{"id": "19940660", "title": "Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome and cerebral vasculopathy associated with influenza A infection: report of a case and review of the literature.", "content": "Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome and cerebral vasculopathy associated with influenza A infection: report of a case and review of the literature. Influenza A infection can precipitate encephalopathy, encephalitis, or Reye syndrome with the development of cerebral edema in children and is associated with an increased incidence of stroke in adults. The mechanism of these events is poorly understood. Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) is seen in association with infection/sepsis, and cerebral vasculopathy has been demonstrated in PRES. We describe a case of PRES that develops in association with influenza A. A normotensive 65-year-old woman presented with altered mentation and nausea in the setting of a viral prodromal illness ultimately confirmed as influenza A. Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome developed on the second day after admission. Catheter cerebral angiogram documented vasculopathy in PRES-involved regions with areas of focal vessel dilatation and string-of-bead appearance. The association between influenza A and PRES with documentation of cerebral vasculopathy suggests a common systemic vascular mechanism behind PRES and influenza-related encephalopathic edema and stroke."}
{"id": "19938668", "title": "[Ruptured vertebral artery dissecting aneurysm presented with vertebral artery occlusion: a case report].", "content": "[Ruptured vertebral artery dissecting aneurysm presented with vertebral artery occlusion: a case report]. We report a rare case of a ruptured vertebral artery dissecting aneurysm (VADA) with affected vertebral artery (VA) occlusion. A 66-year-old hypertensive man presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage. No cerebeller sign or cranial nerve palsy was found on admission. Initial CT angiography and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) revealed the right VA occlusion. On the three days after onset, the right VA was recanalized and visualized as a posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA)-involved VADA. Endovascular internal trapping of the right VA including PICA origin was performed. In conclusion, it is essential that patients of VA occlusion associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage should be carefully diagnosed considering the possibility of VADA."}
{"id": "19934568", "title": "Pediatric intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Pediatric intracranial aneurysms. The incidence of subarachnoid haemorrhage from intracranial aneurysms in the paediatric age group is extremely rare. Interestingly, occurrence of vasospasm has been reported to be less in comparison to the adults. Both coiling and clipping have been advocated in selected cases. Because of the thinness of the wall of the arteries, utmost care should be taken while handling these arteries during surgery. The overall results of surgery in children have been reported to be better than their adult counterparts. We present four such cases from our own experience. All these children were operated upon, where the solitary aneurysm in each case was clipped and all of them made a good recovery."}
{"id": "19921556", "title": "[Incidence of venous system disease in pseudotumor cerebri].", "content": "[Incidence of venous system disease in pseudotumor cerebri]. Pseudotumor cerebri (PC) is a complex syndrome characterized by increased intracranial pressure in the absence of any space occupying lesion, usually self-limiting, but often relapsing In recent years, some authors had researched the relationship between venous sinus disease and PC and they have suggested that it must be ruled out by magnetic resonance venography (MRV) before diagnosing this condition as idiopathic. Our aim is to determine the frequency of venous sinus disease and the need for MRV in these patients. We have studied 14 patients admitted between 1998 and 2005 in the Neurology Department of the University Clinical Hospital <Lozano Blesa> (Zaragoza; Spain) who had been diagnosed of PC. We reviewed the epidemiological and clinical features. The MRVs were reviewed and their appearances rated for focal narrowing and signal gaps. Six patients had strong signal in both lateral and transverse sinus and their image was considered as normal. The other eight patients showed filling defects on the transverse sinus (focal unilateral narrowing in four cases, one or more signal gaps in four cases). The presence of signal gaps in the venous sinus (stenosis/hypoplasia or absence of signal) is a frequent finding in patients with PC. That is why we have concluded that this test is important in patients with PC in order to search for a possible etiology and treatment option."}
{"id": "19893001", "title": "Crescendo transient Aura attacks: a transient ischemic attack mimic caused by focal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Crescendo transient Aura attacks: a transient ischemic attack mimic caused by focal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Diagnosis of transient ischemic attack can be difficult because many mimics exist. We report the clinical and neuroimaging features of a distinct hemorrhagic transient ischemic attack mimic. Case series. We describe 4 elderly patients presenting with a cluster of stereotyped somatosensory migraine auras, initially referred for \"crescendo transient ischemic attacks\". Neuroimaging in each patient revealed an unexpected finding of spontaneous focal subarachnoid hemorrhage conforming to a cortical sulcus in the contralateral hemisphere. We postulate that the episodic aura symptoms corresponded to recurrent cortical spreading depression triggered by the presence of subarachnoid blood, and speculate that such episodes could be a presenting feature of cerebral amyloid angiopathy in the absence of typical cerebral microbleeds or history of cognitive impairment. Focal subarachnoid hemorrhage can present clinically with transient repetitive migraine auras. Awareness of this entity is important because misdiagnosis as cerebral ischemic events could lead to incorrect treatment. We recommend that elderly patients presenting with a cluster of new unexplained migraine auras should be investigated ideally with MRI to detect focal subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "19847768", "title": "Glioblastoma multiforme mimicking arteriovenous malformation.", "content": "Glioblastoma multiforme mimicking arteriovenous malformation. Glioblastoma multiforme is the most common intracranial neoplasm of all primary central nervous system tumors. Glial tumors can present in different forms. Intracranial hemorrhage may occur in all central nervous system tumors to a varying degree and extent and may even be massive. A 58-year-old man presented with intraparenchymal hemorrhage manifesting as severe headache and vomiting. Cranial computed tomographic scans revealed a right posterior temporoparietal intraparenchymal hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography revealed a 3 x 2 cm right inferior parietal arteriovenous malformation. The patient underwent surgical treatment with a diagnosis of arteriovenous malformation. Postoperatively, the histological diagnosis was glioblastoma. Glioblastoma may mimic an arteriovenous malformation. Close follow-up of such patients is essential."}
{"id": "19834014", "title": "Significance of large vessel intracranial occlusion causing acute ischemic stroke and TIA.", "content": "Significance of large vessel intracranial occlusion causing acute ischemic stroke and TIA. Acute ischemic stroke due to large vessel occlusion (LVO)-vertebral, basilar, carotid terminus, middle and anterior cerebral arteries-likely portends a worse prognosis than stroke unassociated with LVO. Because little prospective angiographic data have been reported on a cohort of unselected patients with stroke and with transient ischemic attack, the clinical impact of LVO has been difficult to quantify. The Screening Technology and Outcome Project in Stroke Study is a prospective imaging-based study of stroke outcomes performed at 2 academic medical centers. Patients with suspected acute stroke who presented within 24 hours of symptom onset and who underwent multimodality CT/CT angiography were approached for consent for collection of clinical data and 6-month assessment of outcome. Demographic and clinical variables and 6-month modified Rankin Scale scores were collected and combined with blinded interpretation of the CT angiography data. The OR of each variable, including occlusion of intracranial vascular segment in predicting good outcome and 6-month mortality, was calculated using univariate and multivariate logistic regression. Over a 33-month period, 735 patients with suspected stroke were enrolled. Of these, 578 were adjudicated as stroke and 97 as transient ischemic attack. Among patients with stroke, 267 (46%) had LVO accounting for the stroke and 13 (13%) of patients with transient ischemic attack had LVO accounting for transient ischemic attack symptoms. LVO predicted 6-month mortality (OR, 4.5; 95% CI, 2.7 to 7.3; P<0.001). Six-month good outcome (modified Rankin Scale score <or=2) was negatively predicted by LVO (0.33; 0.24 to 0.45; P<0.001). Based on multivariate analysis, the presence of basilar and internal carotid terminus occlusions, in addition to National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale and age, independently predicted outcome. Large vessel intracranial occlusion accounted for nearly half of acute ischemic strokes in unselected patients presenting to academic medical centers. In addition to age and baseline stroke severity, occlusion of either the basilar or internal carotid terminus segment is an independent predictor of outcome at 6 months."}
{"id": "19831135", "title": "Underlying venous pathology causing perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Underlying venous pathology causing perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage. Perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage (PSH) is a relatively benign clinical entity with a low risk of recurrent bleeding. The precise etiology of PSH has not yet been determined. We report here three cases of PSH with clinical and radiological features that support a venous system as a cause. The first patient, a 72-year-old woman, had PSH and venous hemorrhagic infarct in the left thalamus on non-contrast CT. Subsequent cerebral angiography revealed widespread thrombosis in the cerebral venous system, a potential cause for reflux overflow hemorrhage. The second patient, a 55-year-old man with an established diagnosis of neuro-Beh\u00e7et's disease, a well-known cause for cerebral venulitis, presented with PSH one year later. The third patient, a 39-year-old female, with incomplete Beh\u00e7et's disease was admitted with PSH. Current concepts on the anatomic origin and the possible pathophysiologic mechanism leading to PSH are discussed. The underlying pathological conditions in the venous system in our cases provide theoretical clues to the anatomic origin of PSH in general."}
{"id": "19787719", "title": "Improving dynamic susceptibility contrast MRI measurement of quantitative cerebral blood flow using corrections for partial volume and nonlinear contrast relaxivity: A xenon computed tomographic comparative study.", "content": "Improving dynamic susceptibility contrast MRI measurement of quantitative cerebral blood flow using corrections for partial volume and nonlinear contrast relaxivity: A xenon computed tomographic comparative study. To test whether dynamic susceptibility contrast MRI-based CBF measurements are improved with arterial input function (AIF) partial volume (PV) and nonlinear contrast relaxivity correction, using a gold-standard CBF method, xenon computed tomography (xeCT). Eighteen patients with cerebrovascular disease underwent xeCT and MRI within 36 h. PV was measured as the ratio of the area under the AIF and the venous output function (VOF) concentration curves. A correction was applied to account for the nonlinear relaxivity of bulk blood (BB). Mean CBF was measured with both techniques and regression analyses both within and between patients were performed. Mean xeCT CBF was 43.3 +/- 13.7 mL/100g/min (mean +/- SD). BB correction decreased CBF by a factor of 4.7 +/- 0.4, but did not affect precision. The least-biased CBF measurement was with BB but without PV correction (45.8 +/- 17.2 mL/100 g/min, coefficient of variation [COV] = 32%). Precision improved with PV correction, although absolute CBF was mildly underestimated (34.3 +/- 10.8 mL/100 g/min, COV = 27%). Between patients correlation was moderate even with both corrections (R = 0.53). Corrections for AIF PV and nonlinear BB relaxivity improve bolus MRI-based CBF maps. However, there remain challenges given the moderate between-patient correlation, which limit diagnostic confidence of such measurements in individual patients."}
{"id": "19787328", "title": "[Hearing loss and gait ataxia without dizziness. Hemosiderosis].", "content": "[Hearing loss and gait ataxia without dizziness. Hemosiderosis]. Superficial cerebral hemosiderosis is characterized by sensorineural hearing loss, gait ataxia and pyramidal signs with irreversible myelopathy. It is caused by chronic hemorrhage into the subarachnoid space with hemosiderin deposition in the subpial, leptomeningeal and subependymal layers. Imaging of the entire neuroaxis is indicated to localize a source of bleeding, including cerebral and spinal angiography when necessary. Taking into account clinical signs and symptoms the interpretation of T2*-weighted images allows the radiologist to set the course for the optimal therapeutic regimen."}
{"id": "19779285", "title": "Arteriovenous fistula arising from the persistent primitive olfactory artery with dual supply from the bilateral anterior ethmoidal arteries.", "content": "Arteriovenous fistula arising from the persistent primitive olfactory artery with dual supply from the bilateral anterior ethmoidal arteries. A 59-year-old male presented with generalized seizure. The patient had not been aware of any traumatic head injuries or preceding infection, and had no contributory medical history. On admission, he was alert and well oriented, without neurological impairment or headache. He was afebrile and blood examination showed no abnormal findings. Computed tomography revealed an irregular intracerebral hematoma, 3 x 1.5 cm in diameter, in the left rectal gyrus. Cerebral angiography showed an arteriovenous fistula (AVF) in the anterior cranial fossa supplied only by the persistent primitive olfactory artery (PPOA) originating from the anterior cerebral artery, forming a shunt to an ascending cortical vein, and drained by the superior sagittal sinus. The patient underwent endovascular obliteration of the AVF via the transarterial route. Immediately after successful isolation, angiography showed that the bilateral anterior ethmoidal arteries supplied the AVF. The feeding branches from the left anterior ethmoidal artery were completely occluded via the ophthalmic artery, but introduction of the catheter into the right ophthalmic artery markedly decreased the stump pressure. Follow-up angiography performed at 3 and 8 weeks following embolization showed spontaneous resolution of the residual AVF without findings of recanalization or new abnormal channels. AVF arising in the anterior cranial fossa may be associated with an unusual pattern of the blood supply when including the PPOA."}
{"id": "19772412", "title": "Successful treatment of severe cerebral vasospasm following hemorrhage of an arteriovenous malformation. Case report.", "content": "Successful treatment of severe cerebral vasospasm following hemorrhage of an arteriovenous malformation. Case report. The authors describe the case of a 13-year-old boy who presented with an intraventricular hemorrhage caused by a left trigonal arteriovenous malformation. After an initial recovery, the patient experienced complete right-sided paresis on posthemorrhage Day 6. Severe cerebral vasospasm was found on MR angiography and confirmed on conventional cerebral angiography. Intraarterial nicardipine injection and balloon angioplasty were successfully performed with improved vasospasm and subsequent neurological recovery. Cerebral vasospasm should be considered in the differential diagnosis for neurological deterioration following an arteriovenous malformation hemorrhage, and aggressive treatment can be administered to prevent ischemia and further neurological deficits."}
{"id": "19766314", "title": "[Cerebral amyloid angiopathy: a forgotten cause of sub-arachnoid hemorrhage].", "content": "[Cerebral amyloid angiopathy: a forgotten cause of sub-arachnoid hemorrhage]."}
{"id": "19763060", "title": "A patient in whom survival was achieved by acute-stage surgery for infective endocarditis complicated by a cerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "A patient in whom survival was achieved by acute-stage surgery for infective endocarditis complicated by a cerebral hemorrhage. We report a patient who underwent mitral valve replacement despite acute-stage cerebral hemorrhage related to a complication of infective endocarditis (IE) and rupture of intracerebral mycotic aneurysm, achieving survival. The patient was a 24-year-old female. She consulted our hospital because of a fever and was diagnosed with IE and a cerebral hemorrhage. A blood culture test on admission revealed methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed giant vegetation in the left atrium. Besides the management of an acute-stage cerebral hemorrhage, medical therapy for IE was performed. However, a severe infection was refractory, and mitral-regurgitation-related heart failure deteriorated. Despite acute-stage cerebral hemorrhage, mitral valve replacement was performed 10 days after admission because advanced disseminated intravascular coagulation syndrome made conservative management difficult. After surgery, neither exacerbation of cerebral symptoms nor recurrent IE was noted, and the patient was discharged."}
{"id": "19762703", "title": "Diagnosing delayed cerebral ischemia with different CT modalities in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage with clinical deterioration.", "content": "Diagnosing delayed cerebral ischemia with different CT modalities in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage with clinical deterioration. Delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage worsens the prognosis and is difficult to diagnose. We investigated the diagnostic value of noncontrast CT (NCT), CT perfusion (CTP), and CT angiography (CTA) for DCI after clinical deterioration in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. We prospectively enrolled 42 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage with clinical deterioration suspect for DCI (new focal deficit or Glasgow Coma Scale decrease >or=2 points) within 21 days after hemorrhage. All patients underwent NCT, CTP, and CTA scans on admission and directly after clinical deterioration. The gold standard was the clinical diagnosis DCI made retrospectively by 2 neurologists who interpreted all clinical data, except CTP and CTA, to rule out other causes for the deterioration. Radiologists interpreted NCT and CTP images for signs of ischemia (NCT) or hypoperfusion (CTP) not localized in the neurosurgical trajectory or around intracerebral hematomas, and CTA images for presence of vasospasm. Diagnostic values for DCI of NCT, CTP, and CTA were assessed by calculating sensitivities, specificities, positive predictive values, and negative predictive values with 95% CIs. In 3 patients with clinical deterioration, imaging failed due to motion artifacts. Of the remaining 39 patients, 25 had DCI and 14 did not. NCT had a sensitivity of 0.56 (95% CI, 0.37 to 0.73), specificity=0.71 (0.57 to 0.77), positive predictive value=0.78 (0.55 to 0.91), negative predictive value=0.48 (0.28 to 0.68); CTP: sensitivity=0.84 (0.65 to 0.94), specificity=0.79 (0.52 to 0.92), positive predictive value=0.88 (0.69 to 0.96), negative predictive value=0.73 (0.48 to 0.89); CTA: sensitivity=0.64 (0.45 to 0.80), specificity=0.50 (0.27 to 0.73), positive predictive value=0.70 (0.49 to 0.84), negative predictive value=0.44 (0.23 to 0.67). As a diagnostic tool for DCI, qualitative assessment of CTP is overall superior to NCT and CTA and could be useful for fast decision-making and guiding treatment."}
{"id": "19724301", "title": "A case of postpartum cerebral angiopathy with subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "A case of postpartum cerebral angiopathy with subarachnoid hemorrhage. A 33-year-old woman experienced a thunderclap headache immediately postpartum. The headache recurred over the next 10 days, and the patient also developed generalized tonic-clonic seizures. A subarachnoid hemorrhage was demonstrated on a head CT scan. Physical examination, laboratory tests, brain CT scan, brain MRI scan, brain magnetic resonance angiogram, brain magnetic resonance venogram, cerebral angiography, transcranial Doppler ultrasound, EEG. Postpartum cerebral angiopathy. NSAIds and opioid analgesics administered on postpartum day 3 provided partial headache relief. The next day, a blood patch was performed and intravenous caffeine, fluid and opioid analgesia were given to treat a suspected dural puncture headache. Following diagnosis of postpartum cerebral angiopathy on postpartum day 10, nimodipine was initiated to treat the vasospasm, and the headache was treated with opioid analgesics and toradol, followed by naproxen. The patient also received a 3-day course of intravenous magnesium sulfate."}
{"id": "19720977", "title": "Resting cerebral blood flow: a potential biomarker of the effects of HIV in the brain.", "content": "Resting cerebral blood flow: a potential biomarker of the effects of HIV in the brain. HIV enters the brain soon after infection causing neuronal damage and microglial/astrocyte dysfunction leading to neuropsychological impairment. We examined the impact of HIV on resting cerebral blood flow (rCBF) within the lenticular nuclei (LN) and visual cortex (VC). This cross-sectional study used arterial spin labeling MRI (ASL-MRI) to measure rCBF within 33 HIV+ and 26 HIV- subjects. Nonparametric Wilcoxon rank sum test assessed rCBF differences due to HIV serostatus. Classification and regression tree (CART) analysis determined optimal rCBF cutoffs for differentiating HIV serostatus. The effects of neuropsychological impairment and infection duration on rCBF were evaluated. rCBF within the LN and VC were significantly reduced for HIV+ compared to HIV- subjects. A 2-tiered CART approach using either LN rCBF < or =50.09 mL/100 mL/min or LN rCBF >50.09 mL/100 mL/min but VC rCBF < or =37.05 mL/100 mL/min yielded an 88% (29/33) sensitivity and an 88% (23/26) specificity for differentiating by HIV serostatus. HIV+ subjects, including neuropsychologically unimpaired, had reduced rCBF within the LN (p = 0.02) and VC (p = 0.001) compared to HIV- controls. A temporal progression of brain involvement occurred with LN rCBF significantly reduced for both acute/early (<1 year of seroconversion) and chronic HIV-infected subjects, whereas rCBF in the VC was diminished for only chronic HIV-infected subjects. Resting cerebral blood flow (rCBF) using arterial spin labeling MRI has the potential to be a noninvasive neuroimaging biomarker for assessing HIV in the brain. rCBF reductions that occur soon after seroconversion possibly reflect neuronal or vascular injury among HIV+ individuals not yet expressing neuropsychological impairment."}
{"id": "19711257", "title": "A multimodal concept in patients after severe aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: results of a controlled single centre prospective randomized multimodal phase I/II trial on cerebral vasospasm.", "content": "A multimodal concept in patients after severe aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: results of a controlled single centre prospective randomized multimodal phase I/II trial on cerebral vasospasm. Recent publications suggest that a combination of head-shaking and cisternal irrigation might reduce symptomatic cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The present clinical prospective randomized phase I/II study was initiated in order to analyze the prophylactic effect of intracisternal lysis in combination with kinetic treatment followed by intrathecal nimodipine lavage. Twenty patients with aneurysmal SAH, WFNS grade 2 to 5 (GCS 13-3) and Fisher grade 3 or 4 were included in this prospective randomized study which had been approved by the local Ethics Research Committee. Following insertion of a ventricular drain, securing of the aneurysm by a microsurgical or endovascular route and the insertion of two lumbar catheters, intracisternal lysis with urokinase 120 000 IU/d was performed for 48 h in the patients of the study group. Intrathecal pressure was monitored by the second lumbar catheter. After intracisternal lysis, intrathecal nimodipine lavage was applied for 7 d. For comatose patients kinetic head-rotation was also performed. Vasospasm was clinically identified with a focus on delayed neurological deficits (DINDs) by daily transcranial Doppler (TCD), computerized tomography (CT), perfusion CT (pCT) and cerebral angiography (DSA). There was no DIND in the study group among the patients who were awake, while two DINDs occurred in the control group. The pooled TCD flow velocities over an average period of 14 d revealed no statistically significant difference between the groups. Vasospasm-related infarction on CT was seen in two patients of the control group. Evident vasospasm on DSA appeared in three patients of the study group compared with 7 patients in the control group. Moreover there was a neurological improvement in the study population as measured by mRS at 3-month follow-up (P=0.266). In two consecutive patients randomized to the study group a paresis of the lower extremities of unknown origin occurred. As a result of these complications the study was stopped in accordance with the local Ethics Research Committee guidelines. A multimodal approach with translumbar lysis in combination with kinetic therapy followed by intrathecal nimodipine lavage proved to be effective against cerebral vasospasm and for clinical outcome. However, due to the observed complications with the occurrence of paraparesis in two patients of the study group the trial was stopped. Nevertheless, the promising preliminary results suggest a further development of the clinical protocol using a modified multimodal concept to prevent and treat cerebral vasospasm after severe SAH."}
{"id": "19710006", "title": "Wide-necked intracranial aneurysms: treatment with stent-assisted coil embolization during acute (<72 hours) subarachnoid hemorrhage--experience in 61 consecutive patients.", "content": "Wide-necked intracranial aneurysms: treatment with stent-assisted coil embolization during acute (<72 hours) subarachnoid hemorrhage--experience in 61 consecutive patients. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of stent-assisted embolization of ruptured wide-necked intracranial aneurysms during acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Institutional review board approval for this retrospective study was obtained; the need to obtain informed consent was waived. Results in 61 consecutive patients (20 men, 41 women; mean age, 55.1 years; range, 26-83 years) with acutely ruptured wide-necked intracranial aneurysms who were treated with stent-assisted coil embolization were evaluated. The mean length of angiographic follow-up was 12.1 months (range, 0-52 months). Statistical analysis was performed to determine whether the features of the patient and the ruptured aneurysm affected the primary angiographic result or the patient's clinical outcome. Categoric and dichotomous variables were examined with the chi(2) test or the Fisher exact test; the Mann-Whitney U test and Kruskal-Wallis one-way analysis were used to compare continuous-scale data for non-normally distributed variables. The technical success rate was 72% (44 of 61). The technique-related complication rate was 21% (13 of 61), and the 30-day mortality rate was 20% (12 of 61). There was only one case of rebleeding, and clinical outcome was good for the majority of the patients (69% [42 of 61] had Glasgow Outcome Scale scores of 4 or 5 at the end of the study period). Stent-assisted coil embolization is a feasible method for the endovascular treatment of wide-necked intracranial aneurysms that are difficult to treat surgically or with balloon-assisted embolization during acute SAH. The risk of subsequent rerupture of the aneurysm seems to be reduced for aneurysms treated early compared with that for nonsecured aneurysms."}
{"id": "19707002", "title": "Thrombosis of the superior petrosal vein mimicking brain tumor. Case report.", "content": "Thrombosis of the superior petrosal vein mimicking brain tumor. Case report. A 77-year-old woman was admitted to a local hospital with a 7-day history of vertigo and nausea, followed by gait disturbance. Magnetic resonance imaging showed extensive brain edema with a hemorrhagic component in the right cerebellum. The lesion was heterogeneously enhanced after administration of contrast medium. The presumptive diagnosis was malignant glioma based on these findings, as well as the presence of mass effect and abnormal enhancement. She was referred to our hospital. However, cerebral angiography did not reveal tumor stain or arterial occlusion, but confirmed corkscrew-like venous collaterals and absence of opacification of the superior petrosal vein (SPV) and superior petrosal sinus. Topography of the brain edema was consistent with the drainage territory of the SPV. These findings suggested that the lesion was vasogenic edema caused by thrombosis of the SPV. The patient was conservatively treated without anticoagulation therapy, and the neurological and imaging abnormalities resolved spontaneously. To avoid unnecessary biopsy, thrombosis of the SPV should be considered in the differential diagnosis of infratentorial lesion mimicking brain tumors. Knowledge of the posterior fossa venous anatomy is essential to achieve the correct diagnosis."}
{"id": "19705072", "title": "Dynamic CT angiography and CT perfusion employing a 320-detector row CT: protocol and current clinical applications.", "content": "Dynamic CT angiography and CT perfusion employing a 320-detector row CT: protocol and current clinical applications. The aim of this study is to report the authors' initial clinical experience of a 320-detector row computed tomography (CT) scanner in cerebrovascular disorders. Volumetric CT using the full 160-mm width of the 320 detector rows enables full brain coverage in a single rotation that allows for combined time-resolved whole-brain perfusion and four-dimensional CT angiography (CTA). The protocol for the combined dynamic CTA and CT perfusion (CTP) is presented, and its potential applications in stroke, stenoocclusive disease, arteriovenous malformations and dural shunts are reviewed based on clinical examples. The combined CTA/CTP data can provide visualization of dynamic flow and perfusion as well as motion of an entire volume at very short time intervals which is of importance in a variety of pathologies with altered cerebral hemodynamics. The broad coverage enabled by 320 detector rows offers z-axis coverage allowing for whole-brain perfusion and subtracted dynamic angiography of the entire intracranial circulation."}
{"id": "19703858", "title": "Arterial spin-label imaging in patients with normal bolus perfusion-weighted MR imaging findings: pilot identification of the borderzone sign.", "content": "Arterial spin-label imaging in patients with normal bolus perfusion-weighted MR imaging findings: pilot identification of the borderzone sign. To determine whether perfusion abnormalities are depicted on arterial spin-labeling (ASL) images obtained in patients with normal bolus perfusion-weighted (PW) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings. Institutional review board approval and written informed patient consent were obtained. This study was HIPAA compliant. Consecutive patients suspected or known to have cerebrovascular disease underwent 1.5-T brain MR imaging, including MR angiography, gradient-echo PW imaging, and pseudocontinuous ASL imaging, between October 2007 and January 2008. Patients with normal bolus PW imaging findings were retrospectively identified, and two neuroradiologists subsequently evaluated the ASL images for focal abnormalities. The severity of the borderzone sign-that is, bilateral ASL signal dropout with surrounding cortical areas of hyperintensity in the middle cerebral artery borderzone regions-was classified by using a four-point scale. For each group, the ASL-measured mean mixed cortical cerebral blood flow (CBF) at the level of the centrum semiovale was evaluated by using the Jonckheere-Terpstra test. One hundred thirty-nine patients met the study inclusion criteria, and 41 (30%) of them had normal bolus PW imaging findings. Twenty-three (56%) of these 41 patients also had normal ASL imaging findings. The remaining 18 (44%) patients had the ASL borderzone sign; these patients were older (mean age, 71 years +/- 11 [standard deviation] vs 57 years +/- 16; P < .005) and had lower mean CBF (30 mL/100 g/min +/- 12 vs 46 mL/100 g/min +/- 12, P < .003) compared with the patients who had normal ASL imaging findings. Five patients had additional focal ASL findings that were related to either slow blood flow in a vascular structure or postsurgical perfusion defects and were not visible on the PW images. Approximately half of the patients with normal bolus PW imaging findings had abnormal ASL findings-most commonly the borderzone sign. Results of this pilot study suggest that ASL imaging in patients who have this sign and are suspected of having cerebrovascular disease yields additional and complementary hemodynamic information."}
{"id": "19663337", "title": "[A case of repeated intracerebral hemorrhage due to a ruptured aneurysm of collateral circulation from the posterior cerebral artery to the middle cerebral artery].", "content": "[A case of repeated intracerebral hemorrhage due to a ruptured aneurysm of collateral circulation from the posterior cerebral artery to the middle cerebral artery]. We present a case of ruptured distal middle cerebral artery aneurysm associated with occlusion of the anterior trunk of the ipsilateral middle cerebral artery. An 83-year-old man had right homonymous hemianopsia and right mild hemiparesis. CT scan revealed hematoma and a perifocal low density area at the left occipital subcortex without subarchnoid hemorrhage (SAH). MRI showed repeated bleeding at the same location as the CT scan. Moreover, cerebral angiograms disclosed an aneurysm on the leptomeningeal anastomosis from the left posterior cerebral artery to the middle cerebral artery. The anterior trunk of the left middle cerebral artery was occluded at the origin. The aneurysm was not situated at the bifurcation and was trapped without new neurological complications. This case suggested that hemodynamic stress due to occlusion of the main artery contributed to the development of an aneurysm at the collateral artery. Even if intraparenchymal hematoma presents without SAH, and even if it is located at a rare site for aneurysms, we should inspect the source of bleeding considering factors preventing SAH arising from aneurysms."}
{"id": "19650356", "title": "Defining the CT angiography 'spot sign' in primary intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Defining the CT angiography 'spot sign' in primary intracerebral hemorrhage. The computed tomogram angiography (CTA) 'spot sign' describes foci of intralesional enhancement associated with hematoma expansion in primary intracerebral hemorrhage patients. A consistent radiological definition is required for two proposed recombinant Factor VIIa trials planning patient dichotomization according to 'spot sign' presence or absence. We propose radiological criteria for diagnosis of the CTA 'spot sign' and describe different morphological patterns. A prospective cohort of 36 consecutive patients presenting with primary intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) were enrolled in a multicenter collaborative study, and have been included for the present analysis. Three reviewers analyzed the CTA studies in a blinded protocol. Analysis of specific ICH and 'spot sign' features was performed including prevalence, number, size, location, morphology and Hounsfield unit density. Twelve of thirty-six patients (33%) demonstrated a total of 19 enhancing foci consistent with the CTA 'spot sign'. Mean maximal axial 'spot sign' dimension was 3.7 +/- 2.2 mm and mean density was 216 +/- 57.7 HU. No significant differences in age or blood pressure (p = 0.7), glucose (p = 0.9), INR/PTT (p = 0.3 and 0.4) or hematoma location (p = 0.3) were demonstrated between patients with or without the 'spot sign'. Consensus definition and classification criteria for the CTA 'spot sign' are proposed. The 'spot sign' is defined as spot-like and/or serpiginous foci of enhancement, within the margin of a parenchymal hematoma without connection to outside vessels. The 'spot sign' is greater than 1.5 mm in maximal dimension and has a Hounsfield unit density at least double that of background hematoma density."}
{"id": "19642027", "title": "Prediction of angiographic vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: value of the Hijdra sum scoring system.", "content": "Prediction of angiographic vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: value of the Hijdra sum scoring system. Vasospasm is a major complication of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and affects clinical outcome. The ability to predict cerebral vasospasm after SAH would allow the neuro-intensivist to institute preemptive and more aggressive therapy. Social, clinical, and radiological information on adult SAH patients recently admitted to our hospital were reviewed. Univariate and multivariate statistical methods were used to examine the impact of patient demographics, clinical variables, and radiologic characteristics on the development of angiographic vasospasm. One hundred and sixty three patients were identified (102 females, 63%). A total of 34 patients (21%) developed angiographic vasospasm. In univariate analysis, occurrence of cerebral vasospasm was associated with poor World Federation of Neurological Surgeons (WFNS 4-5, P = 0.003) and modified Fisher (MFS 3-4, P = 0.02) grades, elevated Hijdra sum score (HSS > or =23, P = 0.0001), female gender (P = 0.04), development of hydrocephalus (P = 0.01), and a history of tobacco use (P = 0.02). In multivariable analysis, only the HSS > or =23 (P = 0.01) and history of smoking (P = 0.02) predicted cerebral vasospasm. Combined history of smoking and HSS >23 had positive and negative predictive values of 37 and 88%, respectively, for prediction of cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal hemorrhage. Hijdra sum score and a history of smoking are the strongest predictors of cerebral vasospasm on angiography. HSS is superior to the MFS as a radiologic grading tool to predict occurrence of angiographic vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "19641310", "title": "Association between Small Deep Cerebellar Ischemic Lesion and Small-Vessel Disease.", "content": "Association between Small Deep Cerebellar Ischemic Lesion and Small-Vessel Disease. Pathologic investigations showed that lacunar infarction could develop in the deep cerebellar region. However, the etiology of small deep cerebellar ischemic lesions (SDCI) has not been adequately studied. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between SDCI and small-vessel disease. We studied 100 consecutive patients who had both (1) acute ischemic stroke (index stroke) confirmed by diffusion-weighted MRI and (2) evidence of a chronic small cerebellar ischemic lesion (<15 mm). Small-vessel-related MRI findings, risk factors and subtype of index stroke were compared between the patients with SDCI and those with small cortical cerebellar ischemic lesions (SCCI). Eighty patients had SCCI, and 20 patients had SDCI. Cardioembolic sources (38.8 vs. 5%, p = 0.003) and vertebrobasilar artery stenosis (61.3 vs. 35%, p = 0.034) were more frequent in patients with SCCI. In a multivariate model including traditional risk factors, patients with SDCI had significantly more lacunar infarcts (odds ratio, 1.18; 95% confidence interval, 1.02-1.37) and cerebral microbleeds (odds ratio, 10.92; 95% confidence interval, 2.16-55.32) than those with SCCI. Patients with SDCI frequently had the small-artery disease subtype of index stroke (odds ratio, 5.84; 95% confidence interval, 1.71-19.9). The results suggest that SDCI are frequently associated with small-vessel disease."}
{"id": "19605654", "title": "Normal variants of the cerebral circulation at multidetector CT angiography.", "content": "Normal variants of the cerebral circulation at multidetector CT angiography. Multidetector computed tomographic (CT) angiography is used in many institutions for initial evaluation of the cerebral circulation for acute stroke and subarachnoid hemorrhage as well as in various preoperative settings. A comprehensive CT examination that includes a review of three-dimensional and maximum intensity projection images of the intra- and extracranial arteries and axial images of the skull base (obtained with bone window settings) allows identification of most abnormalities and normal variants. Knowledge of the presence and clinical relevance of normal variants such as fenestrations, duplications, and persistent fetal arteries plays a crucial role in the diagnosis and management of acute stroke and subarachnoid hemorrhage and may aid in surgical planning. For example, the preoperative detection of a medial or intrasellar persistent trigeminal artery may help surgeons avoid a potentially life-threatening hemorrhage in a patient undergoing transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenoma. However, the significance of normal variants diverges widely: A clinically important association has been observed between fenestration and intracranial aneurysm formation, whereas early branching of the middle cerebral artery is not associated with an increased risk of aneurysm formation and has little clinical significance. Supplemental material available at http://radiographics.rsnajnls.org/cgi/content/full/29/4/1027/DC1."}
{"id": "19585123", "title": "The assessment of intracranial bleeding with virtual unenhanced imaging by means of dual-energy CT angiography.", "content": "The assessment of intracranial bleeding with virtual unenhanced imaging by means of dual-energy CT angiography. The purpose of this study was to assess virtual unenhanced brain computed tomography (CT) images obtained by dual-energy CT angiography (CTA) for the detection of intracranial bleeding. In total, 25 patients were included in the study (average age 53.2 years, range 25-75 years, 14 male, 11 female), all with intracranial bleeding on unenhanced brain CT and who underwent additional CTA performed on a dual-source CT in a dual-energy acquisition mode. The two X-ray tubes were operated at 140 and 80 kV, respectively. Data were analyzed using dual-energy evaluation software. Virtual unenhanced images were calculated by removing the relative iodine content from each voxel. The virtual unenhanced images were evaluated by a radiologist blinded to the findings of the conventional images related to the presence of intracranial bleeding. The image quality and contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) between bleeding and brain tissue were assessed. The virtual image quality was found to be sufficient in 96%. The agreement in detection of intracranial bleeding on virtual and conventional unenhanced images reached 96% in per-lesion analysis and 100% in per-patient analysis. The averaged CNR reached 2.63 in virtual unenhanced images and 3.27 in conventional. Virtual unenhanced images are sufficient for the detection of intracranial bleeding."}
{"id": "19575131", "title": "[Two cases of brain haemorrhage secondary to developmental venous anomaly thrombosis. Bibliographic review].", "content": "[Two cases of brain haemorrhage secondary to developmental venous anomaly thrombosis. Bibliographic review]. We report two cases of intracraneal brain haemorrhage secondary to developmental venous anomaly trombosis recently treated at our Department. First patient was a 28-year old woman on oral contraceptive treatment for a month who was referred to our Department with sudden-onset conscious level deterioration after presenting 24 hours previously with headache, vomits and hemiparesis. Computed Tomography revealed a predominant hypodense area containing hyperdense foci causing mild mass effect and midline-shift in keeping with a haemorrhagic infarction occupying almost completely the right frontal lobe. On CT, magnetic resonance (MR) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) there was a prominent tubular structure adjacent to the hematoma in keeping with a partly thrombosed vessel. Urgent craniotomy and partial hematoma evacuation was performed. Digital subtraction angiography confirmed the presence of a filling defect within the draining vein of a typical caputmedusae pattern developmental venous anomaly (DVA). Systemic anticoagulation was started and four days after surgery sedation was reversed and the patient awoke with normal conscious level although mild (4/5) hemiparesis persisted. Second patient was a 38-year old male evaluated in the Emergency Department due to tonic-clonic seizures in the left side followed by altered sensation in the same distribution. Initial CT revealed an intracranial bleed. After contrast administration there was an anomalous vessel in the same location that was confirmed angiographically represented a partly thrombosed DVA. Conservative management was favoured and the patient was discharged from hospital without clinical neurological deficits."}
{"id": "19571536", "title": "White matter lesions and brain atrophy: more than shared risk factors? A systematic review.", "content": "White matter lesions and brain atrophy: more than shared risk factors? A systematic review. White matter lesions (WML) and brain atrophy are often found on MRI in the elderly. Shared vascular risk factors may be an explanation for their concomitance. However, disturbances of white matter integrity could also be involved in the pathogenesis of brain atrophy. Our objective was to systematically review studies that investigated the relation between WML and brain atrophy on MRI, and to investigate whether there is sufficient evidence to indicate that this relation is independent of shared risk factors. We searched PubMed for studies published in English between 1980 and October 2007, combining search terms for WML and brain atrophy. Articles that studied the relation between WML and brain atrophy were included if they met the following criteria: (1) original study, (2) MRI used for imaging, (3) assessment methods for WML and brain atrophy specified, and (4) a sample size of at least 20 participants. We recorded type and age of the study population, type and assessment of WML and brain atrophy, and variables for which adjustments were made in the analyses. We identified 48 studies that met our inclusion criteria. A significant relation between WML and brain atrophy was found in 37 out of 48 studies. The source of the study population (e.g. clinic or population based) did not affect this relation. However, only 10 studies adjusted for shared risk factors, of which 9 found an association. The majority of studies found an association between WML and brain atrophy, but it is not yet clear if this association is independent of shared risk factors."}
{"id": "19565185", "title": "Intracranial and intraspinal hemorrhage following spinal anesthesia.", "content": "Intracranial and intraspinal hemorrhage following spinal anesthesia. Spinal anesthesia (SA), accounting for more than 50% of regional anesthesias in the spinal region, is generally perceived as simple and safe. Our purpose is to increase awareness of hemorrhagic complications following SA. A 69-year-old male without either coagulation disorders or anticoagulant/antiplatelet therapy developed acute radiculopathy, and severe mental confusion after SA for prostatectomy. CT showed intracranial subarachnoid and intraventricular acute hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography was negative. MRI showed subarachnoid and subdural hematoma in the dorsolumbar spine. Seven-year follow-up showed permanent cognitive and radicular damage. Multiple attempts for SA most likely caused spinal vessels rupture, either directly or indirectly by inducing differential pressure changes between cerebrospinal fluid and intravascular spaces; however, definite mechanisms have not been completely understood. Patients undergoing spinal puncture must report any neurological abnormality, which may result in irreversible damage. Cases of altered consciousness require an extensive neuroradiological evaluation. Proper competency of physicians responsible for spinal puncture is mandatory."}
{"id": "19557570", "title": "Assessment of thalamic perfusion in patients with mild traumatic brain injury by true FISP arterial spin labelling MR imaging at 3T.", "content": "Assessment of thalamic perfusion in patients with mild traumatic brain injury by true FISP arterial spin labelling MR imaging at 3T. To assess cerebral blood flow (CBF) changes in patients with mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI) using an arterial spin labelling (ASL) perfusion MRI and to investigate the severity of neuropsychological functional impairment with respect to haemodynamic changes. Twenty-one patients with MTBI and 20 healthy controls were studied at 3T MR. The median time since the onset of brain injury in patients was 24.6 months. Both patients and controls underwent a traditional consensus battery of neurocognitive tests. ASL was performed using true fast imaging with steady state precession and a flow-sensitive alternating inversion recovery preparation. Regional CBF were measured in both deep and cortical gray matter as well as white matter at the level of basal ganglia. The mean regional CBF was significantly lower in patients with MTBI (45.9 +/- 9.8 ml/100 g min(-1)) as compared to normal controls (57.1 +/- 8.1 ml/100 g min(-1); p = 0.002) in both sides of thalamus. The decrease of thalamic CBF was significantly correlated with several neurocognitive measures including processing and response speed, memory/learning, verbal fluency and executive function in patients. Haemodynamic impairment can occur and persist in patients with MTBI, the extent of which is more severe in thalamic regions and correlate with neurocognitive dysfunction during the extended course of disease."}
{"id": "19556353", "title": "Neuroradiologic manifestations of Loeys-Dietz syndrome type 1.", "content": "Neuroradiologic manifestations of Loeys-Dietz syndrome type 1. Loeys-Dietz syndrome (LDS) is a recently described entity that has the triad of arterial tortuosity and aneurysms, hypertelorism, and bifid uvula or cleft palate. Its neuroradiologic manifestations have not been well delineated. We sought to describe the neuroradiologic features of LDS and to assess the manifestations that would warrant follow-up imaging. Two neuroradiologists retrospectively reviewed CT angiography (CTA), MR imaging, and plain film studies related to the head and neck in 25 patients ranging from 1 to 55 years of age, all of whom had positive genetic testing and clinical characteristics of LDS. Arterial tortuosity was evaluated by subjective assessment of 2D and 3D volumetric CTA and MR angiography data. Craniosynostosis and spinal manifestations were assessed by using plain films and CT images. MR images mostly of the head were reviewed for associated findings such as hydrocephalus, Chiari malformation, etc. Clinical manifestations were collated from the electronic patient record. All patients had extreme arterial tortuosity, which is characteristic of this syndrome. Thirteen patients had scoliosis, 12 had craniosynostosis, 8 had intracranial aneurysms, 6 had spinal instability, 3 had dissections of the carotid and vertebrobasilar arteries, 3 had hydrocephalus, 4 had dural ectasia, 2 had a Chiari malformation, and 1 had intracranial hemorrhage as a complication of vascular dissection. Significant neuroradiologic manifestations are associated with LDS, predominantly arterial tortuosity. Most of the patients in this series were young and, therefore, may require serial CTA monitoring for development of intra- and extracranial dissections and aneurysms, on the basis of the fact that most of the patients with pseudoaneurysms and dissection were older at the time of imaging. Other findings of LDS such as craniosynostosis, Chiari malformation, and spinal instability may also need to be addressed."}
{"id": "19556352", "title": "Steroid-responsive large vessel vasculitis: application of whole-brain 320-detector row dynamic volume CT angiography and perfusion.", "content": "Steroid-responsive large vessel vasculitis: application of whole-brain 320-detector row dynamic volume CT angiography and perfusion. A patient with suspected giant cell arteritis and prior negative findings on superficial temporal artery biopsy was evaluated with 320-detector row CT angiography (CTA) and whole-brain perfusion. Corticosteroid treatment was initiated on the basis of CT angiography findings of arteritis and a cortical perfusion deficit. The patient's symptoms and perfusion imaging findings resolved following therapy. Whole-brain CTA and imaging was helpful in the diagnosis and monitoring this patient with suspected vasculitis."}
{"id": "19542053", "title": "Anticoagulation therapy and imaging in neonates with a unilateral thalamic hemorrhage due to cerebral sinovenous thrombosis.", "content": "Anticoagulation therapy and imaging in neonates with a unilateral thalamic hemorrhage due to cerebral sinovenous thrombosis. Cerebral sinovenous thrombosis is a rare disorder with a high risk of an adverse neurodevelopmental outcome. Until now, anticoagulation therapy has been restricted to neonates without an associated parenchymal hemorrhage. In this study, we describe sequential neuroimaging findings and use of anticoagulation therapy in newborn infants with a unilateral thalamic hemorrhage due to cerebral sinovenous thrombosis. Ten neonates with a unilateral thalamic hemorrhage and cerebral sinovenous thrombosis were studied. Diagnosis was suspected using cranial ultrasound and confirmed with MRI/MR venography. Eight infants had a repeat MRI at 3 to 7 months. Neurodevelopmental outcome was assessed from 3 months until 5 years. One infant died. Seven infants were treated with low-molecular-weight heparin. No side affects were noted. MRI showed involvement of multiple sinuses, additional intraventricular hemorrhage, and white matter lesions in all infants. Recanalization was present on the repeat MRI at 3 months in all infants. Treatment was delayed in one infant and anticoagulation was started only after extension of the thalamic hemorrhage. He required a ventriculoperitoneal drain for posthemorrhagic ventricular dilatation and developed cerebral visual impairment and global delay. Two other infants showed global delay and one of them also developed postneonatal epilepsy. Mild asymmetry in tone was present in 4 children. Cerebral sinovenous thrombosis was found in 10 neonates with unilateral thalamic hemorrhage. Diagnosis was suspected on cranial ultrasound and confirmed with MRI/MR venography. Treatment with low-molecular-weight heparin in newborn infants with a thalamic hemorrhage due to cerebral sinovenous thrombosis appears to be safe and should be considered. Long-term follow-up will be needed to assess cognitive outcome."}
{"id": "19517346", "title": "[Acute hemiplegia in moya moya syndrome in a child with Langdon-Down disease].", "content": "[Acute hemiplegia in moya moya syndrome in a child with Langdon-Down disease]."}
{"id": "19517117", "title": "Single hole cerebral arteriovenous fistula between the anterior choroidal artery and the basal vein of Rosenthal in a child.", "content": "Single hole cerebral arteriovenous fistula between the anterior choroidal artery and the basal vein of Rosenthal in a child. The purpose of this study was to show the first reported case of a cerebral arteriovenous fistula (CAVF) from the anterior choroidal artery (AChoA) to the basal vein of Rosenthal in a Child. A 4-month-old male infant with no previous history presented a left thalamic intraparenchymal hemorrhage with secondary intraventricular spread and hydrocephalus. An external ventricular drainage was placed, and a digital subtracted angiography showed a left single hole CAVF. The left AChoA was the single arterial feeder directly connected to the ipsilateral basal vein of Rosenthal. After stabilization and good recovery, he was transferred to our institution for endovascular treatment. He was embolized using the arterial feeder with four Guglielmi detachable coils that produced complete exclusion of the fistula. The patient was discharged 10 days after the procedure without new neurological deficit. CAVFs are exceptional, with an incidence between 4.7% and 17% of all brain AVMs in large reported series. They can arise from any artery of the brain with a great dominance at the supratentorial location. This is the first reported case of a CAVF from the AChoA draining to the basal vein of Rosenthal."}
{"id": "19508983", "title": "Moderate carotid artery stenosis: MR imaging-depicted intraplaque hemorrhage predicts risk of cerebrovascular ischemic events in asymptomatic men.", "content": "Moderate carotid artery stenosis: MR imaging-depicted intraplaque hemorrhage predicts risk of cerebrovascular ischemic events in asymptomatic men. To investigate the association between magnetic resonance (MR) imaging-depicted intraplaque hemorrhage (IPH) in the carotid artery wall and the risk of future ipsilateral cerebrovascular events in men with asymptomatic moderate carotid stenosis by using a rapid three-dimensional T1-weighted fat-suppressed spoiled gradient-echo sequence. The institutional ethics review board approved this retrospective chart review and waived the requirement for written informed consent. All patients gave informed verbal consent at follow-up telephone interviews. Ninety-one men (mean age, 74.8 years; range, 47-88 years) who attended a vascular clinic between 2003 and 2006, who had asymptomatic carotid stenosis (50%-70% at Doppler ultrasonography), and who had undergone MR imaging for IPH detection were retrospectively identified. Seventy-five men with 98 eligible carotid arteries were included in the study. Patients were followed for a minimum of 1 year (mean follow-up, 24.92 months; range, 12-43 months). Kaplan-Meier survival and univariate Cox regression analyses were conducted to compare future ipsilateral cerebrovascular event rates between carotid arteries with and those without MR-depicted IPH. Of the 98 carotid arteries included, 36 (36.7%) had MR-depicted IPH. Six cerebrovascular events (two strokes and four transient ischemic attacks) occurred in the carotid arteries with IPH, as compared with no clinical events in the carotid arteries without IPH. Univariate Cox regression analysis confirmed that MR-depicted IPH was associated with an increased risk of cerebrovascular events (hazard ratio, 3.59; 95% confidence interval: 2.48, 4.71; P < .001). MR-depicted IPH negatively predicted outcomes (negative predictive value = 100%). In this cohort with asymptomatic moderate carotid stenosis, MR-depicted IPH was associated with future ipsilateral cerebrovascular events. Conversely, patients without MR-depicted IPH remained asymptomatic during follow-up. The absence of IPH at MR imaging, therefore, may be a reassuring marker of plaque stability and of a lower risk of thromboembolism."}
{"id": "19505702", "title": "[Intravascular treatment for acute carotid occlusion with an intracranial tandem lesion].", "content": "[Intravascular treatment for acute carotid occlusion with an intracranial tandem lesion]. We present the case of a patient with an acute obstruction in the origin of the internal carotid artery that was associated with occlusion of segment one of the ipsilateral medial cerebral artery and severe neurologic deterioration. We describe the neuroimaging findings (unenhanced cranial computed tomography [CT], CT angiography, CT perfusion studies, and cerebral angiography) and the intravascular treatment (mechanical and pharmacological intra-arterial fibrinolysis). Treatment yielded good morphological and clinical results; we also analyze the follow-up of the patient."}
{"id": "19487896", "title": "Dose-related efficacy of a continuous intracisternal nimodipine treatment on cerebral vasospasm in the rat double subarachnoid hemorrhage model.", "content": "Dose-related efficacy of a continuous intracisternal nimodipine treatment on cerebral vasospasm in the rat double subarachnoid hemorrhage model. Intracisternal continuous therapy is a concept in the treatment of cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage. The purpose of the current study was to investigate the effect of intracisternal nimodipine after induced vasospasm. Sixty-five male Wistar rats were randomized into 4 groups: the control sham-operated group, the control subarachnoid hemorrhage-only group, and the treatment groups receiving 5 or 10 microL/hour of intracisternal nimodipine continuously for 5 days via subcutaneously implanted Alzet osmotic pumps (Durect Corp., Cupertino, CA). Vasospasm was analyzed 5 days later by means of digital subtraction angiography. Morphological examination of the brain parenchyma was performed using Nissl-staining, c-Fos immunohistochemistry, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end-labeling. Detailed analysis of the digital subtraction angiography was possible for 31 animals. Significant angiographic vasospasm was induced in the double hemorrhage-only group compared with the sham-operated group (P = 0.002). Among the 4 groups, there were statistically significant differences of the arterial vessel caliber as measured by digital subtraction angiography (P = 0.001, Kruskal-Wallis test). The treatment group receiving 5 microL/hour of nimodipine and the control sham-operated group demonstrated the largest intracranial artery diameters with a significant difference between control subarachnoid hemorrhage-only group and the treatment group receiving 10 microL/hour of nimodipine (P = 0.0328, Wilcoxon rank-sum test). Variation in vessel calibers, however, did not result in different brain tissue alterations, even when using sensitive markers for the induction of the stress response or apoptosis. Intracisternal nimodipine lavage with 5 microL/hour, but not with 10 microL/hour leads to significant arterial relaxation. Further research is needed to elucidate the underlying cause of the decreasing nimodipine effect at higher dosage."}
{"id": "19474117", "title": "Cranial dural arteriovenous fistula: diagnosis and classification with time-resolved MR angiography at 3T.", "content": "Cranial dural arteriovenous fistula: diagnosis and classification with time-resolved MR angiography at 3T. The diagnosis of dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) remains one of the few uncontested indications for catheter based cerebral angiography. We report our experience of using a commercially available form of time-resolved MR angiography (trMRA) at 3T for the diagnosis and classification of a cranial DAVF compared with the reference standard of digital subtraction angiography (DSA). A retrospective review of our patient records identified patients who had undergone trMRA at 3T and DSA for the evaluation of DAVF. The trMRA consisted of whole-head, contrast-enhanced \"time-resolved imaging of contrast kinetics\" (TRICKS) MRA. Image sets were independently reviewed by 3 readers for the presence, location, and classification of a DAVF. The reported result of the DSA was used as the gold standard against which the performance of the trMRA was measured. Forty patients were identified who had undergone DSA and trMRA for evaluation of DAVF, yielding a total of 42 cases. On DSA, the results of 7 cases were normal, 15 cases were performed for surveillance of a previously cured fistula, and a new fistula (14) or persistent (6) fistula was found in 20 cases. Of these 20 fistulas, on DSA, 13 were Borden I, 2 were Borden II, and 5 were Borden III. In 93% (39/42) of DAVF cases, the 3 readers were unanimous and correct in their independent interpretation of the trMRA, correctly identifying (or excluding) all fistulas and accurately classifying them when encountered. In this small series, trMRA at 3T seems be a reliable technique in the screening and surveillance of DAVF in specific clinical situations."}
{"id": "19472612", "title": "Intracranial CT angiography obtained from a cerebral CT perfusion examination.", "content": "Intracranial CT angiography obtained from a cerebral CT perfusion examination. CT perfusion (CTP) examinations of the brain are performed increasingly for the evaluation of cerebral blood flow in patients with stroke and vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Of the same patient often also a CT angiography (CTA) examination is performed. This study investigates the possibility to obtain CTA images from the CTP examination, thereby possibly obviating the CTA examination. This would save the patient exposure to radiation, contrast, and time. Each CTP frame is a CTA image with a varying amount of contrast enhancement and with high noise. To improve the contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) we combined all 3D images into one 3D image after registration to correct for patient motion between time frames. Image combination consists of weighted averaging in which the weighting factor of each frame is proportional to the arterial contrast. It can be shown that the arterial CNR is maximized in this procedure. An additional advantage of the use of the time series of CTP images is that automatic differentiation between arteries and veins is possible. This feature was used to mask veins in the resulting 3D images to enhance visibility of arteries in maximum intensity projection (MIP) images. With a Philips Brilliance 64 CT scanner (64 x 0.625 mm) CTP examinations of eight patients were performed on 80 mm of brain using the toggling table technique. The CTP examination consisted of a time series of 15 3D images (2 x 64 x 0.625 mm; 80 kV; 150 mAs each) with an interval of 4 s. The authors measured the CNR in images obtained with weighted averaging, images obtained with plain averaging, and images with maximal arterial enhancement. The authors also compared CNR and quality of the images with that of regular CTA examinations and examined the effectiveness of automatic vein masking in MIP images. The CNR of the weighted averaged images is, on the average, 1.73 times the CNR of an image at maximal arterial enhancement in the CTP series, where the use of plain averaging increases the CNR only with a factor of 1.49. The quality of the weighted averaged images approaches that of CTA images, although in the present study the image quality of CTA was not quite reached. The automatic masking of veins is effective and only small remnants of veins were sometimes present in the masked images. Weighted averaging makes it possible to create CTA images from a CTP examination with a CNR considerably higher than that of images with maximal arterial enhancement. The quality of the resulting images approaches that of CTA images and offers the additional advantages to automatically differentiate between arteries and veins."}
{"id": "19472410", "title": "Improved time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography with IDEAL water-fat separation.", "content": "Improved time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography with IDEAL water-fat separation. To implement IDEAL (iterative decomposition of water and fat using echo asymmetry and least squares estimation) water-fat separation with 3D time-of-flight (TOF) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of intracranial vessels for improved background suppression by providing uniform and robust separation of fat signal that appears bright on conventional TOF-MRA. IDEAL TOF-MRA and conventional TOF-MRA were performed in volunteers and patients undergoing routine brain MRI/MRA on a 3T magnet. Images were reviewed by two radiologists and graded based on vessel visibility and image quality. IDEAL TOF-MRA demonstrated statistically significant improvement in vessel visibility when compared to conventional TOF-MRA in both volunteer and clinical patients using an image quality grading system. Overall image quality was 3.87 (out of 4) for IDEAL versus 3.55 for conventional TOF imaging (P = 0.02). Visualization of the ophthalmic artery was 3.53 for IDEAL versus 1.97 for conventional TOF imaging (P < 0.00005) and visualization of the superficial temporal artery was 3.92 for IDEAL imaging versus 1.97 for conventional TOF imaging (P < 0.00005). By providing uniform suppression of fat, IDEAL TOF-MRA provides improved background suppression with improved image quality when compared to conventional TOF-MRA methods."}
{"id": "19467872", "title": "Blister-like aneurysm of the anterior communicating artery.", "content": "Blister-like aneurysm of the anterior communicating artery. We report a recent experience with a blister-like aneurysm of the anterior communicating artery and suggest that this entity may be responsible for so-called non-aneurysmal haemorrhage when the distribution of blood is atypical."}
{"id": "19440687", "title": "[Neurologic emergencies and multislice computed tomography].", "content": "[Neurologic emergencies and multislice computed tomography]. Modern MSCT with its broad availability and rapid examination times is the preferred modality in the initial evaluation of neurologic emergencies and by its continual development has become more important within recent years. With increased spatial resolution and new post-processing techniques, non-invasive MSCT angiography is seen to increasingly replace diagnostic DSA. Multidetector CTA is a suitable method for the evaluation of intracranial aneurysms, carotid artery stenoses, arterial dissections, as well as cerebral venous and basilar artery thromboses. Multimodal CT (non-enhanced CCT, CTA and perfusion CT) is used more frequently in the assessment of acute stroke patients, it increases the detection rate of early ischemia and is likely to improve the treatment of acute stroke."}
{"id": "19433895", "title": "Serial susceptibility weighted MRI measures brain iron and microbleeds in dementia.", "content": "Serial susceptibility weighted MRI measures brain iron and microbleeds in dementia. A new iron sensitive MR sequence (susceptibility weighted imaging - SWI) enabling the simultaneous quantitation of regional brain iron levels and brain microbleeds (BMB) has been acquired serially to study dementia. Cohorts of mildly cognitively impaired (MCI) elderly (n = 73) and cognitively normal participants (n = 33) have been serially evaluated for up to 50 months. SWI phase values (putative iron levels) in 14 brain regions were measured and the number of BMB were counted for each SWI study. SWI phase values showed a left putaminal mean increase of iron (decrease of phase values) over the study duration in 27 participants who progressed to dementia compared to Normals (p = 0.035) and stable MCI (p = 0.01). BMB were detected in 9 out of 26 (38%) MCI participants who progressed to dementia and are a significant risk factor for cognitive failure in MCI participants [risk ratio = 2.06 (95% confidence interval 1.37-3.12)]. SWI is useful to measure regional iron changes and presence of BMB, both of which may be important MR-based biomarkers for neurodegenerative diseases."}
{"id": "19428259", "title": "A supratentorial, hemorrhagic, intraparenchymal epidermoid cyst.", "content": "A supratentorial, hemorrhagic, intraparenchymal epidermoid cyst. Epidermoid cysts are slow growing benign tumors that represent < 1-2% of all intracranial tumors and rarely present as supratentorial, intraparenchymal masses. We present the first report of a supratentorial, hemorrhagic, intraparenchymal epidermoid cyst with its presentation, our operative approach, post-operative course, radiographic features, and a literature review."}
{"id": "19415170", "title": "Bilateral intra-orbital ophthalmic artery aneurysms.", "content": "Bilateral intra-orbital ophthalmic artery aneurysms. A 52-year-old man presented with neck pain, nausea and vomiting (Hunt-Hess grade 1). CT scan showed subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography showed multiple arterial aneurysms (right communicating posterior, right anterior choroid, left pericallosal, intraorbital ophthalmic bilaterally). All aneurysms but intraorbital ophthalmic ones were treated with endovascular embolizations. As the intraorbital aneurysms were asymptomatic no treatment was performed. The patient was dismissed without any neurological deficits. Intraorbital ophthalmic aneurysms are very uncommon, with extremely rare rupture. No treatment is indicated when the aneurysm is unruptured and asymptomatic. Surgical treatment is advised only after rupture or symptomatic mass effect."}
{"id": "19401973", "title": "Aneurysmal and non-aneurysmal SAH--is initial computed tomography predictive?", "content": "Aneurysmal and non-aneurysmal SAH--is initial computed tomography predictive? Diagnostic workup in patients with angiographically negative subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) remains controversial. We discuss the relevance of bleeding patterns on CT as they pertain to the prediction of angiographic results. We compared bleeding patterns on 112 CTs of patients with non-aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (non-ASAH) and 104 CTs of patients with aneurysmal SAH (ASAH) taken within 48 hours according to a CT-based grading system (Type 0 - 4). Bleeding patterns differed between ASAH and non-ASAH patients (p < 0.0001). Non-ASAH patients had no or prepontine blood (type 0 + 1) in 40% of cases, extension into the medial (type 2) or lateral (type 3) Sylvian fissure in 60% of cases and no intracerebral hemorrhage (type 4). All type 0 and 1 patients had negative initial and repeat angiographies. A CT classification of bleeding patterns helps to predict angiographic results. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) should remain the gold standard as it allows detection non-aneurysmal bleeding sources at low-risk. Repeat angiography may be omitted in the case of type 0 and 1 bleeding if a complete, high quality DSA was obtained initially."}
{"id": "19398859", "title": "Intracerebral hemorrhage caused by ruptured intracavernous carotid artery aneurysm. Case report.", "content": "Intracerebral hemorrhage caused by ruptured intracavernous carotid artery aneurysm. Case report. A 76-year-old woman presented with an enlarged right intracavernous carotid artery aneurysm first identified incidentally when she was hospitalized for thalamic hemorrhage. She was managed conservatively for 1 year, then suffered right total ophthalmoplegia associated with enlargement of the aneurysm. Two months later, she became comatose due to intracerebral hemorrhage in the right temporal lobe. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated further enlargement of the aneurysm. Emergency craniotomy found the lateral dural wall of the cavernous sinus was markedly expanded and torn by compression from the aneurysm. Rupture of the aneurysm into the intradural space through this dural defect was confirmed. The aneurysm was trapped after high-flow bypass, but the patient did not recover and died. Symptomatic enlarged intracavernous carotid artery aneurysm is potentially fatal and may indicate prompt surgical management."}
{"id": "19398858", "title": "Bilateral acute subdural hematomas with intracerebral hemorrhage without subarachnoid hemorrhage, caused by rupture of an internal carotid artery dorsal wall aneurysm. Case report.", "content": "Bilateral acute subdural hematomas with intracerebral hemorrhage without subarachnoid hemorrhage, caused by rupture of an internal carotid artery dorsal wall aneurysm. Case report. A 45-year-old man presented with bilateral acute subdural hematomas (ASDHs) without subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). He was found comatose in a parked car. Computed tomography showed left frontal intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) and bilateral ASDHs but no signs of SAH. Magnetic resonance angiography demonstrated an internal carotid artery dorsal wall aneurysm. Emergent surgical intervention was performed. However, he died of cerebral herniation 6 days later. We inferred that massive intracranial bleeding might have ruptured through the cortex and lacerated the arachnoid membrane. Aneurysm rupture generally results in unilateral SDH, whereas trauma is the usual cause of bilateral ASDHs with ICH. Our case suggests that ruptured aneurysm should be considered in patients with non-traumatic bilateral ASDHs without SAH."}
{"id": "19381651", "title": "Neonatal ruptured intracranial aneurysms: case report and literature review.", "content": "Neonatal ruptured intracranial aneurysms: case report and literature review. Intracranial aneurysms are exceptional in neonatal patients: There are only 16 cases previously reported. We describe the first case of neonatal posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) aneurysm and review the literature. A 7-day-old girl presented with irritability, anorexia, fever and abnormally enlarging head circumference. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging demonstrated intraventricular haemorrhage, secondary hydrocephalus and a pontine cistern haematoma. A PICA aneurysm was suspected on the CT angiogram (CTA) and the diagnosis was confirmed by conventional cerebral angiography. She was successfully treated by surgical clipping of the parent vessel and excision of the aneurysm. Postoperatively, she experienced transient swallowing difficulties and required a ventriculo-peritoneal shunt for hydrocephalus. Histopathological evaluation demonstrated a calcified arterial wall with thrombosis, signs of prior haemorrhage and the absence of the internal elastic lamina. Neonatal intracranial aneurysms are rare. Clinical presentation of subarachnoid haemorrhage in this age group is often non-specific. First-line investigation should start with transfontanelle cranial ultrasound, followed by MR angiography then CTA if necessary. Posterior circulation aneurysms and large or giant aneurysms are more frequent in neonates and children than in adults. Early diagnosis and treatment are important for improved outcome. Surgery is better tolerated than in adults."}
{"id": "19378710", "title": "Comparison of CTA to DSA in determining the etiology of spontaneous ICH.", "content": "Comparison of CTA to DSA in determining the etiology of spontaneous ICH. To compare the efficacy of computed tomographic angiography (CTA) to that of digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in the detection of secondary causes of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Between January 2001 and February 2007 there were 286 patients that had both CTA and DSA for intracranial hemorrhage of all types. Those with primarily subarachnoid hemorrhage or recent trauma were excluded. Fifty-five patients formed the study cohort. Three reviewers independently analyzed the CTAs in a blinded protocol and classified them based on presence or absence of a secondary etiology. Results were compared with the reference standard DSA and kappa values determined for interobserver variability. The overall sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and accuracy of CTA were 89%, 92%, 91%, 91% and 91%, respectively. Kappa value for interobserver agreement ranged from 0.78 to 0.89. Two of four dural arteriovenous fistulas (dAVF) were missed on CTA by all three reviewers. CTA is nearly as effective as DSA at determining the cause of secondary intracerebral hemorrhage, but with a lower sensitivity for dAVFs. This supports the use of CTA as the first screening test in patients presenting with spontaneous ICH."}
{"id": "19370353", "title": "Primary central nervous system vasculitis mimicking brain tumour: case report and literature review.", "content": "Primary central nervous system vasculitis mimicking brain tumour: case report and literature review. Primary central nervous system vasculitis (PCNSV) is a rare inflammatory disease causing significant morbidity and mortality. We present a detailed history and clinical course of a patient with PCNSV along with a literature review. A 50-year-old Chinese female presented with a 6-month history of mild to moderate headache and sudden onset of visual loss. Early computed tomography of the brain showed multifocal infarctions. Over 3 weeks after admission, her clinical presentations changed considerably and her condition deteriorated. She became confused then fell in to semicoma, and developed left-sided paralysis and quadriparesis. At about 7 months after her illness, a magnetic resonance imaging of the brain revealed a tumour-like mass lesion within the right parietal lobe resulting in compressed posterior horn of the right lateral ventricle. In the end, a brain biopsy identified extensive vessel inflammation, which established the diagnosis of PCNSV. Steroid and immunosuppressive therapy dramatically improved the patient's condition. Our report highlights the importance of considering PCNSV as a differential diagnosis in patients who are suspected with encephalitis, multiple sclerosis, cerebral haemorrhage, cerebral thrombus, leukoencephalopathy, or brain tumour, etc. while their clinical presentations are exceptionally so changeable. This case also gives emphasis to the value of a brain biopsy in consolidating the diagnosis, and the efficacy of steroid and immunosuppressive therapy in PCNSV."}
{"id": "19370308", "title": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome: case report.", "content": "Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome: case report. A 28-year-old woman had thunderclap headache (TCH), after 7 days she had left hemiparesis. She had a history of oral contraceptive and citalopram medications. Brain magnetic resonance (MR) angiography demonstrated multiple stenotic segments. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) showed multiple segments of narrowing in vessel calibre. Two probable diagnoses performed; primary angiitis of the central nervous system and reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS). Because of clinical characteristics and normal cerebrospinal fluid findings she was set on medication for probable RCVS. Follow-up MR angiography after 4 weeks and DSA after 7 weeks demonstrated improvement in vessel calibre. Thus, diagnosis RCVS was established. Diagnosis and management of TCH contain many potential difficulties. Clinicians should consider the imaging of cerebral arteries, even if computed tomography scan and lumbar puncture are normal in TCH. Potential precipitating factors and triggers should also be known and avoided."}
{"id": "19364600", "title": "Neuroradiologic applications of dynamic MR angiography at 3 T.", "content": "Neuroradiologic applications of dynamic MR angiography at 3 T. Four-dimensional time-resolved MR angiography (4D-MRA) using keyhole imaging techniques is a new method of performing contrastenhanced vascular imaging. Combining parallel imaging and keyhole imaging techniques, it is possible to obtain dynamic MRA scans up to 60 times faster, thereby achieving subsecond sampling of the contrast hemodynamics. Furthermore, imaging at 3 T gives higher signal, thus affording higher spatial resolution and allowing dynamic 3D MRA to approach the diagnostic performance of conventional digital subtraction angiography. This article presents the authors' clinical experience using 4D-MRA to evaluate various vascular abnormalities in the brain, spine, orbits, and neck at 3 T, demonstrates the imaging findings of this novel technique, and discusses its advantages and use in current neuroradiology practice."}
{"id": "19364598", "title": "Neurovascular imaging at 1.5 tesla versus 3.0 tesla.", "content": "Neurovascular imaging at 1.5 tesla versus 3.0 tesla. The primary advantage of high field strength MR imaging over imaging on modern 1.5 Tesla (T) systems is increased signal-to-noise ratio, which can be used to improve image quality or shorten scan acquisition time. In the years since 3.0T scanners were first approved for clinical use, one of the areas which has benefited greatly from its introduction is neurovascular MR angiography (MRA). Early experience has shown significant improvements in resolution and image quality. Whether high field strength MRA is robust or accurate enough to replace digital subtraction angiography in the foreseeable future remains to be seen. This article discusses the current state of neurovascular MRA at 3.0T, basic physical differences between MR imaging at 1.5T and 3.0T, and their effects on MRA sequences. The literature regarding the efficacy of 3.0T MRA techniques for diagnosing specific neurovascular pathologies and carotid steno occlusive disease is reviewed."}
{"id": "19363637", "title": "Isolated angiitis of the CNS and bacterial endocarditis: similarities and differences.", "content": "Isolated angiitis of the CNS and bacterial endocarditis: similarities and differences. Both isolated angiitis of the central nervous system (IAN) and bacterial endocarditis (BE) may present with similar clinical and auxiliary findings. The differentiation is extremely important because of the different treatment regimens. We compared the findings of six patients with biopsy-proven IAN with the data of six patients with BE. Patients with IAN were younger (27-62 years) and presented with multiple strokes (n = 4), intracerebral hemorrhage (n = 1), epileptic seizures (n = 2), or encephalopathy (n = 1). All IAN patients had pathologic cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) findings (pleocytosis n = 5; protein elevation n = 4), and angiography revealed multilocular stenoses in two cases while digital subtraction angiography was normal in four. BE patients (32-77 years) presented multiple (n = 3) or single ischemic strokes (n = 2) or encephalopathy and headache (n = 2). While all patients showed inflammatory serum findings (C-reactive protein n = 6, leucocytosis n = 4), CSF-pleocytosis was present in two cases only. Angiography revealed a vasculitic pattern in two patients. The diagnosis of BE was established based on transesophageal echocardiography and blood cultures. Leptomeningeal and brain biopsies performed in two cases were normal. Both IAN and BE may present multiple strokes and encephalopathy. The frequency of a vasculitic pattern in angiography is similar in both conditions. While inflammatory serum findings are the rule in BE, pathologic CSF findings were present in all IAN patients. Transesophageal echocardiography and blood cultures should be performed in order to diagnose or exclude BE. Without brain biopsy, immunosuppressive therapy may be dangerous in suspected IAN."}
{"id": "19343268", "title": "Traumatic anterior communicating artery pseudoaneurysm with cavernous sinus fistula.", "content": "Traumatic anterior communicating artery pseudoaneurysm with cavernous sinus fistula. A traumatic carotid-cavernous fistula and an intracranial pseudoaneurysm are uncommon but well-known complications of head trauma. A rare subtype of arteriovenous fistula may occur from a pseudoaneurysm of the anterior communicating artery (AcoA) instead of the internal carotid artery. We describe a patient with a traumatic pseudoaneurysm of the AcoA with a cavernous sinus fistula treated with endovascular treatment. A 68-year-old man presented with a severe head injury after a fall. Coronal view multiplanar reformatted images with contrast medium showed gradual expansion of the pseudoaneurysm of the AcoA and the enhanced area of the cavernous sinus. Five weeks after the injury, the patient had a subarachnoid hemorrhage. A cerebral angiogram showed a fistula between the pseudoaneurysm of the AcoA and the cavernous sinus. The AcoA, left anterior cerebral artery and part of the pseudoaneurysm were obliterated by coil embolization. A postoperative angiogram showed no flow through the pseudoaneurysm and the cavernous sinus fistula. A traumatic AcoA pseudoaneurysm with a cavernous sinus fistula may occur as an extremely rare complication of head injury."}
{"id": "19342828", "title": "Relevance of neuroimaging in the evaluation of cerebral ischemia.", "content": "Relevance of neuroimaging in the evaluation of cerebral ischemia. The rapid development of neuroimaging techniques has provided us with a wide range of tools for the assessment of patients who may have experienced cerebrovascular events. Each of these technologies provides specific and potentially informative insights. For clinical practice, however, we always have to tailor our diagnostic approach according to a maximum benefit/minimal burden and cost ratio. We, therefore, propose a diagnostic algorithm which is tailored according to stroke phase and availability of distinct therapeutic strategies. In the acute phase of ischemic stroke, patients can be segregated into those who are potentially amenable to systemic thrombolysis within 3 h and into possible candidates for (i.v. or i.a.) thrombolysis outside approved criteria both within and beyond this time window. For patients in the postacute phase of acute ischemic stroke, neuroimaging should contribute a maximum of information to the clarification of stroke etiology to allow for specific secondary prevention. Patients with transient ischemic attacks appear to represent yet another distinct group of patients who can benefit greatly from a rapid and comprehensive neuroimaging evaluation, as this allows identification of individuals at a specifically high risk for a subsequent stroke. Using these categories, the relevance of respective neuroimaging tools can be substantiated by a large body of evidence."}
{"id": "19342546", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy and yield of multidetector CT angiography in the evaluation of spontaneous intraparenchymal cerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy and yield of multidetector CT angiography in the evaluation of spontaneous intraparenchymal cerebral hemorrhage. Multidetector CT angiography (MDCTA) is emerging as the favored initial diagnostic examination in the evaluation of patients presenting with spontaneous intraparenchymal hemorrhage (IPH). This study aims to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy and yield of MDCTA for the detection of vascular etiologies in adult patients presenting to the emergency department with IPH. We conducted a retrospective study of 623 consecutive adult patients presenting to the emergency department with IPH, who were evaluated with MDCTA during a 9-year period. CT angiograms were reviewed by 2 neuroradiologists to determine the IPH site and the presence of a vascular etiology. Patients with associated subarachnoid hemorrhage in the basal cisterns were excluded from the study. Medical records were reviewed for risk factors and correlation with final diagnosis. The diagnostic accuracy of MDCTA compared with conventional angiography, intraoperative evaluation, and pathologic findings was determined, when available. Multiple-variable logistic regression analysis was performed to determine clinical and radiologic factors that predict a higher yield of MDCTA. MDCTA demonstrated a vascular etiology in 91 patients (14.6%), with a sensitivity of 96%, specificity of 99%, and diagnostic accuracy of 98%. We found independent, statistically significant higher yields of MDCTA in patients with the following characteristics: 1) age younger than 46 years (47%); 2) lobar (20%) or infratentorial (16%) IPH, especially lobar IPH with associated intraventricular hemorrhage (25%); 3) female sex (18%); or 4) neither known hypertension nor impaired coagulation at presentation (33%). MDCTA is an accurate diagnostic examination in the evaluation of adult patients presenting with spontaneous IPH and should be performed in all patients with the aforementioned clinical and radiologic characteristics."}
{"id": "19329852", "title": "Evaluation of transcranial color-coded duplex sonography for cerebral artery stenosis or occlusion.", "content": "Evaluation of transcranial color-coded duplex sonography for cerebral artery stenosis or occlusion. Cerebral artery stenosis or occlusion is the most common etiological factor in patients with acute cerebral ischemia, but the rate of early diagnosis is low. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of transcranial color-coded sonography (TCCS) for cerebral artery stenosis with digital subtraction angiography used as the gold standard of reference. Seventy-eight patients who were suspected of cerebrovascular disease were involved in the study. Major cerebral arteries were observed through the transcranial echo window by TCCS. The course, shape of the color blood beam and velocity were given special attention. The hemodynamic parameter was measured and analyzed. The findings of TCCS were compared with the results of digital subtraction angiography, according to a double-blind design. A 4-fold table was used as the statistical analysis method to evaluate TCCS. The indexes included sensitivity, specificity, accuracy and false-positive rate. Imaging of TCCS revealed that the blood flow beam narrowed where the artery had stenosis and looked like girdling. The velocity of the foci increased abnormally, while the velocity before and after the foci decreased. Severe stenosis and the long stenotic segment may show discontinuity of the blood flow beam. The velocity of the foci did not noticeably increase or decrease. The blood flow beam of the occlusive artery cannot be seen and the frequency spectrum cannot be obtained, but the other artery was well visualized at the same time. Analysis of the diagnostic value of TCCS according to the 4-fold table included the validity index, with a sensitivity, specificity, false-positive rate, false-negative rate, accuracy, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, positive likelihood ratio, negative likelihood ratio and Youden index of 72.9%, 82.9%, 17.1%, 27.0%, 78.2%, 79.4%, 77.3%, 4.3, 0.3 and 0.56, respectively. The reliability index included the agreement rate and kappa value, which were 78.2% and 0.56, respectively. TCCS could be considered a valuable method for the screening diagnosis of cerebral artery stenosis or occlusion."}
{"id": "19322683", "title": "Intracranial microbial aneurysm (infectious aneurysm): current options for diagnosis and management.", "content": "Intracranial microbial aneurysm (infectious aneurysm): current options for diagnosis and management. The histopathological characteristic of intracranial microbial aneurysm (MA)-infectious aneurysm is the presence of infection and destruction of the walls of the vessels. It can occur in the setting of predisposing infections that spread by endovascular mechanism (e.g., infective endocarditis) or extravascular mechanism (e.g., meningitis). MA is probably a better term than mycotic, infectious, or infective aneurysm as a wide variety of bacteria, fungi, mycobacteria, and virus can cause MA. Typically MAs are multiple, distal, and fusiform aneurysms, but the angiographic and clinical presentations can vary widely. The most common presentation of MA is intracranial bleed. CT angiography, MR angiography, or Digital subtraction angiography can be deployed to detect MA. By combining the clinical findings, imaging, and angiographic findings, it is possible to arrive at a correct diagnosis in most instances. MAs carry higher risk of rupture and fatal bleed when compared to other aneurysms. The treatment options include antimicrobial therapy, surgery, and endovascular therapy. The management strategy is based on large case series rather than controlled trials. All MA should receive appropriate antibiotic therapy. Ruptured MA with mass effect would require surgery in most situations, while those without mass effect and in non-eloquent locations could also be managed by endovascular therapy. Unruptured MA could be managed according to the size, location, and risk of bleeding-by antibiotic therapy, surgery, or endovascular therapy. Monitoring the resolution of the MA under antibiotic therapy by serial CT angiography is another option, but it carries higher risk of bleeding. Treatment of the underlying predisposing infection is an important component of therapy."}
{"id": "19319475", "title": "Middle meningeal artery aneurysm associated with meningioma.", "content": "Middle meningeal artery aneurysm associated with meningioma. Middle meningeal artery aneurysm associated with meningioma is extremely rare, and only two cases have previously been reported. In our case, a 72-year-old woman with convexity meningioma underwent preoperative cerebral angiography, which revealed a flow-related aneurysm on the middle meningeal artery. Embolization of the aneurysm was performed with N-butycyanoacrylate glue, and complete obliteration was confirmed under craniotomy. In order to eliminate the risk of preoperative rupture resulting in intracranial hemorrhage, endovascular embolization with liquid glue is safe and effective for this kind of aneurysm."}
{"id": "19318736", "title": "Hemorrhagic infarction originating from vertebral artery stenosis caused by an osteophyte at the C5 superior articular process.", "content": "Hemorrhagic infarction originating from vertebral artery stenosis caused by an osteophyte at the C5 superior articular process. A 62-year-old man presented with right upper homonymous quadrihemianopsia. Magnetic resonance imaging showed hemorrhagic infarctions in the bilateral occipital lobes and infarction in the left cerebellar hemisphere. Digital subtraction angiography and three-dimensional computed tomography angiography revealed right vertebral artery (VA) stenosis caused by an osteophyte at the C5 superior articular process. The VA stenosis was aggravated by neck extension. The brain infarctions were attributed to embolism from the right VA stenosis. Unroofing of the anterior root of the right C4 transverse foramen, removal of the osteophyte at the superior articular process of C5, and anterior fusion at C4-5 were performed. His postoperative course was uneventful."}
{"id": "19306644", "title": "[Detection of intraplaque hemorrhage with use of screening black-blood MRI].", "content": "[Detection of intraplaque hemorrhage with use of screening black-blood MRI]. The evaluation of plaque characteritics as well as the degree of luminal narrowing is important in the management of carotid stenosis. Several reports have shown that intraplaque hemorrhage (IPH), which plays a pivotal role in plaque vulnerability, emits high signal intensity on T1-weighted images of high-resolution black-blood (BB) MRIs. When an MRI is used to screen for vulnerable plaque, a short scanning duration and a simple MRI protocol are required. This study assessed the utility of screening BB-MRI to detect IPH. Ninety-three consecutive cases with atherosclerotic carotid stenosis scheduled for carotid endarterectomy (CEA) or carotid artery stenting between January 2005 and December 2007 were included. High-resolution BB-MRI scans were obtained with 2D double-inversion recovery fast spin-echo sequences with cardiac gating. Screening BB-MRIs were performed with 3D gradient-echo sequences suppressing blood flow signals by radiofrequency wave spatial saturation over the scanning field of 3D time-of-flight MRA. The relative overall plaque signal intensities with reference to the sternocleidomastoid muscle were calculated, and the correlation of intensities on T1-weighted images between high-resolution BB-MRI and screening BB-MRI was investigated. We excluded 50 cases because of restenosis following CEA, use of a pacemaker, a long interval (>10 days) between high-resolution and screening BB-MRI examinations, or poor-quality images. Among the 43 cases included, the relative overall plaque signal intensity of high-resolution BB-MRI and screening BB-MRI were closely correlated (r = 0.568, p < 0.001). Screening BB-MRI can be an alternative to high-resolution BB-MRI in the assessment of IPH and may be a useful tool for detection of vulnerable plaque."}
{"id": "19299484", "title": "Computerized assessment of angiographic occlusion rate and coil density in embolized human cerebral aneurysms.", "content": "Computerized assessment of angiographic occlusion rate and coil density in embolized human cerebral aneurysms. Computerized methods have been introduced for more objective quantification of angiographic occlusion rate and coil density as parameters of successful embolization. This study aimed 1) to evaluate this new computerized method for angiographic occlusion rating and coil density calculations by comparison with corresponding histometric parameters from retrieved human aneurysms, and 2) to compare the new computerized method with the present standard of subjective angiographic occlusion rating. From 14 postmortem-retrieved human aneurysms, angiographic occlusion rate was determined by contrast medium attenuation-gradient distinction on digital subtraction angiographs after Guglielmi detachable coil (GDC) embolization. Angiographic coil density was calculated, approximating aneurysms as ellipsoid and coils as cylindric volumes. On surface-stained histologic ground sections of the respective aneurysms, the occluded aneurysm area and coil area were measured. Then, we calculated and compared the histometric occlusion rates and coil densities with the corresponding angiographic parameters by using the Wilcoxon paired signed-rank test and the Spearman rank correlation. Computerized angiographic occlusion rates (75%-100%) showed good correlation (r = 0.799; P < .01) with histometric occlusion-rates (61%-100%), resulting in no statistically significant differences (P = .2163). With 5.1% (+/-3.8), the mean difference between computerized angiographic occlusion rates and histometry was substantially lower compared with 10.7% (+/-8.7) mean difference between subjective angiographic estimations and histometry. Calculated angiographic coil density (13%-32%) significantly differed from histometric coil density (8%-35%; P < .05). For recanalized aneurysms, computerized angiographic occlusion rating showed better correspondence with histometry compared with subjective angiographic occlusion rating. Clinical application of this new tool may lead to more objective cutoff values for re-embolization indications. The value of coil density calculations seems limited by the approximation of the aneurysms as ellipsoid volumes."}
{"id": "19289288", "title": "Fenestration of the middle cerebral artery with an associated ruptured aneurysm.", "content": "Fenestration of the middle cerebral artery with an associated ruptured aneurysm. Intracranial arterial fenestrations are uncommon developmental anomalies that may alter local hemodynamic stress patterns and may be associated with intracranial aneurysms. A 75-year-old woman presented with a mild subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography demonstrated a 5 mm aneurysm arising from the middle cerebral artery (MCA) associated with a dramatic fenestration of the proximal M1 segment of the MCA. The patient underwent craniotomy with microsurgical aneurysm clipping. The aneurysm arose immediately distal to the fenestration. Several fine perforating arteries were dissected away from the neck of the aneurysm to allow for safe clip placement. Postoperatively, the patient awoke without deficit and was discharged to home on the fifth postoperative day in good condition. Anomalies of the intracranial vasculature are common and we describe a rare proximal MCA fenestration with an associated ruptured aneurysm at the site of the fenestration. Neurosurgeons should be thoroughly familiar with such potential \"normal variants\" to avoid operative complications that may result from the anomalous circulation in such cases."}
{"id": "19286577", "title": "Postcontrast CT extravasation is associated with hematoma expansion in CTA spot negative patients.", "content": "Postcontrast CT extravasation is associated with hematoma expansion in CTA spot negative patients. The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of postcontrast CT (PCCT) leakage (PCL) on hematoma growth in CTA spot negative patients. A retrospective study of 61 patients presenting within 6 hours of primary ICH onset imaged with CT angiography (CTA) and PCCT. Presence of CTA spot sign and PCL were documented. PCL was defined as the presence of contrast extravasation on the PCCT study at a location remote from the CTA spot sign if present. Hematoma expansion was defined as >6 mL or 30% hematoma enlargement. Patients were dichotomized by CTA spot sign presence and PCL and compared for baseline demographic data, hematoma size, and growth using the unpaired t test and Mann-Whitney test for continuous and categorical data, respectively. A probability value <0.05 was considered significant. PCL was present in 11/61 patients (18%), occurring in 5 without a spot sign (45%). Spot negative PCL patients demonstrated larger absolute (P=0.02) and percentage hematoma growth (P=0.02) compared to those without PCL. The mean volume and percent increase was 6.7 mL and 26%, respectively. Inclusion of PCL together with CTA spot sign as risk factor for hematoma expansion increased sensitivity from 0.78 (95% CI; 0.52 to 0.94) to 0.94 (95% CI; 0.72 to 1.00) and NPV from 0.90 (95% CI; 0.76 to 0.97) to 0.97 (95% CI; 0.85 to 1.00). Inclusion of PCCT in the investigation of ICH patients allows detection of PCL which, together with the CTA spot sign, increases sensitivity and negative predictive value for predicting hematoma expansion. This finding should be validated in larger studies."}
{"id": "19273826", "title": "Acute ischemic stroke: imaging-guided tenecteplase treatment in an extended time window.", "content": "Acute ischemic stroke: imaging-guided tenecteplase treatment in an extended time window. Tenecteplase is a modified tissue plasminogen activator with a longer half-life and higher fibrin specificity than alteplase. We conducted a prospective, nonrandomized, pilot study of 0.1 mg/kg IV tenecteplase given 3 to 6 hours after ischemic stroke onset. For a control group, we used patients contemporaneously treated with sub-3-hour 0.9 mg/kg IV alteplase following standard selection criteria. All patients underwent pretreatment and 24-hour perfusion/angiographic imaging with CT or MRI. Eligibility criteria for tenecteplase (but not alteplase) treatment included a perfusion lesion at least 20% greater than the infarct core, with an associated vessel occlusion. Primary outcomes, assessed blind to treatment group, were reperfusion (reduction in baseline-24-hour mean transit time lesion) and major vessel recanalization. Fifteen patients received tenecteplase, and 35 patients received alteplase. The tenecteplase group had greater reperfusion (mean 74% vs 44% in the alteplase group, p = 0.01) and major vessel recanalization (10/15 tenecteplase vs 7/29 alteplase, p = 0.01). Despite later time to treatment, more tenecteplase patients (10/15 vs 7/35 alteplase, p = 0.001) had major neurologic improvement at 24 hours (NIH Stroke Scale reduction > or = 8). Four of the alteplase patients and none of the tenecteplase patients had parenchymal hematoma at 24 hours. Tenecteplase 0.1 mg/kg, using advanced imaging guidance in an extended time window, may have significant biologic efficacy in acute ischemic stroke. The imaging selection differences between the tenecteplase and alteplase groups prevent a conclusive efficacy comparison. Nonetheless, these results lend support for randomized trials comparing tenecteplase with alteplase, preferably incorporating penumbral/angiographic imaging selection."}
{"id": "19272513", "title": "Cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Cerebrovascular disease. Effective management of patients who have cerebrovascular disease depends on accurate diagnosis. Many conditions cause clinical findings that closely mimic cerebrovascular disorders and are often ruled out through brain imaging or laboratory findings. Diagnosis of cerebrovascular disorders is based on the presence of risk factors for vascular disease, the tempo of onset, the presence of concurrent conditions, and the clinical course of development of neurologic symptoms and signs. This article shares a process by which clinicians can combine a patient's history, neurologic examination, and brain and vascular imaging to localize a lesion and diagnose cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "19247903", "title": "Dural arteriovenous fistula presenting as an acute subdural hemorrhage that subsequently progressed to a chronic subdural hemorrhage: case report.", "content": "Dural arteriovenous fistula presenting as an acute subdural hemorrhage that subsequently progressed to a chronic subdural hemorrhage: case report. Non-traumatic subdural hemorrhage (SDH) caused by dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) is rare and is usually accompanied by intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) and/or subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). This report describes a very rare case of DAVF that caused non-traumatic acute SDH without ICH or SAH, which subsequently progressed into chronic SDH. The patient presented with a sudden-onset severe headache, and was diagnosed with acute SDH by computed tomography. Cerebral angiography showed a DAVF on the left convexity adjacent to the superior sagittal sinus (SSS). This DAVF drained to the SSS and to the pterygoid venous plexus via the left middle fossa without retrograde flow (Type I according to the Cognard classification). The SDH was thickest at the lower convexity, which suggested that the draining vein of the DAVF was responsible for the bleeding. The SDH slowly progressed for two weeks. The DAVF was successfully treated with transarterial embolization using N-butyl 2-cyanoacrylate. The SDH was resolved via burr-hole drainage surgery. This is the first reported case of DAVF that caused non-traumatic progression to SDH. As DAVF can be the cause of acute and chronic SDH, cerebral angiography is recommended for non-traumatic acute SDH as well as for intractable chronic SDH."}
{"id": "19244051", "title": "Hemorrhagic transformation of ischemic stroke: prediction with CT perfusion.", "content": "Hemorrhagic transformation of ischemic stroke: prediction with CT perfusion. To determine whether admission computed tomography (CT) perfusion-derived permeability-surface area product (PS) maps differ between patients with hemorrhagic acute stroke and those with nonhemorrhagic acute stroke. This prospective study was institutional review board approved, and all participants gave written informed consent. Forty-one patients who presented with acute stroke within 3 hours after stroke symptom onset underwent two-phase CT perfusion imaging, which enabled PS measurement. Patients were assigned to groups according to whether they had hemorrhage transformation (HT) at follow-up magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and CT and/or whether they received tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) treatment. Clinical, demographic, and CT perfusion variables were compared between the HT and non-HT patient groups. Associations between PS and HT were tested at univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. HT developed in 23 (56%) patients. Patients with HT had higher National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) scores (P = .005), poorer outcomes (P = .001), and a higher likelihood of having received TPA (P = .005) compared with patients without HT. Baseline blood flow (P = .17) and blood volume (P = .11) defects and extent of flow reduction (P = .27) were comparable between the two groups. The mean PS for the HT group, 0.49 mL x min(-1) x (100 g)(-1), was significantly higher than that for the non-HT group, 0.09 mL x min(-1) x (100 g)(-1) (P < .0001). PS (odds ratio, 3.5; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.69, 7.06; P = .0007) and size of hypoattenuating area at nonenhanced admission CT (odds ratio, 0.4; 95% CI: 0.2, 0.7; P = .002) were the only independent variables associated with HT at stepwise multivariate analysis. The mean area under the ROC curve was 0.918 (95% CI: 0.828, 1.00). The PS threshold of 0.23 mL x min(-1) x (100 g)(-1) had 77% sensitivity and 94% specificity for detection of HT. Admission PS measurement appears promising for distinguishing patients with acute stroke who are likely from those who are not likely to develop HT. http://radiology.rsnajnls.org/cgi/content/full/250/3/867/DC1."}
{"id": "19237904", "title": "Middle cerebral artery vasospasm: transcranial color-coded duplex sonography versus conventional nonimaging transcranial Doppler sonography.", "content": "Middle cerebral artery vasospasm: transcranial color-coded duplex sonography versus conventional nonimaging transcranial Doppler sonography. To prospectively compare accuracies of transcranial color-coded duplex sonography (TCCS) and transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) in the diagnosis of middle cerebral artery (MCA) vasospasm. Prospective blinded head-to-head comparison TCD and TCCS methods using digital subtraction angiography (DSA) as the reference standard. Department of Radiology in a tertiary university health center in a metropolitan area. Eighty-one consecutive patients (mean age, 53.9 +/- 13.9 years; 48 women). The indication for DSA was subarachnoid hemorrhage in 71 patients (87.6%), stroke or transient ischemic attack in five patients (6.2%), and other reasons in five patients (6.2%). The MCA was graded as normal, narrowed <50%, and >50% using DSA. The accuracy of ultrasound methods was estimated by total area (Az) under receiver operator characteristic curve. To compare sensitivities of ultrasound methods, McNemar's test was used with mean velocity thresholds of 120 cm/sec for the detection of less advanced, and 200 cm/sec for the more advanced MCA narrowing. Angiographic MCA narrowing <or=50% was found in 21, and >50% in 10 of 135 arteries. Accuracy of TCCS was insignificantly higher than that of TCD in the detection of <or=50% and >50% narrowing, total Az for mean velocity being 0.83 +/- 0.05, 0.77 +/- 0.05, and 0.95 +/- 0.02, 0.86 +/- 0.08, respectively. Sensitivity of TCCS at commonly used threshold of 120 cm/sec for less advanced MCA spasm was significantly better than that of TCD at similar specificity, 55% vs. 39%, p = 0.038, whereas at a threshold of 200 cm/sec used for more advanced spasm, sensitivities and specificities of both methods were not different. The accuracy of TCCS and TCD is similar, but TCCS is more sensitive than TCD in the detection of MCA spasm. Sensitivity of both techniques in the detection of mild and more advanced spasm using 120 cm/sec and 200 cm/sec thresholds, respectively, is poor; however, a larger sample is required to increase precision of our sensitivity estimates."}
{"id": "19224118", "title": "Intraventricular haemorrhage caused by the rupture of a dural arteriovenous malformation of the middle cranial fossa.", "content": "Intraventricular haemorrhage caused by the rupture of a dural arteriovenous malformation of the middle cranial fossa. Dural arteriovenous malformations of the middle cranial fossa are very rare. Venous drainage flows either through superficial leptomeningeal veins or through the sphenoparietal, sphenopetrous and/or sphenobasilar sinuses. They often have an aggressive course and therefore poor outcome. It is essential to analyse and understand the angioarchitecture of the dural arteriovenous malformations in order to select and plan the correct treatments. We describe an exceptional case of intraventricular haemorrhage caused by the rupture of a dural arteriovenous malformation of the middle cranial fossa. To our knowledge, this is the first case report of such characteristics described in the literature."}
{"id": "19213820", "title": "Noncontrast CT in deep cerebral venous thrombosis and sinus thrombosis: comparison of its diagnostic value for both entities.", "content": "Noncontrast CT in deep cerebral venous thrombosis and sinus thrombosis: comparison of its diagnostic value for both entities. With its highly variable clinical presentation, the diagnosis of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (SVT), and especially of deep venous thrombosis (DVT), as rare but important causes of stroke is challenging. Because noncontrast cranial CT (NCCT) is still the imaging technique of choice in most emergency departments, we aimed to investigate its value in the diagnosis of SVT and DVT. Screening our patient data base, we identified 8 patients with DVT and 25 patients with SVT. We also included a control group of 36 patients who had presented with clinical signs of DVT or SVT but in whom thrombosis was subsequently excluded. MR imaging, multidetector row CT angiography (MDCTA), and/or digital subtraction angiography (DSA) were used as the reference standard. Three independent readers assessed the NCCTs for the presence of direct and indirect signs of DVT or SVT. Direct signs included the presence of hyperattenuated sinuses (ie, cord sign) or veins (ie, attenuated vein sign), whereas parenchymal edema and hemorrhage were indirect signs. The sensitivity and specificity of the attenuated vein sign for the diagnosis of DVT were 100%, and 99.4%, respectively, whereas the sensitivity and specificity of the cord sign for SVT were 64.6% and 97.2%, respectively. The sensitivity and specificity values of NCCT were 93.7% and 98% for intracerebral edema and 94.8% and 98.7% for intracerebral hemorrhages, respectively. Although NCCT is insufficient to exclude a SVT, its value in the emergency diagnosis of DVT seems to be very high."}
{"id": "19213819", "title": "Multi-detector row CT angiography with direct intra-arterial contrast injection for the evaluation of neurovascular disease: technique, applications, and initial experience.", "content": "Multi-detector row CT angiography with direct intra-arterial contrast injection for the evaluation of neurovascular disease: technique, applications, and initial experience. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of 64-section multi-detector row CT angiography (CTA) with direct intra-arterial contrast injection (IA-CTA) for the evaluation of neurovascular disease. This technique was used in 11 patients at our institution. All studies were technically successful, and there were no complications. Small vascular malformations were mapped easily on high-resolution IA-CTA images, enabling microsurgical resection or stereotactic radiosurgery. In a similar fashion, additional morphologic features were revealed on IA-CTA images not seen on standard 2D and 3D digital subtraction angiography. Of 11 patients undergoing IA-CTA, 7 patients had further anatomic clarity of the small arteriovenous fistula/malformation and 4 patients had changes in the treatment plan on the basis of the IA-CTA findings."}
{"id": "19209383", "title": "Subarachnoid haemorrhage due to a lateral spinal artery aneurysm misdiagnosed as a posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm: case report and literature review.", "content": "Subarachnoid haemorrhage due to a lateral spinal artery aneurysm misdiagnosed as a posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm: case report and literature review. A 61 year old man presenting with subarachnoid haemorrhage had a distal posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) aneurysm diagnosed on the initial cerebral angiogram. However, a PICA aneurysm was not found during surgery. A follow-up, super-selective vertebral artery (VA) performed demonstrated a saccular aneurysm located on the lateral spinal artery (LSA). A right sub-occipital craniotomy was performed and the aneurysm arising was identified and obliterated with a small titanium clip. We describe the first example of an LSA aneurysm without occlusion or severe stenosis of the VA and PICA. This extremely rare lesion illustrates how knowledge of the angiographic features and super-selective cerebral angiography aids the precise diagnosis and the prevention of surgical complications."}
{"id": "19208987", "title": "Recurrent hyperperfusion syndrome and intracerebral hemorrhage after recanalization of the extracranial carotid artery.", "content": "Recurrent hyperperfusion syndrome and intracerebral hemorrhage after recanalization of the extracranial carotid artery."}
{"id": "19194687", "title": "[Neuroimaging evaluation of intracerebral hemorrhage].", "content": "[Neuroimaging evaluation of intracerebral hemorrhage]. Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is responsible for 10-15% of all strokes. Standard evaluation includes a CT examination, in which ICH is initially hyperdense but gradually decreases in density over days to weeks. In emergency situations, native CT can be supplemented with CT angiography, which reliably shows aneurysms and other vascular abnormalities larger than 2-3 mm. For detecting ICH in hyperacute situations, MRI is as sensitive as CT but signal characteristics are more complex, strongly depending on the oxygenation status of hemoglobin and the redox status of iron. In terms of localization, deep ICH in typical locations with hypertensive etiology is differentiated from atypical lobar ICH. Atypical ICH in elderly patients is often caused by cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Despite advances in noninvasive imaging techniques, today most atypical ICH patients still require digital subtraction angiography for a complete evaluation. In contrast, hypertensive ICH can be assumed in patients with known arterial hyperstension and ICH in a typical location."}
{"id": "19193746", "title": "Multidetector row CT angiography in spontaneous lobar intracerebral hemorrhage: a prospective comparison with conventional angiography.", "content": "Multidetector row CT angiography in spontaneous lobar intracerebral hemorrhage: a prospective comparison with conventional angiography. The aim of our study was to assess the accuracy of multidetector row CT angiography (MDCTA) in the detection of the underlying vascular abnormalities causing spontaneous lobar intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) compared with conventional digital subtraction angiography (DSA). Seventy-eight patients who underwent MDCTA with use of a 16-detector row scanner and DSA were prospectively included in this study. Each study was assessed by 2 independent blinded neuroradiologists; decisions were made in consensus. Findings on CT angiograms, including the original axial data, multiplanar reformations, and volume-rendered images with and without automated bone segmentation, were used to identify the underlying causes of ICH. Twenty-two of the 78 patients (28.2%) exhibited angiographic abnormalities, including aneurysms of the proximal arteries (n = 9), arteriovenous malformations (n = 7), Moyamoya disease (n = 4), and aneurysms of the distal arteries (n = 2). MDCTA detected the underlying vascular abnormalities in 21 patients except 1 case of small arteriovenous malformation. Overall sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and accuracy of MDCTA for detection of underlying vascular abnormalities were 95.5%, 100%, 100%, 98.2%, and 98.7%, respectively. MDCTA is a highly accurate imaging technique in the diagnosis of underlying vascular abnormalities in patients with spontaneous lobar ICH."}
{"id": "19176954", "title": "Safety and efficacy of MRI-based selection for recombinant tissue plasminogen activator treatment: responder analysis of outcome in the 3-hour time window.", "content": "Safety and efficacy of MRI-based selection for recombinant tissue plasminogen activator treatment: responder analysis of outcome in the 3-hour time window. The use of MRI may alter the target population for intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) treatment relative to conventional CT. If selection changes, it remains crucial to demonstrate safety and efficacy of rtPA for the overall population, as well as in subpopulations hypothesized to benefit from MRI. Clinical outcome and incidence of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) was recorded in 112 consecutive patients treated with intravenous rtPA (0-3 h) with MRI as first-choice imaging modality. According to the responder analysis, favorable outcome was separately defined for mild (NIHSS <8; n = 51), moderate (NIHSS 8-14; n = 30) and severe (NIHSS >14; n = 31) stroke. Eighty-three patients were treated with rtPA after MRI, and 29 after CT. Adjusted for baseline severity, 42% of all patients had a favorable outcome, compared to 37% in NINDS. Among patients with severe stroke, MR-selected patients showed a good outcome in 52% of patients compared to 29% in NINDS (p < 0.05). Symptomatic ICH occurred in 2 patients (1.9 %), and 7 patients died during hospitalization (6.3%). MRI-based rtPA is safe and time-efficient. Outcome data compares well with NINDS data. Diagnostic information obtained from multimodal MRI may affect the target group. Our data support the hypothesized benefit of MRI in patients with severe stroke."}
{"id": "19175034", "title": "[Case of cerebral venous thrombosis causing refractory intracerebral hemorrhage].", "content": "[Case of cerebral venous thrombosis causing refractory intracerebral hemorrhage]. Cerebral venous thrombosis is an uncommon disease characterized by expansive cerebral edema, venous infarction and massive intracerebral hemorrhage. Magnetic resonance imaging and angiography are useful for diagnosis of cerebral venous thrombosis. A 54-year-old man was admitted with headache, vomiting and right hemiparesis. Computed tomography (CT) revealed subcortical hematoma in the left parietal lobe. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) demonstrated occlusion of the left Labb\u00e9 vein with dilation of cortical veins and deep cerebral veins. He also suffered from pulmonary embolization and deep vein thrombosis in the lower extremities. Anticoagulant and thrombolytic agents were administered, then respiratory condition and hemiparesis were improved. However, his condition deteriolated 7 months after the initial attack. CT revealed huge subcortical hematoma in the same site. He underwent craniotomy and intracerebral hematoma was evacuated during treatment with vitamin K. His symptom gradually improved and he was discharged with moderate disability 2 months after operation. Dicision of surgical treatment is difficult because there is a risk of rebleeding due to thrombolytic therapy and progressive venous congestion. Since anticoagulant and thrombolytic therapy are inevitable, surgical indication for refractory intracerebral hemorrhage associated with cerebral venous thrombosis should be considered carefully."}
{"id": "19171214", "title": "Sherlock Holmes in the ER (the case of red and the head).", "content": "Sherlock Holmes in the ER (the case of red and the head). A 58-year-old woman presented with a problem with her peripheral vision. Computed tomography scan showed an occipital hemorrhagic stroke. She subsequently suffered gastrointestinal bleeding and at surgery biopsy of a portion of the middle colic artery aneurysm revealed changes consistent with polyarteritis nodosa."}
{"id": "19165955", "title": "The diagnosis and management of supraaortic arterial dissections.", "content": "The diagnosis and management of supraaortic arterial dissections. To review recent advances in understanding supraaortic arterial dissections and their diagnosis and management. Dissection of the supraaortic arteries, including the extracranial carotid and vertebral arteries and intracranial arteries, is increasingly identified as an important cause of stroke and subarachnoid hemorrhage. The most common cause likely involves minor trauma with preexisting arteriopathy. The imaging diagnosis of dissection is complicated by the wide range of pathological changes that occur after dissection. Modalities include ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging and angiography, computed tomography angiography, and digital subtraction angiography. The choice of method is best tailored to each patient individually. Similarly, treatments may vary from antiplatelet medications to complex endovascular techniques. There are limited data to guide treating patients with strokes due to arterial dissections. Conservative management is likely optimal for most patients with cervical dissections, endovascular treatments being reserved for the rapidly deteriorating patient only. However, patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage due to rupture of a dissecting aneurysm require urgent endovascular or surgical treatment of the aneurysm. The diagnosis and management of supraaortic arterial dissections is complex, and a variable multidisciplinary approach will likely yield the best outcome."}
{"id": "19165668", "title": "Postpartum cerebral angiopathy mimicking hypertensive putaminal hematoma: a case report.", "content": "Postpartum cerebral angiopathy mimicking hypertensive putaminal hematoma: a case report. To present an emerging clinical entity which may mimic another common entity. A 31 year-old woman complained of sudden severe headache and collapsed. She had delivered by Cesarean section one week previously. She had a normal antenatal history and did not have any evidence of hypertension. Clinical examination revealed her to be in altered sensorium, GCS E2V2M5 with reduced movements on the left side. CT scan showed a large right putaminal hematoma with mass effect and midline shift. MRI also showed the hematoma but the MRV was normal. Despite antiedema measures and hyperventilation, the patient continued to deteriorate and so underwent right hemicraniectomy. MRA was done postoperatively and showed diffuse spasm of both middle cerebral arteries. A diagnosis of postpartum cerebral angiopathy was made and she was put on methylprednisolone and other antiedema measures were continued. With this she improved significantly. At one year she had residual hemiparesis but had returned to work. Four-vessel angiogram repeated 1 year later showed no arterial spasm. She later had cranioplasty to cover the defect. This case is presented to show that in a postpartum patient, if she presents with putaminal hematoma, postpartum angiopathy needs to be suspected and appropriate investigations and treatment, including steroids, should be given as the overall prognosis is good."}
{"id": "19164797", "title": "The utility of quantitative magnetic resonance angiography in the assessment of intracranial in-stent stenosis.", "content": "The utility of quantitative magnetic resonance angiography in the assessment of intracranial in-stent stenosis. Noninvasive screening for intracranial in-stent stenosis is often limited by artifact because of the stent or associated coils. We aimed to determine the utility of quantitative MRA (QMRA) as a screening tool for detecting intracranial in-stent stenosis. We reviewed 14 patients who had intracranial stent placement with follow-up QMRA and conventional angiography at our institution. Socio-demographic, medical, clinical, and imaging data were abstracted from medical charts. A blinded interventional neurologist reviewed all angiograms for presence of >50% in-stent stenosis. We tested QMRA (mL/min) at varying thresholds as a predictor of angiographic results. Among 14 patients (mean age, 62 years; 12 female, 2 male), 13 patients had Neuroform stents placed for wide-neck cerebral aneurysms and 1 patient had a Wingspan stent placement for atherosclerotic stenosis. Lesions were located in the intracranial internal carotid artery in 57.2% (n=8), the middle cerebral artery in 14.3% (n=2), and vertebrobasilar arteries in 28.6% (n=4). On follow-up angiography, 2 patients (14.3%) had >50% in-stent stenosis on angiography. Time-of-flight MRA was nondiagnostic in each case because of artifact from the stent or coils. A >20% reduction in vessel-specific blood flow by QMRA was associated with presence of >50% in-stent stenosis on angiography (P=0.033). As a screening tool to predict >50% angiographic in-stent stenosis, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of QMRA were 100%, 92%, 67%, and 100%, respectively. We found that QMRA is a promising screening tool to detect intracranial in-stent stenosis. Future prospective studies should focus on whether QMRA has a role in the detection of radiographic restenosis and prediction of clinical events."}
{"id": "19159914", "title": "[Stroke MRI for risk assessment of intracerebral hemorrhage associated with thrombolytic therapy].", "content": "[Stroke MRI for risk assessment of intracerebral hemorrhage associated with thrombolytic therapy]. This article summarizes recent developments concerning MRI-based risk assessment of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage (sICH) associated with thrombolytic therapy for acute stroke. Special attention is paid to three imaging parameters: cerebral microangiopathy, lesion size on diffusion weighted imaging (DWI), and the role of cerebral microbleeds. Both severe cerebral microangiopathy and increasing lesion size on DWI are now established risk factors for sICH following thrombolysis, while the presence of a single or few microbleeds is not associated with a substantially elevated sICH risk."}
{"id": "19151021", "title": "Vascular risk factors and morphometric data in cervical artery dissection: a case-control study.", "content": "Vascular risk factors and morphometric data in cervical artery dissection: a case-control study. Limited knowledge exists on vascular risk factors, body height and weight in patients with spontaneous cervical artery dissection (sCAD). In this case-control study, major vascular risk factors, body weight, body height and body mass index (BMI) of 239 patients obtained from a prospective hospital-based sCAD registry were compared with 516 age- and sex-matched healthy controls undergoing systematic health examinations in the Clinical and Preventive Investigations Center, Paris. Gender-specific analyses were performed. The mean body height was higher in sCAD patients than in controls (171.3 cm (SD 8.6) vs 167.7 cm (8.9); p<0.0001) and sCAD patients had a significantly lower mean body weight (67.5 (12.2) kg vs 69.3 (14.6) kg; p<0.001) and mean BMI (22.9 (3.3) kg/m2 vs 24.5 (4.2) kg/m2; p<0.0001) than controls. The overall frequency of hypertension, diabetes, current smoking, past smoking and hypercholesterolaemia did not differ significantly between sCAD patients and controls. The mean total plasma cholesterol level was identical in both groups (5.5 mmol/l, SD 1.1). Gender specific subgroup analyses showed similar results for men and women. Patients with sCAD had a higher body height and a lower body weight and BMI than controls, while major vascular risk factors were similar in sCAD patients and controls."}
{"id": "19135722", "title": "Arterial spin labeling shows cortical collateral flow in the endovascular treatment of vasospasm after post-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Arterial spin labeling shows cortical collateral flow in the endovascular treatment of vasospasm after post-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage. We report here on the case of a patient who, 10 days prior to his admission to hospital, had suffered a bicycle accident. He presented with signs of minor dysphasia. A brain CT-scan revealed slight subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in the left sylvian fissure as well as narrowing of the distal M1 segment of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA) on CT-angiography. MRI showed diffusion abnormalities and hypoperfusion in the left MCA territory with cortical hyperperfusion on arterial spin labeling (ASL). Arteriography confirmed the vasospasm, but showed no sign of aneurysm. Angioplasty of the narrowed MCA was successful, and follow-up MRI showed reperfusion of the MCA territory."}
{"id": "19132425", "title": "Accuracy of CT angiography for the diagnosis of vascular abnormalities causing intraparenchymal hemorrhage in young patients.", "content": "Accuracy of CT angiography for the diagnosis of vascular abnormalities causing intraparenchymal hemorrhage in young patients. The objective of this study is to measure the accuracy of multidetector CT angiography (MD CTA) in the detection of vascular abnormalities in patients <or=40 years with spontaneous intraparenchymal hemorrhage (IPH) presenting to the emergency department. After institutional review board approval, a retrospective study was performed of 43 consecutive patients <or=40 years, who presented to our emergency department with IPH and that were evaluated with MD CTA. MD CTA images were reviewed by a neuroradiologist to determine IPH location, presence of a vascular abnormality, and associated extraparenchymal hemorrhage. Diagnostic accuracy was measured comparing it to the available reference standards, which included conventional catheter angiogram (CCA), surgical macroscopic findings, and pathology results. Medical records were reviewed for risk factors and correlation with final diagnosis. MD CTA demonstrated an accuracy of 97.7%, with a sensitivity of 96.4% (95% CI 0.79-0.99) and a specificity of 100% (95% CI 0.74-0.99) for the detection of vascular abnormalities in young patients with IPH. Additionally, MD CTA had a PPV of 100%, and the NPV 93.8% in this population. Of the 43 patients included in the study, 28 patients (65%) had a causative vascular etiology for the IPH. Among the 28 patients with vascular etiologies for the IPH, 11 had an AVM (39.2%), nine a ruptured aneurysm (32.14%), seven dural venous sinus thrombosis (25%), and one had vasculitis (3.57%). MD CTA is highly accurate in the detection of vascular abnormalities in the setting of IPH, which as a group represents the most frequent etiology of IPH among patients age <or=40 years. MD CTA performed in the Emergency Department provides accurate, rapid and critical presurgical and premedical treatment information in young patients with IPH."}
{"id": "19124096", "title": "4-D Imaging in cerebrovascular disorders by using 320-slice CT: feasibility and preliminary clinical experience.", "content": "4-D Imaging in cerebrovascular disorders by using 320-slice CT: feasibility and preliminary clinical experience. The authors report study protocols and initial clinical experience in assessing patients with acute and chronic cerebrovascular disorders using the recently introduced technique of volume computed tomography (VCT). Thirteen patients with presumptive cerebrovascular insufficiency underwent VCT using a 320-slice scanner (detector width, 160 mm), including time-resolved whole-brain perfusion and cerebral angiography (four-dimensional computed tomographic angiography [CTA] and computed tomographic perfusion [CTP]). Unenhanced cranial CT (cCT) and helical cervicocranial CT (three-dimensional CTA) were added according to clinical requirements. Study protocols are presented, and image quality, data management, and radiation exposure issues are discussed. In 12 of 13 patients, the procedure was performed successfully on admission; in the other patient, the study was aborted for clinical reasons and repeated. Total scan time amounted to about 5 minutes, and data reconstruction times were up to 10 minutes. About 9000 primary images were generated, partially in the enhanced Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine format, thus requiring new data postprocessing and management strategies. Image artifacts restricted the use of single-rotation cCT and incremental VCT (three-dimensional CTA). Overall exposure figures (computed tomographic dose index and dose-length product) were increased by 65% on average when three-dimensional CTA was added to volume cCT and four-dimensional CTA and CTP (5.0 mSv and 2178 mGy . cm, respectively). Preliminary clinical experience indicates that whole-brain four-dimensional CTA and CTP is a robust technique that provides relevant clinical information with respect to whole-brain perfusion as well as cerebral hemodynamics. The exposure benefit of deriving time-resolved perfusion and vessel images from one source data set is compromised when adding three-dimensional CTA to the protocol. Other acquisition techniques specific to VCT, such as single-rotation cCT and incremental three-dimensional CTA, suffer from restrictions in terms of image quality at present."}
{"id": "19119890", "title": "Intracranial subarachnoid hemorrhage resulting from cervical spine dural arteriovenous fistulas: literature review and case presentation.", "content": "Intracranial subarachnoid hemorrhage resulting from cervical spine dural arteriovenous fistulas: literature review and case presentation. Cervical dural arteriovenous fistulas (dAVFs) are a rare cause of intracranial subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) but should be considered when other sources are not found. Subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by dAVF is thought to occur as a result of venous hypertension in most cases. The clinical presentation, acute onset of severe headache, is similar to that in patients with other causes of SAH; however, severe neurological deficits (Hunt and Hess Grade IV and V SAH) have not been reported in SAH caused by cervical dAVFs. Patients with this type of SAH commonly report suboccipital headache, neck pain, and nausea, and thus these hemorrhages can be easily dismissed as perimesencephalic SAH. Vigilant evaluation with 4-vessel cerebral angiography, including selective catheterization of both proximal vertebral arteries, should be performed. The practice of unilateral vertebral artery injection with reflux into the contralateral vertebral and posterior inferior cerebellar arteries has the potential to overlook cervical dAVF. Magnetic resonance imaging may be useful to evaluate for other causes of SAH but is probably not sensitive for the identification of a cervical dAVF. Surgical treatment of this lesion has an excellent outcome."}
{"id": "19118242", "title": "Thrombolysis in childhood stroke: report of 2 cases and review of the literature.", "content": "Thrombolysis in childhood stroke: report of 2 cases and review of the literature. No controlled, randomized trial has investigated whether intravenous, intra-arterial (IAT), or mechanical thrombolysis is beneficial in children with ischemic stroke. We report 2 children who underwent IAT for acute ischemic stroke and include them in a review about intravenous thrombolysis, IAT, and mechanical thrombolysis for childhood stroke. We searched in MEDLINE and EMBASE for studies that reported on treatment of childhood stroke with intravenous thrombolysis, IAT, or mechanical thrombolysis in the presence of occlusion of the basilar artery, sphenoidal, or insular middle cerebral artery. To be included in this review, the following findings had to be reported: (1) stroke severity at presentation; (2) cerebral imaging findings before thrombolysis; (3) time to treatment; (4) dose of the thrombolytic agent; (5) pre- and postinterventional angiographic findings in IAT; and (6) outcome assessed at hospital discharge or within 12 months after thrombolysis. Adequate data were available in 17 children (including our 2 own cases) who underwent intravenous thrombolysis (n=6), IAT (n=10), or mechanical thrombolysis (n=1). No symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage occurred, but 2 asymptomatic intracranial hemorrhages were present. Sixteen children (94%) survived, and 12 (71%) had a good outcome (modified Rankin Scale score 0 or 1). The available data about thrombolysis in pediatric stroke are limited. They suggest that this treatment may be beneficial in children with ischemic stroke. Controlled, randomized trials are needed to determine whether thrombolysis is useful in childhood stroke."}
{"id": "19082996", "title": "Now you see it, now you don't--the hidden life of cerebral dural arteriovenous fistulae.", "content": "Now you see it, now you don't--the hidden life of cerebral dural arteriovenous fistulae."}
{"id": "19046043", "title": "Dural arteriovenous fistulas masquerading as dural sinus thrombosis.", "content": "Dural arteriovenous fistulas masquerading as dural sinus thrombosis. The authors report dural sinus thrombosis diagnosed in 2 patients based on noninvasive imaging results, which were revealed to be dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) diagnosed using digital subtraction (DS) angiography. The first patient was a 63-year-old man who presented with headaches. Magnetic resonance venography was performed and suggested dural sinus thrombosis of the left transverse sinus and jugular vein. He was administered warfarin anticoagulation therapy but then suffered multiple intracranial hemorrhages. A DS angiogram was requested for a possible dural sinus thrombectomy, but the DS angiogram revealed a DAVF. The patient underwent serial liquid embolization with complete obliteration of the DAVF. The second patient, an 11-year-old boy, also presented with headaches and was diagnosed with dural sinus thrombosis on MR imaging. A DS angiogram was also requested for a possible thrombectomy and revealed a DAVF. This patient underwent serial liquid embolization and eventual operative resection. These reports emphasize that different venous flow abnormalities can appear similar on noninvasive imaging and that proper diagnosis is critical to avoid contraindicated therapies."}
{"id": "19028009", "title": "Occlusion of all cardinal cerebropetal arteries without causing ischemic stroke.", "content": "Occlusion of all cardinal cerebropetal arteries without causing ischemic stroke. A 66-year-old male presented with a sudden severe headache, transient loss of consciousness and persisting vertigo. A subarachnoid hemorrhage was detected via lumbar puncture. The CT scan was negative and an MRI detected a few T2 hyperintense foci of ischemic origin and the suspected subarachnoid hemorrhage. An MRA revealed occlusions of all four magistral cerebral arteries and the presence of an excessively developed collateral circulation, later proven with DSA. The patient did not suffer from focal ischemia despite this severe cerebrovascular disease. At the time of discharge after 30 days of hospitalization, previous mild meningeal signs, cephalea and vertigo were no longer present."}
{"id": "19021843", "title": "Intravascular ultrasound of symptomatic intracranial stenosis demonstrates atherosclerotic plaque with intraplaque hemorrhage: a case report.", "content": "Intravascular ultrasound of symptomatic intracranial stenosis demonstrates atherosclerotic plaque with intraplaque hemorrhage: a case report. Intracranial artery stenosis is assumed to represent atherosclerotic plaque. Catheter cerebral arteriography shows that intracranial stenosis may progress, regress, or remain unchanged. It is counterintuitive that atherosclerotic plaque should spontaneously regress, raising questions about the composition of intracranial stenoses. Little is known about this disease entity in vivo. We provide the first demonstration of in vivo atherosclerotic plaque with intraplaque hemorrhage using intravascular ultrasound (IVUS). A 35-year-old man with multiple vascular risk factors presented with recurrent stroke failing medical therapy. Imaging demonstrated left internal carotid artery occlusion, severe intracranial right internal carotid artery stenosis, and cerebral perfusion failure. Cerebral arteriography with IVUS confirmed 85% stenosis of the petrous right carotid artery due to atherosclerotic plaque with intraplaque hemorrhage. Intracranial stent-supported angioplasty was performed with IRB approval. The patient recovered without complication. This case supports the premise that symptomatic intracranial stenosis can be caused by atherosclerotic plaque complicated by intraplaque hemorrhage similar to coronary artery plaque. IVUS provides additional characteristics that define intracranial atherosclerosis and high-risk features. To our knowledge, this is the first report of stroke due to unstable atherosclerotic plaque with intraplaque hemorrhage in vivo."}
{"id": "19013816", "title": "Cerebellar haemorrhage associated with persistent primitive trigeminal artery.", "content": "Cerebellar haemorrhage associated with persistent primitive trigeminal artery. A 55-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of sudden onset of dizziness and gait ataxia. A brain CT scan revealed a small cerebellar haemorrhage located in the right vermis. Brain MR angiography revealed left persistent primitive trigeminal artery (PPTA) and basilar artery (BA) dysplasia proximal to the shunting PPTA without arteriovenous malformation (AVM) or aneurysm. We speculate that BA dysplasia due to the PPTA, along with poorly controlled hypertension resulted in overload of the superior cerebellar artery blood vessels through the PPTA, leading to a haemorrhage in the right vermis. BA dysplasia and a PPTA without an obvious AVM or aneurysm possibly leading to cerebellar haemorrhage is rare. PPTA is a relatively common vascular anomaly; hence, we must consider it in the differential diagnosis for brain haemorrhages that may be caused by the specific haemodynamic consequences of PPTA."}
{"id": "19008469", "title": "The natural history and predictive features of hemorrhage from brain arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "The natural history and predictive features of hemorrhage from brain arteriovenous malformations. Patients harboring brain arteriovenous malformations (bAVMs) are at a lifelong risk for hemorrhagic strokes, but the natural history is poorly understood. We examined the impact of demographic and angiographic features on the likelihood of future hemorrhage. A prospectively accrued database of bAVM patients maintained at the Toronto Western Hospital was analyzed; 678 consecutive, prospectively enrolled bAVM patients were followed for 1931.7 patient-years. The rate of hemorrhage over long-term follow-up was recorded. The impact of baseline clinical and radiographic features and partial treatment on time to hemorrhage were analyzed using survival analysis. Neurological outcome after hemorrhage was assessed using the Glasgow Outcome Score. Hemorrhage rates were 4.61% per year for the entire cohort (n=678), 7.48% per year for bAVMs with initial hemorrhagic presentation (n=258), 4.16% per year for initial seizure presentation (n=260), 3.99% per year for patients not harboring aneurysms (n=556), 6.93% per year for patients with associated aneurysms (n=122), and 5.42% per year for bAVMs with deep venous drainage (n=365). Hemorrhagic presentation was a significant independent predictor of future hemorrhage (HR, 2.15; P<0.01), whereas associated aneurysms (HR, 1.59; P=0.07) and deep venous drainage (HR, 1.59; P=0.07) showed a trend toward significance. Hemorrhage risk was unchanged in patients who underwent partial arteriovenous malformation embolization (n=211; HR, 0.875; P=0.32). Brain arteriovenous malformations presenting with hemorrhage, with deep venous drainage, or associated aneurysms have approximately 2-fold greater likelihood of a future hemorrhage. Partial treatment by embolization does not alter these risks. This natural history should be taken into account in the treatment strategy."}
{"id": "19004542", "title": "Expression of a latent ophthalmic artery collateral circulation after extracranial-intracranial bypass.", "content": "Expression of a latent ophthalmic artery collateral circulation after extracranial-intracranial bypass. We present the case of an unexpected response by the cerebral vasculature to bypass surgery. A 66-year-old man sustained a subarachnoid haemorrhage and cerebral angiography showed a large fusiform anterior communicating artery (ACoA) aneurysm and an anomalous anterior circulation. The right A1 segment was hypoplastic and blood supply to the entire right A2 was from the left anterior circulation via the ACoA. The aneurysm was therefore not amenable to endovascular coiling or surgical clipping alone. An extracranial-intracranial bypass was performed to revascularize the territory of the right A2 independently of the ACoA to allow the latter vessel to be clipped. Although the bypass graft was patent on post-operative cerebral angiography, it was in fact only perfusing a limited, peripheral anterior cerebral artery territory. The bulk of the right anterior circulation was derived retrogradely by latent collaterals from the internal carotid and ophthalmic arteries via small dural vessels which were not apparent prior to surgery."}
{"id": "18953532", "title": "Clinical and angiographic characteristics of cavernous sinus dural arteriovenous fistulas manifesting as venous infarction and/or intracranial hemorrhage.", "content": "Clinical and angiographic characteristics of cavernous sinus dural arteriovenous fistulas manifesting as venous infarction and/or intracranial hemorrhage. Cavernous sinus (CS) dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) rarely cause venous infarction (VI) and/or intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) despite the presence of cortical venous drainage (CVD). The present study investigated the characteristics of CS DAVFs manifesting as VI/ICH. Fifty-four patients treated for CS DAVFs were retrospectively studied. Six patients presented with VI/ICH. Two of the three patients presenting with ICH had CVD only to the superficial sylvian vein (SSV) or the deep sylvian vein (DSV). Three patients presenting with VI had multiple drainages, and angiography of these patients showed a varix on the SSV, drainage into the DSV with agenesis of the second and third segment of basal vein of Rosenthal, and thrombosis of the distal petrosal vein. CS DAVF with CVD only carries higher risk of VI/ICH than multiple drainages. Many CS DAVFs presenting with VI, especially those with drainage into the petrosal vein, have multiple drainages in the early stage. Thrombosis of the inferior and superior petrosal sinuses and superior orbital vein gradually increases pressure of the CVD, and then, VI may occur. In contrast, CS DAVFs with CVD only from the beginning, common in the patients with drainage into the SSVs and DSVs, are likely to cause ICH. Angiographic risk factors causing VI/ICH are CVD only, varix formation, agenesis of the second and third segment of basal vein of Rosenthal, and thrombosis of the superior orbital vein, lateral half of the superior petrosal sinus, and distal CVD."}
{"id": "18945800", "title": "3D high-spatial-resolution cerebral MR venography at 3T: a contrast-dose-reduction study.", "content": "3D high-spatial-resolution cerebral MR venography at 3T: a contrast-dose-reduction study. The effect of various contrast-dose regimens for cerebral MR venography (MRV) has not been previously evaluated at 3T, to our knowledge. Our purpose was to evaluate and compare the diagnostic image quality resulting from half-versus-full-dose contrast regimens for high-spatial-resolution 3D cerebral MRV at 3T. Forty consecutive patients with known or suggested cerebrovascular disease underwent 3D high-spatial-resolution (0.7 x 0.6 x 0.9 mm(3)) cerebral contrast-enhanced MRV (CE-MRV) at 3T, by using an identical acquisition protocol. Patients were assigned to 1 of 2 groups: 1) full-dose (approximately 0.1 mmol/kg), and 2) half-dose (approximately 0.05 mmol/kg). Two readers evaluated the resulting images for overall image quality, venous structure definition, and arterial contamination. Signal intensity-to-noise-ratio (SNR) and contrast-to-noise-ratio (CNR) were evaluated in 8 consistent sites. Statistical analysis was performed by using Mann-Whitney U, Wilcoxon signed rank, and t tests and a kappa coefficient. Both readers scored venous-structure definition as excellent or sufficient for diagnosis in approximately 90% of segments for the full-dose group (kappa = 0.87) and in approximately 80% of segments for the half-dose group (kappa = 0.85). Delineation grades were significantly lower for small venous segments, including the middle cerebral, septal, superior cerebellar, inferior vermian, posterior tonsillar, and thalamostriate veins in the half-dose group (P < .01). No significant difference existed for arterial contamination grades between the 2 groups (P > .05). SNR and CNR values were lower in the half-dose group (P < .01). At 3T, high-spatial-resolution cerebral MRV can be performed with contrast doses as low as 7.5 mL, without compromising image quality as compared with full-dose protocols, except in the smallest veins, and without compromise of acquisition speed or spatial resolution."}
{"id": "18836384", "title": "Cranial computed tomography angiography with automated bone subtraction: a feasibility study.", "content": "Cranial computed tomography angiography with automated bone subtraction: a feasibility study. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) is becoming an increasingly accepted noninvasive alternative to catheter angiography. To display continuous vessel contours without superimposed bone in a similar manner, postprocessing of the CTA data is necessary. Threshold-based techniques often fail in regions of close vessel-bone contact, which frequently requires user interaction to optimize the results. This may be laborious and time consuming. The aim of this study was to assess the feasibility of a fully automated algorithm for bone subtraction in cranial CT angiography. Forty-nine patients underwent cranial CT angiography on 64 slice CT systems. Two scans were performed, one before (mask) and one after (CTA) contrast agent administration. Images were processed with commercially available subtraction software. Two examiners rated the success of overall bone removal and image quality of different vessel segments (n = 34) with a 4-point scale (1 = poor; 4 = excellent); original CTA data served as the reference. Subtraction was performed successfully in all cases, overall subtraction quality was high (82% of cases were rated good or excellent). Only 50 of 1666 arterial segments (3%) were rated nondiagnostic. No relevant artificial stenoses of the internal carotid artery (ICA) or vertebral artery along their way through the skull base were detected when comparing CTA source images to bone subtraction computed tomography angiography (BSCTA) images. Automatic subtraction provides diagnostic image quality for 3D visualization of intracranial vessels, free from over projecting bone in a fully automatic way. Aneurysms can be evaluated from all angles, and ICA stenoses at the skull base were easily visualized."}
{"id": "18813932", "title": "Visualisation of intracerebral haemorrhage with flat-detector CT compared to multislice CT: results in 44 cases.", "content": "Visualisation of intracerebral haemorrhage with flat-detector CT compared to multislice CT: results in 44 cases. The aim of the study was to test the reliability of intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) detection with C-arm-mounted flat-detector computed tomography (FD-CT) in the angio suite as compared to multislice CT (MSCT). In this study 44 patients with 45 ICH were included. All patients were investigated with MSCT and FD-CT during angiographic evaluation. As a control group we included 16 patients without ICH. In each haematoma we assessed volumetric data of the ICH and counted the numbers of ICH-positive slices. Using interobserver ratings, we additionally investigated the potential of FD-CT to serve as a diagnostic tool to detect ICH. In FD-CT three haematomas were not detected because of motion and beam-hardening artefacts in the region close to the skull base. The r value for the degree of interobserver agreement for the number of slices was 0.95 for MSCT and 0.94 for FD-CT. Measurements of the area and the calculated volume of the ICH showed high inter- and intraobserver agreement. Our results indicate that FD-CT is a helpful tool in the daily emergency management of ICH patients as detection of ICH was found to be nearly as reliable as in MSCT. Limitations of this technology are motion and beam-hardening artefacts that may mask small haematomas located in the posterior fossa or the skull base."}
{"id": "18793887", "title": "Imaging intra- and extracranial vessels: computed tomography angiography and magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Imaging intra- and extracranial vessels: computed tomography angiography and magnetic resonance angiography."}
{"id": "18787814", "title": "Developmental venous anomaly (DVA) with arterial component: a rare cause of intracranial haemorrhage.", "content": "Developmental venous anomaly (DVA) with arterial component: a rare cause of intracranial haemorrhage. To examine the clinical and radiologic findings of patients with developmental venous anomaly (DVA) associated with intracranial haemorrhage but unrelated to cavernoma. Computed tomography (CT) was used to obtain intracranial images from seven patients ranging in age from 6 to 51 years. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was then performed on six patients, and two patients were further examined via CT angiography. Finally, digital subtraction angiography (DSA) was performed to confirm the initial diagnosis. CT showed intraparenchymal supratentorial haemorrhage in all patients. The combined imaging modalities eventually confirmed a diagnosis of arterialized DVA in four patients and arterialized DVA associated with arteriovenus malformation (AVM) in three. Two patients were managed symptomatically, two underwent radiosurgery, one underwent surgery, one underwent combined embolisation plus radiosurgery and the remaining patient underwent combined embolisation plus surgery. Two patients died, one as a result of re-bleeding, and the other due to radiation necrosis. The mean follow-up period was 33 months (6 months to 6 years) for the remaining five patients with favourable outcome. DVA associated with intraparenchymal haemorrhage, but not related to cavernoma, was confirmed. Though very rare, DVA may present with non-cavernoma-related haemorrhage in the form of arterialized DVA or DVA with AVM."}
{"id": "18757218", "title": "Apnoea in relation to neonatal temporal lobe haemorrhage.", "content": "Apnoea in relation to neonatal temporal lobe haemorrhage. Six term newborns presented with apnoea and temporal lobe haemorrhage. In this observational study, we described involvement of the limbic system in apnoeic term newborns with temporal lobe injury. Six term newborns presented to the neonatal care unit with apnoea within the first 2 days of life. Ultrasound (US) and MRI of the brain were obtained in the first week of life. Apnoea was related to temporal lobe haemorrhage in all. During apnoeic periods four had focal epileptic activity on EEG. All lesions were detected first with US. On MRI, haemorrhages were located in the parenchyma, the subdural and/or subarachnoid space. Three haemorrhages were surrounded by infarction in the temporal lobe. In three infants hippocampus and mesial temporal cortex were affected. In two basal temporal cortex only was involved. Vascular anomalies were excluded by MRA, serial MRI or serial US with Doppler imaging. Term infants with seizure associated apnoea may present with haemorrhage and/or infarction to hippocampus, mesial and basal temporal cortex. This study supports the existence and possible disruption of descending influences from the temporal cortex and/or amygdala on brainstem breathing centres in the term newborn."}
{"id": "18619779", "title": "One patent intracranial collateral predicts tolerance of flow reversal during carotid angioplasty and stenting.", "content": "One patent intracranial collateral predicts tolerance of flow reversal during carotid angioplasty and stenting. Internal carotid artery (ICA) flow reversal is an effective means of cerebral protection during carotid stenting. Its main limitation is that in the absence of adequate collateral flow it may not be tolerated by the patient. The purpose of this study was to determine if preoperative identification of intracranial collaterals with computerized tomographic (CTA) or magnetic resonance (MRA) angiography can predict adequate collateral flow and neurological tolerance of ICA flow reversal for embolic protection. This was a study of patients undergoing transcervical carotid angioplasty and stenting. Neuroprotection was established by ICA flow reversal. All patients underwent preoperative cervical and cerebral noninvasive angiography with CTA or MRA and had at least one patent intracranial collateral. Mean carotid artery back pressure was measured. Neurological changes during carotid clamping and flow reversal were continuously monitored with electroencephalography (EEG). Thirty-seven patients with at least one patent intracranial collateral on brain imaging with CTA or MRA were included. Mean carotid artery back pressure was 58 mm Hg. All procedures were technically successful. No EEG changes were present with common carotid artery occlusion and ICA flow reversal. One patent intracranial collateral provides sufficient cerebral perfusion to perform carotid occlusion and flow reversal with absence of EEG changes. Continued progress in noninvasive imaging modalities is becoming increasingly helpful in our understanding of cerebral physiology and selection of patients for invasive carotid procedures."}
{"id": "18572343", "title": "Does 16-detector computed tomography improve detection of non-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage in the Emergency Department?", "content": "Does 16-detector computed tomography improve detection of non-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage in the Emergency Department? The diagnosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage remains difficult to establish, yet the sensitivity of increasingly available 16-detector computed tomography (CT) has not been evaluated. The objective of this study was to estimate the sensitivity of 16-detector CT for the diagnosis of non-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage in the Emergency Department (ED). A retrospective review was performed in an academic tertiary care hospital. Patients presenting to the ED from September 2003 through December 2004 with symptoms suggestive of subarachnoid hemorrhage and having a final diagnosis of non-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage were eligible for study. Diagnosis was established by positive 16-detector CT examination of the brain, or spinal fluid analysis. Patient demographics and results of CT, angiogram, and spinal fluid analysis were reviewed. Sensitivity of 16-detector CT was calculated by comparing CT results and cerebral angiogram results. Refined Wilson Simple Asymptotic 95% confidence intervals were calculated. Sixty-one consecutive patients met the study criteria and had a final diagnosis of non-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage. One of these patients did not have subarachnoid hemorrhage identified by 16-detector CT, but had a positive lumbar puncture and an aneurysm confirmed on cerebral angiography. Sensitivity of 16-detector CT for subarachnoid hemorrhage was 97% (95% confidence interval 84-100%). Sixteen-detector CT did not improve detection of non-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage when compared with studies using single-detector CT. If there is high clinical suspicion for non-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage and non-contrast 16-detector CT scan is negative, further evaluation is suggested."}
{"id": "19235442", "title": "Unruptured cerebral aneurysms presenting with ischemic events.", "content": "Unruptured cerebral aneurysms presenting with ischemic events. Patients harboring an unruptured cerebral aneurysm may present with ischemic events. The goal of this study is to assess the clinical and radiological characteristics and the outcome following treatment of these patients. The study population included 463 patients with unruptured cerebral aneurysms treated between January 2000 and November 2006. Patients with aneurysms manifesting with ischemic events were included. Outcome was assessed 12 months following aneurysm treatment using the modified Rankin scale. Eleven patients were included in this series. An acute ischemic lesion in the symptomatic territory was demonstrated in six patients. The aneurysms were located on the internal carotid artery (n=4), middle cerebral artery (n=4), superior cerebellar artery (n=2) and basilar artery (n=1). They measured 10 mm or less (n=7); 11-20 mm (n=2); more than 21 mm (n=2). Five aneurysms were partially thrombosed on imaging. Five patients were referred for coiling. Of these, one patient had an unsuccessful coiling attempt, one had a residual neck, and three presented an aneurysm recurrence. Six patients were treated surgically. Symptomatic thromboembolism occurred after surgery in three patients. Complete aneurysm exclusion was documented in five of six operated patients. Nine of the ten treated patients had a favorable outcome. Even though aneurysms presenting with ischemic events are often small and located on the anterior circulation, in this series the risk of thromboembolic events following aneurysm treatment is noteworthy. This information is relevant given the possible benign natural history in terms of stroke and risk of bleeding for some of these aneurysms."}
{"id": "19126519", "title": "Intracerebral hemorrhage with cerebral arteriovenous malformation rupture during pregnancy.", "content": "Intracerebral hemorrhage with cerebral arteriovenous malformation rupture during pregnancy."}
{"id": "19106495", "title": "Spontaneous closure of transverse sinus dural arteriovenous fistula: case report.", "content": "Spontaneous closure of transverse sinus dural arteriovenous fistula: case report. A 60-year-old man presented with transverse sinus dural arteriovenous fistula (AVF) manifesting as sudden onset of headache and nausea, which underwent spontaneous closure 5 years after the onset. Computed tomography on admission revealed small intraventricular hemorrhage in the right lateral ventricle. No intracranial vascular lesion was detected and magnetic resonance angiography was used at yearly follow up. Two years after the first admission, he suffered diplopia and cerebral angiography revealed transverse sinus dural AVF. Right pulsatile tinnitus occurred 4 years after the first admission. The symptoms suddenly disappeared 5 years after the first admission, and follow-up angiography showed disappearance of the dural AVF. The exact mechanism of the spontaneous occlusion of dural AVF remains unknown. This case of spontaneous transverse sinus dural AVF closure occurred without disruption of sinus patency, suggesting that thrombosis of the draining veins into sinuses was not involved."}
{"id": "19106494", "title": "Dural arteriovenous fistula in the anterior cranial fossa: four case reports.", "content": "Dural arteriovenous fistula in the anterior cranial fossa: four case reports. Three of 4 cases of dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) in the anterior cranial fossa were detected incidentally by magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, and one case manifested as intracerebral hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography revealed fistulas located in the anterior cranial fossa. Three patients underwent surgery, and the fistulas were successfully obliterated. One patient with nonruptured DAVF requested conservative medical management. Incidental detection of asymptomatic or nonruptured DAVFs in the anterior cranial fossa has increased with the wider use of MR imaging. Increase in the size of a venous varix is the indicator for aggressive therapeutic intervention in a patient receiving conservative medical management for asymptomatic or nonruptured DAVFs in the anterior cranial fossa."}
{"id": "19086447", "title": "[Case of intracerebral hemorrhage due to amphetamine abuse].", "content": "[Case of intracerebral hemorrhage due to amphetamine abuse]. We report a case of intracranial hemorrhage due to amphetamine abuse in a young adult. A 34-year-old, confused woman was transferred to our emergency room with right hemiparesis and aphasia. CT at admission demonstrated intracerebral hemorrhage in the left frontal and parietal lobes, associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage. MRA shortly after admission revealed no intracerebral vascular anomaly. Cerebral angiography following admission showed irregularity of the vessel wall in the left anterior and middle cerebral arteries. Later, a toxicology screen test for urine was found to be positive for amphetamines and metamphetamines. These findings suggested that cerebral vasculitis and hypertensive surge induced by amphetamines caused intracranial and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Amphetamine abuse should always be considered as a cause of intracranial hemorrhage in young adults."}
{"id": "19066744", "title": "[Imaging in cerebrovascular atherosclerotic disease].", "content": "[Imaging in cerebrovascular atherosclerotic disease]. Brain imaging is one of the important diagnostic tool to elucidate cerebrovascular diseases. The common clinical routine is based on the technique of brain imaging by computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance (MR) and the imaging of the arterial vessels by means of ultrasound, CT angiography (CTA), or magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). Important information is obtained about type and pattern of brain lesions, perfusion of the brain, status of the vessels as well as the vessel wall. All tools are complementary and redundant techniques having advantages and disadvantages. The need for the gold standard - selective intraarterial angiography - is more and more limited to therapeutic interventions like angioplasty or local thrombolysis. MRI spectroscopy as well as diffusion tensor imaging provide new perspectives in the diagnosis of atherosclerotic brain lesions."}
{"id": "19066440", "title": "Multiple intracranial aneurysms with intraventricular hemorrhage in a child with unilateral fibromuscular dysplasia of the renal artery.", "content": "Multiple intracranial aneurysms with intraventricular hemorrhage in a child with unilateral fibromuscular dysplasia of the renal artery. A rare case involving multiple intracranial aneurysms with intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) in a child, accompanied by unilateral fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) of the renal artery, is reported. A 12-year-old girl presented with secondary hypertension and fourth-ventricle IVH. Cerebral angiography showed multiple aneurysms in the anterior communicating artery, right posterior cerebral artery, and right superior cerebellar artery. Abdominal angiography revealed marked stenosis and dilatation of the left renal artery. Coil embolization of the intracranial aneurysms was successfully performed. Then, a left nephrectomy and autotransplantation were performed. At the time of discharge, she was in an almost normal neurological condition. The association between renal artery FMD and aneurysmal rupture is extremely rare. This case is the first report of multiple intracranial aneurysms with IVH treated successfully with coils in a child concomitant with FMD of the renal artery."}
{"id": "19066112", "title": "Preliminary report of the clot lysis evaluating accelerated resolution of intraventricular hemorrhage (CLEAR-IVH) clinical trial.", "content": "Preliminary report of the clot lysis evaluating accelerated resolution of intraventricular hemorrhage (CLEAR-IVH) clinical trial. Brain hemorrhage is the most frequent fatal form of stroke and has the highest level of morbidity of any stroke subtype. For patients with both intracerebral hemorrhage and intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH), expected mortality is 50-80%. No validated, efficacious treatment exists for humans, but animal models demonstrate substantial physiologic and functional benefits associated with rapid, near-complete removal of blood from either the ventricle or intracerebral location (i.e., approximately 80% removal over 48 h). The purpose of the CLEAR-IVH trial (Parts A and B) is to evaluate safety and efficacy of using multiple injections of low-dose rt-PA to accelerate lysis and evacuation of IVH. Patients enrolled in the trial receive an injection of 1.0 mg rtPA through an external ventricular drain every 8 h up to 12 doses, or until clot reduction or clinical endpoint is met. CT scans are taken daily to monitor clot resolution and check for unexpected bleeding events. In a previous dose-finding study where the safety profile (symptomatic rebleeding) was 0%, 1 mg rt-PA every 8 h was determined the appropriate dose. Comprehensive analyses of 36 patients in the recently completed CLEAR-IVH Part B are currently being conducted. Adverse events are within safety limits, including 30-day mortality, 8%; symptomatic re-bleeding, 8%; and bacterial ventriculitis, 0%. Preliminary analyses show that use of low-dose rt-PA can be safely administered to stable IVH clots and may increase lysis rates."}
{"id": "19066008", "title": "Comparative evaluation of 64-slice CT angiography and digital subtraction angiography in assessing the cervicocranial vasculature.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of 64-slice CT angiography and digital subtraction angiography in assessing the cervicocranial vasculature. Noninvasive 64-slice computed tomography angiography (64-MSCTA) closely approximates conventional catheter angiography (DSA) in terms of detail resolution. Retrospective evaluation of cervicocranial (cc) 64-MSCTA in comparison with DSA in patients with presumptive cc vascular disorders. Twenty-four 64-MSCTA studies (32 mm detector width, slice thickness 0.5 mm, 120 kv, 150 mAs, pitch 0.75) of patients with presumptive cc vascular pathology (13 men, 11 women, mean age 38.3 +/- 11.3 yrs, range 19-54 yrs) were assessed in comparison with DSA studies without abnormal findings in age-matched patients (11 men, 13 women, mean age 39.7 +/- 11.9 yrs, range 18-54 yrs). Study readings were performed in a blinded manner by two neuroradiologists with respect to image quality and assessibility of various cc vascular segments by using a five-point scale. Radiation exposure was calculated for 64-MSCTA. Each reader assessed 384/528 different vessel segments (64-MSCTA/DSA). Superior image quality was attributed to DSA with respect to the C1 ICA-C6 ICA, A3 ACA, and P3 PCA segments as well the AICA and SCA. 64-MSCTA was scored superior for C7 ICA and V4 VA segments. A significantly increased number ofnonassessable V2- and V3 VA segments in DSA studies was noted. The effective dose for 64-MSCTA amounted to 2.2 mSv. 64-MSCTA provides near-equivalent diagnostic information of the cc vasculature as compared with DSA. According to our results, DSA should be considered primarily when peripheral vessels (A3/P3) or ICA segments close to the skull base (C2-5) are of interest, such as in primary angiitis or stenoocclusive ICA disease, respectively."}
{"id": "19035724", "title": "Endovascular treatment of intracranial microarteriovenous malformations.", "content": "Endovascular treatment of intracranial microarteriovenous malformations. Microarteriovenous malformations (micro-AVMs) are an uncommon subgroup of brain AVMs defined by a nidus measuring < 1 cm in diameter. The clinical features, angiographic characteristics, and outcomes in patients with micro-AVMs who had been treated endovascularly after presenting with hemorrhage were reviewed to identify common features affecting prognosis. Between 1997 and 2006, 25 patients (12 females and 13 males) with 26 micro-AVMs were treated. Twenty-four patients presented with intracerebral hematoma and 1 with subarachnoid hemorrhage only. All patients underwent CT on admission, diagnostic cerebral angiography, and 1 session of endovascular treatment during the acute phase. Procedure-related complications occurred in 3 patients (12%), which caused temporary hemiparesis in 1 (4%) and no clinical sequelae in 2 patients (8%). Complete nidus obliteration was achieved at the end of the embolization in 22 (84.6%) of 26 lesions. Two recurrences were evident on follow-up angiography 6 months postembolization, resulting in a complete obliteration rate of 77% (20 of 26 lesions) after a single treatment. Late angiography was performed in 12 patients, and no further recurrences were identified. Immediate complete obliteration of a micro-AVM with a high permanent cure and low morbidity rates was accomplished using endovascular treatment. Early embolization after bleeding should be considered as an alternative to resection."}
{"id": "19035712", "title": "Early elective surgical exploration of spontaneous intracerebral hematomas of unknown origin.", "content": "Early elective surgical exploration of spontaneous intracerebral hematomas of unknown origin. The management of non-life threatening spontaneous intraparenchymal hemorrhage with no obvious medical etiology in patients and the lack of findings on images has not been clearly defined. In general, the current practice is to treat these patients conservatively and repeat studies to rule out a treatable cause 6 weeks to 3 months later; more often than not these repeated studies fail to reveal any findings, and the patient is treated conservatively. For years, the senior author (R.C.H.) has treated these patients with early surgical exploration. This study was undertaken prospectively to ascertain the frequency of positive findings during surgical exploration. Between 2000 and 2007, the authors prospectively collected data from 9 cases (4 cerebellar, 4 lobar, and 1 caudate head) of unexplained intraparenchymal hemorrhages. The patient age ranged from 18 to 45 years (mean 31.2 years). All patients were normotensive, had no underlying medical problems explaining such a hemorrhage, and failed to exhibit findings on cerebral angiograms. Magnetic resonance images with contrast showed no abnormal vasculature or enhancement. Eight patients underwent elective surgical exploration in the subacute stage, and urgent decompression of the clot was necessary in 1. In 7 (77.8%) of the 9 cases, histopathological examination revealed a cause for the hemorrhage (3 \"cryptic\" arteriovenous malformations, 3 cavernomas, and 1 neoplasm). A good outcome was achieved in all 8 patients who underwent elective surgery. The authors recommend elective surgical exploration of intracerebral hematomas of unknown etiology provided that the hematoma is surgically accessible and the patient is relatively young and healthy. Early exploration and resection can provide a cure and eliminate the risk of rebleeding when a vascular lesion is found or guide further treatment in cases of tumor."}
{"id": "19026896", "title": "MRI in the management of cerebrovascular disease to prevent stroke.", "content": "MRI in the management of cerebrovascular disease to prevent stroke. Cerebrovascular disease is a heterogeneous disease that may require objective criteria for developing optimal recurrent stroke prevention strategies. MRI and magnetic resonance angiography together with magnetic resonance perfusion and functional MRI provide sufficient parameters to tailor medical and surgical interventions for each patient and to monitor disease compensation or progression. These MRI procedures are demonstrated by clinical cases of advanced cerebrovascular pathology in which treatment varied from medical management to surgical intervention."}
{"id": "18975608", "title": "[Plaque characterization using carotid MRI in acute ischemic cerebrovascular syndromes (three case reports)--can carotid MRI be useful as an adjunct to the diagnosis of TIA in which the ischemic lesions were recognized at a later date?].", "content": "[Plaque characterization using carotid MRI in acute ischemic cerebrovascular syndromes (three case reports)--can carotid MRI be useful as an adjunct to the diagnosis of TIA in which the ischemic lesions were recognized at a later date?]. Recent diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) studies describe a relevant ischemic lesion in almost half of all patients with transient ischemic attack (TIA). We report 3 cases of TIA in which the ischemic lesions were recognized on DWI at a later date (\"late-imaged TIA\"). Three men (average age, 72.7 years) were admitted to our hospital on complains of monoparesis or sensory disturbance in their right arms. On admission, no apparent ischemic lesion was detected by DWI; however, spotty lesions were apparent in the left precentral or postcentral gyrus on hospital days 2-5. The neurological symptoms resolved within 24 hours, and all the cases were clinically diagnosed as TIA. Carotid MRI revealed low-grade stenosis of the left internal carotid artery with atherosclerotic plaque, characterized as so-called \"vulnerable plaque\". These findings suggest that the carotid atherosclerotic plaque lead to artery-to-artery embolism. Carotid MRI is considered useful as an adjunct to other imaging modalities in the diagnosis of late-imaged TIA."}
{"id": "18975526", "title": "Cerebral sinus thrombosis with intracerebral hemorrhage in pregnancy: a case report.", "content": "Cerebral sinus thrombosis with intracerebral hemorrhage in pregnancy: a case report. A 29-year-old woman who was pregnant for 12 weeks presented with headache for one week and drowsiness for two days. Computed tomography of the brain revealed multifocal hematomas with mass effect. Decompressive craniectomy was done to relieve the increased intracranial pressure. Magnetic resonance angiography and cerebral angiography were subsequently performed, both demonstrating thrombosis of the left transverse sinus. Treatment of sinus thrombosis generally includes correction of increased intracranial pressure and administration of anticoagulants, such as heparin. However, in this case heparin was contraindicated for the presence of intracranial bleeding, a clinical dilemma that requires careful considerations to balance treatment risks and benefits."}
{"id": "18956695", "title": "[Cerebrovascular disorders in children and adolescents: a report of 204 cases].", "content": "[Cerebrovascular disorders in children and adolescents: a report of 204 cases]. To investigate the clinical features of pediatric cerebrovascular disorders. The clinical data of 204 cases of pediatric cerebrovascular disease, 134 male and 70 female (1.91: 1), aged 12.7 (32 d - 17.9 years), hospitalized in the past 13 years were analyzed retrospectively. The diagnosis of intracranial hemorrhage was mainly based on CT, Digital subtraction angiography was conducted on 130 cases and pathological examination was conducted on 78 cases. Intracranial hemorrhage was seen in 195 cases. The onset of symptoms was acute or subacute in 73.5% of the patients (150/204). The main manifestations included headache (70.6%), vomiting (50%), loss of consciousness (22.5%), convulsion (21.6%), and focal neurological deficits (13.2%). The causes included arteriovenous malformation (42.2%, 86/204), cavernoma (16.2%, 33/204), aneurysm (8.8%, 18/204), and moyamoya disease (5.9%, 12/204), and the cause remained unknown in 43 of the patients (21%). The epidemiology of pediatric cerebrovascular diseases has its own specificity. Therefore, it is crucial to deal timely with it according to the characteristics of the cerebrovascular diseases in children's."}
{"id": "18942299", "title": "Clinical utility of 64-row multislice CT angiography in the detection of cerebral aneurysms in acute subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "Clinical utility of 64-row multislice CT angiography in the detection of cerebral aneurysms in acute subarachnoid haemorrhage. CT angiography (CTA) is a fast examination performed with a time-optimised contrast injection to enhance the cerebral arteries. Being a new imaging modality in our hospital, evaluation of the effectiveness of 64-row multislice CTA in detecting intracranial aneurysms in ruptured subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) cases is necessary. We conducted a descriptive prospective study by recruiting 30 consecutively operated SAH cases from May 2005 until November 2006. CTA findings were studied by radiologist and neurosurgeon and these were compared with operative findings. The sensitivity and specificity of CTA were 94.4% and 97.2% respectively. Approximately half of the patients were scanned within four hours and operated within 24 hours. In conclusion, CTA proves to be highly sensitive and specific in the diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms in our study."}
{"id": "18941943", "title": "Ischaemia-induced vascular vulnerability resulting in intracerebral haemorrhage with ipsilateral internal carotid artery occlusion.", "content": "Ischaemia-induced vascular vulnerability resulting in intracerebral haemorrhage with ipsilateral internal carotid artery occlusion. Intracerebral haemorrhage accompanied with cervical internal carotid artery (ICA) occlusion on the same side without moyamoya-like vessels is rare. A 73-year-old man with left ICA occlusion and no presence of moyamoya disease criteria underwent xenon-enhanced computed tomography with acetazolamide challenge test. The findings showed hypoperfusion and no vasoreactivity in the territory of the left middle cerebral artery. During follow-up he suffered bleeding in the left frontoparietal lobe. Cerebral angiography showed left ICA occlusion and cross flow via the anterior communicating artery without moyamoya vessels. Long-term ischaemia would make perforating or anastomotic arteries vulnerable. These arteries were easily ruptured by hypertension, resulting in intracerebral haemorrhage."}
{"id": "18941721", "title": "Cerebrovascular diseases.", "content": "Cerebrovascular diseases. Conventional neuroradiological techniques, such as computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), make a fundamental contribution in both the acute and chronic phases of stroke. Recent years have witnessed the development of new imaging modalities, which include diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), perfusion-weighted imaging (PWI), CT-angiography (CTA), MR-angiography (MRA), magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and functional MRI (fMRI). While CTA, MRA, DWI and PWI are commonly used for clinical purposes, DTI, MRS and fMRI are becoming increasingly important in the field of experimental research of cerebrovascular diseases, but are still far from becoming of primary usefulness in the everyday clinical setting."}
{"id": "18845805", "title": "Territorial arterial spin labeling in the assessment of collateral circulation: comparison with digital subtraction angiography.", "content": "Territorial arterial spin labeling in the assessment of collateral circulation: comparison with digital subtraction angiography. Collateral circulation plays a vital role in patients with steno-occlusive disease, in particular for predicting stroke outcome. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is the gold standard for the assessment of collateral circulation, despite its invasive nature. Recently, the development of a new class of arterial spin labeling (ASL) methods allowed independent measurement of territorial flow information without the need for contrast media injection. Here, we compared combined territorial ASL (TASL) and MR angiography (MRA) against DSA in the assessment of collateral circulation. Eighteen patients presenting with extra- or intracranial arterial steno-occlusive disease were recruited. All DSA studies were performed using a biplane angiography unit. MR imaging consisted of time-of-flight MRA and TASL, performed at 3T. Collateral circulation on both modalities was evaluated in consensus in a double-blinded manner by 3 neuroradiologists. Good agreement was found between DSA and TASL in the assessment of collateral flow: Cramer coefficient, V=0.53 (P<0.0001) and Contingency coefficient, C=0.67, with kappa=0.70 and kappa=0.72 in the assessment of flow and collaterals, respectively. TASL and DSA successfully evaluated 89% and 98% of the vessels, respectfully. Failure was linked to motion-related artifacts in TASL, and highly tortuous vessels in DSA. Generally, combined MRA-TASL was comparable to DSA in diagnostic quality. TASL provided radiological information comparable to DSA on collateral flow, with the advantage that it could be performed during routine MRI studies. TASL may provide insight on collateral perfusion in patients who may not otherwise be candidates for DSA, and may potentially replace it."}
{"id": "18824958", "title": "Simultaneous unilateral moyamoya disease and ipsilateral dural arteriovenous fistula: case report.", "content": "Simultaneous unilateral moyamoya disease and ipsilateral dural arteriovenous fistula: case report. Previous reports have described an association between moyamoya disease and arteriovenous malformations, but this unusual case is the first report of a unilateral moyamoya pattern simultaneously associated with an ipsilateral dural arteriovenous fistula (dAVF). A 44-year-old man presented with headache, tinnitus, and an intraventricular hemorrhage, as seen on computed tomographic scans. Cerebral angiography showed a right moyamoya pattern and an ipsilateral dAVF fed by branches of the external carotid artery and draining into the transverse sinus. After the intraventricular hemorrhage resolved, the patient underwent transarterial embolization of the dAVF with Onyx (EV3, Inc. Irvine, CA), followed by a direct superficial temporal artery-to-middle cerebral artery bypass. Subsequent reconstitution of the dAVF required transvenous embolization, which obliterated the dAVF. At his 2-month follow-up examination, the patient was asymptomatic and neurologically intact. Recent investigations have established that both moyamoya disease and dAVFs are associated with dural angiogenesis. These factors may represent a mechanism for vaso-occlusive ischemia contributing to the formation of dAVF. This extremely rare coincidental presentation may have deeper pathogenic implications."}
{"id": "18824679", "title": "The NIH registry on use of the Wingspan stent for symptomatic 70-99% intracranial arterial stenosis.", "content": "The NIH registry on use of the Wingspan stent for symptomatic 70-99% intracranial arterial stenosis."}
{"id": "18812940", "title": "Rupture of a pseudoaneurysm of the posterior meningeal artery at its anomalous origin from the posteroinferior cerebellar artery: case report.", "content": "Rupture of a pseudoaneurysm of the posterior meningeal artery at its anomalous origin from the posteroinferior cerebellar artery: case report. The posterior meningeal artery (PMA) normally arises from the vertebral artery; however, its origin varies considerably as the result of its embryological development. This gains clinical significance when associated with vascular pathology. A 65-year-old man presented to his local hospital with a sudden-onset, severe headache. Computed tomography of the head revealed diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage, mostly in the left posterior fossa. A computed tomographic angiogram demonstrated an anomalous origin of the PMA from the posteroinferior cerebellar artery (PICA). Cerebral angiography showed the PICA to be enlarged, with a reduced caliber at the takeoff of the PMA, which is consistent with possible dissection. The patient was taken to the operating room for trapping of the dissecting segment of the PMA. A clip was placed across the PMA at its origin from the PICA, and the vessel was coagulated and transected. The PICA was wrapped in muslin gauze. The variable origin of the PMA and PICA may be the result of the persistence of embryological anastomoses between the arteries, with regression of the normal channel. Physical stress at the junction of the anomalous PMA and the PICA may have contributed to the abnormality of the PMA, consistent with possible dissection. Because the PMA has multiple anastomoses with the arteries of the falx cerebri, the proximal PMA may be occluded with no compromise to its vascular territory."}
{"id": "18812685", "title": "Cervical perimedullary arteriovenous fistula in an infant presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage--case report.", "content": "Cervical perimedullary arteriovenous fistula in an infant presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage--case report. A 9-month-old boy was transferred to our institute after suffering sudden seizure and loss of consciousness followed by cardiopulmonary arrest. Neurological examination on admission revealed deep coma and tetraparesis. Brain computed tomography revealed diffuse intracranial subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), whereas brain magnetic resonance (MR) angiography showed no intracranial abnormalities. MR imaging of the spine demonstrated a remarkable flow void extending from C3 to T1. Digital subtraction angiography revealed a perimedullary arteriovenous fistula (AVF) fed by the left thyrocervical trunk, associated with a varix and a dilated perimedullary vein. He had hypoxic encephalopathy due to transient cardiopulmonary arrest, and remained in the intensive care unit for 2 months. Thereafter, he was transferred to the pediatric ward, where his general condition improved, and after 7 months underwent embolization of the AVF to prevent further SAH. The perimedullary AVF was successfully interrupted by transarterial embolization with n-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate and platinum coils, and no additional neurological deficits developed. Post-embolization MR imaging showed loss of the flow void. The favorable outcome demonstrates the importance of spinal cord imaging in infants with SAH without other intracranial abnormalities to detect the presence of perimedullary AVF. Perimedullary AVFs in children are often associated with huge fistulas and varices, so are good candidates for endovascular surgery."}
{"id": "18806975", "title": "[Progredient intracranial bleeding after traumatic brain injury. When is a control CCT necessary?].", "content": "[Progredient intracranial bleeding after traumatic brain injury. When is a control CCT necessary?]. The aim of the study was to quantify the occurrence of progressive intracranial bleeding (PIB) and to identify concomitant parameters in patients suffering from traumatic brain injury (TBI). TBI patients were included if initial and serial cranial computed tomography (CCT) scans were conducted within 24 h after trauma. A progression of > or =25% was considered as PIB. Patients with progression were compared to those with constant bleeding regarding clinical parameters, time lapse and coagulation status. A total of 98 patients with TBI and intracranial hemorrhaging were analyzed. PIB was detected in 45 patients showing significantly more intracerebral bleeding as well as fractures to the skull (p<0.05), compared to patients with constant bleeding. No significant differences between the groups regarding demographic and clinical parameters, time interval between trauma and initial CCT, and coagulation status were found. Early progression of intracranial hemorrhaging occurs in nearly every second TBI patient and is recognized frequently in cerebral contusions and after fractures to the skull. Hence, early repeated CT scanning is indicated in all TBI patients suffering from intracranial bleeding."}
{"id": "18805374", "title": "Neurofibromatosis type 1 with intracranial hemorrhage and horseshoe kidney.", "content": "Neurofibromatosis type 1 with intracranial hemorrhage and horseshoe kidney. A 12-year-old boy presented with a history of sudden-onset vomiting, headache, and giddiness. Two members of his family manifested neurofibromatosis type 1. On examination, the child had multiple caf\u00e9-au-lait spots, bilateral axillary freckles, and Lisch nodules in both eyes. A central nervous system examination revealed raised intracranial pressure. Computed tomography of the cranium revealed an intracranial hemorrhage in the right parietal region, without a midline shift. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain revealed a hemorrhage and a neurofibromatosis bright object. Magnetic resonance angiography and digital subtraction angiography revealed no evidence of arteriovenous malformation or aneurysm. Ultrasonography of the abdomen revealed a horseshoe kidney, as confirmed by a 99m technetium dimercaptosuccinic acid renal cortical scan. He responded to treatment for the raised intracranial pressure, and remained asymptomatic during follow-up."}
{"id": "18800633", "title": "[Case of specific MRI T2* weighted image associated with bacterial endocarditis].", "content": "[Case of specific MRI T2* weighted image associated with bacterial endocarditis]. We report a case of multiple signal loss lesions detected by T2* weighted image associated with bacterial endocarditis. A 23 year-old woman, who had undergone surgical closure of ventricular septal defect at age 2, suffered headache and general fatigue after dental treatment. She was admitted to another institution, and examinations revealed bacterial endcarditis. She was transferred to our hospital, and underwent aortic valve replacement. After the valve replacement, CT revealed parenchymal hematoma in the left frontal lobe. CT angiography (CTA) and cerebral angiography (CAG) demonstrated an aneurysm at the distal branch of the left middle cerebral artery. T2* weighted image demonstrated multiple signal loss lesions, which were not revealed by CAG and CTA. We speculated that these signal loss lesions were thrombosed mycotic intracranial aneurysms. She underwent left frontotemporal craniotomy, and the aneurysm was resected. Mycotic aneurysms are rare neurovascular lesions but their mortality and morbidity are high, so careful follow-up examinations are required. T2* weighted image was useful to detect mycotic aneurysms and plan the surgical strategy."}
{"id": "18797317", "title": "Subintimal hemorrhage in an unruptured superior cerebellar artery aneurysm: prelude to rupture: case report.", "content": "Subintimal hemorrhage in an unruptured superior cerebellar artery aneurysm: prelude to rupture: case report. An intracranial aneurysm that hemorrhages into the subintimal layer of the blood vessel is a rare clinical entity. Such a hemorrhage is distinct from dissecting aneurysms or pseudoaneurysms of the cerebral circulation and may represent an aneurysm in the process of rupturing. The authors report their experience in the management of a patient who presented with a subintimal hemorrhage of a superior cerebellar aneurysm. A 54-year-old man presented with a progressively worsening headache over the course of 3 days. A noncontrast computed tomographic scan did not demonstrate subarachnoid hemorrhage but was suggestive of a posterior circulation aneurysm. In the absence of subarachnoid hemorrhage on the computed tomographic scan, negative findings for xanthochromia in the cerebrospinal fluid, and no evidence of subarachnoid blood on magnetic resonance imaging, a conventional four-vessel cerebral angiogram was performed, which revealed a right superior cerebellar artery aneurysm. Further evaluation on magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated abnormal signal conforming to the aneurysm wall, suggesting the presence of a contained subintimal hemorrhage. The patient underwent a right frontotemporal craniotomy (half-and-half approach) for clip ligation of the superior cerebellar artery aneurysm. Subintimal hemorrhage of an aneurysm in the absence of subarachnoid hemorrhage may be conceptually considered an aneurysm in the process of rupturing. Thus, aneurysms found in the acute setting may benefit from further workup, such as magnetic resonance imaging or highly selective angiographic evaluation of the aneurysm itself. Timely surgical intervention may prevent otherwise imminent rupture into the subarachnoid space."}
{"id": "18784605", "title": "A thrombophilic patient with a dural arteriovenous fistula presenting sensory aphasia and complicated with an acute pulmonary embolism.", "content": "A thrombophilic patient with a dural arteriovenous fistula presenting sensory aphasia and complicated with an acute pulmonary embolism. Neuropsychiatric symptoms as the initial presentation of dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) are unusual. Anticoagulation therapy may be warranted for prevention of further thromboembolism if an underlying thrombophilia condition is diagnosed. We present a 70-year-old woman with sensory aphasia, who was diagnosed with a DAVF, Cognard type II a + b, by cerebral angiography. Her stroke-like syndrome resolved after transarterial embolization of the left occipital and middle meningeal arteries. Meanwhile, hypercoagulability was found because of hyperhomocysteinemia and the presence of a lupus anticoagulant. One month later, she suffered an acute pulmonary embolism and was started on anticoagulation therapy before stereotactic radiosurgery. Sensory aphasia may be the initial manifestation of a transverse-sigmoid sinus DAVF even if there are no symptoms such as headache or tinnitus. We postulate that early anticoagulation therapy is indicated for preventing thromboembolism in DAVF patients with thrombophilia because the possibility of intracranial bleeding has been reduced by embolization."}
{"id": "18777545", "title": "Double-reference cross-correlation algorithm for separation of the arteries and veins from 3D MRA time series.", "content": "Double-reference cross-correlation algorithm for separation of the arteries and veins from 3D MRA time series. To present a novel postprocessing technique for artery/vein separation and background suppression from contrast-enhanced time-resolved magnetic resonance angiography datasets in order to improve the diagnosis of vessel pathologies and arteriovenous fistulas. Ten normal, two pathologic datasets of the brain, and one hand angiography dataset were postprocessed. Cross-correlation maps between the signal time course of every voxel in the dataset and selected arterial and venous references regions of interest (ROIs) were obtained; these maps were subsequently nonlinearly transformed to obtain two indices representing the likelihood of a voxel belonging to a vessel category. Red-green-blue (RGB) color encoding was utilized to depict synthetic arteriogram and venogram images in a single diagnostically meaningful image. The technique enabled correct visual separation of vessels on various datasets, as evaluated by two expert neuroradiologists, and also highlighted characteristics of flow in arteriovenous fistulas. A quantitative comparison with existing techniques showed better separation performance on 3 out of 10 normal datasets and higher stability to acquisition characteristics and contrast agent bolus dispersion. This method can be helpful in the diagnosis of vascular diseases in subjects where bolus dispersion makes it difficult to discriminate between arteries and veins with standard methods (subtraction or correlation analysis)."}
{"id": "18759582", "title": "Ruptured distal middle cerebral artery aneurysm filled with tumor cells in a patient with intravascular large B-cell lymphoma.", "content": "Ruptured distal middle cerebral artery aneurysm filled with tumor cells in a patient with intravascular large B-cell lymphoma. The authors describe a very rare case of intravascular large B-cell lymphoma in a woman whose ruptured distal middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysms were filled with lymphoma cells. A 69-year-old woman who had undergone artificial graft replacement for an aortic aneurysm presented with transient left hemiparesis. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a small fresh cerebral infarction in the right frontal lobe, although major cervical and cerebral arteries were shown to be intact on MR angiography. Antiplatelet and anticoagulation treatments commenced. On the 21st day after onset, the patient suffered a subarachnoid hemorrhage, and a digital subtraction angiogram revealed aneurysmal lesions in the distal MCA. Based on the histological examination of the resected aneurysms, proliferation of large B-cell lymphoma was identified in the dilated arterial lumen. On the 71st day after ischemic onset, intracranial hemorrhage recurred, and she died. Postmortem examination revealed similar lymphoma cells only in the intimal layer that had grown on the artificial graft, and it was decided that the patient had had intravascular large B-cell lymphoma. The preceding cerebral infarction was thought to be due to occlusion of the distal MCA by tumor embolus, which may be the initial pathological stage in aneurysm formation. For patients with incomprehensible ischemic cerebral stroke, neoplasm must be taken in consideration."}
{"id": "18714806", "title": "Recurrent thalamic haemorrhage attributed to a cerebellar arteriovenous malformation.", "content": "Recurrent thalamic haemorrhage attributed to a cerebellar arteriovenous malformation."}
{"id": "18692899", "title": "[Ectasic diffuse vasculopathy of the cerebral arteries associated with neurofibromatosis type 1].", "content": "[Ectasic diffuse vasculopathy of the cerebral arteries associated with neurofibromatosis type 1]. Type 1 neurofibromatosis is the most common of all the phakomatosis. It is a hereditary neurocutaneous syndrome that may involve any organ or system of the body. Central nervous system lesions are frequent and dominated by neoplasms and nonneoplastic hamartomatous lesions. Craniocerebral vascular abnormalities are relatively rare, most often occlusive or stenotic. The occurring of intracranial aneurysms during the neurofibromatosis type 1 gives rise to the question of the fortuitous aspect or not of this association, especially as the quasi-totality of the reported aneurysms in the literature are sacciform and most often unique. We report an original case of ectasic diffuse vasculopathy of the cerebral arteries associated with neurofibromatosis type 1 in a 43-year-old man presented with seizures."}
{"id": "18683113", "title": "Endovascular treatment of primitive persistent trigeminal artery aneurysm associated with middle cerebral artery aneurysm.", "content": "Endovascular treatment of primitive persistent trigeminal artery aneurysm associated with middle cerebral artery aneurysm. We report the case of a primitive trigeminal artery aneurysm associated with an ipsilateral middle cerebral artery aneurysm. A 64-year-old Caucasian woman suffered from a severe acute headache. A head CT scan displayed subarachnoid hemorrhage and subsequent cerebral angiography showed right, wide-necked persistent trigeminal artery and ipsilateral middle cerebral artery aneurysms. The patient underwent embolization of both aneurysms with Guglielmi detachable coils. The association of a PPTA aneurysm and an ipsilateral MCA aneurysm has not been reported in the English literature."}
{"id": "18645217", "title": "Neurological picture. Familial Sneddon's syndrome with microbleeds in MRI.", "content": "Neurological picture. Familial Sneddon's syndrome with microbleeds in MRI."}
{"id": "18639995", "title": "Evaluation of the stability of gentamicin in different antibiotic carriers using a validated MEKC method.", "content": "Evaluation of the stability of gentamicin in different antibiotic carriers using a validated MEKC method. The quality control of gentamicin in different antibiotic carriers, using MEKC as stability-indicating method is described. Baseline separations of gentamicin C1, C1a, C2, C2a and C2b and, furthermore the impurities and degradation products garamin (GARA), 2-deoxy-streptamine (DSA) and sisomicin (SISO) were achieved with a background electrolyte containing 20mM deoxycholic acid, 15 mM beta-cyclodextrin and 100mM tetraborate (pH 10.0). After derivatization with o-phthaldialdehyde reagent (OPA), UV detection at 340 nm was possible. The method was validated with respect to selectivity, limit of detection (LOD) and quantification (LOQ) of the impurities, linearity, accuracy, precision and robustness. Evaluation of four different antibiotic carriers stored under stability conditions according to the International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) guidelines and older pharmaceutical formulations disclosed good stability."}
{"id": "18635617", "title": "Comparison of multidetector CT angiography and MR imaging of cervical artery dissection.", "content": "Comparison of multidetector CT angiography and MR imaging of cervical artery dissection. Conventional angiography has been historically considered the gold standard for the diagnosis of cervical artery dissection, but MR imaging/MR angiography (MRA) and CT/CT angiography (CTA) are commonly used noninvasive alternatives. The goal of this study was to compare the ability of multidetector CT/CTA and MR imaging/MRA to detect common imaging findings of dissection. Patients in the data base of our Stroke Center between 2003 and 2007 with dissections who had CT/CTA and MR imaging/MRA on initial work-up were reviewed retrospectively. Two neuroradiologists evaluated the images for associated findings of dissection, including acute ischemic stroke, luminal narrowing, vessel irregularity, wall thickening/hematoma, pseudoaneurysm, and intimal flap. The readers also subjectively rated each vessel on the basis of whether the imaging findings were more clearly displayed with CT/CTA or MR imaging/MRA or were equally apparent. Eighteen patients with 25 dissected vessels (15 internal carotid arteries [ICA] and 10 vertebral arteries [VA]) met the inclusion criteria. CT/CTA identified more intimal flaps, pseudoaneurysms, and high-grade stenoses than MR imaging/MRA. CT/CTA was preferred for diagnosis in 13 vessels (5 ICA, 8 VA), whereas MR imaging/MRA was preferred in 1 vessel (ICA). The 2 techniques were deemed equal in the remaining 11 vessels (9 ICA, 2 VA). A significant preference for CT/CTA was noted for VA dissections (P < .05), but not for ICA dissections. Multidetector CT/CTA visualized more features of cervical artery dissection than MR imaging/MRA. CT/CTA was subjectively favored for vertebral dissection, whereas there was no technique preference for ICA dissection. In many cases, MR imaging/MRA provided complementary or confirmatory information, particularly given its better depiction of ischemic complications."}
{"id": "18635616", "title": "Dynamic perfusion CT assessment of the blood-brain barrier permeability: first pass versus delayed acquisition.", "content": "Dynamic perfusion CT assessment of the blood-brain barrier permeability: first pass versus delayed acquisition. The Patlak model has been applied to first-pass perfusion CT (PCT) data to extract information on blood-brain barrier permeability (BBBP) to predict hemorrhagic transformation in patients with acute stroke. However, the Patlak model was originally described for the delayed steady-state phase of contrast circulation. The goal of this study was to assess whether the first pass or the delayed phase of a contrast bolus injection better respects the assumptions of the Patlak model for the assessment of BBBP in patients with acute stroke by using PCT. We retrospectively identified 125 consecutive patients (29 with acute hemispheric stroke and 96 without) who underwent a PCT study by using a prolonged acquisition time up to 3 minutes. The Patlak model was applied to calculate BBBP in ischemic and nonischemic brain tissue. Linear regression of the Patlak plot was performed separately for the first pass and for the delayed phase of the contrast bolus injection. Patlak linear regression models for the first pass and the delayed phase were compared in terms of their respective square root mean squared errors (square root MSE) and correlation coefficients (R) by using generalized estimating equations with robust variance estimation. BBBP values calculated from the first pass were significantly higher than those from the delayed phase, both in nonischemic brain tissue (2.81 mL x 100 g(-1) x min(-1) for the first pass versus 1.05 mL x 100 g(-1) x min(-1) for the delayed phase, P < .001) and in ischemic tissue (7.63 mL x 100 g(-1) x min(-1) for the first pass versus 1.31 mL x 100 g(-1) x min(-1) for the delayed phase, P < .001). Compared with regression models from the first pass, Patlak regression models obtained from the delayed data were of better quality, showing significantly lower square root MSE and higher R. Only the delayed phase of PCT acquisition respects the assumptions of linearity of the Patlak model in patients with and without stroke."}
{"id": "18634406", "title": "[Infectious aneurysm rerupture caused by delayed diagnosis: an operative case report].", "content": "[Infectious aneurysm rerupture caused by delayed diagnosis: an operative case report]. A 21-year-old febrile woman with sudden onset of headache and semicoma was transferred to our institute. CT and 3D-CT angiography showed subaracnoid hemorrhage and intracranial hemorrhage in the left hemisphere due to a saccular aneurysm at the occluded M2 portion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA). Her present illness started with a toothache and lumber pain 3 weeks earlier. Echocardiography revealed active infective endocarditis. We could have treated her by administering antibiotics, but during a cerebral angiography, she became comatose due to an aneurismal rerupture. Immediately, an emergency operation for aneurismal trapping was performed, but she died 19 days later because of left hemispheric swelling. We report a relatively rare case of infectious aneurysm at the proximal artery and discuss the pitfalls of its diagnosis and treatment. We should educate general physicians about infectious endocarditis because misdiagnosis or delayed diagnosis of infectious aneurysm due to endocarditis results in unpleasant outcomes. We should treat infectious aneurysm at the proximal side artery by first administering antibiotics, and if necessary, subsequent direct surgery of the aneurismal trapping should be performed with a bypass. Unnecessary invasive treatment must be avoided while the disease is in the active infectious stage."}
{"id": "18599195", "title": "Bilingual aphasia due to spontaneous acute subdural haematoma from a ruptured intracranial infectious aneurysm.", "content": "Bilingual aphasia due to spontaneous acute subdural haematoma from a ruptured intracranial infectious aneurysm. We report a case of spontaneous subdural haematoma due to ruptured intracranial infectious aneurysm, presenting with bilingual aphasia and illustrating differential language recovery. A 62-year-old right-handed bilingual gentleman, with a diagnosis of infective endocarditis, developed headache and became expressively aphasic in the English language. Three days later he was receptively and expressively aphasic in both English and Arabic. Cranial MRI scans showed a left-sided acute subdural haematoma with mass effect and midline shift. Contrast CT brain scans showed an enhancing speck adjacent to the clot and cerebral angiogram confirmed a distal middle cerebral artery aneurysm. He underwent image-guided craniotomy, evacuation of the subdural haematoma and excision of the aneurysm. Histopathological examination was consistent with an infectious intracranial aneurysm. Postoperatively his aphasia did not improve immediately. He had widened pulse pressure due to severe aortic regurgitation, confirmed on echocardiography. He underwent aortic valve replacement and mitral valve repair, following which his aphasia recovered gradually. Initially the recovery of his language was limited to Arabic. About a week later he recovered his English language as well. At 3-year follow-up he is doing well and has no neurological deficits. His aphasia has recovered completely. The present case is unique because of (a) presence of pure subdural haematoma, and (b) the differential susceptibility and recovery of native (L1) and acquired language (L2) in presence of a common pathology. The neurology of language in a bilingual is analysed and possible mechanisms discussed."}
{"id": "18573592", "title": "Does hemorrhagic presentation in cerebral arteriovenous malformations affect obliteration rate after gamma knife radiosurgery?", "content": "Does hemorrhagic presentation in cerebral arteriovenous malformations affect obliteration rate after gamma knife radiosurgery? Radiosurgery has been widely adopted for the treatment of cerebral AVMs. However radiosurgical treatment of patients with hemorrhagic presentation is fraught with risk of rebleed during latency period. The present study intends to analyze the obliteration rate, time to obliteration and chances of rebleed in patients with hemorrhagic versus non-hemorrhagic clinical presentation in cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) treated with gamma knife radiosurgery (GKS). Of all the patients with cerebral AVMs treated from May 1997 to June 2006, 157 patients with neuroimaging follow up with digital subtraction angiography harboring 160 AVM nidii formed the study group. The mean age of presentation was 28 years (range, 6-58 years); mean nidus volume being 3.64 cm3 (range, 0.011-36.6 cm3). The mean follow up period was 70 months (range, 13-121 months). All the patients were treated predominantly by primary GKS with use of adjunctive pre-GKS embolization in selected patients. A total of 103 (64%) patients presented with hemorrhage. There was no difference in the obliteration rate (69% versus 67%, p=0.672), mean latency period to obliteration (30 months versus 32 months, p=0.1989) and chances of hemorrhage (4.8% versus 3.5%, p=0.690) in patients with hemorrhagic as compared to non-hemorrhagic presentation. Prior hemorrhage does not affect the outcome after GKS in terms of obliteration rate, latency to obliteration as well as chances of hemorrhage during latency period. Gamma knife appears equally efficacious irrespective of the mode of clinical presentation in the management of cerebral AVMs; a concomitant use of pre-GKS embolization/surgery may be needed in patients with hemorrhagic presentation in selected cases, however."}
{"id": "18560818", "title": "Brain imaging with a flat detector C-arm : Technique and clinical interest of XperCT.", "content": "Brain imaging with a flat detector C-arm : Technique and clinical interest of XperCT. We present the first clinical results from brain tissue imaging with a novel functionality in the angiography room, the XperCT. XperCT is a flat detector C-arm volume acquisition functionality integrated with the angiography equipment. We assessed brain images from 42 patients examined with computed tomography (CT) and XperCT. In all patients, XperCT had significantly more beam hardening and reconstruction artifacts than CT, in particular in the posterior fossa. Contrast resolution was better on CT images. Hemorrhage, edema, and ventricular size could be assessed with XperCT in all patients, but CT was superior also in this aspect. In four of the last 12 cases, after the latest software upgrade, it was possible to differentiate between supra-tentorial grey and white substance on XperCT images. CT was superior to XperCT regarding brain soft tissue imaging. However, XperCT could in some cases discriminate between grey and white substance. XperCT is a useful new functionality in interventional neuroradiology. In the clinical setting, it improves patient safety by allowing almost instant access to CT-like brain imaging in the angiography room. It can be life saving in situations where complications during an interventional procedure prompt for immediate action."}
{"id": "18560816", "title": "Perfusion-weighted MRI to evaluate cerebral autoregulation in aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "Perfusion-weighted MRI to evaluate cerebral autoregulation in aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. The aim of this study was to evaluate autoregulatory mechanisms in different vascular territories within the first week after aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) by perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (PW-MRI). For this purpose, regional cerebral blood flow and volume (rCVF and rCBV) were measured in relation to different degrees of angiographically visible cerebral vasospasm (CVS). In 51 SAH patients, PW-MRI and digital subtraction angiography were performed about 5 days after onset of SAH. Regional CBF and rCBV were analysed in the territories of the anterior cerebral artery (ACA), the middle cerebral artery (MCA) and the basal ganglia of each hemisphere in relationship to the degree of CVS in the particular territory. Correlations between rCBF, rCBV and CVS were analysed. CVS was found in 22 out of 51 patients in at least one territory. In all territories, rCBV decreased with increasing degree of CVS, correlated with a decrease of rCBF. In the ACA territories, SAH patients with severe CVS had significantly lower rCBF compared to healthy subjects and to SAH patients without CVS. In the basal ganglia, rCBF and rCBV of the control group were significantly higher compared to the patients without and with moderate vasospasms. PW-MRI showed simultaneous decrease of rCBF and rCBV in patients with SAH. The fact that rCBV did not increase in territories with CVS to maintain rCBF reveals dysfunctional vascular autoregulation. Vasospasms in the microvasculature are most evident in the basal ganglia, showing decreased rCBV and rCBF even in SAH patients without CVS."}
{"id": "18518727", "title": "The effect of lumboventricular lavage and simultaneous low-frequency head-motion therapy after severe subarachnoid hemorrhage: results of a single center prospective Phase II trial.", "content": "The effect of lumboventricular lavage and simultaneous low-frequency head-motion therapy after severe subarachnoid hemorrhage: results of a single center prospective Phase II trial. The authors of recent publications have suggested that a combination of cisternal irrigation and head-shaking therapy might reduce cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and therefore improve outcome. The authors undertook this prospective nonrandomized Phase II study to analyze the effect of enhanced washout by lumboventricular irrigation in combination with head motion (lateral rotational therapy) on the clot clearance (CC) rate, development of cerebral vasospasm, and clinical outcome. Forty patients with aneurysmal SAHs of World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies Grades II-V (Glasgow Coma Scale Scores 13-3) and Fisher Grade 3 or 4 were included in this study. The study and control groups each consisted of 20 patients. The protocol in the study group, after the aneurysm was secured and a ventricular drain inserted, included the insertion of 2 lumbar catheters for intrathecal irrigation with Ringer solution and intrathecal pressure monitoring. Moderate head rotation in a kinetic system was also applied and was continued for 5 days. The CC rate was monitored on daily computed tomography (CT) scans. Vasospasms were identified clinically with a focus on delayed ischemic neurological deficits (DINDs), daily transcranial Doppler (TCD) ultrasonography studies, and analysis of infarction rate on CT and cerebral angiography. The data obtained in both groups were statistically evaluated. There were no procedure-related complications. The overall CC rate did not differ significantly between the groups, but there was a trend toward accelerated resolution in the study group. During observation, a new neurological deficit developed in 1 patient (5%) in the study group and 4 patients (20%) in the control group. Ischemic areas on CT scans related to vasospasm were demonstrated in 2 patients (10%) in the study group and 6 patients (30%) in the control group. The incidence of angiographic vasospasm was approximately the same in both groups. The pooled TCD flow velocities measured over a period of 14 days showed lower mean values in the study group than in the control group (p = 0.00002). The clinical outcome in the study group as evaluated with the modified Rankin scale was better in the study group than in the control group after 3 (p = 0.008) and 6 (p = 0.005) months. The present study demonstrates that a combination of lumboventricular lavage and mechanical head motion reduces vasospasm on TCD ultrasonography, the incidence of DIND, and secondary infarctions on CT and improves clinical outcome. No obvious effect could be found on the rate of angiographic vasospasm."}
{"id": "18518716", "title": "Screening for brain aneurysm in the Familial Intracranial Aneurysm study: frequency and predictors of lesion detection.", "content": "Screening for brain aneurysm in the Familial Intracranial Aneurysm study: frequency and predictors of lesion detection. Approximately 20% of patients with an intracranial saccular aneurysm report a family history of intracranial aneurysm (IA) or subarachnoid hemorrhage. A better understanding of predictors of aneurysm detection in familial IA may allow more targeted aneurysm screening strategies. The Familial Intracranial Aneurysm (FIA) study is a multicenter study, in which the primary objective is to define the susceptibility genes related to the formation of IA. First-degree relatives (FDRs) of those affected with IA are offered screening with magnetic resonance (MR) angiography if they were previously unaffected, are > or = 30 years of age, and have a history of smoking and/or hypertension. Independent predictors of aneurysm detection on MR angiography were determined using the generalized estimating equation version of logistic regression. Among the first 303 patients screened with MR angiography, 58 (19.1%) had at least 1 IA, including 24% of women and 11.7% of men. Ten (17.2%) of 58 affected patients had multiple aneurysms. Independent predictors of aneurysm detection included female sex (odds ratio [OR] 2.46, p = 0.001), pack-years of cigarette smoking (OR 3.24 for 20 pack-years of cigarette smoking compared with never having smoked, p < 0.001), and duration of hypertension (OR 1.26 comparing those with 10 years of hypertension to those with no hypertension, p = 0.006). In the FIA study, among the affected patients' FDRs who are > 30 years of age, those who are women or who have a history of smoking or hypertension are at increased risk of suffering an IA and should be strongly considered for screening."}
{"id": "18518712", "title": "Use of the sole stenting technique for the management of aneurysms in the posterior circulation in a prospective series of 20 patients.", "content": "Use of the sole stenting technique for the management of aneurysms in the posterior circulation in a prospective series of 20 patients. The use of intracranial stents in stent-assisted coil embolization is now a current neurosurgical practice worldwide. The clinical utility of these stents in the sole stenting (SS) technique, however, has not been thoroughly described, and the published reports of this experience are scarce. This study was designed to evaluate SS treatment of dissecting and nondissecting aneurysms of the posterior circulation. This prospective and descriptive study was conducted in 20 consecutive patients who harbored single aneurysms of the posterior circulation and who were treated using the SS approach in the last 3 years. The clinical and radiological assessment and follow-up of the patients were evaluated using the modified Rankin scale as well as with computed tomography angiography and digital subtraction angiography at discharge and at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months. Eleven of the 20 patients had subarachnoid hemorrhages, 3 presented with ischemia, 1 presented with brainstem compression, and the remaining 5 patients had incidentally discovered, asymptomatic lesions. Only 1 patient had a complication (occipital infarction) attributable to the SS procedure. One patient died of rebleeding 2 weeks after the procedure. At 1 month, 40% of the patients had a subtotal or total occlusion, which increased to 55% at 3 months and 85% at 6 months, with a final subtotal or total occlusion rate of 80% at 1 year. The SS procedure in 1 case was considered a failure at 6 months because no change had been noted since the 1-month follow-up. One case showed partial occlusion and 1 case showed recanalization. Use of SS for aneurysms in the posterior circulation complex is a safe and effective technique, demonstrating an occlusion rate of 80% at the 1-year follow up."}
{"id": "18516978", "title": "[Isolated traumatic oculomotor nerve palsy caused by minor head trauma].", "content": "[Isolated traumatic oculomotor nerve palsy caused by minor head trauma]. Isolated traumatic oculomotor nerve palsy caused by minor head trauma is extremely rare. We report a case of this condition. A 65-year-old woman was transferred to our hospital after minor head injury. Initial examination of her right eye revealed a dilated pupil. The result of computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and magnetic resonance angiography of the brain were normal. An examination conducted 6 hours after the accident, examination demonstrated right ptosis, and another conducted 20 hours after the accident, she demonstrated partial limitation of adduction, supraduction, and infraduction of the right eye. Constructive interference in steady-state magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a slightly rough-shaped oculomotor nerve near the posterior petroclinoid ligament. After 8 months of the accident, the ptosis and limited eye movement were resolved. However, the right dilation of the right pupil persisted. Our case suggests that even minor head trauma can cause isolated oculomotor palsy, and that the posterior petroclinoid ligament is a candidate structure for causing oculomotor nerve palsy without intracranial hemorrhage and skull fracture."}
{"id": "18508216", "title": "High-resolution intracranial MRA at 7T using autocalibrating parallel imaging: initial experience in vascular disease patients.", "content": "High-resolution intracranial MRA at 7T using autocalibrating parallel imaging: initial experience in vascular disease patients. Greater spatial resolution in intracranial three-dimensional time-of-flight (TOF) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is possible at higher field strengths, due to the increased contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) from the higher signal-to-noise ratio and the improved background suppression. However, at very high fields, spatial resolution is limited in practice by the acquisition time required for sequential phase encoding. In this study, we applied parallel imaging to 7T TOF MRA studies of normal volunteers and patients with vascular disease, in order to obtain very high resolution (0.12 mm(3)) images within a reasonable scan time. Custom parallel imaging acquisition and reconstruction methods were developed for 7T MRA, based on generalized autocalibrating partially parallel acquisition (GRAPPA). The techniques were compared and applied to studies of seven normal volunteers and three patients with cerebrovascular disease. The technique produced high resolution studies free from discernible reconstruction artifacts in all subjects and provided excellent depiction of vascular pathology in patients. 7T TOF MRA with parallel imaging is a valuable noninvasive angiographic technique that can attain very high spatial resolution."}
{"id": "18496847", "title": "Transcranial color doppler study for reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes.", "content": "Transcranial color doppler study for reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes. Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromes (RCVS) are characterized by thunderclap headaches and reversible cerebral vasoconstrictions. No systematic studies on cerebral hemodynamics have been published. Patients with RCVS were consecutively recruited. Sequential transcranial color-coded sonography studies were performed on the middle cerebral artery (MCA) for 3 months. Mean flow velocities (V(MCA)) and Lindegaard Index (LI) were recorded and compared with those of controls. Thirty-two patients (all female; average age, 49.7 +/- 6.8 years) were enrolled. Four developed of reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome, and two of them, ischemic strokes. One hundred and twenty-six sonography studies were performed on 57 eligible MCAs. The mean maximum V(MCA) (109.5 +/- 30.8 cm/sec) and LI (2.2 +/- 0.7) of RCVS patients exceeded those of controls (V(MCA): 66.3 +/- 9.5 cm/sec, p < 0.001; LI: 1.4 +/- 0.3, p < 0.001). The V(MCA) and LI levels were still at their plateau at the mean time (day 22 after headache onset) of headache resolution. Fifteen (46.9%) patients had V(MCA) exceeding 120 cm/sec, and 5 (16%) had LI exceeding 3. Patients fulfilling the criteria of subarachnoid hemorrhage mild vasospasm (n = 4; 13%), that is, both V(MCA) greater than 120 cm/sec and LI greater than 3, had a greater risk of posterior leukoencephalopathy (75 vs 4%; p = 0.003) and ischemic strokes (50 vs 0%; p = 0.01) than those without. Patients with RCVS experienced prolonged vasoconstriction, making the risk for posterior leukoencephalopathy and ischemic strokes outlast headache resolution. Patients fulfilling mild vasospasm criteria for subarachnoid hemorrhage carry a high risk."}
{"id": "18482372", "title": "Contrast-enhanced transcranial color-coded duplex sonography criteria for basilar artery stenosis.", "content": "Contrast-enhanced transcranial color-coded duplex sonography criteria for basilar artery stenosis. The aim of this study is to assess contrast-enhanced transcranial color-coded duplex sonography (CE-TCCS) diagnosis of basilar artery (BA) stenosis. CE-TCCS and cerebral angiography were performed in 120 consecutive patients. The patients were angiographically divided into five groups: (1) intracranial arteries (ICA) stenosis but no BA stenosis as intracranial stenosis (ICS) group, (2) both ICA and BA stenoses as internal carotid arteay and basilar arteay stenoses (IBS) group, (3) BA stenosis as basilar artery stenosis (BAS) group, (4) BA occlusion as basilar artery occlusion (BAO) group, and (5) no arterial lesions as Control group. We compared the peak systolic flow velocity (PSV) of BA using CE-TCCS. PSV was highest in the BAS group (n= 9, 206.1 +/- 118.6 cm/sec), followed by the ICS (n= 27, 74.9 +/- 36.1 cm/sec) and Control (n= 70, 58.2 +/- 17.3 cm/sec) groups. IBS group had two patients (PSV: 102 cm/sec and 167 cm/sec). Sensitivity-specificity curve analysis revealed a cutoff PSV of 120 cm/sec to distinguish the BAS group from other groups, and then we calculated sensitivity of 100%, specificity of 95%, positive predictive value of 64%, negative predictive value of 100%, and accuracy of 95%. Measurement of PSV of the BA using CE-TCCS is useful for the identification of BA stenosis."}
{"id": "18460783", "title": "[Clinical features and prognosis of cerebral venous thrombosis].", "content": "[Clinical features and prognosis of cerebral venous thrombosis]. To explore the diagnosis,therapy and prognosis of cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT). Twenty-two CVT patients were reviewed. The onset age, clinical manifestations, imaging, treatment, and prognosis were analyzed. Their age ranged from 15 to 58 (mean 33.0+/-8.8) years. Nine were males and 13 were females (1:1.4), 41% of whom were women of childbearing age.This disease occurred rapidly, and the relative pathogeny could be found in most patients (59%), and the hypercoagulative state was the commonest one.The clinical manifestations were variable. Most patients had symptoms and signs of intracranial hypertension(86%), accompanied with or without focal neurological dysfunction and seizures. Disorders of consciousness were found in some sever conditions.The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure was significantly increased, and the quantity of proteins or white blood cells in CSF was nearly normal.The occluded dural sinus and the clot could be visualised directly by means of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) or digital subtraction angiogrophy (DSA).After dehydration,anticoagulation,application of adrenal cortex hormone and etilogical treatment,9 patients improved,7 nearly cured, 2 had no changes,1 had cerebral hemorrhage, and 3 died. CVT should be suspected when patients show manifestation of intracranial hypertension and/or focal neurological dysfunction and seizures. MRI and MRA are efficient choices for the early diagnosis of CVT. Early diagnosis and anticoagulation with heparin are keys to good prognosis."}
{"id": "18458859", "title": "A series of patients with subpial hemorrhage: clinical manifestation, neuroradiological presentation and therapeutic implications.", "content": "A series of patients with subpial hemorrhage: clinical manifestation, neuroradiological presentation and therapeutic implications. Subpial hemorrhage is a rare finding in patients with a variable spectrum of neurological symptoms and signs. Here we present a series of 10 patients with subpial hemorrhage, 53 to 80 years old, diagnosed and treated within the last 4 years at a single center. Patients were identified based on imaging criteria with either magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) showing blood along the cortical surface. Presenting symptoms were diverse, with seizures being the most frequent followed by headaches and focal neurological signs such as sensory or motor deficits. Of 7 patients undergoing lumbar puncture, none showed fresh blood or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) xanthochromia. Neither digital subtraction angiography (DSA) nor MR venography (MRV) confirmed cerebral vein thrombosis as a possible etiologic factor for subpial hemorrhage. Patients for whom follow-up was available (n=8), showed complete recovery indicating an excellent prognosis. Overall, the etiology of subpial hemorrhage remains obscure. Treatment should be symptomatic with particular attention to antiepileptic medication."}
{"id": "18446409", "title": "Continuous intra-arterial nimodipine for the treatment of cerebral vasospasm.", "content": "Continuous intra-arterial nimodipine for the treatment of cerebral vasospasm. Two patients with refractory symptomatic cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) were treated by continuous intra-arterial nimodipine infusion via a catheter placed in the internal carotid artery or vertebral artery for 3 and 12 days, respectively. Recovery of the neurological deficits, normalization of MR perfusion, a decrease in the elevated mean flow velocity measured by transcranial duplex sonography, and angiographic recanalization were observed. Continuous intra-arterial nimodipine might be a treatment option in severe refractory vasospasm following SAH."}
{"id": "18444223", "title": "Primary cerebral rhabdomyosarcoma presenting as haemorrhagic stroke.", "content": "Primary cerebral rhabdomyosarcoma presenting as haemorrhagic stroke. Intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) occurs mostly in the context of arterial hypertension, with typical localisations. Tumour-associated bleeding is the cause of 6-10% of ICHs, mostly from metastases. We present the case of a 40-year-old female admitted originally for neck pain of sudden onset, accompanied by nausea and marked right arm paresis. A CT-scan revealed left fronto-central cortico-subcortical haemorrhage. Cerebral angiography was normal. Two months after the initial event the residual paresis worsened and the patient developed neuropsychological deficits. A CT-scan showed oedema around the original bleeding site, on MRI a solid lesion with a diameter of 5 cm could be seen, with some cystic alterations and contact to the meninges. The tumour was surgically removed, and removal at the time was considered complete. Histological analysis proved it to be an embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma. The patient's neurological deficits gradually improved. Almost three months after the operation she complained of intense left-sided headache. On CT a hyperdense left fronto-central lesion with positive enhancement could be seen; MRI confirmed a relapse tumour and showed bleeding in the rostral portion of the tumour as well as oedema. The patient started radiation therapy with a total dose of 60 Gy. Whole body image studies at the time failed to reveal any other neoplastic lesions. Two months later a CT-scan showed continued tumour growth. We present this case as a rare aetiology of intracerebral haemorrhage, more frequently associated with arterial hypertension or vascular pathology, as well as being an unusual manifestation of embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma, rarely found in the brain. The case also serves to illustrate the importance of a thorough diagnosis including MRI imaging in patients with so-called atypical ICH."}
{"id": "18439929", "title": "[Meningovascular syphilis: study of five cases].", "content": "[Meningovascular syphilis: study of five cases]. Clinical manifestations of syphilis are highly variable, and currently on the rise. We report five cases of ischemic stroke related to neurosyphilis. The cases of five men aged 37, 34, 41, 42 and 44 years are reported. A notion of a genital chancre was noted in three. The clinical presentation was typical of ischemic stroke in four patients. One presented with intellectual deterioration. Imaging revealed zones of ischemia in all five patients. Examination of the cerebrospinal fluid revealed lymphocytic meningitis and all five patients exhibited positive syphilis serology. Brain angiography demonstrated signs of arthritis in four patients and carotid dissection in one. Improvement was achieved with penicillin G in four patients. When the cause is doubtful, the routine work-up for ischemic stroke in young subjects should include syphilis serology."}
{"id": "18395171", "title": "Susac's syndrome presenting with consciousness disturbance.", "content": "Susac's syndrome presenting with consciousness disturbance."}
{"id": "18387475", "title": "Correlation of multidetector CT findings with splenic arteriography and surgery: prospective study in 392 patients.", "content": "Correlation of multidetector CT findings with splenic arteriography and surgery: prospective study in 392 patients. To determine the accuracy of contrast-enhanced multidetector CT (MDCT) in demonstrating splenic vascular injury based on results of splenic angiography and operation. This institutional review board-approved study included 392 hemodynamically stable blunt trauma patients whose admission MDCTs demonstrated splenic injury. Images were assessed for parenchymal injury grade, hemoperitoneum volume, and evidence of bleeding and nonbleeding splenic vascular injury. Splenic arteriography was performed for high splenic injury grade and splenic vascular injury. Medical records were reviewed to determine arteriographic interpretation, surgery indications and findings, outcomes, and demographics. Sensitivity, specificity, predictive values, and accuracy of MDCT in detecting vascular injury were calculated based on results of arteriography and operation. Splenic vascular injury was seen in 22% of patients (86 of 392) on MDCT. Presence of a vascular injury correlated with the CT-based parenchymal splenic injury grade (p < 0.0001). Active splenic bleeding was associated with subsequent clinical deterioration (p < 0.0001). Overall, MDCT had a sensitivity of 76% (76 of 100); specificity of 90% (95 of 106); negative and positive predictive values of 80% (95 of 119) and 87% (76 of 87), respectively; and accuracy of 83% (171 of 206) in detecting vascular injury compared with reference standards. The success rate of nonoperative management was 96%. MDCT provides valuable information to direct initial clinical management of patients with blunt splenic trauma by demonstrating both active bleeding and nonbleeding vascular injuries. Not all vascular injuries are detected on MDCT, and splenic angiography is still indicated for high-grade parenchymal injury."}
{"id": "18377308", "title": "Recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage from a cerebral arteriovenous malformation undetected by repeated noninvasive neuroimaging in a 4-year-old boy. Case report.", "content": "Recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage from a cerebral arteriovenous malformation undetected by repeated noninvasive neuroimaging in a 4-year-old boy. Case report. The authors report the case of a 4-year-old boy with a spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) related to an arteriovenous malformation (AVM) that was not found with good-quality magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and MR angiography. Both modalities were used serially in the acute phase and at 2 and 7 months of follow-up. Digital subtraction angiography identified the peripheral AVM when the patient experienced rehemorrhaging 1 year after his initial presentation. This case illustrates the need for a complete diagnostic evaluation including conventional angiography in cases of idiopathic ICH in children."}
{"id": "18377242", "title": "Identification of the optimal cortical target point for extracranial-intracranial bypass surgery in patients with hemodynamic cerebrovascular insufficiency.", "content": "Identification of the optimal cortical target point for extracranial-intracranial bypass surgery in patients with hemodynamic cerebrovascular insufficiency. The objective of this report is to describe a new approach to identify the optimal cortical target point for extracranial-intracranial (EC-IC) bypass surgery, to reliably find suitable recipient vessels for the anastomosis. Thirty consecutive patients (17 men and 13 women; mean age 54.6 +/- 11.79 years [+/- standard deviation]) with hemodynamic cerebrovascular insufficiency due to stenoocclusive arterial disease underwent EC-IC bypass surgery. The end of the Sylvian fissure was identified preoperatively using a specially designed template and external landmarks. At surgery, a 3-cm trephination was made, centered over the target point as determined by the template. The number, diameter, and length of the exposed cortical arteries were assessed using photographs and indocyanine green (ICG) angiograms. At least 1 recipient artery appropriate for anastomosis (>or= 1 mm) was found in every craniectomy. The mean number of suitable recipient arteries per craniotomy was 2.09 +/- 0.87, the mean diameter was 1.28 +/- 0.24 mm, and the mean length 10.83 +/- 4.87 mm. Bypass patency was confirmed by intraoperative ICG angiography, postoperative computed tomography angiography, and digital subtraction angiography, and reached 100%. Performing a 3-cm craniectomy over the described target point, reliably allows access to suitable recipient arteries for EC-IC bypass surgery."}
{"id": "18349854", "title": "Amyloid-beta-related angiitis: a rare cause of recurrent transient neurological symptoms.", "content": "Amyloid-beta-related angiitis: a rare cause of recurrent transient neurological symptoms. A 79-year-old woman presented with transient right-sided weakness. She subsequently developed further transient neurological signs and symptoms across a range of vascular territories. Diagnostic workup revealed no clear etiology. The patient developed a sudden, fatal intracerebral hemorrhage, and the diagnosis was only revealed at autopsy. Neurological examination, head CT, brain MRI, fluid-attenuated inversion recovery imaging, magnetic resonance angiography, lumbar puncture, CT angiography, electroencephalography, and brain autopsy. Amyloid-beta-related angiitis. The patient expired before treatment could be initiated. Immunosuppressants are recommended for future cases."}
{"id": "18342771", "title": "Screening for familial intracranial aneurysms: decision and cost-effectiveness analysis.", "content": "Screening for familial intracranial aneurysms: decision and cost-effectiveness analysis. To evaluate the potential benefits, harms, and cost-effectiveness of screening for asymptomatic, unruptured intracranial aneurysms in family members of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Using a Markov model, we performed a decision and cost-effectiveness analysis comparing magnetic resonance (MR) angiography screening for asymptomatic, unruptured intracranial aneurysms to no screening in family members of patients with aneurysmal SAH. Treatment of unruptured intracranial aneurysms was determined according to patient age and aneurysm size and location. Cohort age was taken as 40 years. In family members with two or more affected first-degree relatives, screening compared with no screening had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $37,400 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). With screening, life expectancy increased from 39.44 years to 39.55 years. The ICER of screening was >$50,000 per QALY if age at screening was > or =50 years. In family members with one affected first-degree relative, screening compared with no screening had an ICER of $56,500 per QALY. The results suggest that MR angiography screening for asymptomatic, unruptured intracranial aneurysms in family members with two or more affected first-degree relatives is cost-effective. The benefit and cost-effectiveness are dependent on age at screening."}
{"id": "18323478", "title": "Intra-arterial thrombolysis of acute iatrogenic intracranial arterial occlusion attributable to neuroendovascular procedures or coronary angiography.", "content": "Intra-arterial thrombolysis of acute iatrogenic intracranial arterial occlusion attributable to neuroendovascular procedures or coronary angiography. For selected stroke patients, intra-arterial thrombolysis (IAT) has been shown to be an effective treatment option. However, knowledge of safety and efficacy of IAT in patients with acute stroke as a complication of arterial catheter interventions is limited. We analyzed clinical radiological findings and functional outcomes in consecutive patients 3 months after treatment with IAT for peri-procedural strokes occurring during neuroendovascular or cardiac catheter interventions. To measure outcome, the modified Rankin scale score was used. Of a total of 432 patients treated with IAT, 12 (4 women and 8 men; mean age, 60 years) were treated because of an ischemic stroke after a neuro-endovascular procedure (n=6) or coronary angiography (n=6). The median baseline National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score was 15. Recanalization was complete (thrombolysis in myocardial infarction grade 3) in 6, partial (thrombolysis in myocardial infarction 2) in 5, and minimal (thrombolysis in myocardial infarction 1) in 1. Nine patients (75%) had a favorable outcome (modified Rankin scale score, 0 to 2), and 3 had a poor outcome (modified Rankin scale score, 3 or 4). All patients with complete recanalization had a favorable outcome, whereas only 3 of 6 patients with partial or minimal recanalization (P=0.18) had a favorable outcome. Follow-up brain imaging was normal in 2 and showed new ischemic lesions in 10 patients. Two patients (17%) had a symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage. In acute stroke attributable to arterial catheter interventions, IAT is feasible and has the potential to improve outcome in these patients. A high recanalization rate could be achieved."}
{"id": "18304581", "title": "Recanalization between 1 and 24 hours after t-PA therapy is a strong predictor of cerebral hemorrhage in acute ischemic stroke patients.", "content": "Recanalization between 1 and 24 hours after t-PA therapy is a strong predictor of cerebral hemorrhage in acute ischemic stroke patients. Intravenous administration of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) can improve clinical outcomes in patients with acute ischemic stroke. The most important complication of t-PA therapy is intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The aim of this study was to use serial MRI studies to identify independent predictors of symptomatic and asymptomatic ICH after t-PA therapy. Consecutive anterior-circulation ischemic stroke patients treated with t-PA within 3 h of stroke onset were studied prospectively. To identify the presence of recanalization in the occluded arteries and the presence of ICH, MRI, including diffusion weighted imaging (DWI), T2*, and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), was performed before and 1 h, 24 h, and 5-7 days after t-PA thrombolysis. The independent predictors of ICH were determined using multivariate logistic regression analysis. 41 patients (21 males, 20 females; mean age, 73.2+/-10.7 years) were enrolled, and 19 ICHs (1 symptomatic, 18 asymptomatic) were observed on T2*. The initial MRA demonstrated occluded brain arteries in 31 patients (75.6%), of which follow-up MRA at 1 h, 24 h, and 5-7 days after t-PA therapy revealed recanalization in 48.4%, 80.0%, and 90.0% of patients, respectively. The frequency of recanalization within 1 h after t-PA therapy did not differ between ICH and No-ICH groups, but the ICH group had more frequent recanalization between 1 h and 24 h after t-PA than the No-ICH group (50.0% vs. 4.5%, P=0.001). The ICH group had arterial fibrillation (AF) more frequently than the No-ICH group (78.9% vs. 27.3%, P=0.001). Compared to the No-ICH group, the NIHSS score was higher (16.4+/-5.7 vs. 11.5+/-6.5, P=0.011) and the ASPECTS-DWI value (a normal DWI has an ASPECTS-DWI value of 11 points) was lower (7.3+/-2.4 vs. 8.9+/-1.9, P=0.019) in the ICH group. Multivariate logistic regression analysis demonstrated that the presence of recanalization between 1 and 24 h after the end of t-PA infusion (OR: 20.2; CI: 1.0-340.9; P=0.037) was the only independent predictor of ICH. Recanalization of occluded arteries between 1 and 24 h but not within 1 h after t-PA infusion should be independently associated with symptomatic and asymptomatic ICH after t-PA therapy."}
{"id": "18304033", "title": "Angiographic demarcation of an occlusive lesion may predict recanalization after intra-arterial thrombolysis in patients with acute middle cerebral artery occlusion.", "content": "Angiographic demarcation of an occlusive lesion may predict recanalization after intra-arterial thrombolysis in patients with acute middle cerebral artery occlusion. The aim of this study is to investigate whether angiographic demarcation of an occlusive lesion may predict successful or failed result of intra-arterial thrombolysis in acute middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. We reviewed retrospectively the angiography and clinical data of acute MCA occlusion patients who underwent intra-arterial thrombolysis from 1994 to 2004. Pretreatment angiographic findings at the occlusive lesions were classified as either blurred or sharp, depending on whether the proximal portion of the occlusive lesions had poorly or well demarcated margins. Using uni- or multivariate analysis, recanalization was correlated with our angiographic classification or other clinical variables. Forty-six patients with MCA occlusions underwent intra-arterial thrombolysis during the 10-year period. Forty-four of the angiograms could be classified into one of the two categories: Blurred-type in 20 patients and Sharp-type in 24 patients. Univariate analysis showed a significant association of the classification with recanalization. (Recanalization rate: 95% in Blurred-type and 38% in Sharp-type, P < .0001) Logistic regression analysis showed that the association was independent from other factors (P= .004). In acute MCA occlusion, our classification may indicate the difficulty of the recanalization procedure, and may assist in patient triage for different intra-arterial treatment strategies."}
{"id": "18300898", "title": "Accuracy of 16-row multislice computed tomographic angiography for assessment of small cerebral aneurysms.", "content": "Accuracy of 16-row multislice computed tomographic angiography for assessment of small cerebral aneurysms. Many cases of subarachnoid hemorrhage are the result of rupture of small cerebral aneurysms. The aim of the study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy of 16-row multislice computed tomographic angiography (CTA) in detecting small cerebral aneurysms (<or=5 mm) compared with digital subtraction angiography (DSA), surgical findings, or both. One hundred ninety-two consecutive patients underwent CTA for suspected cerebral aneurysms. All aneurysms prospectively detected by CTA were confirmed by DSA or surgery. This was performed with a 16-detector row machine, with a detector slice of 0.75 mm, reconstruction interval of 0.40 mm, and timing determined by bolus trigger. CTA and DSA images were reviewed by two independent, blinded neuroradiologists who performed aneurysm detection, quantitation, and characterization using maximum-intensity projections, shaded-surface display, and volume-rendering techniques reconstructions. Combining CTA, DSA, and intraoperative findings, 64 small cerebral aneurysms (<or=5 mm) were identified in 54 (28%) of the 192 patients. Three small cerebral aneurysms identified on CTA were not clearly depicted at DSA but were confirmed at surgery. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 16-slice CTA for small aneurysms were all 100% on a per aneurysm basis. The positive predictive value and negative predictive value of 16-slice CTA for small aneurysms were both 100%, respectively, on a per aneurysm basis. There was no statistically significant difference in sensitivity between 16-slice CTA and DSA (P > 0.05). Sixteen-slice CTA images show more clarity and accuracy in the relationship of aneurysms to bone structures and adjacent branch vessels. Noninvasive 16-slice CTA is sensitive enough to replace conventional DSA in the triage, diagnosis, and treatment planning in patients with small cerebral aneurysms."}
{"id": "18292380", "title": "Vascular and nonvascular mimics of the CT angiography \"spot sign\" in patients with secondary intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Vascular and nonvascular mimics of the CT angiography \"spot sign\" in patients with secondary intracerebral hemorrhage. The newly-described computed tomography angiography (CTA) Spot Sign is present in about one third of patients with acute primary intracerebral hemorrhage (PICH) and predicts hematoma expansion. This sign has not been systematically evaluated in patients with secondary causes of ICH, and mimics have not been characterized. The purpose of this study was to assess for the presence of the Spot Sign in secondary ICH and to document potential mimics of the Spot Sign and their distinguishing features. We performed a retrospective chart review of consecutive patients presenting with ICH to our regional stroke center between January 2002 and May 2007. Ninety-six ICH patients underwent a CT stroke protocol including CTA. CTA documented a secondary cause for hemorrhage in 30 patients (31%). Each patient was assessed for the presence or absence of the CTA Spot Sign or a mimic by 2 blinded neuroradiologists. Clinical and radiological features of PICH and secondary ICH were compared. No patients with secondary ICH had a true CTA Spot Sign, but several Spot Sign mimics were identified including: micro AVM, posterior communicating artery aneurysm, Moya Moya, and neoplasm-associated calcification. The secondary ICH group was younger (P=0.0001) and less likely to be hypertensive at presentation (P=0.0114). Significant hematoma expansion (>33% increase from baseline volume) occurred in 20% of secondary ICH patients and 28% of PICH patients (P=0.2463). This study describes mimics of the CTA Spot Sign and classifies them as vascular (microAVM, aneurysm, Moya Moya) or nonvascular (tumor and choroid plexus calcification). Evaluation of the noncontrast CT together with the CTA source images is an essential part of the evaluation for the Spot Sign. Vessels entering the hematoma from the periphery are indicative of an underlying vascular lesion. Our findings suggest that the Spot Sign may be rare in secondary ICH and most specific for PICH."}
{"id": "18280091", "title": "Symptomatic acute occlusion of the internal carotid artery: reappraisal of urgent vascular reconstruction based on current stroke imaging.", "content": "Symptomatic acute occlusion of the internal carotid artery: reappraisal of urgent vascular reconstruction based on current stroke imaging. We hypothesized that a subgroup of patients with frank stroke due to sudden occlusion of the internal carotid artery could safely undergo surgery to restore carotid patency and to rescue brain tissue not yet irreversibly damaged if current stroke diagnostic methods were applied. From November 1997 to March 2007, 1810 patients underwent carotid endarterectomy of the internal carotid artery for occlusive disease at our department. Within the same period, 5369 patients were examined at our stroke unit, and 502 from this cohort underwent internal carotid artery reconstruction. A subgroup of 35 patients (28 men, 7 women; mean age, 61 +/- 10 years) underwent urgent surgical revascularization due to an acute internal carotid artery occlusion < or =72 hours (mean 25 +/- 17 hours) after the onset of stroke symptoms and < or =36 hours (mean 16 +/- 10 hours) after admission to our stroke unit. Our diagnostic workup consisted of extracranial intracranial duplex sonography, cerebral computed tomography, digital subtraction angiography, magnetic resonance imaging, and angiography, including diffusion- and perfusion-weighted imaging, to discriminate between viable and irreversibly damaged brain tissue. The study excluded patients who presented an impaired level of consciousness, occlusion of the intracranial internal carotid artery, occlusion of the ipsilateral middle cerebral artery, or infarction more than one-third of the territory perfused by the middle cerebral artery. Imaging showed signs of recent ischemic infarction in all 35 cases. On admission, eight patients (23%) scored 0 to 2 points and 27 (77%) scored 3 to 5 points in Rankin scale. Confirmed by postoperative Doppler and duplex sonography at discharge, internal carotid artery patency could be achieved in 30 of 35 cases (86%). Intracranial hemorrhage occurred in two patients (6%) and reinfarction in another two (6%). Two patients died during their hospital stay (30-day mortality, 6%). Compared with the preoperative neurologic status, rates of clinical improvement (> or =1 point in Rankin scale), stability, and deterioration were 57%, 31%, and 6%, respectively. Restoration of blood flow in an acutely occluded internal carotid artery can only be achieved in the acute stage. Our pilot study demonstrated that a thorough diagnostic workup allows selection of patients who may benefit from urgent revascularization of acute internal carotid artery occlusion in the stage of an acute stroke. A prospective randomized multicenter trial comparing surgery with conservative medical treatment is needed."}
{"id": "18272122", "title": "Postpartum intracranial hemorrhage disguised as preeclampsia.", "content": "Postpartum intracranial hemorrhage disguised as preeclampsia. A 35-year-old woman, gravida 5 para 3, presented to the emergency department 9 days after a cesarean delivery with a new-onset headache, hypertension, and hyperreflexia. Formal urinalysis did not demonstrate proteinuria. Computed tomography of the brain demonstrated bilateral parietal subarachnoid hemorrhages. The patient was subsequently transferred to a tertiary care hospital where she underwent magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomographic angiography that were not suggestive of intracerebral aneurysm, arteriovenous malformation, sinus thrombosis, or angiopathy. The patient was treated with nimodipine and was successfully discharged without any neurologic sequelae or continued hypertension. This case illustrates the potential for presumed postpartum preeclampsia to mask other serious entities, such as intracranial hemorrhage."}
{"id": "18245071", "title": "Transcranial Doppler monitoring in subarachnoid hemorrhage: a critical tool in critical care.", "content": "Transcranial Doppler monitoring in subarachnoid hemorrhage: a critical tool in critical care. To review the literature regarding the use of transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (TCD) for monitoring cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). We searched Medline (1980 to August 2007) and Embase (1980 to August 2007) and reviewed all relevant manuscripts regarding TCD and SAH. Currently, the gold standard for vasospasm diagnosis is cerebral angiography, replaceable by computed tomography angiography, only when angiography is not available. Obviously, it is not feasible to perform such investigation as frequently as bedside clinical assessment. Repeated clinical assessments of a patient's neurological status carry the problem of detecting the clinical signs and symptoms of vasospasm, which occur only after vasospasm has already manifested its deleterious effects on the cerebral parenchyma. Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography is a relatively new, non-invasive tool, allowing for bedside monitoring to determine flow velocities indicative of changes in vascular calibre. Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography can be useful pre-, intra- and post-operatively, while helping to recognize the development of cerebral vasospasm before the onset of its clinical effects. Vasospasm following SAH is a very important source of morbidity and mortality. Too often, the first sign is a neurologic deficit, which may be too late to reverse. Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography assists in the clinical decision-making regarding further diagnostic evaluation and therapeutic interventions. When performed in isolation, the contribution of TCD to improving patient outcome has not been established. Nevertheless, TCD has become a regularly employed tool in neurocritical care and perioperative settings."}
{"id": "18238913", "title": "Dural arteriovenous fistula causing primary intraventricular haemorrhage.", "content": "Dural arteriovenous fistula causing primary intraventricular haemorrhage. Primary intraventricular haemorrhage is a rare presentation of a dural arteriovenous fistula. We describe the case of a 52-year-old woman with a past history of idiopathic intracranial hypertension who presented with sudden-onset severe headache The CT scan on admission showed primary intraventricular haemorrhage with no associated haemorrhage in the brain parenchyma or the extra-axial compartment The cerebral angiogram demonstrated a dural arteriovenous fistula involving the left sigmoid and transverse sinuses which was successfully embolised transvenously. Subependymal venous congestion and rupture secondary to retrograde venous drainage has been proposed as the cause for this presentation."}
{"id": "18237769", "title": "Progressive moyamoya syndrome associated with de novo formation of the ipsilateral venous and contralateral cavernous malformations: case report.", "content": "Progressive moyamoya syndrome associated with de novo formation of the ipsilateral venous and contralateral cavernous malformations: case report. Association of moyamoya disease with multiple vascular malformations is extremely rare. A 33-year-old man, who had been affected with moyamoya syndrome with TIA during the past 3 years, was admitted to our hospital because of crescendo TIAs with numbness in his right hand and dysarthria. Magnetic resonance angiography showed apparent progression of the steno-occlusive changes bilaterally. We then planned surgical revascularization on the symptomatic side. At the time of readmission for surgery, an asymptomatic small intracerebral hemorrhage in the right frontal cortex was found, which presented on MRI as a CCM. Cerebral angiogram showed avascular lesion corresponding to the location of CCM as well as a newly formed venous malformation on the left side. One month later, STA-MCA anastomosis with pial synangiosis was performed without complications. Significant improvement in CBF on the left hemisphere was confirmed by postoperative single-photon emission CT. There were no ischemic changes on a postoperative MRI, and STA-MCA bypass was apparently patent by MRA. The TIA completely disappeared after surgery, and the patient was discharged without neurologic deficit. Persistence of the CCM and venous malformation were confirmed by T2*-weighted image and 3-dimensional contrast-enhanced gradient echo/SWI 4 months after surgery, respectively. The association of moyamoya syndrome with CCM and venous malformation is extremely rare. The coincidence of the progressive moyamoya syndrome with these newly formed vascular malformations may give a clue to the underlying mechanism of the progression of this rare entity."}
{"id": "18227992", "title": "Intracerebral hemorrhage caused by cerebral amyloid angiopathy in a 53-year-old man.", "content": "Intracerebral hemorrhage caused by cerebral amyloid angiopathy in a 53-year-old man."}
{"id": "18166708", "title": "Natural history of vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia.", "content": "Natural history of vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia. The long-term prognosis of patients with vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia (VBD) is unknown. The purpose of this study was to explore the natural history of VBD, evaluate its progression, and examine factors that may influence the clinical course of this condition. We conducted a prospective clinical and imaging follow-up study of 156 consecutive patients with VDB followed for an average of 11.7 years. Predictors of events were evaluated by multivariate analysis. Survival analysis was used to evaluate rates of incidence. During follow-up, 93 patients (60%) experienced at least one event: 75 patients had stroke (59 ischemic and 21 hemorrhagic), 31 patients had new compressive symptoms, and 2 patients had hydrocephalus. Events were significantly associated with the severity of VBD, i.e., diameter, height of bifurcation, and lateral displacement of the basilar artery. During follow-up VBD progressed in 43% of patients. Progression of VBD was associated with a higher morbidity and mortality. The cumulative proportion of survivors free of adverse health event was 54.1 at 5 years, 39.5 at 10 years, and 23.5 at 15 years. During follow-up, 62 patients died and stroke was the most common cause of death. The long-term prognosis of patients with vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia (VBD) depended mainly on the severity of the condition at diagnosis and on its evolutionary characteristics. Progression of VBD exposed patients to high risk of adverse events, especially stroke."}
{"id": "18155383", "title": "Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: update for emergency physicians.", "content": "Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: update for emergency physicians. Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is a serious cause of stroke that affects 30,000 patients in North America annually. Due to a wide spectrum of presentations, misdiagnosis of SAH has been reported to occur in a significant proportion of cases. Headache, the most common chief complaint, may be an isolated finding; the neurological examination may be normal and neck stiffness absent. Emergency physicians must decide which patients to evaluate beyond history and physical examination. This evaluation--computed tomography (CT) scanning and lumbar puncture (LP)--is straightforward, but each test has important limitations. CT sensitivity falls with time from onset of symptoms and is lower in mildly affected patients. Traumatic LP must be distinguished from true SAH. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis centers on measuring xanthochromia. Debate exists about the best method to measure it--visual inspection or spectrophotometry. An LP-first strategy is also discussed. If SAH is diagnosed, the priority shifts to specialist consultation and cerebrovascular imaging to define the offending vascular lesion. The sensitivity of CT and magnetic resonance angiography are approaching that of conventional catheter angiography. Emergency physicians must also address various management issues to treat or prevent early complications. Endovascular therapy is being increasingly used, and disposition to neurovascular centers that offer the full range of treatments leads to better patient outcomes. Emergency physicians must be expert in the diagnosis and initial stabilization of patients with SAH. Treatment in a hospital with both neurosurgical and endovascular capability is becoming the norm."}
{"id": "18080806", "title": "The value of CT angiography and transcranial doppler sonography in triaging suspected cerebral vasospasm in SAH prior to endovascular therapy.", "content": "The value of CT angiography and transcranial doppler sonography in triaging suspected cerebral vasospasm in SAH prior to endovascular therapy. Transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) is a noninvasive method for detecting arterial cerebral vasospasm (CVS) in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Computed tomographic angiography (CTA) has been increasingly used for CVS diagnosis. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the degree of agreement between TCD and CTA in diagnosing clinical CVS following SAH, and to define the role of CTA in triaging patients prior to digital subtraction angiography (DSA) and endovascular intervention. Fifty-five consecutive patients with aneurysmal SAH who underwent sequential TCD and CTA were analyzed. TCD CVS was defined as anterior circulation peak mean velocity (PMV) >160 cm/s, basilar artery (BA) PMV >90 cm/s, and Lindegaard ratio (LR) >6. CTA CVS was defined as >50% luminal narrowing in the affected vessel. Clinical CVS was defined as the onset of new focal neurological deficit attributed to delayed ischemic injury. Thirteen patients (24%) had clinical CVS and 42 patients (76%) were asymptomatic. All patients with clinical CVS had also radiological evidence of CVS (agreement 100%). In 35 patients without clinical CVS, both tests agreed for absence of CVS in 28 cases (agreement 83%). The remaining 7 asymptomatic patients had radiological CVS only, in disagreement with clinical absence of CVS (17%). Clinical evaluation and TCD can reliably diagnose CVS in symptomatic patients and PMV >180 cm/s, or can rule out CVS in asymptomatic patients with PMV <140 cm/s. In this category of patients, adding a CTA to clinical evaluation and TCD may not be warranted."}
{"id": "18065505", "title": "Contrast extravasation on CT predicts mortality in primary intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Contrast extravasation on CT predicts mortality in primary intracerebral hemorrhage. Recent studies of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) treatments have highlighted the need to identify reliable predictors of hematoma expansion. The goal of this study was to determine whether contrast extravasation on multisection CT angiography (CTA) and/or contrast-enhanced CT (CECT) of the brain is associated with hematoma expansion and increased mortality in patients with primary ICH. All patients with primary ICH who underwent CTA and CECT, as well as follow-up noncontrast CT (NCCT) before discharge/death from January 1, 2003, to September 30, 2005, were retrospectively identified. One neuroradiologist reviewed admission and follow-up NCCT for hematoma size and growth. A second neuroradiologist independently reviewed CTA and CECT for active contrast extravasation. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to evaluate the significance of clinical and radiologic variables in predicting 30-day mortality, designated as the primary outcome. Hematoma growth was considered as a secondary outcome. Of 56 patients, contrast extravasation was seen in 17.9% of patients on initial CTA and in 23.2% of patients on initial CECT following CTA. Univariate analysis showed that the presence of extravasation on CT, large initial hematoma size (>30 mL), the presence of \"swirl sign\" on NCCT, the Glasgow Coma Scale and ICH scores, and international normalized ratio were associated with increased mortality. On multivariate analysis, only contrast extravasation on CT (P = .017) independently predicted mortality. Contrast extravasation on CT (P < .001) was also an independent predictor of hematoma growth on multivariate analysis. Active contrast extravasation on CT in patients with primary ICH independently predicts mortality and hematoma growth."}
{"id": "17981672", "title": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage: effect on cerebral blood flow and cerebral metabolism.", "content": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage: effect on cerebral blood flow and cerebral metabolism. Alterations in cerebral blood flow and metabolism after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) are well known and have been extensively described. Many techniques exist in the intensive care setting to monitor for these alterations. Ranging from classic neurological exam to novel imaging studies a variety of modalities are available for intensive monitoring. Early identification of cerebral vasospasm is the key to prevention of its long term complications and as such the role of genetics and biochemical markers are currently being investigated. The dynamics of cerebral blood flow and metabolism following SAH are unique and require additional studies before any monitoring technique can be used as stand alone modality and supplant the DSA as the gold standard for detection of cerebral vasospasm."}
{"id": "17974608", "title": "Prevalence of cerebral microhemorrhages in amateur boxers as detected by 3T MR imaging.", "content": "Prevalence of cerebral microhemorrhages in amateur boxers as detected by 3T MR imaging. The evidence for traumatic brain injury in amateur boxers is controversial. Hypothetically, sudden acceleration of the head due to the impact of the blow during the boxing fight might result in diffuse axonal injury or contusion. We wanted to determine whether cerebral microhemorrhages occur more often in amateur boxers than in nonboxers. In 42 male, classical amateur boxers and in 37 healthy, nonboxing male volunteers we performed cranial MR imaging at 3T. The study protocol included a transverse dual spin-echo MR imaging sequence, a 3D sagittal magnetization-prepared rapid acquisition of gradient echo sequence, a coronal T2*-weighted sequence, and an axial time-of-flight MR angiography sequence. MR imaging data were made anonymous before 2 neuroradiologists independently evaluated the images. In addition, the following risk factors were assessed: total numbers of fights and knockouts, weight division, and duration of boxing. We compared the group proportions of microhemorrhages with Fisher test of exact probability. There was a statistically higher prevalence of cerebral microhemorrhages in the group of boxers (3 of 42; 7.1%) than in nonboxing persons (0 of 37; 0%). This difference was not statistically significant, however (P = .2479; Fisher exact test). Although we detected more microhemorrhages in amateur boxers than in nonboxing persons, this difference did not prove to be significant."}
{"id": "17964712", "title": "Intracerebral haemorrhage as first manifestation of pseudoxanthoma elasticum.", "content": "Intracerebral haemorrhage as first manifestation of pseudoxanthoma elasticum. Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE), a rare inherited, progressive connective tissue disorder, is an uncommon cause of ischemic stroke, mostly due to arterial occlusive small vessel disease. Intracranial haemorrhage rarely occurs in PXE. We report a patient with cerebral bleeding as the first manifestation of PXE, which has not been described before. This atypical presentation led to delayed diagnosis, which was not made until 3 years after the haemorrhage. PXE is a rare but noteworthy cause of ischemic and haemorrhagic stroke and should be considered in young patients lacking vascular risk factors."}
{"id": "17917723", "title": "Intra-arterial thrombolysis using rt-PA in patients with acute stroke due to vessel occlusion of anterior and/or posterior cerebral circulation.", "content": "Intra-arterial thrombolysis using rt-PA in patients with acute stroke due to vessel occlusion of anterior and/or posterior cerebral circulation. The aim of our study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of intra-arterial (IA) thrombolysis using recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) in patients with acute stroke due to occlusion in the anterior or posterior circulation. We retrospectively analyzed the clinical and radiological data of 88 consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke who underwent emergency cerebral angiography for the purpose of subsequent IA thrombolysis. The neurological deficit on admission and discharge was graded using the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score. Baseline computer tomography (CT) scans were examined for any signs indicative of cerebral ischemia. The angiographic findings were classified according to the Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) score for myocardial infarction. Follow-up CT scans were examined for hemorrhagic complication. Of the 88 patients who underwent IA thrombolysis, 63 presented with complete or partial arterial occlusion in the suspected perfusion area. In these 63 patients, the median NIHSS score dropped from 15 points on admission to 10 points at discharge. The recanalization rate was 52.6% for partial and complete reperfusion. In-hospital mortality was 20.6% (9.1% for carotid, 44.4% for basilar territory occlusion). Intracerebral bleeding (ICB) occurred in 38.6% of the patients with occlusion in the anterior circulation, resulting in these patients presenting a worse clinical outcome than those without ICB. Only minor extracranial bleedings occurred in 20.6% of patients. Patients with ICB had a significantly higher frequency of ischemic signs on the baseline CT scan. Occlusion of a cerebral artery is present in about 75% of the patients eligible for thrombolytic therapy. Intra-arterial thrombolysis using rt-PA in patients with acute ischemic stroke can achieve re-vascularization, although ICB remains the major risk factor affecting its efficacy."}
{"id": "17720199", "title": "Spontaneous obliteration of MRI-silent cerebral angiomatosis revealed by CT angiography in a patient with Sturge-Weber syndrome.", "content": "Spontaneous obliteration of MRI-silent cerebral angiomatosis revealed by CT angiography in a patient with Sturge-Weber syndrome. Type I Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS) is a neurocutaneous syndrome characterized by facial port wine stain and ipsilateral leptomeningeal angiomatosis. It is commonly complicated by glaucoma and neurological disturbances including seizures, hemiparesis, transient stroke-like deficits, and behavioral problems. Gadolinium-enhanced MRI is the study of choice for demonstrating the leptomeningeal angiomatosis, and is particularly useful for making the diagnosis. Cerebral hematoma and spontaneous obliteration of cerebral angiomatosis have never been reported in SWS. We describe a patient with type I SWS in which a hemorrhage in the left temporal lobe was caused by an underlying angiomatosis. No arteriovenous malformations were detected by brain CT or gadolinium-enhanced MRI, whereas a small angiomatous nidus draining into an ectasic venous collector near the hematoma was disclosed by brain CT angiography. Carotid angiography, performed 3 years after the hemorrhage, demonstrated the spontaneous obliteration of the angioma. This description expands the phenotypic spectrum of type I SWS in which the occurrence of cerebral hemorrhage and MRI-silent cerebral angiomatosis should be included, and emphasizes the need of performing a brain CT angiography in SWS patients whose routine neuroimaging studies fail to detect potentially harmful vessel malformation."}
{"id": "17707477", "title": "Dural arteriovenous fistula of the anterior cranial fossa associated with a ruptured ophthalmic aneurysm: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Dural arteriovenous fistula of the anterior cranial fossa associated with a ruptured ophthalmic aneurysm: case report and review of the literature. Dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) accompanied by intracranial aneurysms is an extremely rare situation. A 65-year-old man presented with sudden loss of consciousness for about half an hour. Computed tomographic scan of the brain showed subarachnoid hemorrhage. Angiogram revealed an ophthalmic aneurysm. In addition, a DAVF located in the anterior cranial fossa was also found. The ruptured aneurysm was completely occluded by coil embolization and the DAVF of the anterior cranial fossa was treated with gamma knife radiosurgery after an uneventful postoperative course. The patient was managed nonoperatively and discharged with close follow-up. An unusual case of anterior cranial fossa DAVF associated with a ruptured ophthalmic aneurysm is reported. We feel special consideration may be required in deciding the priority of treatment in such cases."}
{"id": "17586010", "title": "Uncommon presentation of ruptured intracranial aneurysm during surgical evacuation of chronic subdural hematoma: case report.", "content": "Uncommon presentation of ruptured intracranial aneurysm during surgical evacuation of chronic subdural hematoma: case report. There are many factors that predispose an aneurysm to rupture, but there are few real, demonstrable causes that lead to rupture of the aneurysmal sac with a precise cause-effect mechanism. We report a 74-year-old male patient with chronic subdural hematoma after head trauma, who underwent surgery for evacuation of the hematoma. During surgery, there was sudden copious loss of blood from the drainage tubes that were positioned subdurally. Immediate cerebral computed tomography scan and angiography revealed a subarachnoid hemorrhage at the level of the basal cisterns from a ruptured basilar apex aneurysm. We discuss the cause-effect relationship between the surgery with its positioning of subdural drains and the rupture of a previously unrecognized cerebral aneurysm. The rupture of an unknown, previous \"unruptured\" aneurysm after craniotomy with subdural positioning of drainage, must be considered a possible complication."}
{"id": "17488785", "title": "Differences between intracranial vascular malformation types in the characteristics of their presenting haemorrhages: prospective, population-based study.", "content": "Differences between intracranial vascular malformation types in the characteristics of their presenting haemorrhages: prospective, population-based study. To determine the imaging and demographic characteristics of intracranial haemorrhages, which are subsequently found to be due to an underlying intracranial vascular malformation (IVM). We compared the demographic and brain imaging characteristics of adults presenting with intracranial haemorrhage, subsequently found to be due to a brain arteriovenous malformation (BAVM), dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) or cavernous malformation (CM) in a prospective, population-based cohort of adults diagnosed for the first time with an IVM (The Scottish IVM Study (SIVMS)). Of the 141 adults in SIVMS who presented with intracranial haemorrhage, those with CMs presented at a younger age and were less handicapped. A total of 115 (82%) had intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) with or without subarachnoid, intraventricular or subdural extension. ICH without extension into other compartments accounted for all CM bleeds, but only 50% of BAVM and DAVF bleeds. Median haematoma volumes differed (Kruskal-Wallis, p<0.0001): ICH due to BAVM (16.0 cm3, inter-quartile range (IQR) 4.7 to 42.0) and DAVF (14.1 cm3, IQR 4.9 to 21.5) were similar, but CM haematoma volumes were smaller (median 1.8 cm3, IQR 1.3 to 4.3). These findings were robust in sensitivity analyses. Small haematoma volumes occurred among all IVM types; the largest haematoma volume due to CM was 12 cm3, and volumes of >34 cm3 were only due to BAVM. Intracranial haemorrhages found to be due to IVMs differ in adults' age of presentation and clinical severity, as well as the volume and distribution of the haematoma within the brain compartments."}
{"id": "18409408", "title": "[Results of cerebral angiography performed after neuroradiological indications in children with CNS diseases].", "content": "[Results of cerebral angiography performed after neuroradiological indications in children with CNS diseases]. Despite of the constant progress in the imaging of vessels, cerebral angiography characterises with the best specificity and sensitivity in detection of arterial, arteriovenous malformations and aneurysms. The aim of this study was to compare the results of cerebral angiography and other neuro-radiologic methods in cases suggesting the probability of vascular malformations in children with neurologic syndroms. MATHERIAL AND MEHTODS: In the year 2006 cerebral angiography was performed in 20 children since it was advised after radiological examinations in children hospitalized in the Department of Pediatric Neurology UJ CM in Krak\u00f3 w. The group of children aged 3-17 years (mean 11 years) consisted of 11 girls and 9 boys. The commonest clinical diagnoses were epilepsy, less common cranial neuropathies, migraine, hemiparesis and agiomatosis of skin. Before cerebral angiography was indicated, other radiological examinations were performed, within CT in 7 cases, CTA in one, MRI in 17 children and MRA in 5. In some children other examinations were also performed, within transcranial doppler evaluation of cerebral blood flow, EEG, video EEG, lumbar puncture and ultrasound eye evaluation. The pathological changes were detected in 5 CT examinations, 1 CTA, 7 MRI and in 4 MRA, suggesting cerebral vascular malformations. Cerebral angiography excluded vascular malformations in 15 children. In 5 children angiography confirmed however the presence of vascular pathology. In 2 of them arterial hypoplasia in the posterior circulation was detected, in 2 cases supratentorial artery hypoplasia and a single venous cerebellar malformation. Children were diagnosed with migraine with aura in two cases, within one with paresis of the right leg and single cases with skin angiomatosis, syncope and sleep myoclonus. Cerebral angiography allowed to exclude vascular pathology in 75% of children, in whom previous neuroradiological examinations suggested such pathology. It was important for their quality of life. In 25% of patients angiography confirmed results of previous neuroradiological tests detecting vascular pathology. MR with contrast medium is more sensitive than angiography in detection of venous angiomas."}
{"id": "18402119", "title": "[The application of cerebral angiography in the forensic postmortem examination].", "content": "[The application of cerebral angiography in the forensic postmortem examination]. As a \"Gold Standard\" in clinical diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease, cerebral angiography also plays an important role in forensic postmortem examination. The key roles of identifying the site of cerebrovascular disease and the cause of death as well as providing guidance for autopsy and postmortem sampling and the broad future application of cerebral angiography in forensic practice are reviewed."}
{"id": "18379492", "title": "[Spontaneous dissection (intramural hematoma) in vertebrobasilar artery and ischemic stroke].", "content": "[Spontaneous dissection (intramural hematoma) in vertebrobasilar artery and ischemic stroke]. Twelve patients (mean age 36,0+/-10,4 years) with a vertebral artery dissection (VAD) were followed-up during 2,5 months - 5 years. All patients underwent magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the head, MR-angiography (11 patients - repeated studies), 5 patients - conventional cerebral angiography. VAD was located on extracranial (7), intracranial (1), extra-intracranial levels (4), the extension of dissection to the basilar artery was found in 2 patients. Dissection involving both vertebral arteries was observed in 6 patients, recurrent VAD after 4-15 months - in 3 patients. A total number of VAD was 22, a total number of cerebrovascular events - 15. The latter included ischemic strokes (13), transient ischemic attacks (1) and isolated headache (1). Ischemic cerebrovascular events were characterized by the combination of cerebral ischemic symptoms with occipital headache and/or posterior neck pain (79%) which usually preceded ischemic cerebral symptoms by the interval of several hours - 3 weeks as well as a goof recovery of neurological deficit (92%). In a half of patients, cerebral ischemic symptoms developed after neck movements or manual therapy. Angiography revealed the stenosis of vertebral arteries, usually elongated, irregular or tapered (64%), more often located at the level of V3-V4 segments, vertebral artery occlusion (36%) and pseudoaneurisms (19%). The repeated angiography performed in 2-3 months or more showed positive changes in 82%, the complete (86%) or partial (14%) resolution of all stenoses and the complete or partial recanalization of the half of vertebral artery occlusions, the regress of all pseudoaneurisms. An intramural hematoma on MR imaging (the axial plane) was found in 85% dissections analyzed, the increased vertebral artery outer diameter - in 69%. Atherosclerotic plaques were absent in all cases. VAD is one of unknown causes of ischemic stroke in vertebrobasilar circulation. Diagnosis is based on characteristic clinical and angiography data."}
{"id": "18220013", "title": "Correlation of common carotid artery intima media thickness, intracranial arterial stenosis and post-stroke cognitive impairment.", "content": "Correlation of common carotid artery intima media thickness, intracranial arterial stenosis and post-stroke cognitive impairment. Atherosclerosis of the intracranial arteries is a well-recognized cause of ischemic stroke in Asians, and extracranial carotid artery disease is more often seen in western countries. The relationship of common carotid artery intima-media thickness (CCA-IMT), intracranial arteries stenosis (ICS) and vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) after ischemic stroke has not been fully elucidated. In this study, we investigated the relationship between CCA-IMT and the severity of ICS and VCI. We recruited patients from December 2004, to June 2005, with the inclusion criteria: (1) first-ever ischemic stroke, (2) admission within 3 days of stroke onset, (3) under 80 years old, and (4) no previous dementia history. We excluded patients with stroke scores greater than an NIHSS of 15; those with recurrent stroke, and those with extracranial internal carotid artery stenosis > 50%. All the patients underwent brain MR angiography, carotid ultrasonography and neuropsychological testing during hospitalization and at 3 months after stroke. We defined the percent of ICS using the method of Warfarin-Aspirin Symptomatic Intracranial Disease. Measurement of CCA-IMT was made on the far wall of the common carotid artery, 1.5 cm proximal to the bifurcation at a point free of plaques. Cognitive performance was assessed using the Cognition Assessment State Instrument (CASI). Thirty patients (21M/9F, mean age 65.97 +/- 10.33 years) were studied. The initial CCA-IMT was 1.04 +/- 0.59 mm and the initial CASI was 64.73 +/- 14.75. The ICS was 70 +/- 26%. At 3 months after stroke, the CCA-IMT was 1.06 +/- 0.59 mm; and CASI was 70.07 +/- 18.50. Compared with patients with CCA-IMT > 0.87 mm, those with CCA-IMT < or = 0.87 mm had lower ICS (57 +/- 23% vs. 81 +/- 24%, p = 0.013), but similar initial CASI score (67.92 +/- 13.52 vs. 61.93 +/- 16.64, p = 0.28). The improvement of CASI score at 3 months was significantly higher in patients with CCA-IMT < or = 0.87 mm (67.92 +/- 13.52 vs. 77.36 +/- 14.12, p = 0.001), than those with CCA-IMT > 0.87 mm (61.93 +/- 16.64 vs. 63.69 +/- 19.89, p = 0.612). CCA-IMT might be associated with the severity of ICS and VCI at 3 months after the first-ever ischemic stroke. The patients with lower CCA-IMT had a better CASI evaluation at 3 months after stroke. A larger scale of study to explore the association of CCA-IMT, VCI and ICS at 3 months after stroke might help farther delineation of these relationships."}
{"id": "18091258", "title": "Extracranial aneurysm of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery with an aberrant origination: case report.", "content": "Extracranial aneurysm of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery with an aberrant origination: case report. Aneurysms of the extracranially originating posterior inferior cerebellar artery are very rare. An anatomic insight of its possible course and variations is necessary when confronting such extraordinary lesions. A 19-year-old man presented with the sudden onset of severe headaches. A physical examination was positive only for neck rigidity. Computed tomographic scans of the brain depicted intraventricular hemorrhage. TECHNIQUE AND INTERVENTION: Four-vessel brain digital subtraction angiography revealed an extracranial posterior inferior cerebellar artery arising extradurally from the right vertebral artery between the C1 and C2 vertebrae, bearing a saccular aneurysm in an upper cervical intradural location. An anterior inferior cerebellar artery-posterior inferior cerebellar artery variant was also found on the left side. Computed tomographic angiography failed to unmask the lesion. The aneurysm was clipped through a suboccipital craniectomy and C1 laminectomy. The patient did well after surgery and was discharged from the hospital without neurological deficit. One can conclude that a comprehensive diagnostic approach oriented to the patient history and clinical data is mandatory to preclude such lesions evading the vigilant surgeon."}
{"id": "18077946", "title": "Vasospasm probability index: a combination of transcranial doppler velocities, cerebral blood flow, and clinical risk factors to predict cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Vasospasm probability index: a combination of transcranial doppler velocities, cerebral blood flow, and clinical risk factors to predict cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. The goal in this study was to create an index (vasospasm probability index [VPI]) to improve diagnostic accuracy for vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Seven hundred ninety-five patients in whom aneurysmal SAH was demonstrated by computed tomography, and in whom one or more intracranial aneurysms had been diagnosed, underwent transcranial Doppler (TCD) studies between April 1998 and January 2000. In 154 patients angiography was performed within 24 hours of the TCD examination, and in 75 133Xe cerebral blood flow (CBF) studies were obtained the same day. Seven cases were excluded because of a limited sonographic window. Forty-one women (60.3%) and 27 men (39.7%) between the ages of 35 and 84 years (58.0 +/- 13.2 years [mean +/- standard deviation]) were included. Clinical characteristics analyzed included age, sex, Hunt and Hess grade, Fisher grade, days after SAH, day of treatment, type of treatment (coil embolization, surgical clip occlusion, or conservative treatment), smoking history, and hypertension history. Lindegaard ratios and spasm indexes (TCD velocities/hemispheric CBF) were calculated bilaterally. Digital subtraction angiography images were measured at specific points of interest. Sensitivity, specificity, predictive values, and global accuracy of the different tests were calculated. Logistic regression was used to evaluate the possible predictive factors, and the coefficients of the logistic regression were integrated to create the VPI. In 18 patients (26.5%) symptomatic vasospasm was diagnosed, and 33 (48.5%) had angiographic evidence of vasospasm. For TCD velocities above 120 cm/second at the middle cerebral artery, the global accuracy was 81.1% for the diagnosis of clinical vasospasm and 77.2% for angiographic vasospasm. For a Lindegaard ratio higher than 3.0, the accuracy was 85% for clinical vasospasm and 83.2% for angiographic vasospasm. A spasm index higher than 3.5 had an accuracy of 82.0% for the diagnosis of clinical vasospasm and 81.6% for angiographic vasospasm. The selected model for estimation of clinical vasospasm included Fisher grade, Hunt and Hess grade, and spasm index. The VPI had a global accuracy of 92.9% for clinical vasospasm detection. For diagnosis of angiographic vasospasm, the model included Fisher grade, Hunt and Hess grade, and Lindegaard ratio. The VPI achieved a global accuracy of 89.9% for angiographic vasospasm detection. The use of TCD velocities, Lindegaard ratio, and spasm index independently is of limited value for the diagnosis of clinical and angiographic vasospasm. The combination of predictive factors associated with the development of vasospasm in the new index reported here has a significantly superior accuracy compared with the independent tests and may become a valuable tool for the clinician to evaluate the individual probability of cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal SAH."}
{"id": "18035241", "title": "Prediction of subarachnoid hemorrhage from a ruptured cerebral aneurysm by discriminant analysis in women.", "content": "Prediction of subarachnoid hemorrhage from a ruptured cerebral aneurysm by discriminant analysis in women. Using a discriminant analysis study of Japanese women, we sought to construct a predictive model of individuals who are at a higher risk factor of the occurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) from a ruptured cerebral aneurysm. Patients consisted of a consecutive series of 124 female patients with first spontaneous SAH aged 30 to 79 years and aneurysm or aneurysms confirmed by angiography, computed tomography scan, or both at two medical hospitals in Nagoya, Aichi Prefecture, Japan, from April 1992 to March 1997. Community control subjects were identified, and matched to each patient by age (+/-2 years). Linear discrimination analysis was used to construct a predictive model to select individuals who have a higher chance of SAH. All of the 5 predictor variables (lower antioxidant intake score, current smoking, family history of SAH, nulligravidity, and hypertension) were independently associated with the risk of SAH. The discriminant analysis yielded a statistically significant function, which explained 52% of the whole (canonical correlation [Rc] = 0.73; degrees of freedom [df] = 6; P = .000). This function showed that the rate of correct prediction was 76.2% for patients with SAH, and 82.7% for control subjects, and that it was able to produce an 80.4% rate of correct classification. The current study suggests that the calculated discriminant function, which was determined congenital (family history of SAH) and acquired variables simultaneously, may provide greater predictive accuracy for screening individuals at high risk of the occurrence of SAH in women. Prospective studies are needed to confirm validity and feasibility of the model for earlier screening for the occurrence of SAH in women."}
{"id": "17978598", "title": "Intracerebral hemorrhage: a life-threatening complication of hypertension during pregnancy.", "content": "Intracerebral hemorrhage: a life-threatening complication of hypertension during pregnancy. Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is an infrequent but severe complication in pregnant women with hypertension. The authors describe a patient with chronic hypertension who developed superimposed preeclampsia and spontaneous ICH during the thirty-fifth week of pregnancy. ICH was diagnosed by computed tomographic scan. She underwent successful emergent cesarean section and neurosurgical decompression of the ICH. Both intraoperative surveillance and postoperative magnetic resonance angiographic examination of the cerebral vessels failed to identify an aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation. The authors discuss the diagnosis and management in this case and review the literature regarding this challenging complication of pregnancy and preeclampsia. Controversies regarding treatment of hypertension during pregnancy are discussed in light of the impact on the management of this patient."}
{"id": "17966624", "title": "[Intra-atrial vegetation removal in a 14-month-old boy complicated with postoperative infective endocarditis and left middle cerebral artery embolism].", "content": "[Intra-atrial vegetation removal in a 14-month-old boy complicated with postoperative infective endocarditis and left middle cerebral artery embolism]. We report a case of the intra-atrial vegetation removal under cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) in a case complicated with left middle cerebral artery embolism caused by postoperative infective endocarditis. The patient was a 14-month-old boy. Two months after intracardiac repair for a complex congenital heart disease, he presented with low-grade fever and was placed on oral antibiotics. A month later an echocardiography revealed 2 vegetations on the tricuspid valve. Although the vegetations became smaller with intravenous antibiotics, right hemiplegia was noted 5 weeks later. Brain CT and MR-angiography demonstrated left middle cerebral artery embolism. For fear of another embolism caused by a remaining movable vegetation on the tricuspid valve, intra-atrial vegetation removal under CPB was performed 5 days after cerebral infarction. Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography was utilized to locate the vegetation and confirm its removal. His postoperative course was uneventful without a recurrence of cerebral infarction or bleeding. He was weaned from the ventilator on postoperative day (POD) 1, started to move the right extremities on POD 5 and was discharged home on POD 66."}
{"id": "17965565", "title": "Treatment of ruptured spontaneous saccular aneurysm in the central artery of the middle cerebral artery using bypass surgery combined with trapping - case report - .", "content": "Treatment of ruptured spontaneous saccular aneurysm in the central artery of the middle cerebral artery using bypass surgery combined with trapping - case report - . A 54-year-old man presented with a rare ruptured distal middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysm manifesting as subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography demonstrated a fusiform aneurysm in the central artery of the left MCA. The patient underwent anastomosis between the superficial temporal artery and the central artery distal to the lesion followed by trapping and excision of the lesion. The postoperative course was uneventful. Histological examination of the excised specimen revealed a saccular aneurysm and absence of bacteria, inflammation, or neoplasm. The present case shows that a spontaneous saccular aneurysm can develop at the cortical segment of the MCA, and can be successfully treated with bypass surgery combined with trapping."}
{"id": "17954376", "title": "Delayed rupture of pre-existing cerebral aneurysm in a young patient with minor head trauma.", "content": "Delayed rupture of pre-existing cerebral aneurysm in a young patient with minor head trauma. An intracranial saccular aneurysm is not commonly diagnosed in a patient with head injury. We present a patient with a history of minor head trauma and a CT scan of the brain revealing minimal subarachnoid hemorrhage 17 days prior to admission, complaining of severe headache, dysarthria and focal right limb seizures 3 hours prior to admission. A traumatic aneurysm was suspected based on clinical history and radiological findings including hematoma in the falx region on a CT scan of the brain and an aneurysm of the pericallosal artery on magnetic resonance angiography and four-vessel cerebral angiography. However, at craniotomy, an intracranial non-traumatic saccular aneurysm at the bifurcation of the pericallosal artery was found. The patient recovered fully after successful clipping the aneurysm."}
{"id": "17940299", "title": "CT angiography versus MR angiography in the evaluation of acute neurovascular disease.", "content": "CT angiography versus MR angiography in the evaluation of acute neurovascular disease."}
{"id": "17940298", "title": "MR angiography versus CT angiography in the evaluation of neurovascular disease.", "content": "MR angiography versus CT angiography in the evaluation of neurovascular disease."}
{"id": "17936627", "title": "Angiographically occult vascular malformation of the third ventricle.", "content": "Angiographically occult vascular malformation of the third ventricle. Angiographically occult vascular malformations (AOVM) are cerebrovascular malformations that are not demonstrable on cerebral angiography. The majority of AOVMs located in the third ventricle are cavernous malformations. To the best of our knowledge an angiographically occult arteriovenous malformation (AOAVM) of the third ventricle has not been previously reported. We report an unusual vascular malformation of the third ventricle presenting with hydrocephalus due to mass effect, verified histopathologically as an AOAVM."}
{"id": "17924220", "title": "Statin-treated familial hypercholesterolemia patients with coronary heart disease and pronounced atherosclerosis do not have more brain lesions than healthy controls in later middle age.", "content": "Statin-treated familial hypercholesterolemia patients with coronary heart disease and pronounced atherosclerosis do not have more brain lesions than healthy controls in later middle age. Clinically silent brain lesions detected with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are associated with increased risk for stroke, while stroke risk is controversial in familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). To determine whether the occurrence and size of clinically silent brain lesions in FH patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) is higher than in neurologically healthy controls without CHD. Brain MRI (1.5T) was performed on 19 DNA-test-verified FH patients with CHD and on 29 cardiovascularly and neurologically healthy controls, all aged 48 to 64 years. All patients were on cardiovascular medication. Intracranial arteries were evaluated by MR angiography. Infarcts, including lacunas, and white matter T2 hyperintensities (WMHI), considered as signs of small vessel disease, were recorded. A venous blood sample was obtained for assessment of risk factors. Carotid and femoral intima-media thicknesses (IMT), assessed with ultrasound, were indicators of overall atherosclerosis. On intracranial MR angiography, three patients showed irregular walls or narrowed lumens in intracranial carotid arteries. No silent infarcts appeared, and no differences in numbers or sizes of WMHIs between groups were recorded. Patients had greater carotid and femoral IMTs, and a greater number of carotid and femoral plaques. Cholesterol-years score, level of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and level of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) of the FH-North Karelia patients were higher than those of the controls, while the level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol in controls was higher. FH patients with CHD and adequate cardiovascular risk-factor treatment showed no difference in the amount or size of clinically silent brain lesions compared to controls, despite patients' more severe atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "17920229", "title": "Intraplaque hemorrhage assessed by high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging and C-reactive protein in carotid atherosclerosis.", "content": "Intraplaque hemorrhage assessed by high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging and C-reactive protein in carotid atherosclerosis. Carotid intraplaque hemorrhage is a marker of atheroma instability. Noninvasive assessment of bleeding can be performed by high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), but its association with inflammatory markers has not been clearly demonstrated. We evaluated consecutive carotid endarterectomy patients that underwent high-resolution MRI, independent evaluation of neurologic symptoms, C-reactive protein measurement, and histologic analysis. Intraplaque hemorrhage was determined by the presence of a hyperintense MRI signal (T1-weighted sequence). The study included 70 predominantly male (66%) and hypertensive (89%) patients (89%) aged 66 +/- 9 years old. MR angiography identified 15 patients (21.5%) with stenosis between 50% and 69%, 15 (21.5%) with stenosis between 70% and 90%, and 40 (57%) with stenosis >90%. High-resolution MRI depicted a hyperintense signal suggestive of intraplaque bleeding in 45 subjects (64%). All patients who had had transient ischemic attacks >90 days before the surgery showed a hyperintense signal on MRI (P = .007). Age, gender, traditional cardiovascular risk factors, and history of myocardial infarction or peripheral arterial disease were similar in patients with or without signs of intraplaque bleeding on MRI. There was excellent agreement between acute or recent hemorrhage on histologic and MRI findings (kappa coefficient, 0.91; 95% confidence interval, 0.81 to 1.00). Only one of 45 patients (2%) with a hyperintense signal on MRI did not have acute or recent hemorrhage in the histologic analysis (P < .001). High-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels were similar for different degrees of carotid stenosis as assessed by MR angiography, but they were significantly higher in clinically unstable patients (P = .006) and in those with a positive hyperintense MRI signal (P = .01). In an aggregated analysis of neurologic symptoms and MRI findings, we found a progressive increase of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels (P = .02). Intraplaque hemorrhage evaluated by MRI identified neurologically unstable patients with increased levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein regardless of the degree of carotid stenosis."}
{"id": "17918525", "title": "Multislice spiral computed tomography for pediatric intracranial vascular pathophysiologies.", "content": "Multislice spiral computed tomography for pediatric intracranial vascular pathophysiologies. Spiral computed tomography (SCT) and, more recently, multislice SCT (MSCT) angiography have established roles in studying subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Potential advantages in MSCT angiography include rapid acquisition, ready availability, ease of monitoring, high spatial resolution, some temporal resolution, and relative freedom from artifacts. The authors assert that these attributes make MSCT angiography the initial imaging method of choice in the assessment of not just SAH but all intracranial vascular pathophysiologies, particularly in children. The installation of a MSCT unit sparked the authors' interest in using MSCT angiography and MSCT venography in cases in which they would have formerly performed magnetic resonance (MR) angiography, MR venography, or catheter angiography as an initial investigational method. They retrospectively evaluated seven cases in which they had used the former imaging techniques to study intracranial vascular pathophysiologies. All scans were obtained on a Siemens Sensation 16-slice scanner, and postprocessing was performed on a Leonardo Workstation. Multislice spiral CT consistently provided useful vascular imaging of a wide variety of intracranial vascular pathophysiologies and an alternative imaging modality in patients considered to be too unstable for more time-consuming investigations. Multislice spiral CT offers advantages over MR imaging in the assessment of intracranial vascular pathophysiologies and frequently allows complete avoidance or deferral of catheter angiography."}
{"id": "17908658", "title": "The current role of 1.5T non-contrast 3D time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography to detect intracranial steno-occlusive disease.", "content": "The current role of 1.5T non-contrast 3D time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography to detect intracranial steno-occlusive disease. This study was performed to evaluate the role of non-contrast 3D time-of-flight (TOF) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) to detect and quantify intracranial steno-occlusive disease. Between April 2004 and January 2006, 45 patients with both 1.5T TOF MRA and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) performed within a 30-day interval were included. We evaluated the following intracranial arterial segments: petrous internal carotid artery (ICA), cavernous ICA, supraclinoid ICA, M1 of middle cerebral artery, A1 of anterior cerebral artery, P1 of posterior cerebral artery, basilar artery, and distal vertebral artery. In total, 675 arterial segments were evaluated and categorized as negative, moderate-1 (3049% stenosis), moderate-2 (5069%), severe (7099% stenosis, including gap sign on MRA), and occlusion. The sensitivity and specificity of TOF MRA for > 29% stenosis and > 49% stenosis were 94%, 96% and 95%, 96%, respectively; while sensitivity and specificity for occlusion lesions were both 100%. However, 44 segments (37% of diseased segments) were overestimated by MRA, including 20 false-positive stenoses (which occurred in 10 [22%] patients) and 24 overestimated stenosis degree. The gap sign as severe stenosis only showed about 21% sensitivity and 41% specificity. Seven lesions were underestimated by MRA: three arterial segments were out of the field of MRA examination, and four were moderate-1stenosis on DSA. TOF MRA has high sensitivity and specificity in detecting all categories of stenosis degree and occlusion. However, it tends to overestimate lesions. Therefore, MRA can be considered as a screening study. Confirmation with other studies is recommended in doubtful cases."}
{"id": "17895775", "title": "Sixteen-detector row CT angiography of the brain: comparison of 3 different volumes of the contrast material.", "content": "Sixteen-detector row CT angiography of the brain: comparison of 3 different volumes of the contrast material. The aim of this prospective study was to investigate the effect of different volumes of contrast material on vascular enhancement in 16-channel multi-detector row computed tomographic angiography of the brain. A total of 194 patients were divided into 3 groups who received different volumes of contrast material: 100 (n = 62), 80 (n = 72), and 60 mL (n = 60). The attenuation values were measured on transverse images at 12 different intracranial vessels (right and left internal carotid arteries, A2s, M2s, and P2s, basilar artery, vein of Galen, superior sagittal sinus, and dominant sigmoid sinus). The image quality parameters (intra-arterial contrast, arterial delineation, venous contamination, and confidence in diagnosis) were graded by 2 observers in consensus using a 5-point scale. The attenuation values at the left A2 segment, superior sagittal sinus, and sigmoid sinus were significantly lower in the 60-mL group than those in other groups, whereas no significant differences were found between the 3 groups for the remaining intracranial vessels. For qualitative evaluation, arterial delineation was rated higher in the 100- and 80-mL groups, whereas less venous contamination was found in the 60-mL group. There was no significant difference in overall image quality (the sum of the scores for 4 image quality parameters) between the 3 groups. A contrast material volume of 60 mL (18 g iodine) provides excellent image quality of cerebral multi-detector row computed tomographic angiography comparable to those achievable with 100 and 80 mL."}
{"id": "17893214", "title": "Flat panel detector angiographic CT for stent-assisted coil embolization of broad-based cerebral aneurysms.", "content": "Flat panel detector angiographic CT for stent-assisted coil embolization of broad-based cerebral aneurysms. The purpose of this work was to evaluate angiographic CT (ACT) in the combined application of a self-expanding neurovascular stent and detachable platinum coils in the management of broad-based and fusiform intracranial aneurysms. Eleven patients harboring wide-necked intracranial aneurysms were treated with a flexible self-expanding neurovascular stent and subsequent aneurysm embolization with platinum microcoils. ACT was performed after the interventional procedure to analyze stent position and the relationship of coils to the stent. Postprocessing included multiplanar reconstructions (MPRs) and maximum intensity projections (MIPs). ACT volume datasets were postprocessed for soft tissue visualization. Accurate stent placement with subsequent coil occlusion of the aneurysms was feasible in all of the patients. Similar to nonsubtracted digital subtraction angiography (DSA) images, radiopaque platinum stent markers showed excellent visibility in ACT as well. The stent struts themselves, hardly visible in nonsubtracted DSA, were visible in MPRs and MIPs of ACT in all of the patients. In aneurysms larger than 10 mm in diameter, accurate stent assessment at the level of the coils was limited due to beam hardening artifacts. Postprocedural ACT in all of the patients did not reveal any evidence of procedure-related intracranial hemorrhage. ACT provides cross-sectional, 3D visualization of endovascular stents otherwise hardly visible with plain fluoroscopy. ACT enables us to accurately determine stent position, which may be helpful in complex stent-assisted aneurysm coiling procedures. However, in aneurysms larger than 10 mm in diameter, beam hardening artifacts caused by the endoaneurysmal coil package impair visibility of the stent. Further data are necessary to evaluate the usefulness of ACT in stent-assisted aneurysm coiling."}
{"id": "17888012", "title": "Spontaneous intracranial hypotension with isolated cortical vein thrombosis and subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "Spontaneous intracranial hypotension with isolated cortical vein thrombosis and subarachnoid haemorrhage. Spontaneous intracranial hypotension (SIH) associated with subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) has never been reported. Here, we report on a case of a 33-year-old woman with SIH, who developed simple partial sensory seizures 3 weeks later. Neuroimaging studies, including brain computed tomography and angiography, were initially normal, but revealed an isolated cortical venous thrombosis at 3 weeks. One week later, brain magnetic resonance imaging showed SAH around the thrombosed cortical vein. We postulate that the decline in the venous blood flow velocity due to SIH may have resulted in cortical venous thrombosis, which in turn led to rupture of the vessel wall and SAH in this patient."}
{"id": "17882946", "title": "[Serial T2 short inversion time inversion recovery images in a patient with medullary hemorrhage].", "content": "[Serial T2 short inversion time inversion recovery images in a patient with medullary hemorrhage]. A 52-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of hypesthesia on the right side of his body. He had no medical history. On admission, he exhibited hypesthesia and disturbance of the touch and the vibratory sense on the right side of his body excluding the face. A brain T2* -weighted image revealed the a dot like lesion surrounded by an iso-signal lesion in the medial medulla oblongata. Therefore a diagnosis of medullary hemorrhage was made. Although a vascular malformation was considered as the cause of the hemorrhage, cerebral angiography did not reveal any vascular malformations. After admission, he developed left hypoglossal nerve palsy on day 6, and intractable hiccups on day 11. A T2* -weighted image and a FLAIR image disclosed edema surrounding the hematoma in the medial medullary lesion. T2* weighted images are useful for diagnosing and evaluating serial changes of medullary hemorrhage."}
{"id": "17879020", "title": "More coronary artery stenosis, more cerebral artery stenosis? A simultaneous angiographic study discloses their strong correlation.", "content": "More coronary artery stenosis, more cerebral artery stenosis? A simultaneous angiographic study discloses their strong correlation. Cerebral artery stenosis (CAS) has the same pathogenesis as coronary artery disease (CAD), but the coexistence of these two diseases has been rarely reported. To detect coexistent CAS in CAD patients, we conducted a study of simultaneous coronary and cerebral angiography. Of the 663 consecutive newly diagnosed CAD patients who had not yet been explored to have CAS, 80 were admitted to undergo angiography of bilateral carotid and vertebral system during the same procedure. We defined significant vascular stenosis, either located intracranially or extracranially, as the lesions of diameter stenosis more than 50%. Association between carotid or vertebral stenosis and their potential risk factors were also analyzed. Of our patients, 18 (22.5%) had significant extracranial vascular stenosis, 14 (17.5%) suffered from intracranial stenosis, and 20 (25%) had both. Only 28 patients (35%) had no significant intracranial or extracranial stenosis. None of the demographic parameters as hypertension or diabetes showed significant differences between the cerebral patent group and the CAS group, except for the number of coronary stenotic vessels (1.71 +/- 0.81 versus 2.69 +/- 0.64, P < 0.001). The number of coronary stenotic vessels is correlated well to the number of cerebral stenotic lesions (r = 0.562, P < 0.001). Besides, 8 of the cerebral stenotic patients and 2 of the cerebral patent patients had ischemic stroke previously. We conclude the CAS is coexistent in more than half of the CAD patients in this study. Our study also implies a proportional increase in the severity of CAS to CAD severity."}
{"id": "17878724", "title": "Angiographic examination of spontaneous putaminal hemorrhage.", "content": "Angiographic examination of spontaneous putaminal hemorrhage. This study was carried out to examine indications for angiographic evaluation in the case of spontaneous putaminal hemorrhage. Angiographic examinations were performed on 62 consecutive adults with spontaneous putaminal hemorrhage without remarkable subarachnoid hemorrhage. Most patients were evaluated using conventional catheter angiography except for hypertensive patients over the age of 60 who underwent a magnetic resonance angiogram or a computed tomography angiogram. Computed tomography and clinical factors such as age and hypertension were correlated with the angiographic findings. Nine of the 62 patients (15%) exhibited angiographic abnormalities, including middle cerebral artery aneurysm (n = 1), arteriovenous malformations (n = 3), moyamoya disease (n = 2), and the moyamoya phenomenon associated with a proximal middle cerebral artery occlusion (n = 3). The angiographic yield was significantly higher (1) among patients at or below the median age of 55 compared with those above (9/33, 27%, versus 0/29, 0%; p < 0.01), and (2) among patients without hypertension compared with those with hypertension (5/9, 56%, versus 4/53, 8%; p < 0.01). Although our data could be biased due to the patient selection procedure, they suggest that angiographic evaluation is highly useful for spontaneous putaminal hemorrhage regardless of volume and shape of the hematomas, excepting hypertensive patients over 55 years of age."}
{"id": "17805499", "title": "[Indication for emergent revascularisation of acute carotid occlusion].", "content": "[Indication for emergent revascularisation of acute carotid occlusion]. We examined indications for emergent revascularisation of acutely occluded internal carotid artery (ICA) using current diagnostic methods. From 1997 to 2006 we prospectively followed 34 consecutive patients undergoing emergency revascularisation due to acute extracranial ICA occlusion and acute ischaemic stroke within 72 h after symptom onset (mean 25) and within 36 h after admission (mean 16). Exclusion criteria were occlusion of the intracranial ICA or ipsilateral middle cerebral artery (MCA), ischaemic infarction of more than one third of the MCA perfusion area, or reduced level of consciousness. All patients underwent duplex sonography, cerebral CT, and/or MRI and angiography (MRA and/or DSA). We performed endarterectomy and thrombectomy of the ICA. Confirmed by postoperative duplex sonography at discharge, ICA revascularisation was successful in 30 (88%) of 34 cases. Postoperative intracranial haemorrhage was detected in two patients (6%) and perioperative reinfarction in one (3%). Compared to the preoperative status, 20 patients (59%) showed signs of clinical improvement by at least one point on the Rankin scale, ten patients (29%) remained stable, and two patients (6%) had deteriorated. The 30-day mortality was 6% (two patients). After careful diagnostic workup, revascularisation of acute extracranial ICA occlusion is feasible with low morbidity and mortality."}
{"id": "17729010", "title": "Treatment of acute ischemic brain infarction with the assistance of local intraarterial thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator.", "content": "Treatment of acute ischemic brain infarction with the assistance of local intraarterial thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator. Cerebral infarction is usually due to arterial occlusion. Prompt treatment with thrombolytic drugs can restore blood flow and improve recovery from an infarct. To evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of local intraarterial thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rtPA) in patients with acute middle cerebral artery (MCA) infarctions within 6 hours of the onset of symptoms. Sixteen patients (10 females and six males) aged from 42 to 61 years, with acute MCA territory infarcts were selected for treatment with local i.a. rtPA up to 6 hours after the onset of symptoms. Patient selection was based on clinical examination, computed tomography (CT), and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). A clinical evaluation was performed before treatment, at the time of discharge, and 90 days post-procedure on the basis of modified Rankin and NIHSS scores. Controls (n = 16, nine females and seven males) aged from 51 to 70 years were treated only with intravenous anticoagulation using i.v. heparin infusion. The control group was evaluated with multidetector CT (MDCT) angiography performed on entry to the study and at 2-4 hours afterwards. Eight patients (50%) achieved a modified Rankin score of 2 or less as the primary outcome after 90 days follow-up. The secondary clinical outcome at 90-day follow-up was as follows: NIHSS score < or =1, three (19%) of the patients; NIHSS score > or =50% decrease, nine (56%) of the patients. A recanalization rate of 75% was achieved in 12 of the 16 treated patients, but only 12.5% in two of the 16 patients in the control group. Intracerebral hemorrhage occurred in two (12.5%) of the patients in the treatment group, but in only one patient (6%) in the control group. There were no deaths in the treated group after thrombolysis up to the time of discharge; however, during the 90-day follow-up, two patients died compared to three patients in the control group (19% vs. 12.5% mortality rate). Patients with cerebral infarction who were treated within 6 hours of onset using intraarterial rtPA thrombolysis had a significantly improved clinical outcome 90 days after the procedure compared to patients treated only with intravenous anticoagulation."}
{"id": "17705007", "title": "Cerebral hemorrhage with angiographic extravasation immediately after carotid artery stenting.", "content": "Cerebral hemorrhage with angiographic extravasation immediately after carotid artery stenting. Recognizing cerebral hyperperfusion syndrome with intracerebral hemorrhage following carotid artery stenting is critical because the mortality rate is high. This type of hemorrhage usually arises from within several hours to a few days after the procedure. Here we describe a putaminal hemorrhage with extravasation during angiography that developed immediately after carotid artery stenting. A search of the literature revealed only one other similar case report. The etiology of the intracerebral hemorrhage immediately after carotid stenting might be analogous to that of hypertensive hemorrhage."}
{"id": "17695781", "title": "[Case of a ruptured vertebral artery dissecting aneurysm recanalized after internal trapping].", "content": "[Case of a ruptured vertebral artery dissecting aneurysm recanalized after internal trapping]. A 35-year-old male experienced a sudden onset of severe headache. A CT scan revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage. By cerebral angiography, he was diagnosed as having a ruptured right vertebral artery dissecting aneurysm (VADA). It was successfully treated by endovascular occlusion of the affected site, including the aneurysm and parent artery, by using detachable coils. A follow-up angiography obtained seven months after the first treatment revealed the recanalization of the right vertebral artery and dissected aneurysm in an antegrade fashion. A skull X-ray image was useful for detecting the change in appearance of the coils. The second embolization was successfully performed in the same manner. Based on this rare case, the authors emphasize that a careful angiographic analysis and complete internal trapping of the dissecting site are important in the treatment of the ruptured VADA."}
{"id": "17674417", "title": "The value of radio-anatomical features on non-contrast CT scans in localizing the source in aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "The value of radio-anatomical features on non-contrast CT scans in localizing the source in aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. Identification of the source of subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) can be a challenge in the presence of multiple aneurysms. This study was carried out to assess whether radioanatomical features on noncontrast enhanced computerised tomography (CT) scans may be of value in localizing ruptured intracranial aneurysms. The diagnostic CT scans of 56 consecutive patients, investigated for SAH with cerebral angiography, over a period of six months were available for review. Various radioanatomical features were assessed: (1) pattern of subarachnoid blood (e.g. predominant site and location near major vessel bifurcation), (2) presence of intraparenchymal haematoma, (3) presence of aneurysm contour and (4) hydrocephalus. On the basis of the findings an estimation of the anatomical location of the source of bleeding was made and then compared with the angiogram findings to which the reviewer was blinded. The location of the aneurysm was correctly identified in 89.5% of cases. Careful analysis of the pattern of bleeding was essential for the successful localization of the aneurysm in all these cases. The presence of an aneurysm contour was also associated with correct identification of the source of bleeding (chi(2) = 6.067, P = 0.02). Our findings suggest that radioanatomical features on CT scans in SAH can be a valuable aid in the correct identification of the location of the ruptured aneurysm. This would be of particular significance in the presence of multiple intracranial aneurysms."}
{"id": "17667108", "title": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage following uneventful thyroid orbital decompression.", "content": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage following uneventful thyroid orbital decompression. A 24-year-old woman developed subarachnoid hemorrhage and left frontal lobe ischemia following uneventful right transconjunctival orbital decompression for thyroid-related immune orbitopathy. CT, MRI, CT angiography, and carotid angiography confirmed subarachnoid hemorrhage and brain ischemia on the left side without any cerebral vascular abnormalities on either side. All tests were unremarkable. She fully recovered at last follow-up, 4 months after surgery. We did not find any reason for the subarachnoid hemorrhage and left frontal lobe ischemia. This complication should be considered after orbital surgery for patients with thyroid-related immune orbitopathy."}
{"id": "17652917", "title": "Spontaneous thrombosis of a venous malformation leading to intracerebral hemorrhage--case report.", "content": "Spontaneous thrombosis of a venous malformation leading to intracerebral hemorrhage--case report. A 33-year-old man presented with consciousness disturbance (Glasgow Coma Scale score 7) and right hemiplegia after suffering headache persisting for 10 days. Head computed tomography revealed an irregular intracerebral hematoma in the left temporoparietal region, associated with a tubular high density area compatible with a thrombosed transcerebral vein in the left temporal lobe. The patient was free of coagulopathy. Craniectomy was performed to remove the intracerebral hematoma and venous thrombosis was confirmed. Postoperative cerebral angiography demonstrated extensive venous malformation in the left parietal and occipital lobes. Multiple transcerebral draining veins converged in the vein of Galen associated with a varix. Segmental narrowing of the straight sinus was suggestive of congestion in the venous anomaly. The patient showed progressive recovery following surgery, and was discharged with moderate aphasia, mild right hemiparesis, and right homonymous hemianopsia 1 month later. Venous malformations are usually silent, but occasionally become symptomatic due to thrombosis of the draining vein. The presence of stenosis in the draining route may lead to venous congestion, thrombus formation, and catastrophic hemorrhagic venous infarct."}
{"id": "17641273", "title": "Case report: seizures in a child caused by a large venous angioma.", "content": "Case report: seizures in a child caused by a large venous angioma. Cerebral venous angioma is a congenital anomaly of the medullary vein, the vessel that drains into the transparenchymal venous stem. This lesion is also referred to as a developmental venous anomaly. A few reports in the literature have documented developmental venous anomaly-related epilepsy, neurologic deficits, and intracranial hemorrhage. A 3-year-old boy was referred to our hospital after he sustained an afebrile, tonic-clonic, focal seizure of 15 minutes' duration that affected his right arm, leg, and eyebrow. Cerebral digital subtraction angiography showed a bilateral, large periventricular developmental venous anomaly. This report describes the clinical and radiologic findings for this large venous angioma that caused seizures in a child."}
{"id": "17610182", "title": "[Cerebral perfusion computerized tomography in vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage: diagnostic value of MTT].", "content": "[Cerebral perfusion computerized tomography in vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage: diagnostic value of MTT]. Analysis of the value of the perfusion parameter mean transit time (MTT) for the diagnosis of cerebral vasospasm after Subarachnoid Hemorrhage (SAH). Comparison with other perfusion parameters. An MTT threshold indicating the necessity of conventional angiography will be defined. We analyzed the CT Perfusion (CTP) of 20 patients suffering from SAH (Fisher grading 3 and 4). In each patient a baseline examination was performed the day after treatment of the ruptured aneurysm. Follow-up was indicated for the occurrence of clinical symptoms, pathologic Doppler values or the first day after endovascular therapy. The cortical mean transit time (MTT), T (max,) cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral blood volume (CBV) were calculated. A vasospasm score resulting from the Doppler values and clinical neurological symptoms was compared to MTT in the follow-up. The outcome after discharge from the intensive care unit was compared to the maximum MTT. 18 patients were able to be evaluated. We found parallelism between the time course of MTT and clinical symptoms in 14 of 18 patients. In 4 of 18 patients no relationship between MTT and clinical symptoms was found. There is a good correlation between the clinical outcome at the time of discharge and the MTT. Clinical symptoms occurred if the MTT was between 3.2 and 4.0 s. An MTT above 4.0 s resulted in a bad clinical outcome. 9 of 18 patients showed angiographic criteria for endovascular treatment. All those patients showed an MTT of more than 3.2 s at the time of angiography. The analysis of the cortical perfusion parameter MTT is suitable for revealing clinically relevant global and regional vasospasm. A risk potential prediction is possible. An MTT of 3.2 s indicates a conventional angiography (DSA). This should be verified using a larger number of patients."}
{"id": "17609642", "title": "Advances in neuroimaging technology: state of the art.", "content": "Advances in neuroimaging technology: state of the art. Highlights from the 30th Annual Meeting of the American Society of Neuroimaging, January 17-21, 2007, Miami, FL."}
{"id": "17586241", "title": "Dissecting posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage right after anticoagulant and antiplatelet therapy against ischemic event.", "content": "Dissecting posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage right after anticoagulant and antiplatelet therapy against ischemic event. Dissecting aneurysms with initial ischemic manifestations may present with subsequent subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), and their treatment is controversial. This is a case report that illustrates the dilemma when dealing with an immediate post-SAH period dissecting posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) aneurysm initially presenting with an ischemic event. We present a 57-year-old man with a dissecting PICA aneurysm who had SAH right after anticoagulant and antiplatelet therapy for cerebral infarction. The aneurysm was not detected by magnetic resonance angiography performed at the time of admission. On admission, he was treated with both anticoagulant and antiplatelet therapy. After the SAH episode, he underwent emergent resection of the dissecting aneurysm and left OA-PICA anastomosis. If hemorrhagic transformation occurs at the site of an ischemic dissecting aneurysm, surgical or endovascular intervention should be considered immediately. Although the optimal treatment of dissecting aneurysms with ischemic onset remains controversial, anticoagulant and antiplatelet therapy should not be rejected out of hand."}
{"id": "17562825", "title": "Noninvasive imaging is improving but digital subtraction angiography remains the gold standard.", "content": "Noninvasive imaging is improving but digital subtraction angiography remains the gold standard."}
{"id": "17558454", "title": "Bilateral traumatic carotid-cavernous fistulae: Strategies for endovascular treatment.", "content": "Bilateral traumatic carotid-cavernous fistulae: Strategies for endovascular treatment. Most traumatic carotid-cavernous fistula/e (TCCF) are unilateral, and simultaneous bilateral TCCF are uncommon. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the angiographic architecture of bilateral TCCF and report our experience with their endovascular management. Over 15 years, 252 consecutive patients with TCCF were referred to our institute for endovascular treatment. Bilateral TCCF occurred in 5 men and 2 women with a mean age of 31 years. The angiographic architectures of bilateral TCCF were evaluated with cerebral angiography. All patients underwent a single session of transarterial embolisation by using various permanent embolic materials and were followed up clinically or with angiography for a mean of 22 months (range 9-36 months). All patients presented with neuro-ophthalmic symptoms and signs. No new instances of cerebrovascular ischemia or intracranial haematoma resulted from bilateral TCCF. All fistulae were associated with partial arterial steal and were successfully occluded by using a detachable balloon and/or a detachable coil with or without a liquid adhesive. Of 14 TCCF, 9 were completely obliterated with preserved flow of the internal carotid artery (ICA). In the other 5 fistulae, the ICA had to be sacrificed to achieve occlusion because the anatomy of the fistula was complex. All fistula related symptoms resolved immediately or gradually during clinical follow up. No clinically significant procedure related neurological complications or recurrent fistulae were observed. All bilateral TCCF were associated with a partial arterial steal phenomenon. Single session endovascular treatment using various embolic materials was effective in managing these high-flow fistulae. In all patients, it was possible to preserve one or both ICAs."}
{"id": "17555581", "title": "Fibromuscular dysplasia.", "content": "Fibromuscular dysplasia. Fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD), formerly called fibromuscular fibroplasia, is a group of nonatherosclerotic, noninflammatory arterial diseases that most commonly involve the renal and carotid arteries. The prevalence of symptomatic renal artery FMD is about 4/1000 and the prevalence of cervicocranial FMD is probably half that. Histological classification discriminates three main subtypes, intimal, medial and perimedial, which may be associated in a single patient. Angiographic classification includes the multifocal type, with multiple stenoses and the 'string-of-beads' appearance that is related to medial FMD, and tubular and focal types, which are not clearly related to specific histological lesions. Renovascular hypertension is the most common manifestation of renal artery FMD. Multifocal stenoses with the 'string-of-beads' appearance are observed at angiography in more than 80% of cases, mostly in women aged between 30 and 50 years; they generally involve the middle and distal two-thirds of the main renal artery and in some case also renal artery branches. Cervicocranial FMD can be complicated by dissection with headache, Horner's syndrome or stroke, or can be associated with intracerebral aneurysms with a risk of subarachnoid or intracerebral hemorrhage. The etiology of FMD is unknown, although various hormonal and mechanical factors have been suggested. Subclinical lesions are found at arterial sites distant from the stenotic arteries, and this suggests that FMD is a systemic arterial disease. It appears to be familial in 10% of cases. Noninvasive diagnostic tests include, in increasing order of accuracy, ultrasonography, magnetic resonance angiography and computed tomography angiography. The gold standard for diagnosing FMD is catheter angiography, but this invasive procedure is only used for patients in whom it is clinically pertinent to proceed with revascularization during the same procedure. Differential diagnosis include atherosclerotic stenoses and stenoses associated with vascular Ehlers-Danlos and Williams' syndromes, and type 1 neurofibromatosis. Management of cases with renovascular hypertension includes antihypertensive therapy, percutaneous angioplasty of severe stenoses, and reconstructive surgery in cases with complex FMD that extends to segmental arteries. The therapeutic options for securing ruptured intracerebral aneurysms are microvascular neurosurgical clipping and endovascular coiling. Stenosis progression in renal artery FMD is slow and rarely leads to ischemic renal failure."}
{"id": "17546539", "title": "Severe cerebral vasospasm caused by non-aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage treatment with transluminal balloon angioplasty.", "content": "Severe cerebral vasospasm caused by non-aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage treatment with transluminal balloon angioplasty. Non-aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (NSAH) is a benign form of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The angiographic changes of cerebral vasospasm (CVS) are uncommon in patients with this type of SAH. NSAH is uniformly associated with an excellent outcome without associated rebleeding or symptomatic CVS. We report a patient with NSAH who developed severe and diffuse CVS. He was treated with transluminal balloon angioplasty because he has been refractory to conventional treatment measures for CVS."}
{"id": "17544573", "title": "Arteriovenous fistula originating from proximal part of the anterior cerebral artery.", "content": "Arteriovenous fistula originating from proximal part of the anterior cerebral artery. Intracerebral arteriovenous fistulas of the brain may be misdiagnosed as arteriovenous malformation. There are only a few reports in the literature about this concept and to the best of our knowledge this is the first case arising from the proximal part of the anterior cerebral artery in association with an aneurysm that ruptured. A 64-year-old man presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage. The patient was neurologically intact. Cerebral angiography and magnetic resonance imaging of the patient revealed a small arteriovenous malformation of the brain involving the region of gyrus rectus and the posteromedial aspect of the orbitofrontal gyrus in addition to an aneurysmal dilatation within the malformation. An arteriovenous fistula arising from the junction of the A1 and A2 segments of the right anterior cerebral artery connected to a vein that has tributaries spreading over the fronto-orbital gyrus and gyrus rectus, were observed during surgery. The patient was successfully treated with clip ligatation of the fistula. Intracerebral arteriovenous fistulas are rare lesions. They may easily be misdiagnosed as arteriovenous malformations. There preoperative consideration in the differential diagnosis can help to decide the most appropriate treatment option."}
{"id": "17542541", "title": "Progressive perianeurysmal edema induced after endovascular coil embolization. Report of three cases and review of the literature.", "content": "Progressive perianeurysmal edema induced after endovascular coil embolization. Report of three cases and review of the literature. The authors report three cases of progressive vasogenic brain edema surrounding a cerebral aneurysm after endovascular coil embolization. In all three cases embolization was incomplete due to the aneurysms' large sizes and wide necks. Follow-up magnetic resonance imaging revealed de novo vasogenic brain edema surrounding the aneurysms 3 to 6 months after the initial treatment. The edema progressed in parallel with regrowth of the aneurysms. All three aneurysms were deep in the brain parenchyma and showed intramural enhancement, suggesting hemorrhage or inflammation. Each patient underwent a second embolization for the aneurysm regrowth, which resulted in improvement of the edema. Based on the findings in these cases and review of the literature, it is suggested that incomplete occlusion of larger aneurysms that are deep within the brain may lead to a disorganized intraluminal thrombosis, aneurysm pulsing, and intramural hemorrhage or inflammation, all of which are associated with brain edema following aneurysm recanalization and regrowth. It should be kept in mind that incomplete embolization of larger aneurysms may cause such malignant change and that this complication may occur after endovascular treatment."}
{"id": "17533973", "title": "[Clinical applications of 3.0 T magnetic resonance system in the neuroradiological field].", "content": "[Clinical applications of 3.0 T magnetic resonance system in the neuroradiological field]. Recently, the introduction of 3 tesla (3T) magnetic resonance (MR) system for more sophisticated clinical applications has yielded in important benefits, especially in neuroradiology. The aim of this article is to illustrate the practical scientific applications of the 3T system in the neuroradiological filed. From the clinical point of view, we focused on the usefulness of 3T system for the diagnosis of several neurological disorders, such as brain tumors, vascular lesions, hemorrhagic lesions, acute cerebral infarcts and degenerative diseases. The greatest advantage of high-field MR system is a higher signal to noise ratio. This higher spatial resolution can provide precise anatomical information for brain tumor itself and its surrounding structures. Diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) also benefits from the higher signal to noise ratio and offers useful information for tumor characteristics. Navigation system with diffusion tensor tractgraphy is also available for surgical operation of brain tumors. Parallel imaging enables to improve the quality of tractgraphy by reducing susceptibility artifacts. 3T TOF (time-of-flight) MR angiography (MRA) demonstrates superior depiction of intracranial aneurysms compared with that of 1.5T TOF MRA. 3T TOF MRA is also useful for the evaluation and follow-up of stenoocclusive diseases including moyamoya disease. Susceptibility weighted imaging (SWI) is a BOLD (blood oxygenation level dependent)-sensitive method for visualizing anatomical features such as small cerebral veins in high detail. Therefore, 3T system has advantages for obtaining detailed, high spatial resolution images of the venous network. SWI is useful for detection of hemorrhagic lesions and early diagnosis of acute hemorrhagic infarcts. SWI also can detect embolus and evaluate functional changes showing dilatation of medullary veins in the area of acute cerebral infarcts. Neuromelanin imaging using 3T system can directly demonstrate the locus ceruleus and substantia nigra by the neuromelanin content and have the potential to become a powerful tool in Parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders with Parkinsonism. Hyperintense putaminal rim can be often observed in clinically normal subjects on fast spin echo T2-weighted images at 3T system. This finding should not be mistaken for multiple system atrophy. 3T MR system indeed offers new potential because of a substantial increase in signal intensity provided by the higher magnetic field. Routine neuroradiologic imaging would benefit from higher magnetic field. However, It is required that extended knowledge of clinical data in comparison with 1.5T system to elucidate the efficacy of 3T system in the neuroradiology."}
{"id": "17514349", "title": "Management of spontaneous haemorrhagic intracranial vertebrobasilar dissection: review of 21 consecutive cases.", "content": "Management of spontaneous haemorrhagic intracranial vertebrobasilar dissection: review of 21 consecutive cases. Haemorrhagic intracranial vertebrobasilar dissection is an uncommon cause of nontraumatic subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and accounts for only 1-10% of non-traumatic SAH. Treatment in the acute phase is considered to be essential because of the high risk of rebleeding and the consequent unfavourable outcome. However, the location, the potential for involvement of eloquent vessels and the histopathological characteristics of the vessel wall make treatment demanding from both a technical and anatomical point of view. We report our experience in the management of this disease. PATIENTS AND TREATMENTS: From 1989 to June 2006, we managed 21 patients with spontaneous haemorrhagic dissection located in the intracranial vertebrobasilar system, 13 patients were treated using an endovascular approach, 1 by surgical clipping, and 7 were managed conservatively. Among the 13 patients treated endovascularly, 7 underwent proximal occlusion, 4 underwent parent artery embolization at the site of dissection, and 2 underwent endovascular trapping. Severe, treatment-related complications due to dislodgement of the thrombus during the procedure occurred in 1 patient, who then died from brainstem ischaemia. One patient died from severe pneumonia and one patient was left disabled from vasospastic ischaemia resulting from severe initial SAH. The remaining 10 patients had satisfactory outcomes: none rebled after treatment and when discharged they had Karnovsky scores of 80-100. Of the 7 conservatively treated patients, three died of rebleeding and four were discharged with Karnovsky scores of 50-100. One patient, who was treated surgically, was discharged with a Karnovsky of 90. The high rate of rebleeding and consequent mortality among the patients treated conservatively argues for treatment in the acute phase. Treatment should be guided by each patient's angiomorphology, clinical condition and the experience of the neurosurgical/neuroradiological team. Options include endovascular or surgical trapping of the dissection and proximal occlusion and embolisation of the parent artery at the site of the dissection."}
{"id": "17494652", "title": "Time-resolved MR angiography: optimal parallel imaging method.", "content": "Time-resolved MR angiography: optimal parallel imaging method. Time-resolved (TR) MR angiography (MRA) using parallel imaging techniques is proving to have clinical utility for improving MRA spatial and temporal resolution and separating arterial from venous anatomy. The purpose of this study was to evaluate TR MRA of the intracranial vessels at different integrated parallel acquisition technique (IPAT) factors. 3D TR MRA using time-resolved echo-shared angiographic technique was performed with different IPAT factors (0, 2, 3) at 1.5 T, resulting in temporal resolutions of 4.0, 1.7, and 1.3 seconds, respectively. We studied 14 subjects, comprising 12 patients with various pathologic conditions and 2 healthy subjects. The brain volume was covered by 36 partitions, and a bolus of 5 mL of gadopentate dimeglumine was administered. Signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), the number of frames that distinguished between arterial and venous phases, the conspicuity of the vasculature, and artifacts were analyzed. There was no significant difference in SNR between IPAT factors 0 and 2. Moreover, SNR was significantly lower with IPAT 3 than with IPAT 0 or 2. Smaller vessel segments (M3 and P3) were rated significantly inferior with TR MRA IPAT 2 or 3 compared with MRA without IPAT. For larger proximal vessels (A1 and A2 segments of anterior cerebral artery, M1 and M2 segments of middle cerebral artery, P2 segment of posterior cerebral artery, and basilar artery), there was no difference between TR MRA IPAT 0 and 2. To obtain arterial and venous information in a clinical setting, intracranial TR MRA is best performed with an IPAT factor of 2 with at least 5 mL of contrast."}
{"id": "17460507", "title": "Ruptured proximal lenticulostriate artery fusiform aneurysm presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage: case report.", "content": "Ruptured proximal lenticulostriate artery fusiform aneurysm presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage: case report. Lenticulostriate artery aneurysms are rare. When present, distal locations in and around the basal ganglia are more common and often present with intraparenchymal hemorrhage when ruptured. We present a very rare case of a ruptured proximal lenticulostriate fusiform aneurysm presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage. We report the case of a 31-year-old healthy man who presented after the sudden onset of headache, nausea, and lethargy without neurological deficits. Cranial computed tomographic scanning demonstrated diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage, and a cranial computed tomographic angiogram demonstrated a vascular irregularity on the superior surface of the left distal M1 trunk of the middle cerebral artery. A cerebral angiogram demonstrated a left proximal lenticulostriate fusiform aneurysm without evidence of moyamoya-like vessels or vasculitis. No other pathology or infectious etiology was noted. Endovascular therapy was deemed unsafe, and microsurgical exploration and intervention was the more favorable and safe approach. A standard left pterional craniotomy was performed and the afferent lenticulostriate vessel into the fusiform aneurysm was visualized. Temporary clips were applied to the proximal and distal M1 trunk and miniclips were applied across the afferent portion and fundus of the aneurysm, thus sacrificing the parent lenticulostriate artery. A postoperative computed tomographic scan demonstrated an area of hypodensity in the left basal ganglia. The patient's postoperative right facial and upper extremity weakness improved to normal several days after aneurysmal clipping. This is the first report of a ruptured proximal lenticulostriate artery fusiform aneurysm, which presented as subarachnoid hemorrhage in a healthy patient without an underlying vascular disease."}
{"id": "17453179", "title": "CTA in the detection and quantification of vertebral artery pathologies: a correlation with color Doppler sonography.", "content": "CTA in the detection and quantification of vertebral artery pathologies: a correlation with color Doppler sonography. We evaluated the feasibility of multidetector CT angiography (MDCTA) in the examination of vertebral artery (VA) pathologies and correlated the results with those of color Doppler sonography (CDS). In this retrospective cohort analysis, we identified 65 patients with suspected cerebrovascular disease, who underwent MDCTA and CDS of the supraaortic vessels within a maximum period of 1 month. We evaluated the feasibility and image quality of MDCTA in this indication, compared the value of reformatted images and axial source images in the grading of stenoses and correlated these results with those of CDS. The image quality of the MDCTA examination was classified as good in 64 patients (98.5%) and as moderate in 1 patient (1.5%). Axial source images and reformatted images agreed perfectly in terms of stenosis detection and grading as well as the detection of hypoplastic VAs (kappa = 1). The correlation between MDCTA and CDS was moderate (kappa = 0.56) in terms of stenosis detection and quantification and poor (kappa = 0.35) in terms of detection of hypoplasia of the VA. MDCTA is a feasible method for the evaluation of VA pathologies providing a good image quality. Image reformatting does not add any diagnostic value to the interpretation of axial source images. The correlation between MDCTA and CDS is only moderate, reflecting the clinically important limitations of CDS in this indication."}
{"id": "17450369", "title": "Incidence of vascular malformations in spontaneous intra-cerebral haemorrhage in children.", "content": "Incidence of vascular malformations in spontaneous intra-cerebral haemorrhage in children. To assess the incidence of vascular malformations in children presenting with non-traumatic intra-cerebral haemorrhage and outline the need for radiological investigations. Between 1993 and 2002, 26 children presented with spontaneous intra-cerebral haemorrhage at a mean age of 26 months (range 1-192 months). Twenty-two children had, as first treatment, surgical removal of the haematoma and any malformation found. One patient with no evidence of vascular malformation had conservative treatment, two had embolisation and one had stereotactic radiosurgery of arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). The diagnosis of vascular malformation was confirmed histologically and/or radiologically in 16 (61%) patients. Of these 16 patients, 7 were AVMs, 1 thrombosed middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysm, 1 cavernous angioma, 6 aggregates of abnormal vessels, 1 vein of Galen aneurysm. Pre-operatively, 12 patients had magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)/magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and 7 were positive for vascular malformation (1 false positive) with no false negatives. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) was performed pre-operatively in 7 patients, 4 were positive with no false negatives. There were no re-bleeds at the follow-up period. Five (19%) patients died from the haemorrhage, 7 (27%) had severe neurological deficit and 14 (54%) had no neurological deficit. Residual malformation after surgery requiring additional treatment was found in 3 (16%) patients. All patients with confirmed malformations were followed-up with DSA. MRI/MRA has high sensitivity and specificity in identifying vascular malformations in children presenting acutely with spontaneous intra-cerebral haemorrhage. This may prove useful when pre-operative DSA is not promptly available. After acute clot evacuation, there is high incidence of residual malformation and such patients should be followed-up with DSA."}
{"id": "17448536", "title": "3T magnetic resonance arteriography in pediatric cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "3T magnetic resonance arteriography in pediatric cerebrovascular disease. Based on a series of 20 cases, eight with 1.5T and 3T MRA's, 3T MRA provides improvement over 1.5T MRA in imaging the vessels of the circle of Willis in pediatric patients with vascular disease. Dephasing artifact is reduced and laminal stenosis or occlusions become better depicted."}
{"id": "17445624", "title": "Benign angiopathy of the central nervous system presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Benign angiopathy of the central nervous system presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage. Primary central nervous system vasculitis has traditionally been described as an aggressive condition, with significant morbidity and mortality. A subgroup of patients has been identified who have a similar clinical presentation, but with a benign course. This syndrome of BACNS is successfully treated with low-dose steroids and calcium-channel blockers. Histologic confirmation, when performed, is normal. Intracerebral hemorrhage is a rare presenting finding in the setting of BACNS. We present 2 patients with acute onset of headache and neurologic impairment secondary to an ICH. Cerebral angiography showed characteristic findings of diffuse vasculitis. Both patients were subjected to biopsy and both failed to reveal evidence of vasculitis. This report is the first to document the normal histologic features of BACNS in the setting of an ICH. Although these angiographic changes are similar to vasculitis, these processes can be differentiated on clinical grounds, which is of vital importance as the treatment and clinical course of BACNS is more benign. Furthermore, the presence of an ICH in the setting of vasoconstriction seen on angiography may represent a novel feature in some patients with BACNS and is not necessarily a harbinger of the more malignant PCNSV."}
{"id": "17436187", "title": "[Computerized analysis of brain perfusion parameter images].", "content": "[Computerized analysis of brain perfusion parameter images]. The development of a computerized method which allows a direct quantitative comparison of perfusion parameters. The display should allow a clear direct comparison of brain perfusion parameters in different vascular territories and over the course of time. The analysis is intended to be the basis for further evaluation of cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The method should permit early diagnosis of cerebral vasospasm. The Angiotux 2D-ECCET software was developed with a close cooperation between computer scientists and clinicians. Starting from parameter images of brain perfusion, the cortex was marked, segmented and assigned to definite vascular territories. The underlying values were averages for each segment and were displayed in a graph. If a follow-up was available, the mean values of the perfusion parameters were displayed in relation to time. The method was developed under consideration of CT perfusion values but is applicable for other methods of perfusion imaging. Computerized analysis of brain perfusion parameter images allows an immediate comparison of these parameters and follow-up of mean values in a clear and concise manner. Values are related to definite vascular territories. The tabular output facilitates further statistic evaluations. The computerized analysis is precisely reproducible, i. e., repetitions result in exactly the same output. Computerized analysis of brain perfusion parameters with Angiotux 2D-ECCET is objective and ensures reproducible results. It may become the basis and a requirement for the analysis of minimal changes in brain perfusion prior to irreversible damage from posthemorrhagic vasospasm."}
{"id": "17416833", "title": "CT angiography and perfusion CT in cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "CT angiography and perfusion CT in cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage. We investigated the association of multisection CT angiography (MSCTA) and perfusion CT (PCT) for the characterization of vasospasm secondary to aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Among 27 patients with symptomatic cerebrovascular vasospasm investigated by digital subtraction angiography (DSA), 18 underwent both cerebral PCT and MSCTA. For the remaining 9, only PCT or MSCTA could be performed. MSCTA was compared with DSA for the detection and characterization of vasospasm on 286 intracranial arterial segments. PCT maps were visually reviewed for mean transit time, relative cerebral blood flow, and relative cerebral blood volume abnormalities and were qualitatively compared with the corresponding regional vasospasm detected by DSA. Vasospasm was grouped into 2 categories: mild-moderate and severe. The depiction of vasospasm by MSCTA showed the best sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy at the level of the A2 and M2 arterial segments (100% for each), in contrast to the carotid siphon (45%, 100%, and 85% respectively). The characterization of vasospasm severity by MSCTA showed a sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 86.8%, 96.8%, and 95.2%, respectively, for mild-moderate vasospasm, and 76.5%, 99.5%, and 97.5%, respectively, for severe vasospasm. The PCT abnormalities were related to severe vasospasm in 9 patients and to mild-to-moderate vasospasm in 2. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of PCT in detecting vasospasm were 90%, 100%, and 92.3%, respectively, for severe vasospasm, and 20%, 100%, and 38.5%, respectively, for mild-moderate vasospasm. MSCTA/PCT can assess the location and severity of cerebrovascular vasospasm and its related perfusion abnormalities. It can identify severe vasospasm with risk of delayed ischemia and can thus guide the invasive treatment."}
{"id": "17414048", "title": "Three dimensional computed tomography angiography in imaging jugular foramen lesions.", "content": "Three dimensional computed tomography angiography in imaging jugular foramen lesions."}
{"id": "17410714", "title": "Evaluation of extracranial-intracranial bypass using quantitative magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Evaluation of extracranial-intracranial bypass using quantitative magnetic resonance angiography. To date, angiography has been the primary modality for assessing graft patency following extracranial-intracranial bypass. The utility of a noninvasive and quantitative method of assessing bypass function postoperatively was evaluated using quantitative magnetic resonance (MR) angiography. One hundred one cases of bypass surgery performed over a 5.5-year period at a single institution were reviewed. In 62 cases, both angiographic and quantitative MR angiographic data were available. Intraoperative flow measurements were available in 13 cases in which quantitative MR angiography was performed during the early postoperative period (within 48 hours after surgery). There was excellent correlation between quantitative MR angiographic flow and angiographic findings over the mean 10 months of imaging follow up. Occluded bypasses were consistently absent on quantitative MR angiograms (four cases). The flow rates were significantly lower in those bypasses that became stenotic or reduced in diameter as demonstrated by follow-up angiography (nine cases) than in those bypasses that remained fully patent (mean +/- standard error of the mean, 37 +/- 13 ml/minute compared with 105 +/- 7 ml/minute, p = 0.001). Flows were appreciably lower in poorly functioning bypasses for both vein and in situ arterial grafts. All angiographically poor bypasses (nine cases) were identifiable by absolute flows of less than 20 ml/minute or a reduction in flow greater than 30% within 3 months. Good correlation was seen between intraoperative flow measurements and early postoperative quantitative MR angiographic flow measurements (13 cases, Pearson correlation coefficient = 0.70, p = 0.02). Bypass grafts can be assessed in a noninvasive fashion by using quantitative MR angiography. This imaging modality provides not only information regarding patency as shown by conventional angiography, but also a quantitative assessment of bypass function. In this study, a low or rapidly decreasing flow was indicative of a shrunken or stenotic graft. Quantitative MR angiography may provide an alternative to standard angiography for serial follow up of bypass grafts."}
{"id": "17397909", "title": "Convenience of the computed tomography perfusion method for cerebral vasospasm detection after subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Convenience of the computed tomography perfusion method for cerebral vasospasm detection after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Vasospasm is a frequent complication in the early clinical course after SAH. Although various methods have been used to measure cerebral perfusion including PET, SPECT, xenon CT, and TCD, these require the patients to remain still for a long period. In addition, TCD is operator dependent. The current study aimed to clarify the convenience of CTP for the assessment of cerebral vasospasm caused by SAH. Nineteen patients with SAH aged 44 to 85 years (mean, 64 years) were recruited with informed consent. All patients were treated with the prevailing therapy and underwent CTP on days 6 to 9, followed by DSA and 3D-CTA to detect cerebral vasospasm. In each patient, we measured the MTT, CBF, and CBV. The reliability of CTP data was verified by comparing the data from CTP and xenon CT between the controls, and the average was calculated. Six ROIs were located symmetrically in the frontal, temporal, and occipital lobes. An MTT value more than 20% greater than the average indicated the progression of cerebral vasospasm, and patients with vasospasm-related infarcts exhibited an MTT more than 47% greater than the mean value (odds ratio, 50). Patients with delayed cerebral infarcts had a significantly lower mean CBF and CBV and higher MTT than patients who did not develop CI. Significant correlations between MTT and CBF values and neurovascular findings were obtained. Computed tomography perfusion can be performed in a short time and on a regular basis, and it therefore has the potential to identify cerebral vasospasm because of SAH."}
{"id": "17372123", "title": "Contrast extravasation on CT angiography predicts hematoma expansion in intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Contrast extravasation on CT angiography predicts hematoma expansion in intracerebral hemorrhage. Patients with acute intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) presenting within 3 hours of symptom onset are known to be at increased risk of expansion. However, only a minority arrive within this time frame. Therefore, alternative markers for expansion risk are needed. To examine whether contrast extravasation on CT angiography (CTA) at presentation predicts subsequent hematoma expansion. Consecutive patients with primary ICH presenting to an urban tertiary care hospital were prospectively captured in a database. We retrospectively reviewed images for all patients receiving a CTA and at least one further CT scan within 48 hours. Complete data were available for 104 patients. Contrast extravasation at the time of CTA was present in 56% of patients, and associated with an increased risk of hematoma expansion (22% vs 2%, p = 0.003). Patients who received a baseline CTA within 3 hours were more likely to have subsequent expansion (27%, vs 13% for those presenting later, p = 0.1). However, after multivariable analysis, contrast extravasation was the only significant predictor of hematoma expansion (OR 18, 95% CI 2.1 to 162). This effect was independent of time to presentation. Contrast extravasation is independently associated with hematoma expansion. Patients presenting within the first few hours after symptom onset have traditionally been considered those at highest risk of expansion. However, for those presenting later, the presence of contrast may be a useful marker to guide therapies aimed at decreasing this risk."}
{"id": "17336341", "title": "[Endovascular treatment of idiopathic intracranial hypertension. Analysis of eight consecutive patients].", "content": "[Endovascular treatment of idiopathic intracranial hypertension. Analysis of eight consecutive patients]. Optic nerve sheath fenestration or ventricular shunting are classically proposed after failure of medical treatment. Idiopathic intracranial hypertension is caused by venous sinus obstruction in an unknown percentage of cases. Recently, endoluminal venous sinus stenting was proposed as an alternative treatment. Between September 2003 and December 2004, eight consecutive patients with a diagnosis of idiopathic intracranial hypertension underwent MRI venography and direct retrograde cerebral angiography. There were five females and three males aged 22 to 55 years. All patients had vision disorders. The cerebrospinal fluid pressure ranged from 27 to 45 mmHg with normal composition. All patients presented at least one sinus stenosis. Endovascular stenting of the stenotic venous sinus was performed under intravenous heparin administration. Anti-platelet therapy was administered for 3 months post treatment. Intra-sinus pressures were invariably reduced by stenting. Mean follow-up was 18 months. All patients improved clinically. The cerebrospinal fluid pressure had normalized at 3-month follow-up in all patients. In all patients, multidetector row CT-angiography or MRI venography was performed at 3-, 6- and 12-month follow-up and demonstrated the patency of the stent. The importance of venous sinus disease as a cause of idiopathic intracranial hypertension is probably underestimated. Patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension should be evaluated with direct retrograde cerebral venography and manometry. In patients with venous sinus lesions, treatment by an endoluminal venous sinus stent is a safe and effective alternative for amenable lesions."}
{"id": "17322083", "title": "CT angiography \"spot sign\" predicts hematoma expansion in acute intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "CT angiography \"spot sign\" predicts hematoma expansion in acute intracerebral hemorrhage. Morbidity and mortality in spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) are correlated with hematoma progression. We hypothesized that the presence of tiny, enhancing foci (\"spot sign\") within acute hematomas is associated with hematoma expansion. We prospectively studied 39 consecutive patients with spontaneous ICH by computed tomography angiography within 3 hours of symptom onset. Scans were reviewed by 3 readers. Patients were dichotomized according to the presence or absence of the spot sign. Clinical and radiological outcomes were compared between groups. The predictive value of this sign was assessed in a multivariate analysis. Thirteen patients (33%) demonstrated 31 enhancing foci. Baseline clinical variables were similar in both groups. Hematoma expansion occurred in 11 patients (28%) on follow-up. Seventy-seven percent of patients with and 4% without hematoma expansion demonstrated the spot sign (P<0.0001). Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and likelihood ratio for expansion were 91%, 89%, 77%, 96%, and 8.5, respectively. Interobserver agreement was high (kappa=0.92 to 0.94). In patients with the spot sign, mean volume change was greater (P=0.008), extravasation more common (P=0.0005), and median hospital stay longer (P=0.04), and fewer patients achieved a good outcome (modified Rankin Scale score <2), although the latter was not significant (P=0.16). No differences in hydrocephalus (P=1.00), surgical intervention (P=1.00), or death (P=0.60) were noted between groups. In multiple regression, the spot sign independently predicted hematoma expansion (P=0.0003). The computed tomography angiography spot sign is associated with the presence and extent of hematoma progression. Fewer patients achieve a good clinical outcome and hospital stay was longer. Further studies are warranted to validate the ability of this sign to predict clinical outcomes."}
{"id": "17320647", "title": "Astroblastoma presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage misdiagnosed as dural arteriovenous fistula: review of a rare entity.", "content": "Astroblastoma presenting with intracerebral hemorrhage misdiagnosed as dural arteriovenous fistula: review of a rare entity. Astroblastoma is one of the most unusual types of tumors whose histogenesis has been recently clarified. It occurs mainly among children and young adults. It is grossly well demarcated and shows histologically characteristic perivascular pseudorosettes with frequent vascular hyalinization. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells show diffuse strong positivity for GFAP, S-100 protein, vimentin, as well as neuron-specific enolase and focal positivity for EMA. Our patient is a 33-year-old gentleman who presented with intraparenchymal hemorrhage in the left temporal lobe. A 4-vessel cerebral angiogram revealed a dural AVF in the left posterior temporal area. The lesion was resected, and pathology showed a GFAP-positive lesion with prominent astroblastoma rosettes. There was abundant hemosiderin consistent with a prior hemorrhage. Because of its high degree of proliferation, the presence of astroblastic pseudorosettes, prominent perivascular hyalinization, regional hyaline changes, and pushing borders with regard to the adjacent brain, the tumor was considered anaplastic. Astroblastoma is a rare pure pathologic entity--a distinct form of astrocytic gliomas. The diagnosis of astroblastoma is often difficult because of the astroblastic aspects that can be found in astrocytic tumors, in ependymomas, and in nonneuroepithelial tumors. The natural history seems to be between astrocytomas and glioblastomas. Total resection and radiation therapy seem to be the advisable treatments."}
{"id": "17317944", "title": "Venous aneurysm development associated with a dural arteriovenous fistula of the anterior cranial fossa with devastating hemorrhage--case report.", "content": "Venous aneurysm development associated with a dural arteriovenous fistula of the anterior cranial fossa with devastating hemorrhage--case report. A 67-year-old man presented with devastating intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) from an anterior cranial fossa dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF). Four years earlier, digital subtraction angiography had disclosed a DAVF at the right anterior cranial fossa fed mainly by the ethmoidal branches of the bilateral sphenopalatine arteries and slightly by the ethmoidal arteries of the bilateral ophthalmic arteries, and drained primarily by the sphenoparietal and cavernous sinuses via two dilated cortical veins and slightly by the superior sagittal sinus via a frontal ascending vein. Three-dimensional computed tomography angiography revealed the development of a venous aneurysm on the main draining vein over a 4-year period, but no other changes. Venous aneurysm development may be part of the natural history of DAVF with cortical venous drainage and may contribute to the occurrence of ICH."}
{"id": "17310288", "title": "3.0-T morphological and angiographic brain imaging: a 5-years experience.", "content": "3.0-T morphological and angiographic brain imaging: a 5-years experience. Ever since the introduction of magnetic resonance (MR), imaging with 1.5 Tesla (T) has been considered the gold standard for the study of all areas of the body. Until not long ago, higher-field MR equipment was exclusively employed for research, not for clinical use. More recently, the introduction of 3.0-T MR machines for new and more sophisticated clinical applications has resulted in important benefits, especially in neuroradiology. Indeed, their high gradient power and field intensity (3.0 T) allow adjunctive and more advanced diagnostic methodologies to be performed with excellent resolution in a fraction of the acquisition time required with earlier machines. The purpose of this paper is to illustrate the distinctive semeiological characteristics of 3.0-T morphological and angiographic brain imaging compared with lower-field systems and highlight the respective advantages and drawbacks based on the experience gained in the first 5 years from the installation of a 3.0-T magnet."}
{"id": "17310285", "title": "Detection of cerebral aneurysms in nontraumatic subarachnoid haemorrhage: role of multislice CT angiography in 130 consecutive patients.", "content": "Detection of cerebral aneurysms in nontraumatic subarachnoid haemorrhage: role of multislice CT angiography in 130 consecutive patients. The leading cause of a nontraumatic subarachnoid haemorrhage is rupture of an intracranial aneurysm. The aim of this study was to assess the usefulness of multislice computed tomography angiography (CTA) in identifying and evaluating cerebral aneurysms by comparing it with intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA) and intraoperative findings. During a 20-month period (June 2004 and February 2006), 130 patients with a CT diagnosis of nontraumatic acute subarachnoid haemorrhage were prospectively recruited to this study and underwent 16-detector CTA and DSA (57 men, 73 women; mean age 59.5 years). Twenty-five patients who underwent DSA alone postclipping were excluded. CTA and DSA were evaluated by the performing radiologist to assess the presence of one or more aneurysms and their morphological characteristics. CTA detected 133 aneurysms, whereas DSA identified 134: the aneurysm missed by CTA was 2 mm in size. CTA is fast and relatively noninvasive, and its sensitivity appears similar to that of DSA in detecting and evaluating intracranial aneurysms, even those smaller than 3 mm. This study confirms the value of CTA as the primary imaging technique in subarachnoid haemorrhage, with DSA reserved for selected patients."}
{"id": "17288342", "title": "[A combined protocol using CT, CT perfusion and CT angiography for the evaluation of cerebral ischemia].", "content": "[A combined protocol using CT, CT perfusion and CT angiography for the evaluation of cerebral ischemia]. Computed tomography (CT) is a widely available, rapid and readily accessible technique for imaging of the brain by means of which other disorders, such as haemorrhage, can be excluded in patients with the signs of an acute cerebral infarction. Recently, CT perfusion and CT angiography have become available for this clinical application. These investigations can be performed in the same session as conventional CT, without significant delay. A combined CT protocol provides information on both cerebral perfusion and the patency of the extra- and intracranial arteries and can therefore yield valuable additional information in the diagnostic work-up and treatment of patients with acute cerebral ischaemia. Current and future research will have to determine the definitive value of these techniques in clinical practice."}
{"id": "17277557", "title": "A less invasive approach for ruptured aneurysm with intracranial hematoma: coil embolization followed by clot evacuation.", "content": "A less invasive approach for ruptured aneurysm with intracranial hematoma: coil embolization followed by clot evacuation. The presence of an intracerebral hematoma from a ruptured aneurysm is a negative predictive factor and it is associated with high morbidity and mortality rates even though clot evacuation followed by the neck clipping is performed. Endovascular coil embolization is a useful alternative procedure to reduce the surgical morbidity and mortality rates. We report here on our experiences with the alternative option of endovascular coil placement followed by craniotomy for clot evacuation. Among 312 patients who were admitted with intracerebral subarachnoid hemorrhage during the recent three years, 119 cases were treated via the endovascular approach. Nine cases were suspected to show aneurysmal intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) on CT scan and they underwent emergency cerebral angiograms. We performed immediate coil embolization at the same session of angiographic examination, and this was followed by clot evacuation. Seven cases showed to have ruptured middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysms and two cases had internal carotid artery aneurysms. The clinical status on admission was Hunt-Hess grade (HHG) IV in seven patients and HHG III in two. Surgical evacuation of the clot was done immediately after the endovascular coil placement. The treatment results were a Glasgow Outcome Scale score of good recovery and moderate disability in six patients (66.7%). No mortality was recorded and no procedural morbidity was incurred by both the endovascular and direct craniotomy procedures. The results indicate that the coil embolization followed by clot evacuation for the patients with aneurysmal ICH may be a less invasive and quite a valuable alternative treatment for this patient group, and this warrants further investigation."}
{"id": "17255428", "title": "Supraaortic arteries: contrast-enhanced MR angiography at 3.0 T--highly accelerated parallel acquisition for improved spatial resolution over an extended field of view.", "content": "Supraaortic arteries: contrast-enhanced MR angiography at 3.0 T--highly accelerated parallel acquisition for improved spatial resolution over an extended field of view. To prospectively use 3.0-T breath-hold high-spatial-resolution contrast material-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) angiography with highly accelerated parallel acquisition to image the supraaortic arteries of patients suspected of having arterial occlusive disease. Institutional review board approval and written informed consent were obtained for this HIPAA-compliant study. Eighty patients (44 men, 36 women; age range, 44-90 years) underwent contrast-enhanced MR angiography of the head and neck at 3.0 T with an eight-channel neurovascular array coil. By applying a generalized autocalibrating partially parallel acquisition algorithm with an acceleration factor of four, high-spatial-resolution (0.7 x 0.7 x 0.9 mm = 0.44-mm(3) voxels) three-dimensional contrast-enhanced MR angiography was performed during a 20-second breath hold. Two neuroradiologists evaluated vascular image quality and arterial stenoses. Interobserver variability was tested with the kappa coefficient. Quantitation of stenosis at MR angiography was compared with that at digital subtraction angiography (DSA) (n = 13) and computed tomographic (CT) angiography (n = 12) with Spearman rank correlation coefficient (R(s)). Arterial stenoses were detected with contrast-enhanced MR angiography in 208 (reader 1) and 218 (reader 2) segments, with excellent interobserver agreement (kappa = 0.80). There was a significant correlation between contrast-enhanced MR angiography and CT angiography (R(s) = 0.95, reader 1; R(s) = 0.87, reader 2) and between contrast-enhanced MR angiography and DSA (R(s) = 0.94, reader 1; R(s) = 0.92, reader 2) for the degree of stenosis. Sensitivity and specificity of contrast-enhanced MR angiography for detection of arterial stenoses greater than 50% were 94% and 98% for reader 1 and 100% and 98% for reader 2, with DSA as the standard of reference. Vascular image quality was sufficient for diagnosis or excellent for 97% of arterial segments evaluated. By using highly accelerated parallel acquisition, the described 3.0-T contrast-enhanced MR angiographic protocol enabled visualization and characterization of the majority of supraaortic arteries, with diagnostic or excellent image quality (97% of arterial segments) and diagnostic values comparable with those obtained by using CT angiography and DSA for detection of arterial stenoses."}
{"id": "17254887", "title": "Disappearance and reappearance of a cerebral aneurysm: a case report.", "content": "Disappearance and reappearance of a cerebral aneurysm: a case report. The false-negative rate of DSA in the setting of a ruptured cerebral aneurysm is approximately 15% (Topcuoglu M, Ogilvy C, Carter B, et al. Subarachnoid hemorrhage without evident cause on initial angiography studies: diagnostic yield of subsequent angiography and other neuroimaging tests. J Neurosurg 2003;98:1235-1240). Detecting these aneurysms is imperative to avoid repeat hemorrhage. Rarely, one is able to document the phenomenon of the disappearance and subsequent reappearance of the ruptured aneurysm. This is a case report of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in which a cerebral aneurysm of the M1 segment of the left proximal middle cerebral artery was initially detected by CTA at an outside hospital only to evade detection with both CTA and DSA at our institution. Repeat DSA 1 week later revealed the culprit aneurysm, which was then treated endovascularly. Patients with significant SAH and negative DSA findings should be considered for further diagnostic testing including CTA or repeat DSA. The current literature supports the strategy used at our institution of initial CTA and DSA in the setting of SAH, and then subsequent repeat DSA as warranted if the initial studies are nondiagnostic. Timing of repeat examination, as demonstrated in this case, should favor a shorter time course."}
{"id": "17229873", "title": "Circle of Willis at CT angiography: dose reduction and image quality--reducing tube voltage and increasing tube current settings.", "content": "Circle of Willis at CT angiography: dose reduction and image quality--reducing tube voltage and increasing tube current settings. To prospectively assess the effects of lower tube voltage and various effective tube currents on image quality for computed tomographic (CT) angiography of the circle of Willis. Institutional review board approval was obtained. Patients or family provided written informed consent. Signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) were determined in a head phantom for various effective tube currents with tube voltages of 90, 120, and 140 kVp. Patients were referred for CT angiography because of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (n = 20) or family history of cerebral aneurysms (n = 20). In each group, 10 patients were scanned with 120 kVp and 200 mAs(eff) and 10 were scanned with 90 kVp and 330 mAs(eff) (CT dose index volumes, 27.2 mGy and 20.6 mGy, respectively). CT numbers were measured in the internal carotid artery at the T junction and compared with a t test. Two radiologists used a five-point scale to subjectively score arterial enhancement, depiction of small arterial detail, image noise, venous contamination, and interference of subarachnoid blood. Mann-Whitney U test was used for statistical analysis. In the phantom, SNR(2) was proportional to effective tube current and CT dose index volume. With an identical effective tube current, SNR(2) was lower at 90 kVp than at 120 or 140 kVp. With identical CT dose index volume, tube voltage of 90 kVp resulted in a 45%-52% increase of SNR(2) compared with SNR(2) at 120 kVp. In patients, mean attenuation in the internal carotid artery T junction was higher with 90 kVp (340 HU) than with 120 kVp (252 HU, P < .001). Although dose at 90 kVp was 30% lower than dose at 120 kVp, scores for arterial enhancement and depiction of small arterial detail were higher at 90 kVp than at 120 kVp (4.0 vs 3.2 and 3.6 vs 3.1, respectively; P < .005). In head phantoms, lower tube voltage improved SNR at equal radiation doses. For CT angiography of the circle of Willis, this translated into superior image quality at 90 kVp."}
{"id": "17210905", "title": "Detection of intracranial venous reflux in patients of transient global amnesia.", "content": "Detection of intracranial venous reflux in patients of transient global amnesia."}
{"id": "17187272", "title": "HydroCoil embolization of a ruptured infectious aneurysm in a pediatric patient: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "HydroCoil embolization of a ruptured infectious aneurysm in a pediatric patient: case report and review of the literature. Intracranial infectious aneurysms in the pediatric population are rare. Although surgery has been the traditional treatment of ruptured pediatric infectious aneurysms, endovascular coil embolization has become an attractive alternative due to its low rate of morbidity and mortality. A 9-year-old boy with a significant medical history of aortic valve replacement, antibiotic-treated infective endocarditis, and multiple embolic cerebral infarcts presented with a high-grade intraventricular hemorrhage due to the rupture of a large infectious proximal posterior circulation aneurysm. Computed tomography and cerebral angiogram demonstrated a right crural/ambient cistern hematoma and an associated infectious aneurysm of the right proximal posterior cerebral artery. The ruptured infectious aneurysm was coil-embolized with hydrogel-coated platinum coils without sacrifice of the distal parent artery. The aneurysm was completely occluded, and the patient regained all neurological function. Ruptured infectious aneurysms in the pediatric population occur despite aggressive medical therapy. Patients with infective endocarditis and embolic infarcts should be followed closely due to the risk of major hemorrhagic events, including aneurysm rupture. Hybrid coil embolization of ruptured infectious aneurysms with preservation of the distal parent artery is exceedingly rare and effective in the management of ruptured infectious aneurysms in the pediatric population."}
{"id": "17147956", "title": "Carbon disulfide encephalopathy: cerebral microangiopathy.", "content": "Carbon disulfide encephalopathy: cerebral microangiopathy. To understand cerebral blood circulation after long-term exposure to carbon disulfide (CS2), four patients with encephalopathy and polyneuropathy, who had worked in a viscose rayon plant, were studied. Clinical and laboratory examinations, including brain magnetic resonance images (MRI), computed tomography (CT), CT perfusion, and CT angiography, were carried out. Brain CT and MRI disclosed mild cortical atrophy in all four patients, and multiple lesions in the subcortical white matter, and basal ganglia in three patients. Brain CT angiography and perfusion revealed a statistically significant decrease of cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the total brain parenchyma and basal ganglia, and a decrease of the cerebral blood volume (CBV) in the basal ganglia and a prolonged mean transit time (MTT) in the total brain parenchyma, and the territories of the internal carotid artery (ICA), basal ganglia and occipital lobe. In conclusion, the decrease of CBV and CBF, and the prolonged MTT in the total brain parenchyma, ICA, basal ganglia and occipital lobes, indicated a microangiopathy in patients with CS2 encephalopathy."}
{"id": "17092724", "title": "Subtle computed tomography abnormalities in cerebral deep sinus thrombosis.", "content": "Subtle computed tomography abnormalities in cerebral deep sinus thrombosis. A patient with cerebral deep sinus thrombosis, which was not diagnosed on the first examination, is reported. A 46-year-old woman presented with headache and vomiting. Neurological examination and a brain computed tomography (CT) scan showed no obvious abnormal findings. The patient suffered disturbed consciousness on the day after the examination, and was admitted to our emergency centre. A CT scan and magnetic resonance imaging revealed an ischaemic lesion in the left basal ganglia, suggesting deep sinus occlusion. Anticoagulant therapy was administered. One day after admission, a CT scan showed a haematoma and severe brain swelling in the same region. Cerebral angiography demonstrated a straight sinus occlusion. Intracranial pressure was not controlled with hypothermia, and the patient died 25 days after admission. Review of the initial CT scan revealed subtle, early findings of deep venous thrombosis that were missed on first examination."}
{"id": "17047324", "title": "Is there a penumbra surrounding intracerebral hemorrhage?", "content": "Is there a penumbra surrounding intracerebral hemorrhage?"}
{"id": "17028838", "title": "Whole-body MR vascular screening detects unsuspected concomitant vascular disease in coronary heart disease patients.", "content": "Whole-body MR vascular screening detects unsuspected concomitant vascular disease in coronary heart disease patients. Coronary heart disease (CHD) patients often show atherosclerotic vascular disease in other vascular territories. We evaluated how often whole-body MR imaging detects concomitant arterial pathologies in CHD patients, and how often these pathologies were not known to the patients previously. Of 4,814 participants in the population-based Heinz Nixdorf Recall Study, 327 reported CHD (i.e., previous coronary bypass surgery, angioplasty); of those, 160 patients (mean age 66.4 years) were examined using MR of the brain, the heart (excluding the coronary arteries), and whole-body MR angiography. The prevalence of each vascular pathology was assessed, correlated to the others and compared to patients' histories. Of the 160 CHD patients, 16 (10%) showed MR signs of stroke, and 77 (48.1%) had a stenosis >50% in at least one extracerebral peripheral artery (other than the coronaries), including 28 (17.5%) with relevant renal artery stenoses, and 20 (12.5%) with relevant extracerebral internal carotid artery stenoses. False negative histories were reported in 12 of 81 cases with myocardial infarctions, and in 11 of 16 cases with cerebrovascular infarctions. This whole-body atherosclerosis MR screening program allows previously unknown concomitant vascular disease to be detected in coronary heart disease patients. Its prospective value should be assessed in further studies."}
{"id": "16968980", "title": "Perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging in acute intracerebral hemorrhage at baseline and during the 1st and 2nd week: a longitudinal study.", "content": "Perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging in acute intracerebral hemorrhage at baseline and during the 1st and 2nd week: a longitudinal study. Ischemic penumbra has been suggested as a contributing mechanism to secondary neuronal injury in intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Preliminary data suggest the presence of perihematomal hypoperfusion within the first hours after acute ICH. Our objective was to elucidate perfusion changes in the perihematomal region over time using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Two perfusion-weighted MRIs were studied prospectively in 18 ICH patients. All patients had an acute perfusion-weighted MRI within 24 h of the onset of symptoms (time 0); 11 patients had a follow-up study on day 7 (time 1), and 7 patients on days 10-14 (time 2). The region of interest (ROI) was placed over the penumbral area, on high-intensity FLAIR and perfusion overlapping map imaging. Clinical data were assessed at baseline (National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale) and on day 90 (Canadian Scale, modified Rankin Scale). The average hematoma volume was 56 (9-140) ml; 10 were located deeply, and 8 were lobar. When we compared the perfusion changes (mean transit time prolongation) in the perihematomal area (lesion ROI) relative to itself over time, we found significant differences only between times 0 and 2 (p = 0.05). There were also significant differences in mean transit time between the lesion ROI and the contralateral mirror ROI in the baseline study (p = 0.001), with a trend to significance for time 1. Our data confirm the presence of hypoperfusion around an acute ICH and demonstrate that this change disappears completely after the first week. These data suggest that further evaluation of this feature of acute ICH is warranted, as its confirmation may lead to modifications in the current therapeutic approach."}
{"id": "16944161", "title": "High spatial resolution contrast-enhanced MR angiography of the supraaortic arteries using the quadrature body coil at 3.0T: a feasibility study.", "content": "High spatial resolution contrast-enhanced MR angiography of the supraaortic arteries using the quadrature body coil at 3.0T: a feasibility study. To examine whether the the increased signal-to-noise (S/N) available at 3.0T would permit the use of the quadrature body coil for high spatial resolution contrast-enhanced (CE) MR angiography (MRA), and whether the large FOV that was used in our routine 1.5T protocol would also be feasible at 3.0T. In a prospective study, 43 patients and five volunteers were examined on a clinical whole-body 3.0T MR unit (Intera, Philips Medical Systems, Best, The Netherlands) after institutional review board approval and informed consent. Three-dimensional CE MRA (T1 gradient echo-sequence with TR/TE = 5.7/1.93 msec.; acquisition time, 1:54 min.) using randomly segmented central k-space ordering (CENTRA) was acquired with the quadrature body coil, using over a FOV of 350 mm. A high-image matrix of 432x432 yielded a non-zero filled voxel size of 0.81 mm x 0.81 mm x 1.0 mm (0.66 mm(3)). For quantitative analysis, contrast ratios (CR) between vessels (S) and signal in surrounding tissue (ST) were calculated [(S-ST)/(S+ST)]. For qualitative analysis, image quality and presence of artifacts were rated by two radiologists in consensus on a five-point scale (1=excellent to 5=nondiagnostic). Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) served as the standard of reference in patients with vascular disease. In the five volunteers, 1.5T CE MRA using a phased array neurovascular coil was available for intraindividual comparison. 3.0T CE MRA was successfully performed in 48/48 subjects (100%). Mean CR+/- SD were 0.76 (139.30/182.42) and 0.87 (235.18/270.14) at 3.0T and 1.5T respectively . Mean image quality was 3.82+/-0.86. Intraindividual comparison between 1.5T and 3.0T CE MRA in the volunteers revealed no significant difference in image quality (4.2+/-0.74 vs 4.6+/-0.80; p>0.05). Vascular disease was correctly identified in 13/13 patients with DSA correlation. CE MRA of the supraaortic arteries is feasible at 3.0T using a large FOV of 350 mm. The signal gain at 3.0T enables high spatial resolution contrast-enhanced MR angiography by using the built-in quadrature body coil only."}
{"id": "16832640", "title": "A fatal case of postpartum cerebral angiopathy with literature review.", "content": "A fatal case of postpartum cerebral angiopathy with literature review. Postpartum cerebral angiopathy (PCA) is a rare and pathophysiologically ill-characterized cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome, occurring within 30 days of a usually uncomplicated pregnancy and delivery. Its onset has been associated with the use of vasoactive medications, particularly ergot alkaloids. Other cases have occurred in the absence of these medications, prompting conjecture into possible overlap between PCA and other conditions known to cause cerebral vasoconstriction, including primary angiitis of the central nervous system and postpartum eclampsia. The vast majority of cases follow a relatively benign course; however, a fatal case has been reported. Histopathologic findings in PCA, so far limited to the fatal case and two more recent biopsies, have been nonspecific. Here we present a second fatal case of PCA, including pre- and post-mortem histopathologic analysis. We also include a review of all PCA cases reported in the English literature. Criteria for the clinical diagnosis of PCA are proposed and used to select case reports from the medical literature. Data pertaining to patient characteristics, clinical symptomatology, cerebral imaging findings, and clinical outcomes are compared between cases associated with the postpartum use of vasoactive medications and spontaneous cases. We conclude that histopathologic findings in PCA are nonspecific and secondary to ischemic brain injury. Functional vasoconstriction is the most likely primary pathophysiologic process in PCA. The etiology in cases associated with medications may be due to idiosyncratic reactions to these agents. Significant overlap in symptomatology and clinical features exists between spontaneous cases and late postpartum eclampsia."}
{"id": "16670864", "title": "Dissection of the V4 segment of the vertebral artery: clinicoradiologic manifestations and endovascular treatment.", "content": "Dissection of the V4 segment of the vertebral artery: clinicoradiologic manifestations and endovascular treatment. Intracranial vertebral artery (VA) dissection has three clinical presentations: ischemia, hemorrhage, and mass effect. Imaging findings of intracranial VA dissections vary according to clinical presentation. Irregular stenosis or occlusion of the VA is the most common finding in patients with posterior fossa infarction, whereas a dissecting aneurysm is the main feature in those with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. A chronic, giant, dissecting aneurysm can cause mass effect on the brain stem or cranial nerves, as well as distal embolism. Magnetic resonance imaging is useful for detection of intramural hematomas and intimal flaps, both of which are diagnostic of VA dissection. Multidetector computed tomography angiography is increasingly used for diagnosis of VA dissection. Catheter angiography is still beneficial for evaluation of precise endoluminal morphology of the dissection before surgical or endovascular intervention. Endovascular treatment is now considered a major therapeutic option for patients with a ruptured dissecting aneurysm or a chronic dissecting aneurysm. Anticoagulation therapy is currently considered the initial treatment of choice in patients with posterior circulation ischemic symptoms. Endovascular treatment, such as stent-assisted angioplasty or coil occlusion at the dissection site, can be performed in selected patients with posterior fossa ischemic symptoms."}
{"id": "18655265", "title": "Perfusion imaging with computed tomography: brain and beyond.", "content": "Perfusion imaging with computed tomography: brain and beyond. The availability of rapid imaging with multidetector CT systems and commercial analysis software has made perfusion imaging with CT an everyday technique, not only for the brain but also for other body organs. Perfusion imaging is usually performed as an adjunct to a conventional CT examination and is therefore particularly appropriate when a conventional CT is part of routine clinical protocols. The derived values are reproducible and have been validated against a range of reference techniques. Within neuroradiology, perfusion CT has attracted interest in the assessment of acute stroke but can also be used to assess secondary injury in head trauma and as an adjunct to CT angiography to evaluate cerebral spasm in subarachnoid haemorrhage. Within oncology, perfusion CT provides an imaging correlate for tumour vascularity that can be used to discriminate benign and malignant lesions, as an indicator of tumour aggressiveness, to reveal occult tumour and improve the delineation of tumours during radiotherapy planning, and as a functional assessment of tumour response to therapy. By exploiting the ability of CT systems to quantify contrast enhancement, CT perfusion imaging uses contrast media to assess vascular physiology and so improve diagnosis, prognosis, treatment selection and therapy monitoring."}
{"id": "17946485", "title": "Prediction of hemorrhagic transformation after acute ischemic stroke using hyperintense MCA sign.", "content": "Prediction of hemorrhagic transformation after acute ischemic stroke using hyperintense MCA sign. The hyperintense appearance of the middle cerebral artery (HMCA) sign consists of a thickened MCA stem with a blurred intense signal on contrast enhanced T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (T1W MRI). In this article, we define it and determine its incidence, diagnostic value, and reliability by comparison with magnetic resonance angiography and digital subtraction angiography. MATERIALS AND METHIODS: Non-contrast CT and immediately subsequent MRI were performed on 30 consecutive patients with acute ischemic stroke within 6 hours after symptom onset. Ml patients underwent at least one follow-up MRI or non-contrast CT within 2-7 days. Initial studies were analyzed for HMCA sign on post-Gd T1WI. Vascular findings on both MRI and CT were compared with findings at MRA and DSA. Eleven patients were developed subsequent HT at follow-up studies. The HMCA sign on MRI was found in 6 hemorrhagic patients (P=0.00), and all of them had M1 occlusion on angiography. None of the patients in nonhemorrhagic group had HMCA sign on MRI. HMCA sign on post-Gd T1WI is highly specific and moderately sensitive indicator of acute thrombus with M1 MCA segment, as validated by angiography. Additionally, HMCA sign may be a useful marker of subsequent HT in acute ischemic stroke."}
{"id": "17709084", "title": "A practical approach to CT angiography of the neck and brain.", "content": "A practical approach to CT angiography of the neck and brain. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) is a rapidly developing technology with great potential. This is particularly true for evaluating neurovascular disease. Clinical stroke because of atherosclerotic disease of the carotid and vertebral arteries is a common examination indication; areas of stenosis, and soft and calcified plaque along the entire vessel, not only at the carotid bifurcation, permit a full assessment of the patient's disease process. Other diseases including dissection, trauma, intracranial stenosis, thrombosis, and aneurysms can be readily diagnosed. Although duplex ultrasound may be a first line examination in many patients, both magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and CTA offer distinct advantages over it. CTA and MRA are both highly accurate but CTA has several key advantages. CTA has been advanced by the development of improved multidetector CT (MDCT) and workstations that postprocess the data. Methods to obtain quality CTA images and to rapidly analyze the data for abnormalities are the subject of this chapter. In addition, evolving techniques in future CT scanners and workstations, and developing methods of vulnerable plaque and CT perfusion imaging are discussed."}
{"id": "17583606", "title": "[Advanced neuroimaging in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease].", "content": "[Advanced neuroimaging in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease]. This article highlights the MR imaging techniques of CT angiography, MR angiography, diffusion weighted images, perfusion MR and CT imaging in the evaluation of stroke acute phase. From a pathophysiologic point of view, advanced computed tomography techniques and stroke magnetic resonance imaging provide much more information about the acute stroke patient as the basis of decision making in acute stroke treatment."}
{"id": "17520627", "title": "Image-guided microneurosurgical management of vascular lesions using navigated computed tomography angiography. An advanced IGS technology application.", "content": "Image-guided microneurosurgical management of vascular lesions using navigated computed tomography angiography. An advanced IGS technology application. Image-guided neurosurgery has become a standard practice in the last few years, with more than 2000 surgical navigation stations installed worldwide. In the same time several reports have also demonstrated the efficacy and accuracy of computed tomography angiography (CTA) in assessing cerebral vascular pathologies. Therefore, the CTA data have recently been implemented into the different navigation systems available on the market, making this new technique widely applied. The objective of this paper is to discuss and evaluate the clinical usefulness of navigated CTA in planning and performing surgery of neurovascular lesions. Raw images acquired from an helical CTA are automatically post-processed on an independent workstation by using a three-dimensional (3D) volume-rendering images engine and/or using thresholding and drawing tools. The data obtained provide useful information in the preoperative stage by reconstructing the vascular tree with regard to lesion volume, aneurysm neck, dome projection, perforating vessels and their relationship with the lesion and the surrounding anatomy. Furthermore, it can help in the identification of an arteriovenous malformation (AVM) nidus and recognition of its feeding and draining vessels. This fascinating technique can give some invaluable advantages on the management of cerebral vascular lesions and provides excellent information not always available on traditional digital subtraction angiography investigation. It has also proved to be very accurate, particularly regarding the correlation between the 3D volume-rendered CT angiography and the intraoperative findings."}
{"id": "17469598", "title": "[Neuroradiological finding and grading for cerebellar hemorrhage].", "content": "[Neuroradiological finding and grading for cerebellar hemorrhage]."}
{"id": "17461175", "title": "[Image fusion of three-dimensional digital subtraction angiography and magnetic resonance imaging in the assessment of cerebrovascular diseases].", "content": "[Image fusion of three-dimensional digital subtraction angiography and magnetic resonance imaging in the assessment of cerebrovascular diseases]."}
{"id": "17427495", "title": "[The evaluation of the brain arteriovenous malformations' operative treatment in the clinical material of Silesian Medical University's Departament of Neurosurgery].", "content": "[The evaluation of the brain arteriovenous malformations' operative treatment in the clinical material of Silesian Medical University's Departament of Neurosurgery]. A risk of haemorrhage in arteriovenous malformations (AVM) of the brain is estimated as 2-4% per year. A mortality rate from this reason is estimated as 1% per year and morbidity 10-20%. The methods of treatment ofAVM are: microsurgical treatment, radiosurgery, endovascular treatment. The aim of this work is presentation of our results of surgical treatment of AVM and comparison with the results of radiosurgical and endovascular treatment presented by other authors in the literature. Between 1990-2002 in the Department of Neurosurgery of Medical University of Silesia in Katowice 31 patients were operated with AVM's of the brain. Among them there were 10 female and 21 male at the age from 10 to 69 years. The average age was 36.1. The first sign was intracranial haemorrhage in 19 cases and epileptic seizures in 9 cases. In all cases the cerebral angiography was performed and all patients were assessed as I to III score according to the Spetzler-Martin scale. All patients were operated on using microneurosurgical techniques. The total removal of the tumour was assessed using the intraoperative Doppler examination. The state of the patients at the discharge was estimated according to Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS). In all cases the malformations were removed totally. In 2 cases (6.4%) we noticed the deterioration of neurological condition after operation. The state of 28 patients (90.3%) was assessed as very good and good (I or II score) according to GOS at the discharge. We didn't notice any mortality in our group of patients. In the conclusion we want to emphasize the advantages of surgical treatment of AVM's of the brain especially these including in I to III score according to Spetzler-Martin scale comparing with the results ofradiosurgical and endovascular methods of treatment."}
{"id": "17323900", "title": "[Posttraumatic pseudoaneurysm of the posterior cerebral artery].", "content": "[Posttraumatic pseudoaneurysm of the posterior cerebral artery]. We present the case of a traumatic posterior cerebral artery pseudoaneurysm of a 29-year-old man due to a penetrating stab wound to the brain. The patient was brought to the emergency room in coma. The neurological examination revealed a Glasgow Coma Scale Score of 8 and left hemiplegy. The initial CT scan showed right temporal lobe haemorrhage with penetration in the lateral ventricle and subarachnoid haemorrhage. The cerebral angiography performed after three weeks, revealed a high PCA pseudoaneurysm. After surgery, a pseudoaneurysm was demonstrated in the histological study."}
{"id": "17285104", "title": "Haemorrhagic stroke and vasculitic-like cerebral angiography in a patient with eosinophilic fasciitis. Case report.", "content": "Haemorrhagic stroke and vasculitic-like cerebral angiography in a patient with eosinophilic fasciitis. Case report. Cerebral vasculitis is an uncommon cause of haemorrhagic stroke. A case of intracerebral haemorrhage in a patient with eosinophilic fasciitis, a rare scleroderma-like connective tissue disease, with a possible inflammatory involvement of cerebral vessels is reported. Pathogenetic mechanism of such association and diagnostic controversies are reviewed."}
{"id": "17219826", "title": "Effects of balloon angioplasty on perfusion- and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging results and outcome in patients with cerebral vasospasm.", "content": "Effects of balloon angioplasty on perfusion- and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging results and outcome in patients with cerebral vasospasm. The aim of this study was to analyze the effects and outcome of transluminal balloon angioplasty (TBA) on brain tissue perfusion by using combined perfusion- and diffusion-weighted (PW/DW) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in patients with cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Ten consecutive patients with cerebral vasospasm treated using TBA were included in this prospective study. Hemodynamically relevant vasospasm was diagnosed using a standardized PW/DW MR imaging protocol. Digital subtraction angiography was used to confirm vasospasm, and TBA was performed to dilate vasospastic arteries. The PW/DW imaging protocol was repeated after TBA. The evaluation of the passage of contrast medium after standardized application using the bolus tracking method allowed for the calculation of the time to peak (TTP) before and after TBA. Tissue at risk was defined based on perfusion delays in individual vessel territories compared with those in reference territories. In cases with proximal focal vasospasm, TBA could dilate spastic arteries. Follow-up PW/DW MR imaging showed the disappearance of, or a decrease in, the mismatch. A TBA-induced reduction in the perfusion delay of 6.2 +/- 1 seconds (mean +/- standard error of the mean) to 1.5 +/- 0.45 seconds resulted in the complete prevention of infarction; a reduction in the delay of 6.2 +/- 2.7 to 4.1 +/- 1.9 seconds resulted in the preservation of those brain tissue parts having only small infarcts in the vessel territories. Without TBA, however, the perfusion delay remained or even increased (11.1 +/- 3.7 seconds), and the complete infarction of a territory occurred. Angioplasty of vasospastic arteries leads to hemodynamic effects that can be quantified using PW/DW MR imaging. In cases of a severe PW/DW imaging mismatch successful TBA improved tissue perfusion and prevented cerebral infarction. The clinical significance of PW/DW MR imaging and the concept of tissue at risk is shown by cerebral infarction in vessels not accessible by TBA."}
{"id": "17163342", "title": "Clinical utility of multislice computed tomographic angiography for detection of cerebral vasospasm in acute subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Clinical utility of multislice computed tomographic angiography for detection of cerebral vasospasm in acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) has been used as the standard method for detecting cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Multislice computed tomographic angiography (CTA) is a relatively recent method used for evaluating the vasculature of the intracranial arteries. The purpose of this study was to compare multislice CTA and DSA for the detection and quantification of cerebral vasospasm after SAH, and to analyze the usefulness of multislice CTA. Eight patients with SAH underwent initial CTA with DSA within 72 hours after the onset of symptoms and follow-up multislice CTA and DSA 8 to 48 days after SAH. Five arterial locations were established in the A1 and A2 segments of the anterior cerebral artery, the M1 and M2 segments of the middle cerebral artery and the posterior cerebral artery (PCA) on both multislice CTA and DSA images. Vasospasm was classified as none, mild (up to 30% reduction in luminal diameter), moderate (31-60% reduction), and marked (at least 60% reduction) using the scale of Schneck and Kricheff. The multislice CT system used the following parameters: 1.25 mm collimation and 3.75 pitch with a 4-channel system. The degree of vasospasm revealed by the multislice CTA was significantly correlated with the degree of vasospasm revealed by DSA. In general, most discrepancies between CTA and DSA were in the detection of mild and moderate vasospasm. We found that the consistency between multislice CTA and DSA was greater for mild (100%, n=3) or moderate (100%, n=3) vasospasm than none (n=1) or marked vasospasm (n=1). However, it was unclear whether multislice CTA was more specific for a proximal location (A1, M1, PCA) or distal location (A2, M2) for evaluation of cerebral arteries. Multislice CTA can detect angiographic vasospasm after SAH with an accuracy similar to that of DSA. Multislice CTA is highly sensitive, specific and accurate in detecting mild and moderate cerebral vasospasm. It is less accurate for detecting no vasospasm and marked vasospasm. Therefore, the authors propose that multislice CTA be considered as a useful tool for the detection and management of intracranial vasospasm after SAH."}
{"id": "17121694", "title": "Phase-contrast magnetic resonance angiography for assessment of intracranial venous sinus lesions.", "content": "Phase-contrast magnetic resonance angiography for assessment of intracranial venous sinus lesions. To review the presentations of intracranial venous sinus lesions in phase-contrast (PC) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and discuss the diagnostic value of this imaging modality for these lesions. This study involved 52 patients with intracranial venous sinus lesions, including 21 with dural venous sinus malformation, 7 dural arteriovenous fistula (6 caroticocaveneous fistula, CCF), 5 venous sinus thrombus and 19 meningioma invading the venous sinuses. All patients underwent PC and time-of-flight (TOF) MRA with a 1.5 Tesla MR scanner, with 28 of them undergoing subsequent digital subtraction angiography (DSA). PC MRA showed extensive hyperintense signals that identified the lesions, feeding arteries, deferent veins and venous sinuses in 21 cases of dural arteriovenous fistula, but the lesion signals appeared homogeneous. In these cases, PC and TOF MRA had equally good performance in displaying the feeding arteries with success in 20 of the 21 cases (95.2%), whereas the former resulted in a greater rate of deferent vein display [90.5% (19/21)] than the latter [76.2% (16/21), P<0.05]. The 6 CCF cases showed ipsilateral cavernous sinus expansion and upper ophthalmic vein dilations. In the 5 cases of venous sinus thrombis, 4 had transverse sinus thrombus and 1 superior sagittal sinus thrombus. All the cases presented signal disappearance in the sinuses in PC MRA and hyperintense signals in MRI, and some cases had also cerebral superficial hemorrhage and edema. The 19 cases of meningioma invading the venous sinus displayed sinus shift, stenosis and occlusion in PC MRA. PC MRA has great advantages in displaying the anatomical structure and lesions of the venous sinuses."}
{"id": "17116208", "title": "EFNS guideline on neuroimaging in acute stroke. Report of an EFNS task force.", "content": "EFNS guideline on neuroimaging in acute stroke. Report of an EFNS task force. Neuroimaging techniques are necessary for the evaluation of stroke, one of the leading causes of death and neurological impairment in developed countries. The multiplicity of techniques available has increased the complexity of decision making for physicians. We performed a comprehensive review of the literature in English for the period 1965-2005 and critically assessed the relevant publications. The members of the panel reviewed and corrected an initial draft, until a consensus was reached on recommendations stratified according to the European Federation of Neurological Societies (EFNS) criteria. Non-contrast computed tomography (CT) scan is the established imaging procedure for the initial evaluation of stroke patients. However, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has a higher sensitivity than CT for the demonstration of infarcted or ischemic areas and depicts well acute and chronic intracerebral hemorrhage. Perfusion and diffusion MRI together with MR angiography (MRA) are very helpful for the acute evaluation of patients with ischemic stroke. MRI and MRA are the recommended techniques for screening cerebral aneurysms and for the diagnosis of cerebral venous thrombosis and arterial dissection. For the non-invasive study of extracranial vessels, MRA is less portable and more expensive than ultrasonography but it has higher sensitivity and specificity for carotid stenosis. Transcranial Doppler is very useful for monitoring arterial reperfusion after thrombolysis, for the diagnosis of intracranial stenosis and of right-to-left shunts, and for monitoring vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Currently, single photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography have a more limited role in the evaluation of the acute stroke patient."}
{"id": "17110680", "title": "Echo-enhanced transcranial color-coded duplex sonography in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular events: a validation study.", "content": "Echo-enhanced transcranial color-coded duplex sonography in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular events: a validation study. Transcranial color-coded duplex sonography (TCCD) is a diagnostic technique for evaluation of intracranial arteries in patients with acute stroke. Echo-enhancing contrast agents (EEAs) are necessary to visualize intracranial vessels in up to 30% of patients because of limited acoustic bone windows. In this study, we assessed the diagnostic efficacy of echo-enhanced TCCD (eTCCD) in correlation with the gold standard, digital subtraction angiography (DSA). We prospectively evaluated all patients with eTCCD who subsequently underwent DSA for evaluation of cerebrovascular symptoms over a 24-month period. We administered Levovist as an EEA. Two blinded reviewers analyzed all eTCCD findings and correlated them with DSA. We included 132 consecutive patients (40 women, 92 men; mean age, 58 +/- 14 years) with 164 datasets: 24/164 had normal findings, 98/164 had abnormalities of extracranial carotid arteries, 32/164 had abnormalities of intracranial arteries, and 21/164 had abnormalities in vertebrobasilar circulation as determined by DSA. For eTCCD, we found a sensitivity of 82% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 75%-90%), a specificity of 98% (95% CI: 90%-100%), a positive predictive value of 99% (95% CI: 94%-100%), and a negative predictive value of 75% (95% CI: 64%-85%); 7/164 (4%) examinations were inconclusive because of insufficient bone windows. The interobserver agreement was almost perfect (kappa value, 0.92; 95% CI: 0.87-0.97). eTCCD provides high diagnostic validity for the status of the major intracranial arteries. In particular, a normal vessel status reliably assessed by an experienced sonographer could supersede further imaging procedures. In patients with acute ischemic stroke not eligible for established angiographic techniques, eTCCD may be useful as an alternative imaging technique."}
{"id": "17087268", "title": "[Two cases of main trunk artery occlusion associated with multiple cerebral aneurysms].", "content": "[Two cases of main trunk artery occlusion associated with multiple cerebral aneurysms]. We report 2 cases of multiple aneurysms (AN) associated with main trunk artery occlusion. CASE 1: A 52-year-old male was admitted to our hospital with dysarthria and weakness of the right side of the body. Computed tomography (CT) showed cerebral infarction in the left corona radiata. MR angiography and conventional angiography showed occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA) and saccular aneurysms (ANs) at the origin of the anterior communicating artery (A-com) and bifurcation of the right MCA. Subsequent 123I-IMP-single photon emission tomography (SPECT) revealed marked reduction of cerebral blood flow and disturbed reactivity to acetazolamide in the left cerebral hemisphere. Superficial temporal artery (STA)-MCA anastomosis was performed to improve cerebral blood flow and reduce hemodynamic stress for AN of the A-com and right MCA. At 5 months after the first operation, neck clipping was performed successfully for the non-ruptured A-com AN and right MCA AN. CASE 2: A 65-year-old male was admitted to our hospital. CT revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), and 3D-computed tomographic angiography (CTA) and cerebral angiography showed basilar top AN, A-com AN and right MCA AN associated with right internal carotid artery occlusion. Right ACA and MCA territories were visualized from the A-com artery and posterior cerebral artery. STA-MCA anastomosis was performed to improve cerebral blood flow and reduce hemodynamic stress for ANs. In the same operation, successful neck clipping was performed for BA top AN and right MCA AN. In such cases as these, particularly in ischemic cases associated with main trunk artery occlusion, it was important to consider surgery for AN after STA-MCA anastomosis in anticipation of improved cerebral blood flow and reduce hemodynamic stress for AN."}
{"id": "17084203", "title": "Venous loop mimicking middle cerebral artery bifurcation aneurysm on computed tomographic angiography--case report.", "content": "Venous loop mimicking middle cerebral artery bifurcation aneurysm on computed tomographic angiography--case report. CT angiography has been widely used for the detection of cerebral aneurysm. However, there are still limitations despite improving CT angiographic techniques. We describe the unusual case of the detection of a false-positive aneurysm on CT angiography. A 64-year-old man presented with a 14-day history of severe headache and nuchal rigidity. Brain CT demonstrated no subarachnoid hemorrhage, but cerebrospinal fluid appeared xanthochromic in 3 successive tubes after lumbar puncture. Subsequent CT angiography suggested an aneurysm at the bifurcation of the left MCA. However, at operation, prominent sylvian vein superimposed on the bifurcation of the left MCA, and there was no aneurysm. Follow-up monitoring with conventional angiography at 2 weeks showed no abnormal findings. The patient recovered uneventfully. The case demonstrates that although CT angiography has a reportedly high specificity and sensitivity for the detection of intracranial aneurysm, careful interpretation is required to diagnose intracranial aneurysms."}
{"id": "17066483", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging profiles predict clinical response to early reperfusion: the diffusion and perfusion imaging evaluation for understanding stroke evolution (DEFUSE) study.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging profiles predict clinical response to early reperfusion: the diffusion and perfusion imaging evaluation for understanding stroke evolution (DEFUSE) study. To determine whether prespecified baseline magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) profiles can identify stroke patients who have a robust clinical response after early reperfusion when treated 3 to 6 hours after symptom onset. We conducted a prospective, multicenter study of 74 consecutive stroke patients admitted to academic stroke centers in North America and Europe. An MRI scan was obtained immediately before and 3 to 6 hours after treatment with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator 3 to 6 hours after symptom onset. Baseline MRI profiles were used to categorize patients into subgroups, and clinical responses were compared based on whether early reperfusion was achieved. Early reperfusion was associated with significantly increased odds of achieving a favorable clinical response in patients with a perfusion/diffusion mismatch (odds ratio, 5.4; p = 0.039) and an even more favorable response in patients with the Target Mismatch profile (odds ratio, 8.7; p = 0.011). Patients with the No Mismatch profile did not appear to benefit from early reperfusion. Early reperfusion was associated with fatal intracranial hemorrhage in patients with the Malignant profile. For stroke patients treated 3 to 6 hours after onset, baseline MRI findings can identify subgroups that are likely to benefit from reperfusion therapies and can potentially identify subgroups that are unlikely to benefit or may be harmed."}
{"id": "17050521", "title": "State-of-the-art imaging of acute stroke.", "content": "State-of-the-art imaging of acute stroke. Stroke is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity in the developed world. The goals of an imaging evaluation for acute stroke are to establish a diagnosis as early as possible and to obtain accurate information about the intracranial vasculature and brain perfusion for guidance in selecting the appropriate therapy. A comprehensive evaluation may be performed with a combination of computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance (MR) imaging techniques. Unenhanced CT can be performed quickly, can help identify early signs of stroke, and can help rule out hemorrhage. CT angiography and CT perfusion imaging, respectively, can depict intravascular thrombi and salvageable tissue indicated by a penumbra. These examinations are easy to perform on most helical CT scanners and are increasingly used in stroke imaging protocols to decide whether intervention is necessary. While acute infarcts may be seen early on conventional MR images, diffusion-weighted MR imaging is more sensitive for detection of hyperacute ischemia. Gradient-echo MR sequences can be helpful for detecting a hemorrhage. The status of neck and intracranial vessels can be evaluated with MR angiography, and a mismatch between findings on diffusion and perfusion MR images may be used to predict the presence of a penumbra. The information obtained by combining various imaging techniques may help differentiate patients who do not need intravenous or intraarterial therapy from those who do, and may alter clinical outcomes."}
{"id": "17050515", "title": "Imaging of cerebral venous thrombosis: current techniques, spectrum of findings, and diagnostic pitfalls.", "content": "Imaging of cerebral venous thrombosis: current techniques, spectrum of findings, and diagnostic pitfalls. Cerebral venous thrombosis is a relatively uncommon but serious neurologic disorder that is potentially reversible with prompt diagnosis and appropriate medical care. Because the possible causal factors and clinical manifestations of this disorder are many and varied, imaging plays a primary role in the diagnosis. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, un-enhanced computed tomography (CT), unenhanced time-of-flight MR venography, and contrast material-enhanced MR venography and CT venography are particularly useful techniques for detecting cerebral venous and brain parenchymal changes that may be related to thrombosis. To achieve an accurate diagnosis, it is important to have a detailed knowledge of the normal venous anatomy and variants, the spectrum of findings (venous sinus thrombi and recanalization, parenchymal diffusion or perfusion changes or hemorrhage), other potentially relevant conditions (deep venous occlusion, isolated cortical venous thrombosis, idiopathic intracranial hypertension), and potential pitfalls in image interpretation."}
{"id": "17032885", "title": "A rare anatomic variant of a solitary internal carotid artery associated with moyamoya phenomenon of the middle cerebral artery.", "content": "A rare anatomic variant of a solitary internal carotid artery associated with moyamoya phenomenon of the middle cerebral artery. A case of a congenital solitary internal carotid artery with complicated anastomosis is presented. This rare anomaly was an incidental finding at cerebral angiography in a patient with a poor-grade subarachnoid hemorrhage and a ruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysm."}
{"id": "17029345", "title": "Utility of computed tomography perfusion in detection of cerebral vasospasm in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Utility of computed tomography perfusion in detection of cerebral vasospasm in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Digital subtraction (DS) angiography is the gold standard for detecting cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Computed tomography (CT) perfusion is a recently developed modality for the evaluation of cerebral hemodynamics. This study was conducted to evaluate the potential of using CT perfusion to detect vasospasm in patients with SAH. Fourteen patients between the ages of 41 and 66 years with aneurysmal SAH underwent 23 CT perfusion scans for suspected vasospasm. All patients underwent DS angiography within 12 hours of the CT perfusion scans. The presence of vasospasm on CT perfusion images was determined based on qualitative reading using color maps of mean transit time, cerebral blood flow, and cerebral blood volume as criteria. The presence or absence of vasospasm as retrospectively determined using CT perfusion was compared with DS angiography findings. Of the 23 CT perfusion scans performed, 21 (91%) were concordant with angiography findings in predicting the presence or absence of vasospasm. In 15 of 23 scans, the presence of vasospasm was detected on CT perfusion scans and confirmed on DS angiography studies. In two cases, vasospasm was revealed on DS angiography but was not confirmed on CT perfusion. The degree of agreement between CT perfusion and DS angiography for detection of vasospasm was high (K = 0.8, p , 0.0001). Computed tomography perfusion is an accurate, reliable, and noninvasive method to detect the presence or absence of vasospasm. It can be used as a tool to help guide the decision to pursue DS angiography with the intent to treat vasospasm."}
{"id": "17011858", "title": "Intracranial vascular anomalies in patients with morning glory disk anomaly.", "content": "Intracranial vascular anomalies in patients with morning glory disk anomaly. An association between morning glory disk anomaly (MGDA) and intracranial vascular anomalies including Moyamoya disease has been recognized. We evaluated a series of patients with MGDA to ascertain the frequency of cerebrovascular anomalies. Retrospective observational case series. We reviewed the neurologic histories and neuroimaging studies of twenty patients with MGDA at two institutions between 1982 and 2004. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the brain was performed on all patients who had not undergone neuroimaging. MRI/MRA studies done for 40 pediatric patients without MGDA were also evaluated for cerebrovascular anomalies. The prevalence of anomalies in the two groups was compared by Fisher exact test. Nine of 20 patients (45%) with MGDA had cerebrovascular anomalies. Anomalies ranged from agenesis of the A1 segment of the anterior cerebral artery to bilateral stenosis of the internal carotid arteries with moyamoya disease. Three patients underwent revascularization procedures. Ten of 40 patients (25%) in the control group had any intracranial vascular anomaly, whereas only two of 40 (5%) had an abnormality of the anterior circulation, the most common finding in the MGDA group. We recommend that all patients with MGDA undergo MRI/MRA or computerized tomographic angiography to detect vascular and structural brain anomalies. It may be unclear whether cerebrovascular anomalies represent isolated congenital anomalies or findings of progressive occlusive cerebrovascular disease. Follow-up imaging should be considered in patients with cerebrovascular anomalies and is clearly indicated if neurologic signs or symptoms are present."}
{"id": "16984027", "title": "[A case of cerebral arteriovenous malformation revealing repeated intranidal hemorrhage accompanying neovascularization after stereotactic radiosurgery].", "content": "[A case of cerebral arteriovenous malformation revealing repeated intranidal hemorrhage accompanying neovascularization after stereotactic radiosurgery]. We report a patient with cerebral arteriovenous malformation (AVM) revealing growing mass lesion after stereotactic radiosurgery. This 12-year-old female presented headache. CT scan showed hematoma at the head of the right caudate nucleus and angiography showed AVM at the site. LINAC-based stereotactic radiosurgery was performed with the patient. Twenty-three months after the radiosurgery the patient complained headache and CT scan showed hematoma again at the same site, although angiography did not show AVM. Thirty-five months after the radiosurgery mass lesion with enhancement effect was observed at the site and the mass lesion grew gradually thereafter. Thirty-nine months after the radiosurgery the mass lesion was evacuated. Histological examination revealed fibrotic core and surrounding neovascularized area with hemorrhage. The histology shows a new etiology of growing mass lesion after radiosurgery for AVM."}
{"id": "16971800", "title": "Three-dimensional cerebral contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance venography at 3.0 Tesla: initial results using highly accelerated parallel acquisition.", "content": "Three-dimensional cerebral contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance venography at 3.0 Tesla: initial results using highly accelerated parallel acquisition. The objective of this study was to evaluate a high spatial resolution 3-dimensional (3D) contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance (CE-MR) venography protocol for evaluation of intracranial venous system using highly accelerated parallel imaging at 3.0 T. Ten patients (4 male, 6 female; age, 38-76 years) with suspected cerebrovascular disease were prospectively studied on a 32-channel 3.0 T MR system. After a single intravenous contrast injection, high spatial resolution 3D CE-MR angiography of the entire supraaortic arteries was performed followed immediately by 3D cerebral CE-MR venography. By using a fast 3D gradient-recalled-echo sequence with elliptic centric k-space ordering and highly accelerated parallel acquisition (acceleration factor 3 and 2 in phase and slice encoding direction, respectively), 3D cerebral CE-MR venography was acquired with voxel dimensions of 0.7 x 0.7 x 0.8 mm in 24 seconds. Image evaluation was performed independently by 2 neuroradiologists for overall image quality, presence of noise, and artifacts. The image quality of 30 venous segments was evaluated in each subject using a 1 to 4 scoring scale. In 2 patients, catheter angiography was available for correlation. Statistical analysis of data was performed by using Wilcoxon rank sum test and kappa coefficient. All studies were determined to be of diagnostic image quality by both observers. The majority (90%) of cerebral venous segments were evaluated to be of diagnostic image quality (median, 3; range, 3-4) by both readers and with excellent interobserver agreement (kappa = 0.86; 95% confidence interval, 0.79-0.93). One meningioma invading the superior sagittal sinus and one superior sagittal sinus fistula were detected subsequently confirmed by conventional angiography. High spatial resolution 3D cerebral CE-MR venography is feasible and promising. Using a 32-channel 3.0 T system combined with multichannel array coils effectively supports highly accelerated parallel imaging, enabling subsequent acquisition of both high spatial resolution CE-MR angiography and CE-MR venography after a single contrast injection without impairing the image quality. More extensive clinical studies are warranted to establish the range of applications and confirm the accuracy of this technique."}
{"id": "16971611", "title": "Anterior ethmoidal artery aneurysm and intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Anterior ethmoidal artery aneurysm and intracerebral hemorrhage. The association between the formation of intracranial aneurysms and situations of increased blood flow in certain areas of the brain is well accepted today. It has been seen in association with arteriovenous malformations of the brain, carotid occlusion, and Moyamoya disease. The occurrence of aneurysms in small arteries of the skull base, with the exception of the intracavernous carotid artery, however, is rare. We report a case of a 55-year-old woman who presented with an intracerebral hemorrhage caused by a ruptured anterior ethmoidal artery aneurysm. To the best of our knowledge, this is only the second case of documented intracranial bleeding from such a lesion."}
{"id": "16957606", "title": "Quantification of distension in rat cerebral perforating arteries.", "content": "Quantification of distension in rat cerebral perforating arteries. We developed a novel cerebral angiography procedure for rodents using monochromatic synchrotron radiation X-rays and obtained images of rat cerebral perforating arteries for the first time. In normotensive rat, hypercapnia rapidly distended the perforators between 3 and 15 min after induction and major trunk vessels distended more rapidly in 3-6 min. Systemic hypotension made by stepwise hemorrhage distended the perforators up to 158% of control values but constricted most of the large cerebral trunk vessels. In spontaneous hypertensive rats, systemic hypotension-induced distension disappeared in perforators, indicating that perforators with chronic hypertension lose their autoregulatory distensibility."}
{"id": "16956767", "title": "Loss of M5 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors leads to cerebrovascular and neuronal abnormalities and cognitive deficits in mice.", "content": "Loss of M5 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors leads to cerebrovascular and neuronal abnormalities and cognitive deficits in mice. The M5 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (M5R) has been shown to play a crucial role in mediating acetylcholine-dependent dilation of cerebral blood vessels. We show that male M5R-/- mice displayed constitutive constriction of cerebral arteries using magnetic resonance angiography in vivo. Male M5R-/- mice exhibited a significantly reduced cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, basal ganglia, and thalamus. Cortical and hippocampal pyramidal neurons from M5R-/- mice showed neuronal atrophy. Hippocampus-dependent spatial and nonspatial memory was also impaired in M5R-/- mice. In M5R-/- mice, CA3 pyramidal cells displayed a significantly attenuated frequency of the spontaneous postsynaptic current and long-term potentiation was significantly impaired at the mossy fiber-CA3 synapse. Our findings suggest that impaired M5R signaling may play a role in the pathophysiology of cerebrovascular deficits. The M5 receptor may represent an attractive novel therapeutic target to ameliorate memory deficits caused by impaired cerebrovascular function."}
{"id": "16956483", "title": "Stent-graft treatment of pseudoaneurysms and arteriovenous fistulae in the carotid artery.", "content": "Stent-graft treatment of pseudoaneurysms and arteriovenous fistulae in the carotid artery. The purpose of this study was to assess the safety and efficacy of stent-graft placement in the management of arteriovenous fistulae (AVF) and pseudoaneurysms (PAs) involving the carotid artery (CA). Twenty-two patients (16 men, 6 women) with a CA AVF (n = 5) or PA (n = 17) owing to a gunshot or stab wound, carotid endarterectomy, blunt trauma, a tumor, spontaneous dissection, or a central venous catheter were treated with percutaneous placement of stent grafts. The patients presented with tumor, bruit, headache, mouth and tracheostomy bleeding, transitory hemiparesis, seizure, or stroke. Diagnoses were made by using computed tomographic angiography (CTA) and digital subtraction angiography. Fourteen lesions were in the common CA; eight were in the internal CA. Homemade devices and stent grafts from a variety of manufacturers were employed. Follow-up evaluations included clinical, CTA, and Doppler ultrasound assessments. All patients had resolution of the PA or AVF. In one patient with a large petrous PA, acute occlusion of the CA developed after placement of three balloon-expandable stent grafts, but there were no neurologic complications because the circle of Willis was functional. During follow-up ranging from 2 months to 13 years, asymptomatic 90% stenosis owing to stent compression was observed on Doppler ultrasound and angiographic examinations in a patient with an autologous vein-covered stent graft in the internal CA. Three other patients died of causes unrelated to stent-graft placement. In all other patients, the stent graft remained patent. Our results indicate that stent grafting is an acceptable alternative to surgery in the treatment of AVF and PAs in the CA."}
{"id": "16946154", "title": "Should spectrophotometry be used to identify xanthochromia in the cerebrospinal fluid of alert patients suspected of having subarachnoid hemorrhage?", "content": "Should spectrophotometry be used to identify xanthochromia in the cerebrospinal fluid of alert patients suspected of having subarachnoid hemorrhage? The absence of xanthochromia in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is often used to exclude subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Authorities advocate spectrophotometry to measure xanthochromia, but most North American hospitals use visual inspection. We studied the diagnostic accuracy of spectrophotometry for SAH, and its potential impact on current practice. This was a prospective cohort study comparing the diagnostic accuracy of tests. The study was set in 3 university-affiliated tertiary care emergency departments. We enrolled consecutive neurologically intact adults with nontraumatic headache undergoing lumbar puncture (LP) to rule out SAH. CSF was centrifuged, frozen and analyzed later in batch. SAH was defined by (1) subarachnoid blood on CT, (2) >5x10(6) red blood cells/L in the final CSF tube and positive angiography, or (3) visible xanthochromia in CSF and positive angiography. All subjects lacking a normal CT and LP were telephoned at 30 days. We enrolled 220 patients (mean age 42+/-16 years; CT rate 87.7%; angiography rate 5.9%). Two SAHs were identified: 1 with red blood cells without xanthochromia in the CSF and 1 with visibly xanthochromic CSF. The specificity of xanthochromia was 97% (95% CI: 92% to 99%) for visual inspection, but as low as 29% (95% CI: 23% to 35%) for 2 of the spectrophotometric definitions. Introducing spectrophotometry could lead to angiography in as many as 11% to 71% of patients undergoing LP. Spectrophotometric definitions of xanthochromia have only moderate to low specificity for SAH. Using spectrophotometry could increase angiography rates, thereby identifying more incidental aneurysms, increasing patient anxiety and exposing patients to unnecessary surgical or investigational complications without benefit."}
{"id": "16941427", "title": "[Moyamoya disease].", "content": "[Moyamoya disease]. To describe the clinical manifestations and to summarise the knowledge currently available about the epidemiology, physiopathology, histopathology, diagnosis and treatment of moyamoya disease. Moyamoya disease is produced by the spontaneous, progressive occlusion of the circle of Willis with the simultaneous appearance of natural intracranial and extra-intracranial collaterals. Both children and adults can be affected and it is to be found not only in Asia but also in Europe and America, although the frequency is unknown. Its primary lesion is a thickening of the tunica interna in the distal segment of the internal carotids, initially within the anterior portion of the circle of Willis. This results in the appearance of collateral vessels, which are first intracranial (moyamoya vessels) and then extracranial, to offset the critical reduction in regional cerebral blood flow. The most common clinical manifestation is motor-type ischaemic episodes, although it may also be accompanied by intracerebral haemorrhages. It can be diagnosed by means of suitable morphological and functional studies, such as cerebral pan angiography and xenon-CT, in patients with a founded clinical suspicion. Neurosurgical revascularisation is to date the most widely accepted treatment and can bring about a permanent clinical cure. Moyamoya disease is a rare pathology that can be successfully treated using cerebral revascularisation, provided a timely diagnosis is reached and in indicated patients. Such therapy makes it possible to prevent the repetition of ischaemic events or haemorrhages that usually bring about severe limitations in the individual's personal development."}
{"id": "16941425", "title": "[Arteriovenous malformations in children: a report of four cases].", "content": "[Arteriovenous malformations in children: a report of four cases]. Vascular malformations are the most frequent cause of intracranial haemorrhage (IH) after the neonatal period that are not due to traumatic injury. Arteriovenous malformations (AVM) are the vascular malformations that most often give rise to symptoms in infancy and are the most common cause of IH in children over one year of age. We reviewed the medical records of all patients under the age of 16 years diagnosed with AVM from the year 2000 to the present. Four cases aged between 7 and 15 years were found, all of whom were examined with computerised tomography and/or magnetic resonance imaging and cerebral arteriography scans. One patient started with headaches and another had learning disabilities. The other two began with IH, the most common clinical manifestations of which were a diminished level of awareness and vomiting. The final diagnosis was established by means of arteriography in all cases. Surgical treatment was carried out in three cases (using surgery, catheter embolisation and stereotaxic radiosurgery) and the patients' progress following the intervention was excellent. Spontaneous haemorrhage constitutes the most common presenting symptom of AVM. However, there are sometimes earlier manifestations that are a challenge to diagnosis and which should be the target of future research, since preventing IH would lead to a drastic reduction in the morbidity and mortality rate of AVM."}
{"id": "16940718", "title": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage from spontaneous dissection of the anterior cerebral artery.", "content": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage from spontaneous dissection of the anterior cerebral artery."}
{"id": "16935647", "title": "Traumatic middle meningeal artery aneurysm causing intracerebral hematoma: a case report and review of literature.", "content": "Traumatic middle meningeal artery aneurysm causing intracerebral hematoma: a case report and review of literature. Traumatic aneurysms of middle meningeal artery (MMA) are rare. Traumatic MMA aneurysms usually present with extradural hematomas, whereas intradural intraparenchymal hematomas are exceedingly rare. We report a 30-year-old man who presented 1 year after head injury with spontaneous right frontal intraparenchymal hematoma. Investigations revealed a MMA pseudoaneurysm, which was successfully treated surgically. Traumatic MMA pseudoaneurysm producing intracerebral hematoma (ICH) is rare and can be listed as a cause of spontaneous acute ICH."}
{"id": "16921244", "title": "Transient global amnesia associated with acute intracerebral hemorrhage at the cingulate gyrus.", "content": "Transient global amnesia associated with acute intracerebral hemorrhage at the cingulate gyrus."}
{"id": "16915371", "title": "Assessment of blood supply to intracranial pathologies in children using MR digital subtraction angiography.", "content": "Assessment of blood supply to intracranial pathologies in children using MR digital subtraction angiography. MR digital subtraction angiography (MR-DSA) is a contrast-enhanced MR angiographic sequence that enables time-resolved evaluation of the cerebral circulation. We describe the feasibility and technical success of our attempts at MR-DSA for the assessment of intracranial pathology in children. We performed MR-DSA in 15 children (age range 5 days to 16 years) referred for MR imaging because of known or suspected intracranial pathology that required a dynamic assessment of the cerebral vasculature. MR-DSA consisted of a thick (6-10 mm) slice-selective RF-spoiled fast gradient-echo sequence (RF-FAST) acquired before and during passage of an intravenously administered bolus of Gd-DTPA. The images were subtracted and viewed as a cine loop. MR-DSA was performed successfully in all patients. High-flow lesions were shown in four patients; these included vein of Galen aneurysmal malformation, dural fistula, and two partially treated arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). Low-flow lesions were seen in three patients, all of which were tumours. Normal flow was confirmed in eight patients including two with successfully treated AVMs, and in three patients with cavernomas. Our early experience suggests that MR-DSA is a realistic, non-invasive alternative to catheter angiography in certain clinical settings."}
{"id": "16915122", "title": "Brain computed tomography angiographic scans as the sole diagnostic examination for excluding aneurysms in patients with perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Brain computed tomography angiographic scans as the sole diagnostic examination for excluding aneurysms in patients with perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage. In an era in which new computed tomographic scanners approach 100% sensitivity for finding intracranial aneurysms in patients with a perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) pattern, digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is still considered the gold standard. Our purpose was to investigate whether or not computed tomography angiographic (CTA) scanning can be used as the sole diagnostic tool in this setting, and thus replace DSA. Two hundred fifty patients with atraumatic SAH presented to our institute between November 2001 and November 2005. We performed a retrospective search for those patients who had a negative brain CTA scan for aneurysms. Of these, those with a computed tomographic scan showing perimesencephalic SAH at admission were selected, and only those who had DSA performed were included. We found 30 patients with negative brain CTA scans that matched the perimesencephalic SAH pattern and had DSA performed. The mean time for performing a brain CTA scan was 3.8 +/- 4.4 days, and for DSA 11 +/- 12 days, after the initiation of symptomatology. The interval between CTA and DSA was 5.9 +/- 15 days. There were two patients in whom CTA was considered negative but still suspicious for having an aneurysm; DSA was negative for both. Brain CTA scanning alone is a good and conclusive diagnostic tool to rule out aneurysms in patients presenting with the classic perimesencephalic SAH pattern and thus can replace DSA and its corresponding risks. The latter can be reserved for those patients in whom CTA is doubtful."}
{"id": "16910500", "title": "[A case of encapsulated intracerebral hematoma mimicking metastatic brain tumor].", "content": "[A case of encapsulated intracerebral hematoma mimicking metastatic brain tumor]. We report a case of encapsulated intracranial hematoma (EIH) mimicking metastatic brain tumor. A 77-year-old male with a medical history of prostate cancer was admitted to our hospital presenting with progressive left hemiparesis. Previous head CT scan and MRI findings during 3 weeks before admission revealed a subcortical acute to subacute hematoma under the right precentral gyrus with growing perifocal brainedema. The Head DSA showed tumor-stain with vascular compression corresponding to the hemorrhagic mass, and Tl-201 SPECT study revealed high L/N ratio (3.0) and high L/E ratio (0.8). The preoperative diagnosis was metastatic brain tumor originating from prostate cancer, and total removal of the mass was undergone with the postoperative diagnosis of EIH. Neither tumoral component nor vascular malformation was found even by detailed pathological study. EIH is a rare variant of intracranial hemorrhage and most of cases in past reports are preoperatively misdiagnosed as malignant brain tumor. In our case, even Tl-201 SPECT and DSA, which are reported as key studies for distinguishing EIH from other brain tumors, demonstrated brain tumor-like findings. It is necessary to consider the possibility of EIH when we encounter hemorrhagic mass in the brain parenchyma even with brain tumor-like radiographical images."}
{"id": "16895099", "title": "[Cerebral angiography necessary for brain death diagnosis in posterior cranial fossa processes. Clinical examination only can be misleading for the examiner].", "content": "[Cerebral angiography necessary for brain death diagnosis in posterior cranial fossa processes. Clinical examination only can be misleading for the examiner]."}
{"id": "16883176", "title": "Transcranial Doppler grading criteria for basilar artery vasospasm.", "content": "Transcranial Doppler grading criteria for basilar artery vasospasm. Transcranial Doppler (TCD) criteria for basilar artery (BA) vasospasm are poorly defined, and grading criteria for vertebrobasilar vasospasm are unavailable. The purpose of the present study was to define TCD grading criteria for BA vasospasm on the basis of the absolute flow velocities and the intracranial to extracranial flow velocity ratios for the posterior circulation, and to improve the sensitivity and specificity of TCD for diagnosis of BA vasospasm. One hundred twenty-three patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage underwent 144 cerebral arteriograms with views of the BA during the acute phase of vasospasm (Days 3-14 after hemorrhage). BA diameters were measured and compared with diameters obtained from baseline arteriograms. Both BA and extracranial vertebral artery flow velocities were measured by TCD within 4 hours before the arteriogram. The velocity ratio between the BA and the extracranial vertebral arteries (VA) strongly correlated with the degree of BA narrowing (r2 = 0.648; P < 0.0001). A ratio higher than 2.0 was associated with 73% sensitivity and 80% specificity for BA vasospasm. A ratio higher than 2.5 with BA velocity greater than 85 cm/s was associated with 86% sensitivity and 97% specificity for BA narrowing of more than 25%. A BA/VA ratio higher than 3.0 with BA velocities higher than 85 cm/s was associated with 92% sensitivity and 97% specificity for BA narrowing of more than 50%. The BA/VA ratio improves the sensitivity and specificity of TCD detection of BA vasospasm. On the basis of the BA/VA ratio and BA mean velocities, we suggest new TCD grading criteria for BA vasospasm."}
{"id": "16841709", "title": "[Embolization for aneurismal dilatation associated with ruptured dissecting anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm with preservation of the parent artery: case report].", "content": "[Embolization for aneurismal dilatation associated with ruptured dissecting anterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm with preservation of the parent artery: case report]. We report a rare case of a ruptured dissecting anterior inferior cerebellar artery (AICA) aneurysm treated by endosaccular embolization with a Guglielmi detachable coil (GDC). An 85-year-old female presented with headache. Computed tomographic (CT) scan showed subarachnoid hemorrhage and intraventricular hemorrhage in the fourth ventricule. Cerebral angiography and 3D-CT angiography revealed an aneurysmal dilatation at the anterior pontine segment of the right AICA with a diagnosis of arterial dissection. The right posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) was absent and the right AICA supplied the territory normally nourished by the right PICA. The aneurismal dilatation was occluded by endosacullar embolization with preservation of the AICA. The distal AICA aneurysm is rare and only seven cases treated with endovascular embolization have been reported. In these, six cases were treated by parent artery occlusion with coil and the subsequent three cases presented with ischemic complications. Only one case was treated by endosaccular embolization with GDC. To our knowledge, this is the second report of the distal AICA aneurysm treated by endosaccular embolization with GDC. Distal AICA aneurysms are briefly discussed while reviewing the literature."}
{"id": "16841210", "title": "Is there a role for magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of non-traumatic intraparenchymal haemorrhage in children?", "content": "Is there a role for magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of non-traumatic intraparenchymal haemorrhage in children? In contrast to adults, intraparenchymal haemorrhage (IPH) is at least as common as ischaemic stroke in children. There is often uncertainty about the most appropriate modality for imaging in the acute stage. To examine the diagnostic value of MRI and MR angiography (MRA) in the detection of underlying pathology in children with non-traumatic IPH. A retrospective review was conducted of children with IPH from January 1997 to March 2003. After exclusion of patients with traumatic IPH or previously diagnosed vascular malformation, aneurysm, or brain tumour, 50 children were identified. Case notes and imaging studies were reviewed. An underlying lesion was demonstrated with MR in two-thirds of children (25/38) with IPH. A vascular lesion was the commonest cause, followed by tumour. Three children had false-negative MR scans. MR is a valuable non-invasive imaging modality for detection of both vascular and non-vascular causes of paediatric IPH. The high rate of the latter in childhood makes incorporation of MR into paediatric IPH imaging protocols especially important. Clinical guidelines regarding the optimum sequence of investigations in non-traumatic IPH would be helpful to standardize practice and enable critical appraisal."}
{"id": "16826319", "title": "Brainstem hypoperfusion in severe symptomatic vasospasm following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: role of basilar artery vasospasm.", "content": "Brainstem hypoperfusion in severe symptomatic vasospasm following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: role of basilar artery vasospasm. The hemodynamic effects of vertebrobasilar vasospasm are ill defined. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of basilar artery (BA) vasospasm on brainstem (BS) perfusion. Forty-five patients with delayed ischemic neurological deficits (DIND) following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) underwent cerebral angiography prior to decision-making concerning endovascular treatment. BA diameter was compared with baseline angiogram. Regional brainstem (BS) cerebral blood flow (CBF) was qualitatively estimated by (99m)Tc ethyl cysteinate dimer single photon emission computed tomography (ECD-SPECT). Delayed BS hypoperfusion was found in 22 (48.9%) of 45 patients and BA narrowing of more than 20% was found in 23 (51.1%). Seventeen of 23 (73.9%) patients with BA narrowing of more than 20% experienced BS hypoperfusion compared to 6 of 22 (27.3%) patients with minimal or no narrowing (p = 0.0072). Patients with severe and moderate BS hypoperfusion had higher degree of BA narrowing compared to patients with normal BS perfusion and mild BS hypoperfusion (p < 0.001). The three-month outcome of patients n-22) with BS hypoperfusion was significantly worse compared to patients (n-23) with unimpaired (p = 0.0377, odd ratio for poor outcome 4, 1.15-13.9 95% confidence interval). These findings suggest that the incidence of BA vasospasm in patients with severe symptomatic vasospasm is high and patients with significant BA vasospasm are at higher risk to experience BS ischemia. Further studies should be done to evaluate the effects of endovascular therapy on BS perfusion and the impact of BS ischemia on morbidity and mortality of patients with severe symptomatic vasospasm."}
{"id": "16808217", "title": "Practical noninvasive neurovascular imaging of the neck arteries in patients with stroke, transient ischemic attack, and suspected arterial disease that may lead to ischemia, infarction, or flow abnormalities.", "content": "Practical noninvasive neurovascular imaging of the neck arteries in patients with stroke, transient ischemic attack, and suspected arterial disease that may lead to ischemia, infarction, or flow abnormalities. Stroke is the third leading cause of death in the United States, killing nearly 157,000 people a year with an estimated society cost of dollar 58 billion in 2006. A large percentage of ischemic strokes is secondary to extracranial carotid and vertebral arterial disease. While digital subtraction angiography has traditionally been used for the initial evaluation of the degree of stenosis, noninvasive imaging has moved to the forefront in the extracranial arterial evaluation. The importance of understanding the imaging techniques, findings, interpretation, artifacts, and pitfalls is essential to appropriate patient management."}
{"id": "16807679", "title": "Dural arteriovenous fistulas of the cavernous sinus with onset of intracerebral haemorrhage mimicking hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage.", "content": "Dural arteriovenous fistulas of the cavernous sinus with onset of intracerebral haemorrhage mimicking hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage. We describe a patient with dural arteriovenous fistulas of the cavernous sinus (CS-dAVFs) who developed an intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) mimicking hypertensive putaminal haemorrhage. Drainage into the superior ophthalmic vein (SOV) and inferior petrosal sinus (IPS) was not demonstrated on cerebral angiography, and only cortical venous reflux into the Sylvian vein was observed. In cases of venous drainage concentrated on the Sylvian vein, CS-dAVFs could indicate ICH with radiological appearance resembling putaminal haemorrhage."}
{"id": "16801653", "title": "Detection of intracranial venous reflux in patients of transient global amnesia.", "content": "Detection of intracranial venous reflux in patients of transient global amnesia. The mechanism of transient global amnesia (TGA) is not clear. Attempting to support the hypothesis that retrograde venous hypertension causing cerebral venous ischemia plays a role in the pathogenesis of TGA, the authors used cranial three-dimensional time-of-flight (TOF) MR angiography (MRA) to detect a possible intracranial retrograde venous flow in TGA patients. The frequency of abnormal venous signals on cranial three-dimensional TOF MRA was compared in 10 TGA patients with the signals in 50 age- and gender-matched normal individuals. In TGA patients with abnormal venous signals, other examinations (cerebral digital subtraction angiography, upper extremity digital subtraction venography [DSV], and thoracic inlet MRI) were performed to elucidate the etiology of these abnormal intracranial venous flow patterns. Abnormal venous signals on three-dimensional TOF MRA were found in five (50%) of the TGA patients and none of the control subjects (p < 0.001). Compression leading to occlusion of the left brachiocephalic vein by the sternum and aorta during regular breathing, as depicted by upper extremity DSV and thoracic inlet MRI, occurred consistently among these five TGA patients with abnormal venous signals. Retrograde intracranial venous flow caused by left brachiocephalic vein occlusion was found only in patients with transient global amnesia (TGA). This result suggests that TGA patients may have an underlying impairment of cerebral venous outflow that increases their vulnerability to TGA attack."}
{"id": "16797266", "title": "Comparison between transcranial color Doppler ultrasonography and angiography in the confirmation of brain death.", "content": "Comparison between transcranial color Doppler ultrasonography and angiography in the confirmation of brain death. Cerebral blood flow tests have increasingly been advocated for the confirmation of brain death (BD). Angiography has been considered the gold standard in the diagnosis of BD but is invasive. We validated transcranial color Doppler ultrasonography (TCD) to confirm BD by comparing it to angiography. Forty patients experienced the clinical diagnosis of brain death due to head injury in 19 cases (47.5%), cerebral hemorrhage in 11 (27.5%), subarachnoid hemorrhage in 7 (17.5%), and cerebral infarction in 3 (7.5%). Blood pressure, heart rate, SPO2, and PCO2 were monitored throughout the study. Patients were excluded if episodes of hypoxia, arrhythmia, and hypotension occurred during examinations, or if the TCD was not technically feasible. Both angiography and TCD confirmed BD in all patients. The agreement between the above methods to confirm BD was 100%. Angiography showed the absence of filling of intracranial arteries, while TCD revealed: (1) brief systolic forward flow or systolic spikes and diastolic reversed flow (50%); (2) brief systolic forward flow or systolic spikes and no diastolic flow (25%); (3) no demonstrable flow in a patient in whom flow had been clearly documented on a previous TCD examination (12.5%). Five patients required repeated TCD examinations, because of initial detection of a diastolic to-and-fro flow pattern. BD was confirmed by TCD in the above patients after 30 hours of clinical BD. TCD was a sensitive tool to diagnose BD, affording a reliable alternative examination to standard angiography."}
{"id": "16794349", "title": "External carotid artery aneurysm developing after embolization of a ruptured posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm in a patient with cervicocephalic fibromuscular dysplasia--case report.", "content": "External carotid artery aneurysm developing after embolization of a ruptured posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm in a patient with cervicocephalic fibromuscular dysplasia--case report. A 30-year-old man presented with an aneurysm of the left posterior inferior cerebellar artery manifesting as subarachnoid hemorrhage and cerebellar infarction. Angiography demonstrated string-of-beads sign typical of fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) in the extracranial carotid and vertebral arteries. The aneurysm and the parent artery were successfully embolized with Guglielmi detachable coils. Severe vasospasm developed 1 week after admission, and was treated several times by selective injection of vasodilator. A new aneurysm of the left external carotid artery became evident 1 month later, whereas only slight dilation had previously been apparent. This angiographic sequence demonstrated a new arterial dissection. Despite the possibility of damage to the artery during multiple catheterizations, arterial wall changes caused by FMD appear to have been primarily responsible. This case emphasizes the need for particular care in performing vascular interventional procedures in the presence of FMD."}
{"id": "16794181", "title": "In vivo identification of complicated upper thoracic aorta and arch vessel plaque by MR direct thrombus imaging in patients investigated for cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "In vivo identification of complicated upper thoracic aorta and arch vessel plaque by MR direct thrombus imaging in patients investigated for cerebrovascular disease. The objective of this article was to assess the feasibility of MR direct thrombus imaging (MRDTI) to evaluate the prevalence and location of complicated upper thoracic aortic and arch vessel plaque in patients referred for evaluation of cerebrovascular disease. Patients referred for investigation of cerebrovascular disease by MRI were enrolled. Reasons for referral included transient ischemic attack/amaurosis fugax, acute infarct, remote infarct, or asymptomatic carotid disease. Of the 348 patients initially scanned, 17 were excluded from the analysis. The final patient population included 331 patients (199 men, 132 women; mean age, 67.7 years). Patients were scanned using MRDTI, a 3D, T1-weighted, fat-suppressed spoiled gradient echo that exploits the T1 shortening effects of methemoglobin, directly visualizing hemorrhage/thrombus in the vessel wall, thus identifying complicated plaque. Complicated plaque was defined as a high signal within the atherosclerotic plaque at least twice the signal intensity of muscle. Forty-three of 331 patients (13%) had complicated upper thoracic aortic atherosclerotic disease, arch vessel atherosclerotic disease, or both. The upper thoracic aorta was involved in 36 of 43 patients (83.7%), and the left subclavian artery was involved in 14 of 43 patients (32.6%). Both the right subclavian artery and the brachiocephalic artery were involved in one of 43 patients (2.3%). Complicated carotid plaque was seen in 25 of 43 patients (58.1%). MRDTI can be applied in the detection of complicated plaque in the upper thoracic aorta and arch vessels. Complicated plaque was identified in 13% of the patient population. The upper thoracic aorta was the most common site involved. This technique could be useful for the screening of asymptomatic at-risk patients."}
{"id": "16772847", "title": "Isotropic high spatial resolution magnetic resonance angiography of the supra-aortic arteries using two-dimensional parallel imaging (iPAT2) at 3 Tesla: a feasibility study.", "content": "Isotropic high spatial resolution magnetic resonance angiography of the supra-aortic arteries using two-dimensional parallel imaging (iPAT2) at 3 Tesla: a feasibility study. We sought to assess the feasibility of isotropic 3-dimensional contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) covering the supra-aortic and intracranial arteries with a MR sequence using parallel-imaging in phase- and slice-encoding directions. Six volunteers and 5 patients with suspected cerebrovascular disease were examined at 3.0 T using a 16-element head-neck array. Contrast-enhanced 3-dimensional MRA (repetition time 3.2 milliseconds, echo time 1.2 milliseconds, flip angle 30 degrees , bandwidth 390 Hz/pixel) was acquired with integrated generalized autocalibrating partially parallel acquisition (GRAPPA), in both phase- and slice-encoding direction. Images were evaluated independently by 2 radiologists. Signal-to-noise ratio was calculated from phantom measurements. Signal-to-ratio levels of 8.7 +/- 2.2/48.7 +/- 10.2 with and without parallel-imaging (GRAPPA x 6) were measured, respectively. Scoring of image quality by observer 1/observer 2 on a 4-point-scale (range 0-3) yielded 2.5 +/- 1.0/2.4 +/- 1.0 and 2.1 +/- 1.0/2.0 +/- 1.1 for extracranial and intracranial vessel segments in volunteers and 2.8 +/- 0.6/2.7 +/- 0.7 and 2.0 +/- 1.2/2.1 +/- 1.1 in patients, respectively. The interobserver agreement was excellent (k = 0.82). This study shows that contrast-enhanced MRA, applying parallel-imaging in both phase- and slice-encoding direction (iPAT), is feasible at 3.0 T. Coverage of the carotid and vertebro-basilar circulation was achieved."}
{"id": "16770665", "title": "Patterns of damage in the mature neonatal brain.", "content": "Patterns of damage in the mature neonatal brain. Patterns of damage in the mature neonatal brain can be subdivided into focal, multifocal and diffuse. The main cause of diffuse brain damage in the term newborn is hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy (HIE). HIE is still the major recognized perinatal cause of neurological morbidity in full-term newborns. MRI offers today the highest sensitivity in detecting acute anoxic injury of the neonatal brain. Conventional acquisition techniques together with modern diffusion techniques can identify typical patterns of HIE injury, even in the early course of the disease. However, even though highly suggestive, these patterns cannot be considered as pathognomonic. Perinatal metabolic disease such as kernicterus and severe hypoglycaemia should be differentiated from classic HIE. Other conditions, such as infections, non-accidental injury and rarer metabolic diseases can be misinterpreted as HIE in their early course when diffuse brain swelling is still the predominant MRI feature. Diffusion techniques can help to differentiate different types of diffuse brain oedema. Typical examples of focal injuries are arterial or venous infarctions. In arterial infarction, diffusion techniques can define more precisely than conventional imaging the extent of focal infarction, even in the hyperacute phase. Moreover, diffusion techniques provide quantitative data of acute corticospinal tract injury, especially at the level of the cerebral peduncles. Venous infarction should be suspected in every case of unexplained cerebral haematoma in the full-term newborn. In the presence of spontaneous bleeding, venous structures should always be evaluated by MR angiography."}
{"id": "16723899", "title": "Time course in the development of cerebral vasospasm after experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage: clinical and neuroradiological assessment of the rat double hemorrhage model.", "content": "Time course in the development of cerebral vasospasm after experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage: clinical and neuroradiological assessment of the rat double hemorrhage model. The \"double hemorrhage\" model in the rat is frequently used to simulate delayed cerebral vasospasm (CVS) after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in humans. However, an exact neurological and angiographic characterization of the CVS is not available for this model so far and is provided in the present investigation. Additionally, perfusion weighted imaging (PWI) at 3 tesla magnetic resonance (MR) tomography was implemented to assess the reduction in cerebral blood flow (CBF). In a prospective, randomized setting CVS was induced by injection of 0.2 ml autologous blood twice in the cisterna magna of 45 male Sprague-Dawley rats. The surviving animals were examined on Days 2, 3, 5, 7 and 9 and compared to a sham operated control group (n = 9). Rats were neurologically graded between 0 and 3, followed by MRI and selective digital subtraction angiography (DSA). The relative CBF was set in relation to the perfusion of the masseter muscle. The neurological state was significantly worsened on Day 2 (Grade 3), 3 (Grade 3), and 5 (Grade 2) (medians). The relative CBF/muscle BF ratio (2.5 +/- 0.8 (SAH) versus 9.2 +/- 1.3 (sham) (mean +/- SEM) and the basilar artery (BA) diameter (0.15 +/- 0.02 mm (SAH) versus 0.32 +/- 0.01 mm (sham) were significantly decreased on Day 5. Correlation between relative CBF/muscle BF ratio and BA diameter was 0.70. A valid and reproducible CVS simulation was proven by neurological score, DSA, and PWI on Day 5. Furthermore, our data demonstrate the practicability and validity of MR PWI for the monitoring of CVS in a rat SAH model."}
{"id": "16723870", "title": "Gliomatosis cerebri angiographically mimicking central nervous system angiitis: case report.", "content": "Gliomatosis cerebri angiographically mimicking central nervous system angiitis: case report. The diagnosis of isolated central nervous system angiitis often requires both cerebral angiography and biopsy for diagnosis. We present a case of gliomatosis cerebri with demonstrated angiographic changes suggestive of a central nervous system vasculitis. A 47-year-old woman presented with a 2-week history of worsening headache and progressive drowsiness. Magnetic resonance imaging scans revealed confluent nonenhancing T2-weighted hyperintensity involving the frontal white matter bilaterally, hypothalamus, and both thalami. A four-vessel angiogram revealed diffuse arterial beading with stenoses of a right frontal middle cerebral artery branch and the distal posterior cerebral artery and anterior cerebral artery branches, bilaterally. The biopsy revealed a Grade 2 fibrillary astrocytoma consistent with gliomatosis cerebri. Gliomatosis cerebri can mimic central nervous system vasculitis angiographically. Perivascular infiltration by tumor cells may be responsible for these changes."}
{"id": "16717235", "title": "Co-occurrence of a cavernous malformation and contralateral moyamoya.", "content": "Co-occurrence of a cavernous malformation and contralateral moyamoya."}
{"id": "16717213", "title": "CT after subarachnoid hemorrhage: relation of cerebral perfusion to delayed cerebral ischemia.", "content": "CT after subarachnoid hemorrhage: relation of cerebral perfusion to delayed cerebral ischemia. Delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is difficult to predict. The authors studied the relation between several parameters of brain perfusion at admission and development of DCI. The authors analyzed the admission CT perfusion (CTP) scans of 46 patients scanned within 72 hours after SAH. They assessed cerebral blood volume (CBV) and flow (CBF), mean transit time (MTT), and time to peak (TTP) for eight predefined regions of interest. For patients with and without DCI, the authors compared perfusion quantitatively and semiquantitatively. With receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) curves, the authors assessed the relationship between DCI and perfusion parameters. To assess the potential prognostic value, they calculated sensitivity and specificity of optimal threshold values for the semiquantitative data. DCI was not significantly related with quantitative perfusion values. For the semiquantitative data, patients with DCI had significantly more asymmetry in perfusion, and ROC curves indicated a good relation (0.75 to 0.81). Optimal threshold values distinguishing between patients with and without DCI were 0.77 for CBV and 0.72 for CBF ratios, and 0.87 seconds for MTT and 1.0 second for TTP differences. The corresponding sensitivity was 0.75 for all parameters; the specificity was 0.70 for CBV, 0.93 for CBF, 0.70 for MTT, and 0.90 for TTP. Delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) is related to perfusion asymmetry on admission CT perfusion (CTP). The cerebral blood flow ratio (comparing contralateral regions of interest) seems the best prognosticator for development of DCI. Further studies are needed to investigate the additional value of CTP to other prognosticators for DCI and to validate the chosen threshold values."}
{"id": "16708323", "title": "[Cardiovascular whole-body MR imaging in patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial occlusive disease].", "content": "[Cardiovascular whole-body MR imaging in patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial occlusive disease]. To examine patients with peripheral-arterial-occlusive-disease (PAOD) for systemic effects associated with atherosclerosis using a comprehensive state-of-the-art whole-body MR examination protocol. The protocol comprises the assessment of the complete arterial vasculature (except coronary arteries), the brain, and the heart. Multi-station whole-body 3D MR angiography was performed in sixty consecutive patients with clinical suspicion for PAOD at 1.5 T (Magnetom Avanto, Siemens, Erlangen, Germany). Functional and delayed enhancement cardiac images were acquired, as well as FLAIR images of the brain and TOF angiography of intracranial vessels. MR and DSA images were assessed by independent observers for atherosclerotic manifestations and other pathology. Sensitivity and specificity for the detection of vascular pathology was calculated for MR data using conventional DSA of the symptomatic region as standard-of-reference. Sensitivity and specificity for the detection of significant vascular stenosis (> 70 % luminal narrowing) was 94 % and 96 % (PPV 87 %, NPV 98 %). Significant microangiopathic tissue alterations (n = 7) and/or cerebral infarction (n = 18) were diagnosed in 23/60 patients. Thirty-eight of 60 patients presented with systolic left ventricular wall motion abnormalities. In 24 patients subendocardial or transmural delayed enhancement was detected in corresponding regions, indicating prior myocardial infarction. For patients with PAOD and suspected systemic atherosclerotic disease a comprehensive diagnosis of accompanying cardiovascular pathology and therefore staging of systemic atherosclerotic disease is feasible within one MR examination."}
{"id": "16699848", "title": "MR angiography of the carotid arteries and intracranial circulation: advantage of a high relaxivity contrast agent.", "content": "MR angiography of the carotid arteries and intracranial circulation: advantage of a high relaxivity contrast agent. Several studies have shown the usefulness of contrast-enhanced MR angiography (CE-MRA) for imaging the supraortic vessels, and, as a consequence, it has rapidly become a routine imaging modality. The main advantage over unenhanced techniques is the possibility to acquire larger volumes, allowing demonstration of the carotid artery from its origin to the intracranial portion. Most published studies on CE-MRA of the carotid arteries have been performed with standard Gd-based chelates whose T1 relaxivity values are similar. Recently new gadolinium chelates such as gadobenate dimeglumine (Gd-BOP-TA, MultiHance; Bracco Imaging, Milan, Italy) have been developed which have markedly higher intravascular T1 relaxivity values. When administered at an equivalent dose to that of a standard agent, these newer contrast agents produce significantly greater intravascular signal enhancement. The availability of an appropriate high-relaxivity contrast agent might also help to overcome some of the intrinsic technical problems (e. g. those related to flow) that affect time-of-flight (TOF) and phase contrast (PC) MR angiography of the intracranial vasculature. To avoid the problem of superimposition of veins, ultrafast gradient echo MRA techniques with very short TR and TE have been developed. Although the precise sequence parameters vary between manufacturers, they are basically similar. The choice between performing a time-resolved or high spatial resolution CE-MRA examination depends upon the precise clinical application. The most common applications include the study of cerebral aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, dural arteriovenous fistulas and dural venous diseases."}
{"id": "16687543", "title": "Perfusion-weighted MR imaging studies in brain hypervascular diseases: comparison of arterial input function extractions for perfusion measurement.", "content": "Perfusion-weighted MR imaging studies in brain hypervascular diseases: comparison of arterial input function extractions for perfusion measurement. Brain hypervascular diseases are complex and induce hemodynamic disturbances on brain parenchyma, which are difficult to accurately evaluate by using perfusion-weighted (PWI) MR imaging. Our purpose was to test and to assess the best AIF estimation method among 4 patients with brain hypervascular disease and healthy volunteers. Thirty-three patients and 10 healthy volunteers underwent brain perfusion studies by using a 1.5T MR imaging scanner with gadolinium-chelate bolus injection. PWI was performed with the indicator dilution method. AIF estimation methods were performed with local, regional, regional scaled, and global estimated arterial input function (AIF), and PWI measurements (cerebral blood volume [CBV] and cerebral blood flow [CBF]) were performed with regions of interest drawn on the thalami and centrum semiovale in all subjects, remote from the brain hypervascular disease nidus. Abnormal PWI results were assessed by using Z Score, and evaluation of the best AIF estimation method was performed by using a no gold standard evaluation method. From 88% to 97% of patients had overall abnormal perfusion areas of hypo- (decreased CBV and CBF) and/or hyperperfusion (increased CBV and CBF) and/or venous congestion (increased CBV, normal or decreased CBF), depending on the AIF estimation method used for PWI computations. No gold standard evaluation of the 4 AIF estimates found the regional and the regional scaled methods to be the most accurate. Brain hypervascular disease induces remote brain perfusion abnormalities that can be better detected by using PWI with regional or regional scaled AIF estimation methods."}
{"id": "16678729", "title": "Carotid cavernous aneurysm presenting as pituitary apoplexy.", "content": "Carotid cavernous aneurysm presenting as pituitary apoplexy. The authors report an interesting case with a ruptured internal carotid artery aneurysm that presented as a sellar haematoma mimicking radiologically a pituitary adenoma, and clinically a pituitary apoplexy. A 53-year-old woman presented with a 2-week history of episodic severe headache and vomiting associated, 3 days prior to admission, with left ophthalmoparesis and transient right hemiparesis. Brain MRI showed a large intra- and suprasellar mass suggestive of a pituitary macroadenoma. Hormonal profiles showed hyperprolactinaemia and subsequent cerebral angiography demonstrated a carotid cavernous aneurysm. The patient underwent surgery via a subfrontal approach to manage both lesions. At operation, the suspected pituitary adenoma was revealed to be a sellar haematoma; the aneurysm was successfully clipped. Postoperatively, the patient developed hypotension and right hemiparesis which, as well as the third nerve paresis, progressively improved to full recovery. At 12 months follow-up the patient is neurologically intact and generally well. The clinical features, the management of such a case and the importance of differential diagnosis in the acute stage are emphasised and discussed along with relevant literature."}
{"id": "16643324", "title": "Left common and right internal carotid artery occlusion - color-coded duplex sonography and magnetic resonance angiography findings.", "content": "Left common and right internal carotid artery occlusion - color-coded duplex sonography and magnetic resonance angiography findings."}
{"id": "16619844", "title": "[Headache and neck pain as only manifestations of spontaneous of the dissecting aneurysm vertebral artery--a case report].", "content": "[Headache and neck pain as only manifestations of spontaneous of the dissecting aneurysm vertebral artery--a case report]. A 57-year-old woman had noticed occipital headache and neck pain bilaterally 6 weeks before admission. The headache and neck pain persisted for 3 weeks, then disappeared. Cranial magnetic resonance (MR) image obtained 4 weeks after the onset demonstrated intramural hematoma adjacent to intracranial left vertebral artery. MR image did not show any abnormal lesions in the brain parenchyma. Although cranial MR angiography did not show any definite aneurysms, three-dimensional CT angiography (3D-CTA) obtained 6 weeks after the onset disclosed an aneurysm of the left vertebral artery. The vessel distal to the aneurysm was occluded. Because the left posterior inferior cerebellar artery originated from the aneurysm, we did not perform embolization using coils. Spontaneous dissecting aneurysm of the left vertebral artery was diagnosed based on the clinical, MR image, and 3D-CTA findings. The systolic blood pressure was maintained under 130 mmHg using antihypertensive agents. Thereafter, 3D-CTA obtained 6 months after the onset showed recanalization of the occluded vessel distal to the aneurysm. The size of the aneurysm was unchanged. During these 6 months, there were no ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke events. In the present patient, headache and neck pain were the only manifestations of spontaneous dissection of the vertebral artery."}
{"id": "16612477", "title": "Renal and extrarenal manifestations of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.", "content": "Renal and extrarenal manifestations of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. The objective of the present study was to determine the frequency of the most common clinical features in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease in a sample of the Brazilian population. The medical records of 92 patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease attended during the period from 1985 to 2003 were reviewed. The following data were recorded: age at diagnosis, gender, associated clinical manifestations, occurrence of stroke, age at loss of renal function (beginning of dialysis), and presence of a family history. The involvement of abdominal viscera was investigated by ultrasonography. Intracranial alterations were prospectively investigated by magnetic resonance angiography in 42 asymptomatic patients, and complemented with digital subtraction arteriography when indicated. Mean age at diagnosis was 35.1 +/- 14.9 years, and mean serum creatinine at referral was 2.4 +/- 2.8 mg/dL. The most frequent clinical manifestations during the disease were arterial hypertension (63.3%), lumbar pain (55.4%), an abdominal mass (47.8%), and urinary infection (35.8%). Loss of renal function occurred in 27 patients (mean age: 45.4 +/- 9.5 years). The liver was the second organ most frequently affected (39.1%). Stroke occurred in 7.6% of the patients. Asymptomatic intracranial aneurysm was detected in 3 patients and arachnoid cysts in 3 other patients. In conclusion, the most common clinical features were lumbar pain, arterial hypertension, abdominal mass, and urinary infection, and the most serious complications were chronic renal failure and stroke. Both intracranial aneurysms and arachnoid cysts occurred in asymptomatic patients at a frequency of 7.14%."}
{"id": "16611772", "title": "Intracranial time-resolved contrast-enhanced MR angiography at 3T.", "content": "Intracranial time-resolved contrast-enhanced MR angiography at 3T. A method is presented for high-temporal-resolution MR angiography (MRA) using a combination of undersampling strategies and a high-field (3T) scanner. Currently, the evaluation of cerebrovascular disorders involving arteriovenous shunting or retrograde flow is accomplished with conventional radiographic digital subtraction angiography, because of its high spatial and temporal resolutions. Multiphase MRA could potentially provide the same diagnostic information noninvasively, though this is technically challenging because of the inherent trade-off between signal intensity-to-noise ratio (S/N), spatial resolution, and temporal resolution in MR imaging. Numerical simulations addressed the choice of imaging parameters at 3T to maximize S/N and the data acquisition rate while staying within specific absorption rate limits. The increase in S/N at 3T was verified in vivo. An imaging protocol was developed with S/N, spatial resolution, and temporal resolution suitable for intracranial angiography. Partial Fourier imaging, parallel imaging, and the time-resolved echo-shared acquisition technique (TREAT) were all used to achieve sufficient undersampling. In 40 volunteers and 10 patients exhibiting arteriovenous malformations or fistulas, intracranial time-resolved contrast-enhanced MRA with high acceleration at high field produced diagnostic-quality images suitable for assessment of pathologies involving arteriovenous shunting or retrograde flow. The technique provided spatial resolution of 1.1 x 1.1 x 2.5 mm and temporal resolution of 2.5 seconds/frame. The combination of several acceleration methods, each with modest acceleration, can provide a high overall acceleration without the artifacts of any one technique becoming too pronounced. By taking advantage of the increased S/N provided by 3T magnets over conventional 1.5T magnets and converting this additional S/N into higher temporal resolution through acceleration strategies, intracranial time-resolved MRA becomes feasible."}
{"id": "16607535", "title": "Atlanto-axial rotatory fixation caused by spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage in a child.", "content": "Atlanto-axial rotatory fixation caused by spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage in a child. Atlanto-axial rotatory fixation is rare in children and usually associated with upper respiratory tract infection or trauma. We present a patient who developed the condition acutely as a consequence of rapidly evolving hemiplegia secondary to intracerebral haemorrhage. A previously well 12-year-old boy suddenly developed left hemiparesis within 30 min. Soon after, he developed painful torticollis. On examination, a dense left hemiplegia was associated with left facial and hypoglossal weakness. On computerised tomography (CT) scan there was an intracerebral haemorrhage in the deep aspect of the right frontal lobe in the corona radiata, with extension in the ventricular system. The plain radiographs of the cervical spine, and CT scan later, confirmed the presence of C1-C2 rotatory subluxation. The haematoma was aspirated stereotactically through a burr hole, and at the same session, the subluxation was reduced by manipulation and traction of the cervical spine. The patient was treated with a hard collar. The torticollis did not recur. The hemiparesis resolved within 6 months. A subsequent magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance angiography scan indicated possible arterio-venous malformation (AVM) at the site of the haemorrhage, which was confirmed with digital subtraction angiography. The AVM was surgically excised 1 year from the original haemorrhage. In the absence of any other predisposing factor, it is postulated that the acute atlanto-axial rotatory subluxation was secondary to the acute loss of muscular tone due to the acute hemiparesis. This explains that the subluxation has not recurred a year after, while the hemiparesis has completely resolved."}
{"id": "16575630", "title": "[Transient ischemic attack: the only presenting syndrome of dural sinus thrombosis].", "content": "[Transient ischemic attack: the only presenting syndrome of dural sinus thrombosis]. Intracranial hypertension (ICHT) is the most frequent presenting syndrome of dural vein sinus thrombosis (CVT). A transient ischemic attack as an acute mode of onset is exceptional. A right handed, forty years old man with a medical history of recurrent headaches, microcephalia and calcifications in his brain, presenting to the emergency department with left paresis that lasted a few minutes and with a complete recovery. The cerebral and neck magnetic resonance (MR) including MR angiography showed superior sagittal sinus, both transverse sinuses and right sigmoid sinus thrombosis with an increase in size of superficial cerebral venous that drained to the left sigmoid sinus. There was no evidence of intracranial dural malformations. The cerebral MR did not show any abnormal parenchymal enhancement (edema, arterial or venous infarctions, hemorrhage) including diffusion-weighted IMR. The digital subtraction angiography (ADC) confirmed the same findings as the MR angiography. The diagnosis was a chronic CVT. We studied stroke in a young adult and we did not find other irregularities. The neurological examination was normal when the patient left the hospital with an antiplatelet drug. Focal neurological deficit is an exceptional event of a chronic vein sinus thrombosis during follow-up. Isolated cases regarding an acute time course have been described. The interest of this case lies in the fact that venous sinus thrombosis rarely has transitory focal deficit in its course and we found no such description as onset symptoms."}
{"id": "16565850", "title": "Familial occurrence of moyamoya disease: a clinical study.", "content": "Familial occurrence of moyamoya disease: a clinical study. We reviewed a consecutive series of moyamoya disease (MMD) in children and studied their familial pedigrees to determine whether they showed specific clinical features or patterns of inheritance, and to investigate any correlation between familial MMD and common Asian diseases. Cases of familial MMD (N=10) were reviewed in the aspect of clinical presentation, such as, symptoms and signs, age of onset, imaging studies including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cerebral angiography, and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and operative results including complications, to identify differences between these patients and those with sporadic MMD (N=194). The male to female ratio in those with familial MMD was 4:6 and mean age was 8 years (3-17). All were ischemic cases and five showed cerebral infarction on MRI. As a preliminary genetic study, familial pedigrees were examined. In addition, their familial histories concerning common Asian diseases, such as, hepatic disease, cancers, stroke, coronary heart disease, amyloidosis, and systemic lupus erythematosus, were investigated by telephone survey. The familial MMD cases did not reveal any differences from the other MMD children in terms of clinical findings, imaging data, or surgical results. In our series, five cases (50%) showed MMD between siblings. Familial MMD relations were also observed with cousins, a mother, and an aunt. No specific pattern of genetic inheritance was observed, and no relation was found between the familial occurrence of MMD and common Asian diseases."}
{"id": "16551434", "title": "Factors affecting rapid growth of unruptured cerebral aneurysms during the acute stage of subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Factors affecting rapid growth of unruptured cerebral aneurysms during the acute stage of subarachnoid hemorrhage. Several unruptured cerebral aneurysms have been reported to grow and rupture. To determine which factors affect the growth of these aneurysms during the acute stage of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), a retrospective review was performed. Between January 2000 and January 2003, 130 patients with angiographically proven ruptured cerebral aneurysms were treated at our institution. Of these patients, 32 also had simultaneous unruptured aneurysms, and the total number of the unruptured aneurysms was 40, including two neck remnants which had remained since the past clipping. Seventeen patients had 17 unruptured aneurysms and two neck remnants. The unruptured aneurysms were not treated during the acute stage of SAH but had received a complete short term follow-up. The rapid growth of one unruptured aneurysm and two neck remnants was confirmed by a second angiogram performed on average 40 days after the first angiogram. Several candidate factors responsible for the growth of aneurysm were selected, and the results of a statistical analysis indicate that a systolic blood pressure above 200 mmHg during the acute stage of SAH and vasospasm, confirmed by transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) or neurological examination, and neck remnants, are risk factors that affect the growth. Short term follow-up angiography is thus important for patients with untreated unruptured cerebral aneurysms after the acute stage of SAH."}
{"id": "16546391", "title": "Spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage caused by extra-adrenal phaeochromocytoma.", "content": "Spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage caused by extra-adrenal phaeochromocytoma. We report an 18-year-old man who presented with a sudden onset of headache followed by left hemianopia. A brain CT scan showed intracerebral haemorrhage in the left frontoparietal area, but a cerebral angiogram and MRI revealed no vascular anomaly. The patient was managed conservatively and his headache and visual loss improved over time. Hypertension in the form of paroxysmal attacks led us to suspect phaeochromocytoma. Subsequently, the patient was diagnosed with an extra-adrenal phaeochromocytoma in the left para-aortic area following endocrinological evaluation, abdominal CT scan and (131)I-meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scintigraphy. The patient presented here illustrates the importance of a careful search for a remediable cause of hypertension in children and young adults with spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage."}
{"id": "16540331", "title": "Adult moyamoya disease in the asymptomatic Japanese population.", "content": "Adult moyamoya disease in the asymptomatic Japanese population. Moyamoya disease (MMD) is a spontaneous occlusive disease of the Willis circle. This study evaluated the presence of the radiological hallmarks of adult MMD on a \"brain check-up\" (BC) using MRI and MR angiography, in Japan. BC was offered to 11,402 healthy subjects (7570 men and 3832 women) between January 1997 and November 2003. The mean age of all subjects was 53.2 years (SD 11.1); the mean age of men was 53.2 years (SD 10.9) and women 53.2 years (SD 11.5). MMD was diagnosed according to the criteria of the Research Committee on Spontaneous Occlusion of the Circle of Willis in Japan. Eight subjects (4 men and 4 women) were diagnosed as probable MMD without neurological deficits. Thus, the percentage of subjects with asymptomatic MMD on BC was 0.07% for the total group, 0.05% in men and 0.10% in women. The female to male ratio was 3.3:1. The mean age of the MMD patients was 54.0 years (SD 12.0); men 54.8 years (SD 12.8) and women 53.3 years (SD 13.9). Estimates of the prevalence of MMD in the Japanese population were calculated as 50.7 per 100,000 people; 28.9 in men and 94.3 in women. Five patients had a family history of definite MMD and seven had a family history of subarachnoid or intracerebral hemorrhage. MRI and angiography showed stenosis of the bilateral internal carotid arteries (ICA) in five patients and a unilateral ICA in three. Moyamoya vessels were confirmed on cerebral angiography. Our standard BC protocol is limited for the detection of moyamoya vessels in the initial stages of MMD. The present study suggests that the radiological features of MMD are asymptomatic in the early stages of the disease."}
{"id": "16532336", "title": "Time-resolved 3D contrast-enhanced MRA with GRAPPA on a 1.5-T system for imaging of craniocervical vascular disease: initial experience.", "content": "Time-resolved 3D contrast-enhanced MRA with GRAPPA on a 1.5-T system for imaging of craniocervical vascular disease: initial experience. For three-dimensional (3D) imaging with magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the cerebral and cervical circulation, both a high temporal and a high spatial resolution with isovolumetric datasets are of interest. In an initial evaluation, we analyzed the potential of contrast-enhanced (CE) time-resolved 3D-MRA as an adjunct for neurovascular MR imaging. In ten patients with various cerebrovascular disorders and vascularized tumors in the cervical circulation, high-speed MR acquisition using parallel imaging with the GeneRalized Autocalibrating Partially Parallel Acquisitions (GRAPPA) algorithm on a 1.5-T system with a temporal resolution of 1.5 s per dataset and a nearly isovolumetric spatial resolution was applied. The results were assessed and compared with those from conventional MRA and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). CE time-resolved 3D-MRA enabled the visualization and characterization of high-flow arteriovenous shunts in cases of vascular malformations or hypervascularized tumors. In steno-occlusive disease, the method provided valuable additional information about altered vessel perfusion compared to standard MRA techniques such as time-of-flight (TOF) MRA. The use of a nearly isovolumetric voxel size allowed a free-form interrogation of 3D datasets. Its comparatively low spatial resolution was found to be the major limitation. In this preliminary analysis, CE time-resolved 3D-MRA was revealed to be a promising complementary MRA sequence that enabled the visualization of contrast flow dynamics in various types of neurovascular disorders and vascularized cervical tumors."}
{"id": "16532132", "title": "Congenital and genetic cerebrovascular anomalies as risk factors for stroke in Saudi children.", "content": "Congenital and genetic cerebrovascular anomalies as risk factors for stroke in Saudi children. To explore the role of and report on congenital and genetic cerebrovascular anomalies as risk factors for stroke in a prospective and retrospective cohort of Saudi children. Children with stroke were evaluated at the Division of Pediatric Neurology (DPN), or were seen as inpatients in the Pediatric Wards at King Khalid University Hospital (KKUH), Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia during the periods July 1992 to February 2001 (retrospective study) and February 2001 to March 2003 (prospective study). Stroke work-up for each suspected case included hemostatic assays, serological, biochemical and neurophysiological tests. Neuroimaging modalities included routine skull x-rays, CT, MRI, magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and conventional cerebral angiography. Of 104 children with stroke, congenital and genetic cerebrovascular anomalies were the underlying risk factor in 7 (6.7%). The patients were evaluated at the DPN at a mean age of 66 months (range = 8 months to 11 years, median = 6 years); and they had stroke at a mean age of 48 months (range = 2 months to 10 years, median = 8 months). Four patients had stroke in association with neurocutaneous syndromes. Two had Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS), one had Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome associated with SWS, and the fourth had neurofibromatosis type 1. Two patients had intracranial hemorrhage secondary to ruptured aneurysm. A girl (aged 9 years and 4 months) had left posterior cerebral artery aneurysm. She was diagnosed to have autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease following renal ultrasonography. She died 5 months later despite surgical intervention (clipping of aneurysm). The second child was an 8-month-old boy who presented with subarachnoid and intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) following ruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysm. He recovered with no residual symptoms following successful clipping of the aneurysm. Arteriovenous malformation (AVM) caused IVH in a 7-year-old boy who reported to hospital 5 hours after onset of headache, vomiting, drowsiness, and dizziness. Following drainage of the IVH and stabilization of the patient, the AVM was successfully embolized 6 weeks later. As a group, congenital and genetic cerebrovascular anomalies constitute a significant risk factor for stroke in Saudi children. Recognition of these diseases is important since some are treatable and because other family members may be at risk."}
{"id": "16531206", "title": "Uncommon presentation of pediatric ruptured intracranial aneurysm after radiotherapy for retinoblastoma. Case report.", "content": "Uncommon presentation of pediatric ruptured intracranial aneurysm after radiotherapy for retinoblastoma. Case report. Radiation-induced intracranial aneurysms are a rare entity with high mortality. Their pathogenesis is still in debate. Their unique anatomy and behavior should be considered when deciding the proper management. A background of radiation, uncommon anatomic aspects, age of presentation, and location guide us to suspect a radiation-induced etiology. We report the case of a pediatric patient with a ruptured intracranial aneurysm, who previously received radiation therapy to the orbits. We aim to contribute to the literature of this uncommon condition and stress the importance of its prompt diagnosis and treatment. A 12-year-old boy, who received radiation therapy for recurrent bilateral retinoblastomas at age 4 months, suddenly developed severe headache associated with nausea and vomiting. A computed tomography scan revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage. A 4-vessel cerebral angiogram revealed a 2-mm aneurysm in the right A1 segment. The aneurysm was clipped successfully with excellent outcome. After 3 years of follow-up, the patient remains neurologically intact and asymptomatic. A new computed tomography angiogram revealed no new aneurysms. Vascular abnormalities develop after radiation injury to the brain. Aneurysm formation after radiation therapy has been previously reported, probably secondary to endothelial injury. In this case, early presentation, unusual anatomy, location, and small size at rupture, in contrast with saccular aneurysms, suggest a radiation-induced etiology."}
{"id": "16528129", "title": "Experience of treatment of moyamoya disease at the Clinic of Neurosurgery of Kaunas University of Medicine.", "content": "Experience of treatment of moyamoya disease at the Clinic of Neurosurgery of Kaunas University of Medicine. Moyamoya disease was first described in Japan and represents characteristic appearance on cerebral angiography an abnormal network (\"puff of smoke\") of collaterals around stenotic arteries. This disease is characterized by progressive intracranial vascular obliterations of the circle of Willis, resulting in successive ischemic or hemorrhagic events. Moyamoya disease primarily occurs among orient people (Japanese, Koreans, Caucasians) and is very rare in Lithuania. To evaluate long-term effectiveness of cerebral revascularization in order to prevent cerebral ischemic and hemorrhagic events in patients with moyamoya disease. Since 1995, 14 patients with moyamoya disease have been treated at the Clinic of Neurosurgery of Kaunas University of Medicine. All patients underwent neurological examination, computed tomography or/and magnetic resonance imaging, transcranial Doppler sonography, single photon emission computed tomography and four vessels cerebral angiography investigations. The diagnosis of moyamoya disease was confirmed by cerebral angiography. Cerebral ischemia was observed in 7 cases and cerebral hemorrhage was detected in the other 7 moyamoya disease patients. Neurological disability was evaluated using the Scandinavian Stroke Scale, and performance in the active daily life using the Barthel Index. The degree of handicap was assessed with the Rankin Scale. Different surgical procedures (superficial temporal artery to middle cerebral artery anastomosis, encephalosynangiosis, bifrontal free omental flap) were applied for cerebral revascularization of moyamoya disease patients. The diagnosis of moyamoya disease was confirmed by cerebral angiography in all our patients. Ten patients were selected for surgical brain revascularization. The main criterion for selection of patients for surgery was hypoperfusion of the brain on single photon emission computed tomography. During follow-up period (mean follow-up period was 36 months) there were no rebleeding or ischemic events in both surgical groups. Cerebral angiography is the main diagnostic procedure which confirms the diagnosis of moyamoya disease. Cerebral hypoperfusion on single photon emission computed tomography is the main criterion for selection of patients for cerebral revascularization. Extra-intracranial anastomosis is an effective procedure for preventing both ischemic and hemorrhagic events in moyamoya patients."}
{"id": "16500538", "title": "Computed tomography angiography in detection and characterization of ruptured anterior cerebral artery aneurysms at uncommon location for emergent surgical clipping.", "content": "Computed tomography angiography in detection and characterization of ruptured anterior cerebral artery aneurysms at uncommon location for emergent surgical clipping. Cerebral subarachnoid hemorrhage may result from rupture of saccular aneurysms at uncommon location [excluding the anterior communicating artery (ACOM)] of the anterior cerebral artery (ACA). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of helical computed tomography angiography (CTA) in detection and characterization of intracranial aneurysms at such uncommon locations before emergent surgical clipping. Between 1998 and 2003, records for 50 consecutive patients who underwent emergent surgical clipping for intracranial aneurysms were reviewed. Eighteen of these patients had aneurysms in the ACA. After those patients with unequivocal ACOM aneurysms were excluded, eight patients with eight aneurysms in an uncommon location of the ACA were recruited to this study. Plain computed tomography (CT) and CTA were performed in eight patients, and digital subtraction angiographies were done in three patients. Each aneurysm was evaluated for the detection, quantification, and characterization of the aneurysms with 2D multiplanar reformatted and 3D volume-rendering techniques. There were two small aneurysms arising from the A1 segment, one from the A2 segment, two at the junction of triplicated ACAs, two at the junction of A2 and A3 segments, and one at the junction of A2 and A3 segments of the azygos ACA. The average diameter of the aneurysmal sac was 4.44 mm (range, 2.7-7.0 mm), and the aneurysmal neck averaged 2.59 mm (range, 1.2-3.5 mm) in size. The smallest aneurysm measured 2.2x1.8x2.7 mm (neck, 1.2 mm) in the A1 segment of the left ACA. Three patients had intracerebral hematoma, seven had intraventricular hemorrhage, and three had acute hydrocephalus. Aneurysms in uncommon locations of ACAs exhibited characteristic features. Rupture of these aneurysms can cause intracerebral hematoma, intraventricular hemorrhage, and/or acute hydrocephalus. Noninvasive CTA can reliably detect and characterize intracranial aneurysms at such uncommon location for planning of emergent surgical intervention."}
{"id": "16489468", "title": "MR imaging of recent non-traumatic intracranial hemorrhage: early experience at 3 T.", "content": "MR imaging of recent non-traumatic intracranial hemorrhage: early experience at 3 T. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using 3.0 T scanners in the clinical environment is in its infancy and is only available at a limited number of sites worldwide. There is great interest amongst radiologists about the perceived benefits of clinical imaging at 3.0 T; however, it remains to be seen whether the theoretical advantages will bring real gains. MRI in patients with non-traumatic intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) is difficult, yet, these patients benefit from non-invasive angiography. Conventional catheter angiography (CCA) remains the reference standard for excluding/confirming the presence of intracranial vascular abnormalities, but MR angiography at 3.0 T may offer opportunities for significant changes in patient management. We present our experiences of using 3.0 T MR angiography in 27 patients with acute or early subacute ICH."}
{"id": "16484413", "title": "Multidetector-row CT angiography of cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: comparison of volume-rendered images and digital subtraction angiography.", "content": "Multidetector-row CT angiography of cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: comparison of volume-rendered images and digital subtraction angiography. Cerebral vasospasm remains a major problem in patients recovering after surgical treatment of cerebral aneurysms. The purpose of this study was to evaluate cerebral vasospasm at multidetector-row spiral CT angiography (MDCTA) compared with digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhages (SAHs). Seventeen patients suspected of having vasospasm on clinical findings underwent both postoperative MDCTA and DSA. MDCTA was analyzed by using volume-rendered images as well as axial images. A total of 251 arterial segments were analyzed for vasospasm by using a 5-point grading system. The MDCTA results were then compared with findings on the corresponding DSA images. Sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of MDCTA for detection of hemodynamically significant spasms were also calculated, with findings at DSA used as the reference standard. On DSA, 74 spasmatic segments were found among the 251 segments evaluated, and 40 segments with hemodynamically significant vasospasms were present. The overall agreement between MDCTA and DSA was 95.2%. We had 12 (4.8%) cases of disagreement between MDCTA and DSA. In 11 segments, the degree of stenosis was overestimated at MDCTA. Overall accuracy, sensitivity and specificity of MDCTA in the detection of hemodynamically significant vasospasm were 97.5%, 98.1%, and 98.0%, respectively, with positive and negative predictive values of 90.7% and 99.5%. MDCTA appears to be a reliable alternative imaging technique to DSA in the assessment of patients with cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal SAH."}
{"id": "16483279", "title": "Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging of spontaneous venous infarction and cortical hemorrhage complicating dural arteriovenous fistula.", "content": "Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging of spontaneous venous infarction and cortical hemorrhage complicating dural arteriovenous fistula. Dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) is an abnormal arteriovenous shunt that occurs in the dura matter within or near a dural sinus. The clinical manifestations vary. The authors report herein a rare case of type III DAVF presenting with coexisting intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) and venous infarction evidenced by computed tomography (CT) and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. Conventional angiography proved that the right middle meningeal artery and the occipital artery supplied the DAVF, with direct drainage into the cortical veins and superior sagittal sinus."}
{"id": "16469956", "title": "Looking beyond the lumen to predict cerebrovascular events: \"the road less travelled by\".", "content": "Looking beyond the lumen to predict cerebrovascular events: \"the road less travelled by\"."}
{"id": "16450385", "title": "Evolution of cerebral arteriopathies in childhood arterial ischemic stroke.", "content": "Evolution of cerebral arteriopathies in childhood arterial ischemic stroke. To investigate evolution of cerebral arteriopathy in children with arterial ischemic stroke (AIS) and its influence on recurrence. Arteriopathy severity was graded on serial magnetic resonance angiograms from 50 children with first AIS; diagnostic categories were assigned. Arteriopathy affected 72 arteries in 43 of 50 children. Five had clinical recurrence, with reinfarction in four; another had clinically silent reinfarction. Twelve children (24%; 4 with recurrence) had progressive arteriopathy. Arteriopathy improved in 24 patients (including 1 with recurrent transient ischemic attacks) and was stable in 7 patients. Magnetic resonance angiograms remained normal in seven patients; one had recurrent stroke. Diagnoses were transient cerebral arteriopathy (n = 24), chronic cerebral arteriopathy (n = 11), arterial dissection (n = 3), possible moyamoya (n = 2), primary moyamoya (n = 1), dysplastic arteriopathy (n = 1), and cerebral vasculitis (n = 1). Some of the first two categories could represent thromboembolic arterial occlusion with recanalization. The hazard of recurrence was three times higher when arterial disease had progressed (Cox regression hazard ratio, 3.2; 95% confidence intervals, 0.5-20.3; p = 0.22). After adjustment for age and number of AIS risk factors, the hazard ratio was 3.1 (95% confidence interval, 0.4-22.2; p = 0.27). Arteriopathy frequently progresses after childhood AIS. Further studies are needed to examine the relationship between progressive arteriopathy and recurrence."}
{"id": "16444445", "title": "Middle cerebral arterial thrombosis in a patient with hypofibrinogenemia, 5 days after rFVIIa and FFP infusion.", "content": "Middle cerebral arterial thrombosis in a patient with hypofibrinogenemia, 5 days after rFVIIa and FFP infusion. A 13-year-old female patient is presented who had hypofibrinogenemia diagnosed as von Willebrand disease at 5 years of age at another hospital. She was admitted to the department of pediatric hematology with a severe headache, vomiting, and progressive right flaccid hemiplegia and lethargy. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography scan showed subdural hematoma in posterior parietal region of the brain and impending cerebellar herniation. She was given fresh-frozen plasma (FFP) and then activated factor VII (rFVIIa), 80 microg/kg was infused for replacement of von Willebrand factor. The subdural hematoma was emergently drained. The results of coagulation tests before infusion of FFP and rFVIIa revealed hypofibrinogenemia, and FFP was given every 48 hours. The patient recovered dramatically in a few days. Five days after rFVIIa infusion, a magnetic resonance angiography-proven right middle cerebral arterial thrombosis developed. It is an interesting point of discussion whether the middle cerebral arterial thrombosis was provoked as a consequence of rFVIIa and FFP infusion."}
{"id": "16415201", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and haematological profile in adult cyanotic congenital heart disease without stroke.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and haematological profile in adult cyanotic congenital heart disease without stroke."}
{"id": "16385098", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography of cerebral arteries after neonatal venoarterial and venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography of cerebral arteries after neonatal venoarterial and venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. In newborns with severe respiratory failure, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) has been proven to improve survival. With venoarterial ECMO, the right common carotid artery is ligated, whereas with venovenous ECMO, this carotid artery remains intact. The authors present the magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) evaluation of cerebral hemodynamics in a case of venoarterial and a case of venovenous ECMO. With 2D phase-contrast MRA flow volume (mL/min), measurements are obtained of the brain feeding arteries and draining veins. Time-of-flight and flow-directional MRA are used to demonstrate the anatomy and flow patterns at the level of the circle of Willis. A total volume flow of 63 mL/min at the skull base and collateral flow via the anterior circle of Willis were measured in the infant after venoarterial ECMO, and a total volume flow of 86 mL/min and a fetal type configuration of the circle of Willis were observed in the infant after venovenous ECMO. MRA is a useful technique to quantify cerebral blood flow in neonates after venoarterial or venovenous ECMO and could be used to select neonates with insufficient collateral compensation after venoarterial ECMO, requiring revascularization surgery."}
{"id": "16373650", "title": "Accuracy of color duplex ultrasound diagnosis of spontaneous carotid dissection causing ischemia.", "content": "Accuracy of color duplex ultrasound diagnosis of spontaneous carotid dissection causing ischemia. Spontaneous dissection of the cervical internal carotid artery (sICAD) is mainly assessed with MRI and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), which are not always at hand. In contrast, color duplex sonography (CDS) is readily available. We undertook this prospective study to examine the accuracy of CDS to diagnose sICAD in patients with first carotid territory ischemia. Consecutive patients with first carotid territory stroke or transient ischemic attack or retinal ischemia underwent clinical and laboratory examinations, ECG, CDS of the cerebral arteries, cranial computed tomography in case of stroke or transient ischemic attack, and echocardiography and 24-hour ECG in selected cases. Patients were included, if they were <65 years of age, CDS showed a probable sICAD (cervical internal carotid artery stenosed or occluded), or had no determined etiology of ischemia. All of the included patients underwent cervical MRI and MRA+/-cerebral catheter angiography. The sonographer was blinded to the results of MRI and angiography studies. We included 177 of 1652 screened patients. Excluded patients (n=1475) were > or =65 years old (n=818), had another determined cause of ischemia (n=1475), and had intracranial hemorrhage (n=58). CDS diagnosed sICAD in 77 of 177 patients, and the etiology of ischemia was undetermined in the remaining 100 patients. Cervical MRI and angiography showed 74 sICAD; there were 6 falsely positive and 3 falsely negative CDS findings. Thus, sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values for CDS diagnosis of patients with sICAD causing carotid territory ischemia was 96%, 94%, 92%, and 97%, respectively. Color duplex ultrasound allows the reliable exclusion of sICAD in patients with carotid territory ischemia, whereas diagnosis of CDS of sICAD must be confirmed with cervical MRI and MRA."}
{"id": "16267665", "title": "Clinical evaluation of bone-subtraction CT angiography (BSCTA) in head and neck imaging.", "content": "Clinical evaluation of bone-subtraction CT angiography (BSCTA) in head and neck imaging. Fifty-one patients were examined with bone subtraction CT angiography (BSCTA). Data were acquired on 4-and 64-slice spiral CT systems. The post-processing method is based on fully automatic registration of non-enhanced and contrast-enhanced CT data and subsequent selective bone removal. Vascular structures and brain tissue are retained with the original CTA noise level. Image quality and delineation of the pathologic process were assessed and artifacts introduced by the bone removal process recorded. The bone subtraction algorithm worked successfully in all examinations. The processing time was 6 min on average. Image quality was rated excellent in 20 (39%), good in 26 (51%) and acceptable in 5 (10%) patients. Ophthalmic arteries were visible in 12 (24%) patients bilaterally, in 13 (25%) patients unilaterally and in 26 (51%) patients at least at the origin. BSCTA improved visualization of the infraclinoid ICA and the vertebral arteries. The depiction of stenosis of the extracranial ICA and supraclinoid aneurysms was not significantly improved. In patients with suspicion of sinus thrombosis, BSCTA and conventional CTA yielded similar results. To conclude, BSCTA improves the visualization of vessels with close contact to bone and can improve the diagnostic accuracy and therapy planning of infraclinoid aneurysms."}
{"id": "16133271", "title": "Giant pseudoaneurysm in adolescent.", "content": "Giant pseudoaneurysm in adolescent. Intracranial pseudoaneurysms, infrequent vascular lesion in children and adolescents, are characterized by the presence of organizing hematoma and fibrosis outside the true lumen instead of normal vascular elements. Because most pseudoaneurysms result from eminent insults such as major trauma or grave infection, development without preceding incident is extremely rare. Giant pseudoaneurysms in younger population, albeit unexceptionally unusual, are symptomatic in most instances and exhibit very high risk of rupture. Clinical manifestation as chronic headache without hemorrhage or neural compression is very unlikely. Once identified, only prompt surgical treatment guarantees favorable prognosis. We report a case of a 17-year-old boy with a giant pseudoaneurysm arising at distal middle cerebral artery. He complained of headache that had become apparent 3 years ago and medically intractable 3 months ago. Brain computed tomographic scan and lumbar cerebrospinal spinal fluid study revealed no trace of recent hemorrhage. However, digital subtraction angiography revealed a huge aneurysmal dilatation along the right distal middle cerebral artery with the features of delayed filling and emptying of contrast agent. Surgical obliteration of the corresponding aneurysm with tandem clipping and aneurysmectomy made him free of headache postoperatively. We could not uncover the actual cause of formation and precise mechanism of clinical presentation for this unique aneurysm; nevertheless, we suggest that blunt head injury of fairly long history caused such a lesion, and repeated minute bleeding elicited headache. This assumption was possible only after full consideration of the histopathology."}
{"id": "15915365", "title": "Traumatic cerebral aneurysm formation following ventriculoperitoneal shunt insertion.", "content": "Traumatic cerebral aneurysm formation following ventriculoperitoneal shunt insertion. Iatrogenic intracranial aneurysms are rare in children. A 15-year-old girl presented in coma with a fixed dilated left pupil six weeks following removal of a long-standing left-sided ventriculoperitoneal shunt. Computed tomography (CT) and cerebral angiography revealed a left temporoparietal intracerebral haemorrhage with a fusiform distal middle cerebral artery aneurysm. The patient underwent image-guided localisation of the aneurysm to enable evacuation of the haemorrhage and resection of the fusiform aneurysm. A high index of suspicion is required for diagnosis and early treatment to prevent unnecessary morbidity and mortality."}
{"id": "18637225", "title": "Contrast-enhanced MRA of intracranial vessels.", "content": "Contrast-enhanced MRA of intracranial vessels. Despite the possibility of performing high quality and diagnostically useful examination of the intracranial vasculature using time-of-fight (TOF) and phase contrast (PC) MR angiography, there are still some intrinsic technical problems that limit the application of these techniques. Many of these problems, particulary those related to flow effects, can be avoided by the use of a suitable contrast agent. To avoid the problem of super-imposition of veins, ultrafast gradient echo MRA techniques with very short TR and TE have been developed. Although the precise sequence parameters vary between different manufacturers, they are similar. The choice between a time resolved or high spatial resolution CE-MRA technique is dependent upon the precise clinical application. The most common applications include the study of cerebral aneurysms, arterio-venous malformations, dural arterio-venous fistulas and venous diseases."}
{"id": "17290111", "title": "Traumatic cervical artery dissection.", "content": "Traumatic cervical artery dissection. Traumatic cervical artery dissection (TCAD) is a complication of severe blunt head or neck trauma, the main cause being motor vehicle accidents. TCAD are increasingly recognized, and incidences of up to 0.86% for internal carotid and 0.53% for traumatic vertebral artery dissections (TVAD) among blunt trauma victims are reported. Diagnostic evaluation for TCAD is mandatory in the presence of (1) hemorrhage of potential arterial origin originating from the nose, ears, mouth, or a wound; (2) expanding cervical hematoma; (3) cervical bruit in a patient >50 years of age; (4) evidence of acute infarct at brain imaging; (5) unexplained central or lateralizing neurological deficit or transient ischemic attack, or (6) Horner syndrome, neck or head pain. In addition, a number of centers screen asymptomatic patients with blunt trauma for TCAD. Catheter angiography is the standard of reference for diagnosis of TCAD. Color duplex ultrasound, computed tomographic, and magnetic resonance angiography are noninvasive screening alternatives, but each method has its diagnostic limitations compared to catheter angiography. Anticoagulants and antiplatelet drugs may prevent ischemic stroke, but bleeding from traumatized tissues may offset the benefits of antithrombotic treatment. Endovascular therapy of dissected vessels, thrombarterectomy, direct suture of intimal tears, and extracranial-intracranial bypass should be considered in exceptional cases. Neurological outcome is probably worse in TCAD compared to spontaneous CAD, although it is unclear whether this is due to dissection-induced ischemic stroke or associated traumatic lesions."}
{"id": "16594466", "title": "[Cavernous angiomas in the Department of Neurosurgery in Katowice].", "content": "[Cavernous angiomas in the Department of Neurosurgery in Katowice]. 166 patients with arterio-venous malformations (AVM) were treated in the Department of Neurosurgery at Silesian School of Medicine from 1987 to 2002. There were 30 (18%) patients diagnosed as cavernous angioma (CA). The oldest treated patient was 73 years old and the youngest one was 5 years old. 16 (55%) male and 14 (45%) female were examined and the results of this examination are presented below. The location of CA was as follows: supratentorially--19 patients (64%), infratentorially--6 patients (20%), extracranially--5 patients (16%). During the admission the clinical status of patients were evaluated according to Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) and Hunt-Hess scale (H-H). Epilepsy occurred in 5 patients (16%), neurological focal deficits--14 (45%), intracranial hemorrhage--7 (23%). All patients were examined using CT (computer tomography) scan, cerebral angiography was carried out in 15 (50%) patients and MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) in 16 (55%). All patients were operated on in our medical centre. The results of treatment were presented according to Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS)."}
{"id": "16455528", "title": "Ruptured aneurysm at the choroidal branch of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery: a case report, review of the literature and proposed pathogenesis.", "content": "Ruptured aneurysm at the choroidal branch of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery: a case report, review of the literature and proposed pathogenesis. Aneurysms rarely occur at the choroidal branch of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) and their pathogenesis is not well understood. We report such a case and review the literature. A 69-year-old female was admitted for a sudden onset of severe headache with nausea and vomiting. Soon after arrival, she became less responsive. CT of the head revealed an intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH) predominantly in the fourth and third ventricles without subarachnoid hemorrhage and associated with hydrocephalus. Cerebral angiography demonstrated an aneurysm at the choroidal branch of the PICA. The aneurysm was resected through a bilateral suboccipital craniotomy. The patient made a remarkable recovery. The literature describes five other cases of aneurysms arising from a choroidal branch of the PICA. Hypertension was a common finding in this population. In summary, aneurysms arising from a choroidal branch of the PICA are rare. Hypertensive vessel damage might be a major factor in their pathogenesis. We propose that the rupture of a hypertensive aneurysm might account for some isolated spontaneous IVH."}
{"id": "16455527", "title": "Painful third nerve palsy in a patient with perimesencephalic subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "Painful third nerve palsy in a patient with perimesencephalic subarachnoid haemorrhage. A patient with perimesencephalic subarachnoid haemorrhage (PMSAH) developed a delayed third nerve palsy. Three formal cerebral angiograms, a computed tomography cerebral angiogram and a magnetic resonance angiogram all failed to reveal a vascular abnormality. Further investigations did not show any medical cause for the palsy. This appears to be the first case report of a patient with PMSAH presenting with a painful third nerve palsy."}
{"id": "16447742", "title": "[Cerebral arterial dissection].", "content": "[Cerebral arterial dissection]. We investigated a total of 98 cases with stroke caused by cerebral arterial dissection recruited in Strategies against Stroke Study for Young Adults in Japan (SASSY-Japan). The most frequent site of dissection was the intracranial vertebrobasilar artery. The stroke subtype was divided into ischemic (TIA and cerebral infarction) and hemorrhagic types (subarachnoid hemorrhage). The ischemic type was predominant (69%) and patients with the ischemic type were younger than those with the hemorrhagic type (P < 0.01). In the intracranial arterial dissection, nearly all cases were of the ischemic type. In contrast, in the extracranial arterial dissection, 60% of cases were ischemic and 40% were hemorrhagic. Cerebral angiography was the most important diagnostic procedure in the hemorrhagic type. In the ischemic type, MRI and MRA were more frequently used to show the findings specific to the dissection such as an intimal flap or double lumen and intramural hematoma. The outcome at discharge is generally good such that the modified Rankin Score was among 0-II in 69% of cases. However, in the hemorrhagic type, recurrence during an acute stage was frequent, and the outcome was poor with a mortalit rate of 19%. The establishment of an effective intervention to prevent the recurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage is urgently required."}
{"id": "16444306", "title": "Morphoclinical study of intracerebral haemorrhage with intraventricular extension.", "content": "Morphoclinical study of intracerebral haemorrhage with intraventricular extension. The study is an integrated assessment of clinical, image and morphological parameters in severe intracerebral haemorrhages (ICH) complicated with intraventricular extension (IVE). The studied group had 93 cases of patients with ICH and IVE who were hospitalized in the Emergency County Hospital of Craiova and died during hospitalization. The parameters evaluated were clinical (relation with the seasons, age, sex, arterial blood pressure, the motor deficit, degree of coma, Glasgow score at admission and medical care) and morphological (the sites of the intraparenchymal haematoma and IVE, the size of the intraparenchymal haematoma, the presence of the mass effect, perilesional oedema and subarachnoid effusion). The latter were assessed on CT films and during autopsy. The presence of IVE as a complication of ICH showed a predilection for cold seasons, especially autumn. From the 93 studied cases 51 were men and 42, women. 52.6% of the patients were in the fifth and sixth life decade. Almost 80% of the patients had IIIrd stage arterial hypertension at admission, over 80% motor deficits and almost 60% Glasgow scores lower than 6. The ventricular effusion involved at least one of the lateral ventricles. The hematomas had huge dimensions as compared to hosting encephalic structures, in lobar sites involving more than one lobe. Other risk factors as mass effect and perilesional oedema were constantly present. The association of IVE with other independent risk factors such as hypertension, low Glasgow scores volume of intraventricular bleeding, dimensions of haemorrhagic foci, presence of mass effect and perilesional oedema results in the death of patient despite any sustained therapeutic intervention."}
{"id": "16369802", "title": "Rapid vessel prototyping: vascular modeling using 3t magnetic resonance angiography and rapid prototyping technology.", "content": "Rapid vessel prototyping: vascular modeling using 3t magnetic resonance angiography and rapid prototyping technology. Conversion of thoracic aortic vasculature as measured by Magnetic Resonance Imaging into a real physical replica. Several procedural steps including data acquisition with contrast enhanced MR Angiography at 3T, data visualization and 3D computer model generation, as well as rapid prototyping were used to construct an in-vitro model of the vessel geometry. A rapid vessel prototyping process was implemented and used to convert complex vascular geometry of the entire thoracic aorta and major branching arteries into a real physical replica with large anatomical coverage and high spatial resolution. Rapid vessel prototyping permits the creation of a concrete solid replica of a patient's vascular anatomy."}
{"id": "16342911", "title": "Cerebral hyperperfusion in a patient with eclampsia with perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Cerebral hyperperfusion in a patient with eclampsia with perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. The patient was a 25-year-old Japanese woman with postpartum eclampsia, in whom magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed ten hours after convulsion. The patient improved within three days. Diffusion-weighted images showed a high apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC), and perfusion-weighted images obtained by the multi-slice flow-sensitive alternating inversion recovery (FAIR) method showed hyperperfusion, which was suggestive of vasogenic edema, on the parietal and occipital subcortical white matter, corresponding with transient hyperintensities on T2-weighted images. MR angiography (MRA) revealed no signs of vasospasm. These findings suggested hyperperfusion-induced vasogenic edema without cerebrovascular spastic change in the early stage of eclampsia. The FAIR method is considered a useful technique for perfusion-weighted MRI, especially useful to evaluate the cerebral perfusion of emergency patients such as those with eclampsia."}
{"id": "16340918", "title": "[Severe visual loss due to retinal artery occlusion associated with Susac's syndrome: a case report].", "content": "[Severe visual loss due to retinal artery occlusion associated with Susac's syndrome: a case report]. Susac's syndrome consists of the clinical triad of cerebral microangiopathy, branch retinal artery occlusions, and hearing loss. The pathogenesis of the disease remains unknown. The severity of retinal vasculopathy remains variable. A 57-year-old Caucasian woman presented in 1999 for the diagnostic and therapeutic management of a severe and complete form of the disease. Fluorescein angiography and cerebral MRI were contributive in this case and confirmed the diagnosis. A severe unilateral visual loss occurred one month after the initiation of systemic corticosteroids. Funduscopy disclosed a temporal retinal artery occlusion with major ischemia. Therefore, cyclophosphamide and anticoagulants were added to corticosteroids and total visual recovery was achieved within 2 weeks without any relapse after a follow-up period of 54 months. Therapeutic management of Susac's syndrome is still controversial. Major immunosuppressive regimens are mandatory in the face of severe visual loss associated with central or branch retinal artery occlusions. The final prognosis of the disease seems favorable in the absence of prolonged and symptomatic retinal ischemia."}
{"id": "16334846", "title": "First-line investigation of acute intracerebral hemorrhage using dynamic magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "First-line investigation of acute intracerebral hemorrhage using dynamic magnetic resonance angiography. To report the initial experience of magnetic resonance (MR) digital subtraction angiography (MR-DSA) in the dynamic assessment of the cerebral circulation in acute non-traumatic intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Twelve patients with acute ICH were investigated within 6 days of the ictus using a dynamic contrast-enhanced 2-D MR angiogram that produces subtracted images with a temporal resolution of 1-2 frame/s. The MR-DSA examinations were assessed for evidence of an intracranial vascular abnormality and were compared with (i) the routine MR sequences, (ii) non-dynamic time-of-flight MR angiography, and (iii) catheter angiogram performed during the same admission. All 12 MR-DSA examinations were considered to be technically satisfactory. MR-DSA detected an intracranial vascular abnormality in 7 patients (3 arteriovenous malformations, 2 aneurysms, 1 dural arteriovenous fistula, and 1 venous thrombosis). All abnormalities were confirmed by catheter angiography with the exception of one patient with venous sinus thrombosis found on MR imaging that did not undergo catheter angiography. All four arteriovenous shunts were detected by MR-DSA by virtue of early venous filling. MR-DSA can be performed satisfactorily in the setting of acute ICH and provides an alternative method to catheter angiography for identifying shunting vascular abnormalities such as arteriovenous malformations and fistulae, as well as large aneurysms and venous occlusions. MR-DSA is a contrast-medium-based technique that does not suffer from the T1 shortening effects of acute hemorrhage that can obscure abnormalities on conventional flow-based non-dynamic techniques."}
{"id": "16331160", "title": "Spontaneous spinal subarachnoid hemorrhage secondary to spinal aneurysms: diagnosis and treatment paradigm.", "content": "Spontaneous spinal subarachnoid hemorrhage secondary to spinal aneurysms: diagnosis and treatment paradigm. Isolated spinal aneurysms are rare; only a few have been reported. To the best of our knowledge, this series represents the largest experience with four ruptured spinal aneurysms, all of which were treated surgically. Clinical information from the hospital charts and diagnostic images of four patients with the diagnosis of spinal aneurysms were reviewed from the senior authors' (RFS, JMZ) office database, surgical reports, and radiological imaging database. Follow-up examinations were performed by phone interview, when possible, and by chart review. Between 1997 and 2004, four patients with ruptured spinal aneurysms underwent surgical treatment. All aneurysms were located within the spinal canal and manifested with spinal subarachnoid hemorrhage. No collagen disease, aortic coartaction, arteriovenous fistula, or arteriovenous malformations were identified in these patients. Subarachnoid hemorrhage within the spinal cord can be caused by ruptured aneurysms. Spinal aneurysms are rare, but should be considered within the differential diagnosis of patients with intracranial subarachnoid hemorrhage when cranial angiography is negative. Magnetic resonance imaging and selective spinal angiography are useful for workup, but definitive diagnosis may require surgical exploration."}
{"id": "16328476", "title": "Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis presenting with excessive subarachnoid hemorrhage in a 14-year-old boy.", "content": "Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis presenting with excessive subarachnoid hemorrhage in a 14-year-old boy. Cerebral venous thrombosis presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is very rare. We report a case of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis as an initial manifestation of SAH. A 14-year-old boy was admitted with progressive headache, nausea, vomiting, diplopia, and gait disturbance. Cerebral computed tomography scan showed a widely SAH in the basal cisterns, bilateral sylvian fissures, and anterior interhemispheric fissure. Cerebral angiography was performed to detect any aneurysm in intracranial vasculature as a cause of SAH; however, the totally thrombosed superior sagittal sinus, galenic vein, and straight sinus were the sole abnormal findings."}
{"id": "16326274", "title": "Midbrain and thalamic haemorrhage as first presentation of intracerebral glioma.", "content": "Midbrain and thalamic haemorrhage as first presentation of intracerebral glioma. A case of spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage (midbrain and thalamic, with intraventricular extension) as the first presentation of an anaplastic astrocytoma is presented. Multiple CT scans and cerebral angiography failed to identify any vascular or neoplastic cause for the haemorrhage, and a presumptive diagnosis of hypertensive haemorrhage was made. Shunting of hydrocephalus was followed by early clinical improvement. However, delayed progressive deterioration necessitated MRI scan, which demonstrated a mass lesion in the basal ganglia and midbrain. This was subsequently found to be anaplastic astrocytoma on biopsy. The literature regarding this uncommon presentation of spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage from an occult brain tumour is reviewed. The need for investigation and close follow-up of presumed hypertensive haemorrhage is emphasised by this case."}
{"id": "16286391", "title": "MR imaging findings of intracranial dural arteriovenous fistulas: relations with venous drainage patterns.", "content": "MR imaging findings of intracranial dural arteriovenous fistulas: relations with venous drainage patterns. Venous drainage patterns are a major determinant of clinical outcome in intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) patients. In this study, we sought to identify MR imaging finding differences between DAVF types classified on the basis of venous drainage patterns. Twenty-seven patients diagnosed as having DAVFs by conventional angiography were included. Medical records (n = 27), and MR imaging (n = 27) and MR angiography (MRA; n = 11) findings were retrospectively reviewed. MR imaging findings included flow void cluster, engorged ophthalmic vein/proptosis, white matter hyperintensity, intracranial hemorrhage, dilated leptomeningeal or medullary vessels, venous pouch, and leptomeningeal or medullary vascular enhancements. MRA findings included identifiable fistula, venous flow-related enhancement, and prominent extracranial vessels. Patients' presentations and MR imaging findings were compared among angiographic type I, II, and III cases (according to Borden's classification), and MRA findings were compared between cases with and without retrograde leptomeningeal venous drainage (RLVD). Patient presentations were aggressive in one (13%) of the type I cases, 5 (50%) of the type II cases, and 8 (100%) of the type III cases (P = .002). Aggressive presentations included hemorrhage, focal neurologic deficits, seizures, intracranial hypertension, and an altered mental status. MR images showed significantly higher frequencies of dilated leptomeningeal or medullary vessels in a higher type [0 in type I, 5 (42%) in type II, and 7 (100%) in type III], and of leptomeningeal or medullary vascular enhancements [0 in type I, 4 (33%) in type II, and 7 (100%) in type III]. By using MRA, fistulas were identified only in cases with RLVD (5 [83%]). Venous flow-related enhancement was present in 10 cases (91%). A sole false-negative case on MRA, as compared with conventional angiography, resulted from nonvisualization of the slow venous flow (8%). No false-positive fistula was found at the other intracranial sites in all cases. Overall, MRA assessment for DAVF was adequate for both fistula and venous flow-related enhancement in 10 cases (91%) and inadequate in a remaining case because of the fistular location out of field. MR imaging demonstration of leptomeningeal or medullary vascular dilation and enhancements may be associated with features that are considered predictors of a poor outcome and indicates a need for urgent therapy in intracranial dural AVF patients. MRA is a complementary tool for the identification of dural AVF with venous flow-related enhancement."}
{"id": "16231425", "title": "Brain stem ischemia from intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula: case report.", "content": "Brain stem ischemia from intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula: case report. Intracranial dural arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs) with spinal perimedullary venous drainage are rarely reported, but most of the patients initially have presented with myelopathy or subarachnoid hemorrhage. This is the first report of the intracranial dural AVF patient who presented with brain stem infarction. A 38-year-old woman experienced nausea and vomiting with an acute onset, followed by vertigo. Magnetic resonance imaging showed ischemic lesion in the medulla oblongata, and she was then sent to our hospital. On admission, she had nystagmus, swallowing difficulties, Homer syndrome, and right hemiparesis and hemisensory disturbance. Cerebral angiography revealed dural AVF draining into spinal perimedullary veins at the left transverse-sigmoid sinus. The patient was treated by transvenous embolization under local anesthesia. A microcatheter proceeded to the left sigmoid sinus via the internal jugular vein, and embolization of the sinus was performed using coils without complications. The patient's swallowing difficulties improved over a few days after the embolization, and one month later, there remained only a slight mild hemiparesis and hemisensory disturbance. Six months after the onset, there was no ischemic lesion in the brain stem on magnetic resonance imaging. In this case, we showed the possibility of brain stem infarction, caused by the intracranial dural AVF."}
{"id": "16230852", "title": "Superficial temporal artery duplex ultrasonography for improved cerebral hemodynamics after extracranial-intracranial bypass surgery.", "content": "Superficial temporal artery duplex ultrasonography for improved cerebral hemodynamics after extracranial-intracranial bypass surgery. To investigate the utility of superficial temporal artery (STA) duplex ultrasonography (STDU) for evaluating the improvement of the cerebral hemodynamics after extracranial-intracranial (EC-IC) bypass. This study included 40 consecutive patients who underwent EC-IC bypass for occlusive disease of cerebral arteries. STDU was performed to measure the flow velocity, pulsatility index, and diameter of the operated STA before and 14 days after EC-IC bypass. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and acetazolamide (ACZ) reactivity of the ipsilateral middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory were evaluated by quantitative single-photon emission computed tomography with the ACZ challenge test. We investigated the correlation between STA flow velocity/diameter and rCBF/ACZ reactivity in the ipsilateral MCA territory. Mean flow velocity (MFV; 26.3 +/- 8.8 to 55.3 +/- 16.3 cm/s, p < 0.0001) and diameter (1.57 +/- 0.24 to 2.26 +/- 0.29 mm, p < 0.0001) of the STA, and rCBF (29.1 +/- 3.1 to 35.0 +/- 6.4 ml/100 g/min, p < 0.0001) and ACZ reactivity (-0.02 +/- 0.10 to 0.28 +/- 0.21, p < 0.0001) of the MCA territory increased after EC-IC bypass compared with the baseline values. STA MFV was significantly correlated with the rCBF 14 days after EC-IC bypass (R = 0.70, p < 0.0001). A cutoff value of postsurgical STA MFV greater than 48.5 cm/s yielded the highest diagnostic accuracy (sensitivity 86%; specificity, 82%) for rCBF > or = 32 ml/100 g/min after EC-IC bypass. STDU was available for evaluating postsurgical patency of the bypass flow and the rCBF of the ipsilateral MCA territory. The mean blood flow velocity of the operated STA is a highly sensitive parameter for predicting rCBF in the ipsilateral MCA territory after EC-IC bypass."}
{"id": "16229089", "title": "Evaluation of a distal pericallosal aneurysm visualized with 3-dimensional digital subtraction angiography: case report and treatment implications.", "content": "Evaluation of a distal pericallosal aneurysm visualized with 3-dimensional digital subtraction angiography: case report and treatment implications. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is considered the gold standard in the evaluation of cerebrovascular structures. Recently, 3-dimensional DSA (3D-DSA) has been increasingly used to obtain detailed information about the morphology and dimensions of intracranial aneurysms. We report the case of a patient who presented with a distal pericallosal artery aneurysm, which appeared by 2D imaging to be a fusiform, possible mycotic aneurysm. This was then revealed to be a saccular bifurcation aneurysm by 3D-DSA. This additional information changed the treatment plan for this patient from medical management to a surgical approach. The patient is a 56-year-old man with a history of hypertension and alcohol abuse with withdrawal seizures, who presented with a large intracranial hemorrhage on initial computed tomography scan. After stabilization with intracranial pressure management, the patient underwent magnetic resonance angiography and 4-vessel DSA. These initial studies showed a distal, fusiform pericallosal aneurysm consistent with a mycotic aneurysm. Rotational DSA was then used to generate 3D images of the structure that revealed a saccular bifurcation aneurysm. This enabled the decision to offer operative treatment rather than conservative medical management. This report highlights the value of 3D-DSA in establishing the appropriate treatment plan for patients with unique cerebral aneurysms. The higher resolution images used in this case provided information that was crucial in shifting the treatment focus from medical management, for what appeared to be a mycotic aneurysm by traditional DSA, to surgical intervention, for a clear hemodynamic aneurysm at a vessel bifurcation seen with 3D-DSA. Accurate pre-interventional evaluation and differential diagnosis are critical to designing the most effective lowest risk treatment plan. The standard method in the diagnosis of cerebral aneurysms has been DSA. Yet, higher resolution images of unclear or high-risk aneurysms are often required to guide clinical decision making. The emergence of new, less invasive endovascular techniques for securing intracranial aneurysms has placed greater emphasis on precisely defining the shape and dimensions of an aneurysm. Three-dimensional DSA is currently the highest resolution imaging modality available for the evaluation of intracranial aneurysms. 3D-DSA was used to evaluate a small, distal pericallosal artery aneurysm and revealed a saccular bifurcation aneurysm not visualized with magnetic resonance angiography and conventional DSA. This additional resolution permitted the team to consider a surgical approach for a patient who would otherwise have been treated medically. This high-resolution technique is particularly useful in guiding clinical decision making in the context of aneurysms that carry a relatively broad differential diagnosis, potentially high interventional risk, and unclear morphology."}
{"id": "16227908", "title": "[CT angiography of the neck: technical considerations].", "content": "[CT angiography of the neck: technical considerations]. Examination of acute stroke by CT angiography is an alternative to MRI. Technological improvement of multidetector CT scanners allows neuroimaging of stroke in a multimodal protocol including plain CT, cerebral CT perfusion and CT angiography of the cervical and intracranial arteries. CT angiography is a reliable non invasive technique for the evaluation both extracranial and intracranial vessels that may be used as an alternative to MR angiography."}
{"id": "16227907", "title": "[MR-angiography of the head and neck vessels: technical considerations and clinical indications].", "content": "[MR-angiography of the head and neck vessels: technical considerations and clinical indications]. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is a very valuable tool in the routine evaluation of patients with stroke syndrome. It provides powerful noninvasive imaging of the cervical and intracranial vessels allowing the detection and the diagnosis of vascular anomalies. MRA usefully supplements, during the same examination, the analysis by MRI of the cerebral parenchyma. We will describe the indications of the various techniques (MRA with and without injection of contrast media) and show the value, artifacts and limitations of MRA in atherosclerotic stenosis or occlusive disease and in arterial dissections. This noninvasive vascular assessment will depend on the initial therapeutic orientation. Within the framework of the hemorrhagic stroke, we will discuss the role and the interest of dynamic MR angiography in the tracking and control of intracranial aneurysms and also the contribution of this newer sequences with gadolinium injection in the detection of cerebral vascular malformations."}
{"id": "16217077", "title": "Isolated left vein of Labbe thrombosis.", "content": "Isolated left vein of Labbe thrombosis."}
{"id": "16182009", "title": "Hyperacute measurement of brain-tissue oxygen, carbon dioxide, pH, and intracranial pressure before, during, and after cerebral angiography in patients with aneurysmatic subarachnoid hemorrhage in poor condition.", "content": "Hyperacute measurement of brain-tissue oxygen, carbon dioxide, pH, and intracranial pressure before, during, and after cerebral angiography in patients with aneurysmatic subarachnoid hemorrhage in poor condition. The objective of this study was to examine early changes of intracranial pressure (ICP) and brain oxygenation before, during, and after cerebral angiography in patients with poor-grade subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Fourteen patients with poor-grade SAH without intracerebral hematoma were studied. A significant change in monitored variables (arterial gases, ICP, brain-tissue oxygen pressure [Ptio(2)], brain-tissue carbon dioxide pressure, and pH) was defined as a register deviation of more than 20% compared with the baseline. Critical Ptio(2) values (<15 mm Hg) or significant Ptio(2) decreases were considered to be impaired brain oxygenation. These data were correlated with the angiography findings and the presence of massive brain edema and hypodense areas in follow-up computed tomography (CT) scan controls. Neurotrend data were unavailable in 4 patients because of calibration failure. Impaired brain oxygenation during angiography was observed in 5 patients. Initial critical Ptio(2) values were found in 1 patient. Four patients developed a linear Ptio(2) and pH decrease after the angio-catheter canalized the examined vessels in the neck. Statistically significant correlation was found between brain pH and Ptio(2) changes in these patients (P < .001, Spearman rho). Arterial gases, ICP, and cerebral perfusion pressure did not show significant alterations at this time. Significant correlations existed between severe intracranial angiographic arterial caliber reduction and impaired Ptio(2) values (P < .01). Patients with impaired Ptio(2) values frequently showed lesions in CT scan controls (P < .05). This study documented several fluctuations in the brain oxygenation of patients with poor-grade SAH during angiography. Patients with severe intracranial angiographic arterial caliber reduction at this time have an increased risk for impaired brain oxygenation."}
{"id": "16180701", "title": "Volume subtraction three-dimensional CT angiography for cerebrovascular disease: report of two cases.", "content": "Volume subtraction three-dimensional CT angiography for cerebrovascular disease: report of two cases. We report two cases in which volume subtraction three-dimensional CT angiography (VS-3DCTA) was used for cerebral aneurysm and vascular stenosis with intramural calcification. Case 1: VS-3DCTA with volume rendering clearly showed carotid cave aneurysm of the internal carotid artery. The location and size of the aneurysm was confirmed by digital subtraction angiography (DSA). In evaluation of the aneurysm, VS-3DCTA was equal to DSA and endovascular findings. Case 2: VS-3DCTA with volume rendering clearly showed stenosis of the middle cerebral artery, and intramural calcification with the cause of the stenosis was subtracted. On the other hand, it was difficult for DSA to reveal the stenosis because of the limitation of the imaging angle. In evaluation of the stenosis, VS-3DCTA was superior to DSA. VS-3DCTA was an important diagnostic tool that enabled visualization of the aneurysm in the area of the skull base and stenosis of the intracerebral artery."}
{"id": "16166579", "title": "Importance of early ischemic computed tomography changes using ASPECTS in NINDS rtPA Stroke Study.", "content": "Importance of early ischemic computed tomography changes using ASPECTS in NINDS rtPA Stroke Study. The importance of early ischemic change (EIC) on baseline computed tomography (CT) in the decision to thrombolyze the patient with acute ischemic stroke has been controversial. ASPECTS is a semiquantitative scale that scores the extent of EIC within the middle cerebral artery territory. We examined whether ASPECTS could be a treatment modifier by systematically reviewing the CT scans in the NINDS rtPA Stroke Study. Six hundred eight of the 624 CT scans were available and of sufficient quality. One of 2 teams (n=3 each) of expert ASPECTS readers evaluated each scan for an ASPECTS value using a consensus score approach. Each team was blind to all clinical information except symptom side and blind to follow-up imaging and outcome information. ASPECTS values were stratified before analysis. Multivariable logistic regression was used to determine if an ASPECTS by treatment interaction existed on treatment response, outcome, and intracerebral hemorrhage risk. A total of 57.2% (348 of 608) of scans showed EIC with an ASPECTS <10. ASPECTS dichotomized into 8 to 10 and <8 did not have a treatment-modifying effect on good outcome but showed a trend to lower mortality at 90 days with tPA (relative risk 0.67, 95% confidence interval 0.41 to 1.06, P=0.10). ASPECTS 8 to 10 were associated with a trend to larger benefit of tPA with a number needed to treat (NNT) of 5 versus ASPECTS 3 to 7 with a NNT of 8. There was no evidence of treatment effect modification by the baseline ASPECTS value in the NINDS rtPA Stroke Study. Therefore, exclusion of patients for thrombolysis within 3 hours of symptom onset based on EIC is not supported by our data. There is a trend to reduced mortality and increased benefit to rtPA if the baseline CT scan is favorable (ASPECTS >7)."}
{"id": "16159090", "title": "The safety and feasibility of continuous intravenous magnesium sulfate for prevention of cerebral vasospasm in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "The safety and feasibility of continuous intravenous magnesium sulfate for prevention of cerebral vasospasm in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral vasospasm in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is associated with poor outcome. The safety and feasibility of continuous high-dose intravenous magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) for the prevention of cerebral vasospasm and ischemic cerebral injury has not been well studied. Patients presenting to our center within 72 hours of aneurysmalSAH (confirmed by computed tomography [CT] scanning and cerebral angiography) between June 2001 and October 2002 were enrolled in a prospective pilot study in which they received MgSO4 as an adjunct to standard SAH management. Study patients received an intravenous infusion of 12 g of MgSO4 in a 500-mL solution of 0.9% NaCl administered at a rate of 4.06 mM (or 0.5 g) every hour over a 24-hour period for 10 days to achieve a target predetermined serum Mg range of more than 1.5 to less than 4.0 mM/L. The effect of MgSO4 on clinical examination, heart rate, and blood pressure was measured every 2 hours; serum glucose and phenytoin levels were monitored daily. Outcome measures included evidence of vasospasm on clinical examination, transcranial Doppler study ((TCD); velocity >or=100 cm/s), or repeat cerebral angiogram obtained within 10 days of SAH; and Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) score assessment and CT scan evidence of ischemic infarction at 30 days. Nineteen patients (mean age: 55 years; range: 39-84 years; 11 males, 8 females) were enrolled in the study. Presenting Hunt Hess grade was II or higher; mean Fisher grade was 3. Vasospasm was observed in nine patients (by clinical examination in two, TCD in five, and angiogram in nine). The mean serum Mg level was 2.7 mM/L (standard deviation: +/- 0.37) and was maintained during the infusion period. No clinical adverse effects, hemodynamic changes, or fluctuations in serum glucose or phenytoin levels were observed. None of the patients died; no CT evidence of ischemic infarction was present; and most had good outcomes (GOS 5 in 10 patients; GOS 4 in 8 patients). Our study confirmed the safety and feasibility of a continuous infusion of high-dose intravenous MgSO4 in patients with aneurysmal SAH. Randomized controlled trials are required to confirm the promising results."}
{"id": "16127257", "title": "Ruptured vertebral artery dissecting aneurysm followed by spontaneous acute occlusion and early recanalization: case report.", "content": "Ruptured vertebral artery dissecting aneurysm followed by spontaneous acute occlusion and early recanalization: case report. A 47-year-old man presented with a ruptured vertebral artery dissecting aneurysm manifesting as subarachnoid hemorrhage followed by acute occlusion and early recanalization of the affected artery. Cerebral angiography 2 hours after the onset of the symptom showed pearl-and-string sign in the right vertebral artery. Serial angiography showed that the affected artery was occluded at 12 hours but was recanalized on the 4th day. The dissecting aneurysm was resected with side-to-side anastomosis between the bilateral posterior inferior cerebellar arteries. Postoperative cerebral angiography demonstrated disappearance of the lesion and patency of the right posterior inferior cerebellar artery via the anastomosis. Histological examination of the lesion showed hematoma between the media and adventitia, disrupting the internal elastica and intima. Acute occlusion and early recanalization of the affected artery may occur in ruptured vertebral artery dissecting aneurysms. Serial neurological and neuroradiological examinations are essential to decide the timing and method of treatment."}
{"id": "16094144", "title": "Endovascular management of ventricular catheter-induced anterior cerebral artery false aneurysm: technical case report.", "content": "Endovascular management of ventricular catheter-induced anterior cerebral artery false aneurysm: technical case report. We describe the case of a 3.3-kg infant who developed an anterior cerebral artery pseudoaneurysm after ventricular catheter placement. The lesion was treated with endovascular vessel sacrifice. A 3.3-kg infant with a myelomeningocele underwent repair and ventricular catheter insertion for hydrocephalus. During shunt insertion, intracerebral arterial bleeding was encountered. Subsequent arteriography demonstrated an anterior cerebral artery pseudoaneurysm. Via a transfemoral artery approach, the aneurysm and feeding vessel were catheterized with a microcatheter and wire. The aneurysm and vessel were then sacrificed with detachable platinum coils. Arterial injury is uncommon after ventricular catheter placement. When it does occur, however, an unstable pseudoaneurysm may form. Endovascular techniques can be used to remedy this problem, thus at times obviating the need for a standard craniotomy, which can be particularly difficult in a newborn."}
{"id": "16093385", "title": "Imaging experimental cerebral malaria in vivo: significant role of ischemic brain edema.", "content": "Imaging experimental cerebral malaria in vivo: significant role of ischemic brain edema. The first in vivo magnetic resonance study of experimental cerebral malaria is presented. Cerebral involvement is a lethal complication of malaria. To explore the brain of susceptible mice infected with Plasmodium berghei ANKA, multimodal magnetic resonance techniques were applied (imaging, diffusion, perfusion, angiography, spectroscopy). They reveal vascular damage including blood-brain barrier disruption and hemorrhages attributable to inflammatory processes. We provide the first in vivo demonstration for blood-brain barrier breakdown in cerebral malaria. Major edema formation as well as reduced brain perfusion was detected and is accompanied by an ischemic metabolic profile with reduction of high-energy phosphates and elevated brain lactate. In addition, angiography supplies compelling evidence for major hemodynamics dysfunction. Actually, edema further worsens ischemia by compressing cerebral arteries, which subsequently leads to a collapse of the blood flow that ultimately represents the cause of death. These findings demonstrate the coexistence of inflammatory and ischemic lesions and prove the preponderant role of edema in the fatal outcome of experimental cerebral malaria. They improve our understanding of the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria and may provide the necessary noninvasive surrogate markers for quantitative monitoring of treatment."}
{"id": "16091532", "title": "Hypoattenuation on CT angiographic source images predicts risk of intracerebral hemorrhage and outcome after intra-arterial reperfusion therapy.", "content": "Hypoattenuation on CT angiographic source images predicts risk of intracerebral hemorrhage and outcome after intra-arterial reperfusion therapy. Symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation (HT) is a significant complication of intravenous and catheter-based reperfusion. We hypothesized that the degree of vascular insufficiency, reflected as hypoattenuation on initial CT angiography (CTA) axial source images, is predictive of HT risk in stroke patients receiving intra-arterial reperfusion therapy. We examined initial CTA source images and follow-up CT scans in 32 consecutive patients. Regions of interest were semiautomatically segmented and reviewed. Mean intensity was determined in the region of maximal hypoattenuation and in normal contralateral tissue, and the arithmetic difference (deltaHU) calculated. Receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curves and cross-validation were used to identify threshold deltaHU values. Thirteen patients had HT on follow-up CT (seven with parenchymal hematoma, six with hemorrhagic infarction). Patients with and those without HT did not differ in age, blood glucose level, lesion volume, or time to treatment or recanalization, though the former had a greater mean deltaHU (9.0 vs 6.3, P = .006). The ROC threshold at deltaHU > or = 8.1 was 69% sensitive and 90% specific for patients who developed HT (odds ratio = 19.1; 95% confidence interval: 2.9, 125; P = .002) and was predictive of poor clinical outcome (modified Rankin scale score > 2, P = .03). Neither HT in general nor parenchymal hematoma subtype was associated with poor outcome. The degree of hypoattenuation on initial CTA source images is a risk factor for HT and poor clinical outcome after intra-arterial reperfusion therapy. Prospective validation of this relationship in large populations may permit feasible real-time risk stratification."}
{"id": "16091517", "title": "Application of transcranial Doppler sonography in children with acute neurologic events due to primary cerebral and West Nile vasculitis.", "content": "Application of transcranial Doppler sonography in children with acute neurologic events due to primary cerebral and West Nile vasculitis. We describe the use of serial transcranial Doppler studies to evaluate neurovascular disease in three girls presenting with acute stroke due to primary cerebral vasculitis (n = 2) and West Nile vasculitis (n = 1). Correlation of abnormal findings on transcranial Doppler sonography was compared with those of MR angiography and conventional angiography in each child. All three girls had left middle cerebral artery infarcts on MR imaging, with an abnormal left middle cerebral artery detected by MR angiography, conventional angiography, and transcranial Doppler sonography in each child. In all three cases, findings of the transcranial Doppler sonography, MR imaging, and catheter angiography were concordant."}
{"id": "16059697", "title": "The role of contrast-enhanced MR angiography in the assessment of recently ruptured intracranial aneurysms: a comparative study.", "content": "The role of contrast-enhanced MR angiography in the assessment of recently ruptured intracranial aneurysms: a comparative study. We evaluated contrast-enhanced MR angiography (MRA) for the identification of recently ruptured cerebral aneurysms. We studied 23 aneurysms in 18 patients (age range 34-72 years) with aneurysms of the anterior (n = 17) and posterior (n = 6) circulation by comparing 3D time-of-flight (TOF), contrast-enhanced MRA and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). In four of 23 aneurysms, 3D-TOF did not show the lesion. Contrast-enhanced MRA successfully depicted all aneurysms except one. T1 contamination artefacts from subarachnoid or intraparenchymal haemorrhages were evident on the 3D-TOF images in six cases. The artefacts were completely eliminated on the contrast-enhanced MRA images by subtraction of the pre-contrast images. The diagnostic information in patients with subarachnoid haemorrhages (SAHs) provided by contrast-enhanced MRA was comparable to that provided by DSA."}
{"id": "16052289", "title": "Distal posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysms: clinical characteristics and surgical management.", "content": "Distal posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysms: clinical characteristics and surgical management. Aneurysms located on the distal posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) are rare, and their underlying clinical features and surgical management are poorly understood. We report our series of 16 patients with 18 distal PICA aneurysms. All patients with distal PICA aneurysms were treated between March 1996 and August 2004. We excluded all PICA aneurysms that involved the vertebral artery. Patients were analysed in the light of their clinical profiles, radiological studies, intraoperative findings and outcomes. All patients underwent non-enhanced and contrast enhanced CT scans followed by 4-vessel cerebral angiography on admission. The hemorrhagic patterns on initial CT scans were assessed using the Fisher Grading Score. The outcomes were documented using the Glasgow Outcome Scale at time of discharge and at three or twelve months follow-up. The series included 6 men and 10 women. Massive intraventricular haemorrhage was found in 13 patients with proven CT subarachnoid haemorrhage, one patient revealed SAH without intraventricular components, one presented with only intraventricular blood in the occipital horns and 3 aneurysms were found incidentally without presence of blood. Fourteen aneurysms were saccular and four were fusiform. Nine cases were associated with another cerebrovascular lesion. A lateral transcondylar or a median suboccipital approach was used to secure the aneurysms in 15 patients, either by direct clipping (14 lesions) or vessel sacrifice (3 lesions). One aneurysm was treated by an endovascular approach. At long-term follow up, an excellent or good outcome was achieved in 75% of cases. One patient died due to pre-existing cardiopulmonary complications. Most of our cases of ruptured distal PICA aneurysms presented with haematocephalus. These were frequently associated with another vascular abnormality and 22% were fusiform or multilobulated. These specific features require special management strategies entailing an appropriate surgical approach to the aneurysm, clipping method, haematoma removal, ventricular drainage and when suitable choice of endovascular interventions."}
{"id": "16044654", "title": "Imaging in acute brain infarction.", "content": "Imaging in acute brain infarction. Imaging in a patient suspected of having suffered an acute stroke is used primarily to clear the patient for thrombolytic therapy, by excluding intracranial hemorrhage and nonstroke causes of the patient's symptoms, within a critical 3-hour window. Noncontrast CT of the brain is the imaging test of choice for the initial evaluation of a patient with suspected acute ischemic stroke. It is rapid and readily available and has a high sensitivity for intracranial hemorrhage. Contrast-enhanced CT angiography and perfusion imaging may provide additional information with only a minimal increase in scanning time. Finally, diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance sequences have a high sensitivity for acute stroke and, with magnetic resonance perfusion imaging, may play an increasing role in the future treatment of stroke."}
{"id": "16041183", "title": "Postoperative hyperperfusion associated with steal phenomenon caused by a small arteriovenous malformation.", "content": "Postoperative hyperperfusion associated with steal phenomenon caused by a small arteriovenous malformation. A 41-year-old woman presented with a small occipital arteriovenous malformation (AVM) manifesting as headache. Cerebral angiography showed an AVM in the right occipital lobe fed by the right temporooccipital artery and draining into the superior sagittal sinus and right transverse sinus. Single photon emission computed tomography showed the steal phenomenon in the ipsilateral temporal cortex fed by the main feeding artery preoperatively, and hyperperfusion in the same cortex after removal of the AVM. Postoperative systolic blood pressure was maintained between 100 and 120 mmHg to avoid disastrous hemorrhagic complications. Cerebral blood flow evaluation before and after surgery is important to avoid postoperative disastrous complications even in patients with small AVM."}
{"id": "16040918", "title": "Middle cerebral artery spasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage: detection with transcranial color-coded duplex US.", "content": "Middle cerebral artery spasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage: detection with transcranial color-coded duplex US. To prospectively determine the accuracy of transcranial color-coded duplex ultrasonography (US) used alone and in conjunction with carotid artery US for diagnosis of middle cerebral artery (MCA) spasm, with intraarterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA) used as the reference standard. The institutional ethics committee approved the study. Each patient, or members of the patient's family, gave informed consent. One hundred twenty consecutive patients (64 women, 56 men; mean age, 45.5 years +/- 13.6 [standard deviation]) were routinely referred for DSA after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Vasospasm was graded as mild (< or =25% reduction in vessel diameter), moderate (>25% to 50% reduction), or severe (>50% reduction). US was performed 2 hours or less before angiography. The ratio of flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery (V(MCA)) to flow velocity in the ipsilateral extracranial internal carotid artery (V(ICA)) was calculated. Diagnostic accuracy was evaluated by calculating the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (Az). The significance of the difference between the two Az values (for US vs DSA) was determined by using the z test with correction for correlated data. Nine of 120 patients were excluded because of inadequacy of acoustic windows in the squama of temporal bones. Spasm was mild in 17, moderate in 16, and severe in only nine of 222 arteries studied. Arteries with moderate or severe vasospasm were combined in one group. The best-performing parameters were peak systolic velocity and V(MCA)/V(ICA) ratio. Az values for these two parameters in diagnosis of moderate-to-severe vasospasm were 0.93 and 0.95, and in diagnosis of mild vasospasm, 0.90 and 0.91. Accuracy of the V(MCA)/V(ICA) ratio calculated on the basis of end-diastolic velocity for diagnosis of mild MCA narrowing was significantly better than that of end-diastolic MCA velocity alone (Az = 0.88 vs 0.84, P < .05). The stepwise approach with use of the V(MCA)/V(ICA) ratio after flow velocity measurements in the MCA resulted in a decreased number of false-negative findings in both vasospasm subgroups. The thresholds of highest efficiency were at a mean velocity of 94 and 108 cm/sec and a peak systolic V(MCA)/V(ICA) ratio of 3.6 and 3.9 for diagnosis of mild and moderate-to-severe vasospasm, respectively. Transcranial color-coded duplex US alone or in conjunction with carotid artery US has excellent accuracy for angiographic detection of vasospasm. Use of MCA velocity measurements and V(MCA)/V(ICA) ratio can increase the accuracy of Doppler US."}
{"id": "16018164", "title": "Pseudoephedrine-induced hemorrhage associated with a cerebral vascular malformation.", "content": "Pseudoephedrine-induced hemorrhage associated with a cerebral vascular malformation. Sympathomimetic-related intracerebral hemorrhage is well-documented. Most cases are associated with phenylpropanolamine use. We report a case of intracerebral hemorrhage occurring in a middle-aged man who suffered from chronic sinusitis and had been ingesting pseudoephedrine daily for one year. This patient was previously well with no known cardiovascular risk factors. Clinical examination revealed no evidence of vasculitis nor coagulopathy and initial neuroimaging (i.e., computed tomography, angiography, magnetic resonance imaging) demonstrated no features consistent with aneurysm, arteriovenous malformation (AVM), cavernoma, nor cerebral metastases. A follow-up cerebral angiogram demonstrated a small AVM arising off a branch of the pericallosal artery and a small arteriovenous fistula arising off the costal marginal branch. The AVM was embolized without incident, however, the AVF was not accessible. Sympathomimetics have long been associated with intracerebral hemorrhage. Since 1979, over 30 published case reports have documented the relationship between phenylpropanolamine and stroke. Only one report links phenylpropanolamine consumption to an intracerebral hemorrhage in a patient with an AVM. There is a paucity of literature etiologically inculpating other ephedra alkaloids in the causation of intracerebral hemorrhage. This is a case of pseudoephedrine-induced intracerebral hemorrhage in a patient with an underlying vascular malformation."}
{"id": "16012313", "title": "Computed tomographic angiography for determination of brain death.", "content": "Computed tomographic angiography for determination of brain death. A 69-year-old woman developed deep coma and brain stem areflexia after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Due to unstable vital signs, she was not a candidate for an apnea test. Computed tomographic angiography revealed absence of intracranial circulation, and brain death was diagnosed."}
{"id": "16009882", "title": "Assessment of CE-MRA for the rapid detection of supra-aortic vascular disease.", "content": "Assessment of CE-MRA for the rapid detection of supra-aortic vascular disease. Contrast-enhanced MR angiography (CE-MRA) using a combined head and neck coil permits non-invasive imaging of the vasculature from the aortic arch through to the Circle of Willis in less than 2 minutes. To determine the accuracy of CE-MRA for the detection of vascular pathology, in particular vascular stenoses, using digital subtraction angiography (DSA) as the gold standard. In a prospective study of 81 patients referred for DSA, CE-MRA and DSA studies were performed within 72 hours of each other. CE-MRA was performed on a 1.5 Tesla clinical MRI scanner using a five-channel neurovascular array (head and neck coil), with dynamic tracking of the IV gadolinium bolus. CE-MRAs and DSA films were read by two interventional neuroradiologists blinded to the clinical presentation of the patient. On DSA, there were 77 vascular stenoses > or =50% identified, 51 extracranial and 26 intracranial. The overall sensitivity of CE-MRA using the neurovascular array for the detection of vascular stenoses > or =50% was 57% (95% CI: 46 to 68%) with a specificity of 98% (97 to 99%). The sensitivity for the detection of extracranial vascular stenoses > or =50% was 82% (72 to 93%) with a specificity of 97% (96 to 98%). However, the sensitivity for the detection of intracranial vascular stenoses > or =50% was only 8% (0 to 18%), with a specificity of 99% (98 to 100%). At this stage Contrast-enhanced MR angiography using a neurovascular coil shows promise as a rapid, specific, and noninvasive screening method for extracranial vascular disease, but not for intracranial vascular disease."}
{"id": "16001811", "title": "[Non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema induced by non-ionic radiographic contrast media during the coil embolization for a ruptured cerebral aneurysm].", "content": "[Non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema induced by non-ionic radiographic contrast media during the coil embolization for a ruptured cerebral aneurysm]. We describe a 48(correction of 44) year-old woman, who presents a non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema caused by non-ionic radiographic contrast medium. She suffered from subarachnoid hemorrhage due to dissecting aneurysm of right vertebral artery. Cerebral angiography followed by coil embolization for the aneurysm was performed. During the interventional procedure, saturation of blood oxygen suddenly declined and chest X-ray photography obviously revealed pulmonary edema. At first we dealt with it as neurogenic phenomenon but subsequently interpreted it to non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema induced by radiographic contrast medium, since intra-arterial injection of contrast medium at follow-up angiography led the symptoms into more fulminant status. Intensive care including endotracheal intubation and continuous positive airway pressure ventilation consequently achieved complete remission and the patient discharged without any sequelae. Although low osmolar, non-ionic contrast medium has been regarded as relatively safe, severe reaction such as dyspnea, hypotension and cardiac arrest could emerge at certain intervals. We must perceive the adverse effects of it because the usage of contrast medium will dramatically increase with development of diagnostic radiographical methodology and interventional neurosurgery."}
{"id": "15990044", "title": "Interventional neuroradiology adjuncts and alternatives in patients with head and neck vascular lesions.", "content": "Interventional neuroradiology adjuncts and alternatives in patients with head and neck vascular lesions. Vascular lesions of the head and neck can result from a variety of neoplastic and traumatic conditions that may cause local neurologic symptoms or may compromise the carotid or vertebral arteries, leading to ischemic deficits. Management of lesions involving vascular structures at the skull base may require a temporary balloon occlusion tolerance test or endovascular transarterial embolization as part of the preoperative management. Endovascular techniques can also be used as a salvage measure for severe head and neck bleeding and can assist with the management of vascular injury occurring in the operative or perioperative setting. Familiarity with the role of endovascular techniques in this group of patients may favorably influence patient management and outcome."}
{"id": "15981730", "title": "Prevalence study of proximal vertebral artery stenosis using high-resolution contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Prevalence study of proximal vertebral artery stenosis using high-resolution contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography. To evaluate the prevalence of proximal vertebral artery stenosis, compared wiith those of the distal vertebral/basilar artery and extracranial internal carotid artery, in a large population of stroke and non-stroke patients. Nine-hundred-and-thirty-five patients who underwent high-resolution contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography in a regional general hospital were categorized into six groups based on neurological symptoms and disease: an asymptomatic group (n = 182), a minor symptom group with headache or dizziness (n = 519), a cardiac group with coronary artery steno-occlusive disease (n = 15), a hemorrhagic group with old cerebral hemorrhage (n=26), an anterior circulation infarct group (n = 121), and posterior circulation infarct group (n = 72). Prevalence of stenosis of the proximal vertebral artery, distal vertebral/basilar artery, and internal carotid artery was analyzed. The prevalence of stenosis of the proximal vertebral artery, distal vertebral/ basilar artery, and internal carotid artery was 12.9%, 5.5%, and 7.2%, respectively, in the study population, and rose as the age increased (P < 0.0001 for all arteries). The prevalence of stenosis of the proximal vertebral artery, distal vertebral/basilar artery, and internal carotid artery was 3.3%, 0.5%, and 1.1%, respectively, in the asymptomatic group; 8.3%, 2.1%, and 3.7%, respectively, in the minor symptom group; 13.3%, 6.7% and 6.7%, respectively, in the cardiac group; 19.2%, 7.7%, and 7.7%, respectively, in the hemorrhagic group; 27.3%, 8.3%, and 25.6%, respectively, in the anterior circulation infarct group; and 44.4%, 36.1%, and 16.7%, respectively, in the posterior circulation infarct group. This increasing tendency of stenosis accordingly was statistically significant (P < 0.0001 for all arteries). The prevalence of proximal vertebral artery stenosis was highest, compared with those of the distal vertebral/basilar artery and internal carotid artery, although the clinical significance of proximal vertebral artery stenosis should be investigated in further studies."}
{"id": "15971064", "title": "Non-traumatic cortical subarachnoid haemorrhage: diagnostic work-up and aetiological background.", "content": "Non-traumatic cortical subarachnoid haemorrhage: diagnostic work-up and aetiological background. Only 15% of all subarachnoid haemorrhages (SAHs) are not of aneurysmal origin. Among those, circumscribed SAHs along the cortical convexity are rare and have only been described in singular case reports so far. Here, we present a collection of 12 cases of SAH along the convexity, of non-traumatic origin. Over a period of 10 years, 12 cases of circumscribed SAH along the convexity were identified at our clinic. The clinical presentations, neuroradiological SAH characteristics, further diagnostic work-up to identify the underlying aetiologies, the therapy and clinical outcome were analysed. The patients' chief complaints were unspecific cephalgia, focal or generalised seizures and focal neurological deficits. Typical signs of basal SAH, such as nuchal rigidity, thunderclap-headache or alteration of consciousness, were rare. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) revealed different aetiologies, namely postpartal posterior encephalopathy (three), cerebral vasculitis (two), dural sinus thrombosis (two), cortical venous thrombosis (one), intracerebral abscesses (one) and cerebral cavernoma (one). Two cases remained unresolved. Treatment of the underlying disease and symptomatic medication led to good clinical outcome in almost all cases. On the basis of these findings, we demonstrate that the clinical presentation, localisation and aetiology of cortical SAH differ clearly from other SAHs. A diagnostic work-up with MRI and eventually DSA is essential. Mostly, the causative disease can be identified, and specific treatment allows a favourable outcome."}
{"id": "15968519", "title": "Imaging the vertebral artery.", "content": "Imaging the vertebral artery. Although conventional intraarterial digital subtraction angiography remains the gold standard method for imaging the vertebral artery, noninvasive modalities such as ultrasound, multislice computed tomographic angiography and magnetic resonance angiography are constantly improving and are playing an increasingly important role in diagnosing vertebral artery pathology in clinical practice. This paper reviews the current state of vertebral artery imaging from an evidence-based perspective. Normal anatomy, normal variants and a number of pathological entities such as vertebral atherosclerosis, arterial dissection, arteriovenous fistula, subclavian steal syndrome and vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia are discussed."}
{"id": "15957092", "title": "Spiral CT angiography in diagnosis of cerebral aneurysms of cases with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Spiral CT angiography in diagnosis of cerebral aneurysms of cases with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. To investigate the diagnostic accuracy of spiral CT angiography (CTA) in detection of cerebral aneurysms in cases with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Spiral CT angiography and DSA examinations were performed in 32 cases due to non-traumatic SAH. CTA data were obtained by maximum intensity projection (MIP) method. CTA and DSA findings were evaluated and compared in terms of existence of aneurysm, size and location. In 32 patients, DSA detected 34 aneurysms with diameters ranging from 3 to 13 mm while four cases were free of aneurysms. With CTA, an aneurysm at anterior communicating artery location could not be demonstrated. In all other cases CTA correlated well with DSA in detecting the site, size and orientation of the aneurysms. It was found that CTA sensitivity was 97% and specificity was 100% in diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms. Spiral CTA is a highly accurate, cheap and non-invasive imaging method in diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms in cases with SAH and can be used as a safe alternative method to DSA when emergency surgery is needed."}
{"id": "15951406", "title": "Clinical and angiographic results of dilatation procedures for symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic disease.", "content": "Clinical and angiographic results of dilatation procedures for symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic disease. The authors determined the technical success and the clinical and angiographic results of angioplasty and/or stent placement for intracranial atherosclerotic disease (ICAD) at a tertiary-care referral hospital. Angiographic and clinical outcomes occurring within the 1-month follow-up interval were recorded. Patients were followed up for a mean period of 20.5 +/- 9.2 months, and a neurovascular imaging study was performed in 18 of the 21 patients alive after a mean period of 19.7 +/- 9.2 months. Stroke-free survival and ipsilateral stroke-prevention rates were estimated using Kaplan Meier analyses. Twenty-four patients (mean age = 61.0 +/- 13.5 years; 15 were men) underwent 30 procedures for treatment of ICAD. The procedures included angioplasty (n = 18) and attempted primary stent placement (n = 14). In 2 procedures, angioplasty was performed in the same session after unsuccessful stent placement. There was immediate stenosis reduction (mean +/- SD) from 84% +/- 17% to 27% +/- 21%. The overall 1-month composite rate of major stroke, death, and major bleeding complications was 7% for the 30 procedures. Overall stroke-free survival at 36 months was estimated as 79% (95% confidence interval, 57%-91%), and the ipsilateral stroke-prevention rate was estimated to be 87% (95% confidence interval, 65%-95%). Among the 15 patients who underwent repeat angiography, restenosis requiring second intervention was observed in 1 patient. No restenosis could be identified in 3 patients who underwent computed tomographic or magnetic resonance angiography. This single-center study demonstrates the feasibility and effectiveness (for secondary stroke prevention) of angioplasty and/or stent placement for treatment of ICAD."}
{"id": "15912770", "title": "[A case of systemic Lupus erythematosus complicated with multiple subcortical hemorrhage].", "content": "[A case of systemic Lupus erythematosus complicated with multiple subcortical hemorrhage]. We described a case of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) complicated with multiple intracerebral hemorrhage. A 52-year-old female with no history of hypertension had been treated with steroid hormone therapy for more than 15 years. Four days before admission, she experienced acute onset of headache and nausea. On the day of admission, the patient suffered from headache and nausea again followed by a deteriorated level of consciousness. The computed tomographic scan revealed two subcortical hematomas in the right frontal and left temporo-occipital area with atypical findings compared to those of the usual intracerebral hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography demonstrated that cortical arteries around the hematomas were markedly stretched and displaced. Multiple segmental stenosis and irregular lumen of the internal carotid artery and bilateral cortical arteries were possibly representative of vasculopathy. Transit time of blood flow was severely delayed with no apparent obstruction of the cerebral arteries, veins and dural sinuses. These findings suggested the existence of severely increased intracranial pressure. Emergent surgical evacuation of the hematomas was successfully performed with a favorable outcome for the patient. Intraoperatively, the brain was congested even after the evacuation of the hematomas. Surgical manipulation was able easily to cause bleeding from the cavity of the hematomas, which was hard to control. It is supposed that vasculopathy including fibrinoid degeneration and vasculitis may have affected the susceptibility of small arteries and veins to rupture in the present case. Subsequent increase of intracranial pressure might cause another hematomas by adding of hemodynamic stress to small vessels apart from those at the site of the first hemorrhage."}
{"id": "15912267", "title": "Intracerebral hemorrhage in a patient with SLE and catastrophic antiphospholipid syndrome (CAPS): report of a case.", "content": "Intracerebral hemorrhage in a patient with SLE and catastrophic antiphospholipid syndrome (CAPS): report of a case. A 31-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital for investigation of left lower limb thrombophlebitis. History, physical examination, and laboratory investigations led to the diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), complicated by secondary antiphospholipid syndrome (APS). Treatment included steroids, azathioprine, aspirin, and low molecular weight heparin. Sixty-three days later, she was admitted to the hospital again because of high fever, macroscopic hematuria, and dyspnea. Laboratory testing showed anemia and impaired renal function. High-resolution chest computed tomography (CT) revealed bilateral multiple peribronchial infiltrates with hemorrhage. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) angiography of the kidneys revealed left renal vein thrombosis combined with ischemia of the left kidney. Cyclophosphamide and methylprednisolone pulse treatment as well as intravenous immunoglobulins were started immediately. Despite intensive immunosuppressive and supportive treatment, she suffered three relapses of alveolar hemorrhage and died on day 40, due to severe intracerebral bleeding. The final diagnosis was catastrophic APS with diffuse alveolar hemorrhage and kidney involvement. The unusual combination of recurrent alveolar hemorrhage and death from intracerebral hemorrhage rather than thrombosis in a CAPS patient is discussed."}
{"id": "15900095", "title": "Impaired washout--embolism and ischemic stroke: further examples and proof of concept.", "content": "Impaired washout--embolism and ischemic stroke: further examples and proof of concept. We previously posited that impaired washout of emboli was an important mechanism of brain infarction in patients with cerebral hypoperfusion. Hyperviscosity and hypoperfusion enhance thrombus formation promoting embolization of fresh thrombi. Hypoperfusion also reduces dissolution of emboli due to reduced flow velocity leading to classic hemodynamic patterns of stroke. To prove this concept further, we identified patients with severe hemodynamic compromise of either arterial or venous origin, or both, and natural or iatrogenic mechanisms of embolism. Three conditions were investigated in a stroke MRI protocol: 5 patients who had conventional cerebral angiography for the diagnosis of moyamoya disease, 1 patient with atrial fibrillation and thrombosis of the left transverse dural sinus and 1 patient with a patent foramen ovale with atrial septum aneurysm presenting with thrombosis of cortical cerebral veins. In all patients, subcortical arterial embolization within an atypical borderzone of hypoperfusion was observed."}
{"id": "15895219", "title": "White matter lesions in watershed territories studied with MRI and parenchymography: a comparative study.", "content": "White matter lesions in watershed territories studied with MRI and parenchymography: a comparative study. Brain aging affects an increasing segment of the population and the role of chronic cerebrovascular disease is considered to be one of the main parameters involved. For this purpose we compared retrospectively MRI data with digitized subtraction angiography (DSA) data in a group of 50 patients focusing onto the watershed area of the carotid artery vascular territories. In order to evaluate the presence of white matter lesions (WML) in the hemispheric watershed areas, coronal fluid-attenuated inversion-recovery or axial T2 weighted MRI images of patients with symptomatic cerebrovascular insufficiency areas were compared with the capillary phase of DSA studies in anterior-posterior projection. Presence of cerebrovascular occlusive disease was evaluated on DSA using North American symptomatic carotid endarterectomy trial criteria and including evaluation of collateral vascular supply. Pathological MRI findings in the region of the watershed territories correlated overall in 66% of cases with a defect or delayed filling on DSA. In the case of asymmetrical MRI findings, there was a pathological finding of the capillary phase in the watershed area in 92% of DSA studies. Hypoperfusion in the capillary phase of the watershed area as seen on DSA correlated with the stenosis degree of the concerned carotid artery. Our findings suggest that asymmetrical findings of WML in the watershed areas as seen on MRI are caused by hemodynamic effect and a differentiation between small vessel disease and a consequence of distant stenosis may be possible under such conditions."}
{"id": "15855137", "title": "Association of internal carotid artery injury with carotid canal fractures in patients with head trauma.", "content": "Association of internal carotid artery injury with carotid canal fractures in patients with head trauma. The purpose of our study was to determine the degree to which carotid canal fracture and other CT findings are associated with internal carotid artery (ICA) injury in patients with head trauma. Three neuroradiologists retrospectively evaluated CT scans and cerebral angiograms of 43 patients who underwent cerebral angiography within 7 days after blunt cranial trauma over a 5-year period. Seventeen patients underwent unilateral and 26 had bilateral carotid angiography. Angiograms were evaluated for ICA injury and CT scans were evaluated for carotid canal fracture, brain contusion, subarachnoid hemorrhage, basilar skull fracture, subdural hematoma, soft-tissue swelling, sphenoid sinus air-fluid level, and other skull fracture. We recorded the number of true-positive (+CT, +angiogram), true-negative (-CT, -angiogram), false-positive (+CT, -angiogram), and false-negative (-CT, +angiogram) studies. We determined the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value for each CT finding. We identified 21 carotid canal fractures in 17 patients. Eleven ICA injuries were seen in 10 patients. Six patients with ICA injury had a carotid canal fracture. The presence of a carotid canal fracture had a sensitivity of 60% and specificity of 67% for detection of injury to the ICA passing through that canal. These values were similar to those for other CT findings. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of carotid canal fracture were only moderately good for determining the presence of ICA injury and were similar to other CT findings not typically associated with ICA injury."}
{"id": "15845114", "title": "Intra-arterial thrombolysis in acute ischaemic stroke.", "content": "Intra-arterial thrombolysis in acute ischaemic stroke. Several thrombolytic agents for the treatment of acute ischaemic stroke have been examined; however, to date, only the i.v. administration of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator is licensed in Australia. Although no trials directly comparing intra-arterial and i.v. delivery of thrombolytics exist, intra-arterial thrombolysis has several potential advantages, including angiographic assessment of the thrombus and the site of occlusion and collateral circulation, improved recanalization, and delivery of higher local concentrations of thrombolytic agents and extending the therapeutic time window for treatment. We conducted a retrospective audit of our experience with the use of intra-arterial urokinase to treat acute ischaemic stroke at an Australian tertiary-care hospital between June 1993 and June 2003. We examined time from stroke onset to assessment, computerized tomography scan, cerebral angiography and thrombolysis, anatomical classification of intra-arterial thrombus, rates of symptomatic intracerebral haemorrhage, and clinical outcome at 3 months. We believe that in carefully selected individuals in appropriate centres of expertise, intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy holds great promise."}
{"id": "15845049", "title": "Pituitary apoplexy: an unusual cause of frontal lobe syndrome.", "content": "Pituitary apoplexy: an unusual cause of frontal lobe syndrome. Pituitary apoplexy presenting as frontal lobe syndrome is rare. Interestingly, in our patient the frontal lobe infarct was as a result of intense anterior cerebral artery spasm consequent to nonaneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. The mechanisms of cerebral infarct associated with pituitary apoplexy are discussed."}
{"id": "15823683", "title": "Brain stem lesion mimicking myasthenia gravis.", "content": "Brain stem lesion mimicking myasthenia gravis. Brain stem masses may mimic Myasthenia gravis (MG), clinically and electrophysiologically. We present a 38 year-old female patient with a brain stem mass, who has clinical features similar with MG, and revealed a decremental response to repetitive nerve stimulation. Brain stem mass was removed by surgery. In the postoperative period, her complaints were regressed. Control repetitive nerve stimulation examination was normal."}
{"id": "15805660", "title": "Cerebral computed tomographic angiography scan delay in subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Cerebral computed tomographic angiography scan delay in subarachnoid hemorrhage. Computed tomographic angiography (CTA) is widely applied in the evaluation of cerebral vessels. Contrast enhancement in cerebral CTA without care or test bolus is not always sufficient for high-quality images. Evaluation of the possibilities of calculation of scan delay for cerebral CTA in case of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), based on clinical data of a patient and to find out prognostic error of the model. Prospective study in Neurosurgery and Radiology departments. Scan delay in 53 patients suffering an acute SAH was measured employing test bolus technique. Cerebral CTA was performed afterwards. SPSS for Windows v.10.1 software package was applied for dispersion analysis, including one-sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov's test and Levene's Test of Equality of Error Variances. A statistical model for the prediction of scan delay in SAH was developed. Cerebral CTA scan delay was dependent upon age, neurological status and impact of the latter factors together (P< 0.05). The determined mean square error of prognosis of scan delay of the developed model equals 3.3 sec. Using our proposed model it is possible to estimate an optimal delay time for CTA in most patients with SAH with a determined error."}
{"id": "15799812", "title": "Awake craniotomy for microsurgical obliteration of mycotic aneurysms: technical report of three cases.", "content": "Awake craniotomy for microsurgical obliteration of mycotic aneurysms: technical report of three cases. Infectious (mycotic) aneurysms that do not resolve with medical treatment require surgical obliteration, usually requiring sacrifice of the parent artery. In addition, patients with mycotic aneurysms frequently need subsequent cardiac valve repair, which often necessitates anticoagulation. Three cases of awake craniotomy for microsurgical clipping of mycotic aneurysms are presented. Awake minimally invasive craniotomy using frameless stereotactic guidance on the basis of computed tomographic angiography enables temporary occlusion of the parent artery with neurological assessment before obliteration of the aneurysm. A 56-year-old woman presented with progressively worsening mitral valve disease and a history of subacute bacterial endocarditis and subarachnoid hemorrhage 30 years previously. A cerebral angiogram revealed a 4-mm left middle cerebral artery (MCA) angular branch aneurysm, which required obliteration before mitral valve replacement. The second patient, a 64-year-old woman with a history of rheumatic fever, had an 8-mm right distal MCA aneurysm diagnosed in the setting of pulmonary abscess and worsening cardiac function as a result of mitral valve disease. The third patient, a 57-year-old man with a history of fevers, night sweats, and progressive mitral valve disease, had an enlarging left MCA angular branch aneurysm despite the administration of antibiotics. Because of their location on distal MCA branches, none of the aneurysms were amenable to preoperative test balloon occlusion. After undergoing stereotactic computed tomographic angiography with fiducial markers, the patients underwent a minimally invasive awake craniotomy with frameless stereotactic navigation. In all cases, the results of the neurological examination were unchanged during temporary parent artery occlusion and the aneurysms were successfully obliterated. Awake minimally invasive craniotomy for an infectious aneurysm located in eloquent brain enables awake testing before permanent clipping or vessel sacrifice. Combining frameless stereotactic navigation with computed tomographic angiography allowed us to perform the operation quickly through a small craniotomy with minimal exploration."}
{"id": "15798609", "title": "[Dynamic MRA in the evaluation of intracranial vascular diseases].", "content": "[Dynamic MRA in the evaluation of intracranial vascular diseases]. Conventional catheter angiography (CCA) remains the gold standard for the evaluation of most intracranial vascular malformations. MRA techniques such as Time of Flight, Phase Contrast or 3D contrast-enhanced MRA, provide anatomic evaluation but without hemodynamic information. Recently developed, dynamic MRA is based on dynamic acquisition of images and image subtraction; these two principal characteristics produce images comparable to those obtained by CCA. The purpose of this review is to explain the principles, advantages and drawbacks of this technique in the evaluation of arteriovenous malformations, arteriovenous fistulas, aneurysms and venous thrombosis."}
{"id": "15797186", "title": "Arterial spasm following perimesencephalic nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage in a pediatric patient.", "content": "Arterial spasm following perimesencephalic nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage in a pediatric patient. Perimesencephalic nonaneurysmal hemorrhage is a benign form of subarachnoid hemorrhages. This entity is well recognized as a distinct type of subarachnoid hemorrhage in adults. However, perimesencephalic nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage in pediatric patients is not well recognized. Angiographic changes such as vasospasm are uncommon in patients, especially in pediatric patients suffering from this type of hemorrhage. This case study reports a 12-year-old male who suffered from perimesencephalic nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral carotid angiography performed on the tenth day of the posthemorrhagic period revealed severe vasospasm affecting the basilar artery. The patient, treated symptomatically, was discharged after improvement. One year later, magnetic resonance angiography revealed completely normal features."}
{"id": "15796382", "title": "Basilar artery dissection.", "content": "Basilar artery dissection. Little is understood about the clinical manifestations of basilar artery (BA) dissections, which can present with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), brainstem compression, or ischemia. In any instance, the prognosis seems poorer than that for vertebral artery (VA) dissection. The authors analyzed clinical presentations and radiological features of BA dissection with and without rupture. Between 1998 and 2003, the authors treated 10 patients (eight men and two women, ranging in age from 32-78 years; mean age 54 years) with BA dissection. Diagnosis was based on clinical and radiological findings, including those from magnetic resonance imaging and cerebral angiography studies. Of the 10 patients, five had impaired consciousness at disease onset. Among four patients presenting with SAH, two were treated conservatively and had fair outcomes without recurrent hemorrhage. The other two patients with SAH were treated using unilateral endovascular VA occlusion, but one of them subsequently suffered fatal rebleeding. A fifth patient presented with progressive signs of a mass involving the brainstem, whereas the remaining five patients showed brainstem ischemia; all were treated conservatively. Four patients could not return to their previous daily activities. Basilar artery dissections are rare lesions associated with significant morbidity and death. The natural course of and the treatment options for BA dissection differ considerably from those for VA dissections. Management of these lesions is controversial and difficult, and requires particular care."}
{"id": "15782005", "title": "Incomplete oculomotor nerve palsy caused by an unruptured internal carotid-anterior choroidal artery aneurysm--case report--.", "content": "Incomplete oculomotor nerve palsy caused by an unruptured internal carotid-anterior choroidal artery aneurysm--case report--. A 59-year-old woman visited our institute with the chief complaint of dizziness which persisted whenever she tried to focus on objects. She had not experienced apparent double vision and had no history of intracranial bleeding. Neurological examination revealed no abnormality except for exotropia at the mid-position and at upper gaze. Cerebral angiography revealed that the intracranial portion of the left internal carotid artery ran more horizontally and also identified an unruptured left internal carotid-anterior choroidal artery (IC-AChA) aneurysm of 3.0 mm diameter. The aneurysm at the origin of the AChA was confirmed during surgery. The proximal lateral wall of the aneurysm was in contact with the oculomotor nerve. This contact was released after complete obliteration of the aneurysm. The exotropia resolved 3 months later. Oculomotor nerve palsy usually indicates the presence of internal carotid-posterior communicating artery (IC-PcomA) aneurysm. Since sacrifice of the AChA will result in severe neurological deficits, accurate neuroimaging information is needed prior to the operation. Conventional angiography and/or three-dimensional computed tomography angiography should be performed to ascertain whether the aneurysm is an IC-PcomA or IC-AChA aneurysm, even if some neurosurgeons insist that conventional angiography is not always needed before surgery for an unruptured aneurysm."}
{"id": "15764589", "title": "Diagnostic and prognostic value of early MR Imaging vessel signs in hyperacute stroke patients imaged <3 hours and treated with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator.", "content": "Diagnostic and prognostic value of early MR Imaging vessel signs in hyperacute stroke patients imaged <3 hours and treated with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. Analogous to the CT hyperattenuated vessel sign (HMCAS), MR imaging may show hypo- or hyperintense vessels in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients. We assessed the diagnostic and prognostic strength of early MR imaging vessel signs in AIS patients treated with intravenous thrombolysis (IVT) within 3 hours of the onset of symptoms. We studied AIS patients both treated with IVT and stroke MR imaged within 3 hours of the onset of symptoms and at 2 hours and 24 hours after treatment. We assessed the presence or absence of early vessel signs (hyperintense fluid-attenuated inversion recovery sign [FLAIR HVS]; gradient-echo susceptibility vessel sign [GRE SVS]) compared with a combined MR angiography/perfusion-weighted imaging reference and their strength for predicting clinical outcome (favorable vs. poor, independent vs. dependent, or dead, death), recanalization (by clot composition and flow), and hemorrhage in uni- and multivariate analysis. Fifty-six patients (age range, 76 years +/- 13 years; median National Institutes of Health stroke scale score [NIHSSS], 11) met the inclusion criteria. Forty-four patients (78.6%) had a vessel occlusion at baseline; 22 of them (50%) recanalized. Nineteen patients (33.9%) suffered some form of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH), 24 patients (42.9%) had an independent outcome, 18 patients (32.1%) a favorable outcome, and 14 patients died. Compared with our combined reference for vessel status PWI/MRA, the sensitivities of CT HMCAS, FLAIR HVS, and GRE SVS were 40%, 66%, and 34%, respectively, and improved during the hours that followed. Localization was accurately reflected by FLAIR HVS but not by GRE SVS. Only NIHSSS and age were independent predictors for recanalization and all clinical outcomes in multiple logistic regression analysis. Although early vessel signs can be helpful in the diagnosis of intravascular disease, they do not independently predict recanalization, ICH, or any of the three clinical outcomes in a multivariate logistic regression model. Thrombus composition as reflected by signal intensity characteristics on GRE and FLAIR does not predict the therapeutic effect of IVT."}
{"id": "15760882", "title": "Cerebral vasculitis in graft-versus-host disease: a case report.", "content": "Cerebral vasculitis in graft-versus-host disease: a case report. We describe a case of cerebral vasculitis seen on angiography in a patient with a history of non-Hodgkin lymphoma and graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) 2 years after match-related bone-marrow transplant. The vasculitis was ascribed to GVHD as other causes were excluded by laboratory tests. Other recent reports of GVHD-related vasculitis have been published, but none with angiographic changes."}
{"id": "15757025", "title": "Emerging medical and surgical management strategies in the evaluation and treatment of intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Emerging medical and surgical management strategies in the evaluation and treatment of intracerebral hemorrhage. Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) accounts for approximately 10% of all strokes and causes high morbidity and mortality. Rupture of the small perforating vessels of the cerebral arteries is caused by chronic hypertension, which induces pathologic changes in the small vessels and accounts for most cases of ICH; however, amyloid angiopathy and other secondary causes are being seen more frequently with the increasing age of the population. Recent computed tomographic studies have revealed that ICH is a dynamic process with up to one third of initial hemorrhages expanding within the first several hours of ictus. Secondary injury is believed to result from the development of cerebral edema and the release of specific neurotoxins associated with the breakdown products of hemoglobin. Treatment is primarily supportive. Surgical evacuation is the treatment of choice for patients with neurologic deterioration from infratentorial hematomas. Randomized trials comparing surgical evacuation to medical management have shown no benefit of surgical removal of supratentorial hemorrhages. New strategies focusing on early hemostasis, improved critical care management, and less invasive surgical techniques for clot evacuation are promising to decrease secondary neurologic injury. We review the pathophysiology of ICH, its medical management, and new treatment strategies for improving patient outcome."}
{"id": "15734507", "title": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage on computed tomography scanning and the development of cerebral vasospasm: the Fisher grade revisited.", "content": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage on computed tomography scanning and the development of cerebral vasospasm: the Fisher grade revisited. The Fisher grade (FG) is widely used to predict cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). We revisited the grading scale to determine its validity in the era of modern management. We retrospectively reviewed the records of 134 patients with SAH. The amount and distribution of subarachnoid blood on admission computed tomography (CT) scan was quantified according to the FG and compared with development of symptomatic vasospasm. We reviewed 134 patients (median age, 54) who presented with aneurysmal SAH. Six (5%) were FG 1, 34 (25%) were FG 2, 25 (19%) were FG 3, and 69 (51%) were FG 4. Symptomatic vasospasm developed in no (0%) FG 1, 8 (24%) FG 2, 7 (28 %) FG 3, and 13 (19%) FG 4 patients (28 of 134 total patients; 21%). Development of symptomatic vasospasm was not associated with admission FG, Hunt and Hess grade, age, sex, or location of blood on presenting CT scan. Elevated transcranial Doppler blood flow velocity was associated with blood in the basal cisterns (P = .0047), lateral ventricles (P = .026), or blood in any ventricle (P = .04). Postoperative angiograms were obtained in 57 patients; moderate to severe vasospasm was observed in 5 (15%) FG 2, 6 (24%) FG 3, and 14 (20%) FG 4 patients. Twenty patients (71%) with symptomatic vasospasm had moderate or severe angiographic vasospasm. Angiographic vasospasm was associated with intraventricular blood (P = .054) but not with FG. Symptomatic vasospasm occurred in 21% of cases. The FG correlated with symptomatic vasospasm in only half the patients. A new predictive CT grading scale for vasospasm may be necessary."}
{"id": "15716626", "title": "Spontaneous intracerebral hematoma from transient occult carotid-cavernous fistula: a case report.", "content": "Spontaneous intracerebral hematoma from transient occult carotid-cavernous fistula: a case report. After the spontaneous relief of initial symptoms by traumatic carotid-cavernous fistula (CCF), paradoxical worsening of patient's condition can be followed. We present a case of a 60-yr-old man whose audible bruit from a traumatic CCF had completely disappeared. A few days later, however, the patient had spontaneous intracerebral hematoma with cortical venous drainage. Complete obliteration of the fistula was achieved after embolization. When initial audible bruit in traumatic CCF disappears suddenly, cerebral angiography should be performed to differentiate venous hypertension by the hemodynamic changes of the cavernous sinus channels from spontaneous resolution of CCF."}
{"id": "15715000", "title": "[A case of anterior cerebral artery dissection causing hemorrhagic infarction].", "content": "[A case of anterior cerebral artery dissection causing hemorrhagic infarction]. A 56-year-old man presented with weakness in his right arm and leg. Throbbing headache occurred several hours prior to his weakness. Brain CT obtained on day 3 demonstrated low density areas in the medial part of the left frontal lobe. Cerebral angiography on day 14 demonstrated dilatation and narrowing of the left anterior cerebral artery (ACA) corresponding to \"pearl and string sign\". The diagnosis of spontaneous ACA dissection was established with clinical features, laboratory findings, and angiographic findings. Antiplatelet therapy was undertaken for the prevention of ischemic events. Serial Brain CT demonstrated hemorrhagic change in the area of infarction. However, there was no definite clinical deterioration. Antiplatelet therapy was withdrawn after hemorrhagic change was noted. Cerebral angiography on day 35 showed improvement of both dilatation and narrowing. Possible reperfusion injury caused by absorption of intramural hematoma seems to be responsible for hemorrhagic change. In patients with cerebral infarction due to dissection of intracranial arteries, antithrombotic therapy is controversial as hemorrhagic complications including hemorrhagic infarction as well as subarachnoidal hemorrhage can occur. Further accumulation of cases is required."}
{"id": "15714963", "title": "[Putaminal hemorrhage in a case of Turner's syndrome with hyperaldosteronemia].", "content": "[Putaminal hemorrhage in a case of Turner's syndrome with hyperaldosteronemia]. A case of Turner's syndrome complicated with intracerebral hemorrhage in a 21-year-old female is presented. The patient experienced acute onset of unconsciousness and the left-sided hemiparesis due to the right-sided putaminal hemorrhage. Severe hypertension was seen at the hospitalization. Cerebral angiography revealed no vascular lesion other than the displacement of lenticulostriate arteries. Emergent surgical evacuation of the hematoma was successfully performed with her favorable outcome. Postoperatively, several hormonal tests indicated hyperaldosteronemia secondary to the increased levels of ACTH and renin as a result of hyper-response to the environmental stress, leading to critical hypertension. Other examinations including CT scan, MRI, MRA, and laboratory data showed no abnormalities suggestive of renal lesions. It is supposed that hypertension, as a frequent presenting feature, should be strictly controlled in Turner's syndrome from the first time of diagnosis."}
{"id": "15708227", "title": "Thrombosed vertebral artery aneurysm presenting with hemorrhage and bulbar compression: report of two cases.", "content": "Thrombosed vertebral artery aneurysm presenting with hemorrhage and bulbar compression: report of two cases. Bulbar compression by vertebral artery (VA) aneurysm is extremely rare and only reported in a few cases. We report two cases with thrombosed VA aneurysm compressing medulla oblongata; one presented with bulbar apoplexy hemorrhage and the other with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). A 61-year-old male (case 1) presented with consciousness disturbances, left hemiplegia, and subsequent respiratory arrest. He was subjected to controlled ventilation, and computed tomography (CT) scan showed bulbar hemorrhage. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and digital subtraction angiogram (DSA) revealed fusiform right VA aneurysm with partial thrombosis and bulbar compression. Intra-aneurysmal embolization with Guglielmi detachable coils (GDCs) relieved his clinical symptom including respiratory disturbance. Three months after the onset, he remained moderately disabled. A 76-year-old male (case 2) presented with severe headache and subsequent respiratory disturbance. CT scan on admission showed subarachnoid hemorrhage with acute hydrocephalus. Ventricular drainage rapidly improved consciousness while respiratory disturbance persisted over several days. MRI and DSA suggested spontaneous thrombosis of the right VA dissection with bulbar compression. He showed gradual recovery of his respiration over a week. After ventriculo-peritoneal shunting, he was transferred with moderate disability. These results suggest that the elimination of the pulsatile effect of VA aneurysm adjacent to medulla oblongata can improve symptoms caused by aneurysm-related compression. Early diagnosis and appropriate treatment such as intra-aneurysmal embolization for ameliorating the blood flow inside the aneurysm can relieve mass effect and clinical symptoms."}
{"id": "15703900", "title": "MRI/MRA evaluation of sickle cell disease of the brain.", "content": "MRI/MRA evaluation of sickle cell disease of the brain. Sickle cell disease is a major cause of pediatric stroke. Understanding the disease that affects the brain as infarctions, both clinically apparent and silent, requires an understanding of how the blood vessels are affected, the way in which both the brain and the blood vessels are imaged by MRI and MRA and the mechanism of injury."}
{"id": "15693812", "title": "Risk factors for occlusive lesions of intracranial arteries in stroke-free Japanese.", "content": "Risk factors for occlusive lesions of intracranial arteries in stroke-free Japanese. The aim of this study was to identify relevant risk factors for occlusive lesions of the intracranial arteries in stroke-free population. The subjects of this study were 425 patients without a history of stroke or transient ischemic attack and without any abnormality on a neurological examination who consecutively visited a neurology clinic between January 1994 and June 2001 requesting medical evaluation for possible cerebrovascular diseases. Subjects included 245 men and 180 women ranging in age from 33 to 89 years (mean+/-SD=64.0+/-10.0 years). We performed cervical and intracranial magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) in all subjects. Using a validated rating scheme of MRA for occlusive lesions, we evaluated the degree of stenoses in the extracranial portion of the internal carotid artery (ICA) and the intracranial arteries including the intracranial portion of the ICA, middle cerebral artery (MCA) stem, intracranial portion of the vertebral artery (VA), and basilar artery (BA). More than 25% stenoses were regarded as significant lesions in this study. Multiple logistic regression analyses showed that significant and independent predictors for extracranial ICA lesions were age, hyperlipidemia, and ischemic heart disease (IHD), those for intracranial ICA lesions were age, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and IHD, those for MCA lesions were age and hypertension, those for intracranial VA lesions were hyperlipidemia and IHD, and those for BA lesions were hypertension and diabetes mellitus. The present study suggested that atherosclerosis of the intracranial VA was related to hyperlipidemia and IHD as was the case for the extracranial carotid artery, whilst atherosclerosis of other sites of intracranial arteries was associated with hypertension and diabetes mellitus in stroke-free Japanese."}
{"id": "15691788", "title": "Diagnostic cerebral angiography in spontaneous intracranial haemorrhage: a guide for developing countries.", "content": "Diagnostic cerebral angiography in spontaneous intracranial haemorrhage: a guide for developing countries. Spontaneous intracranial haemorrhage constitutes 18-40% of all stroke cases. Indications for cerebral angiography to find underlying potentially treatable vascular abnormalities are not clear. This study determined which intracranial haemorrhage patients need cerebral angiography by correlating computed tomography (CT) findings, age and hypertension history with cerebral angiography findings. A total of 54 patients (8-79 years) with intracranial haemorrhage who underwent both CT examination and six-vessel cerebral angiography were studied over a 2-year period. Cerebral angiography was repeated within 6 weeks if the first angiogram was negative. Angiography detected vascular lesions in 50% of cases (aneurysm 38.9% and arteriovenous malformation, AVM, 11.1%). In the aneurysm group, angiographic yield was 34.3% whereas in the AVM group, it was 37.9%. Subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) combined with other types of haemorrhage (such as intracerebral haemorrhage, ICH) was not significantly correlated with the likelihood of finding a vascular lesion, both aneurysm and AVM (p = 0.157). Age less than 50 years had significant correlation (p = 0.021) in the AVM group as well as in the aneurysm group (p < 0.001). A history of hypertension was associated with both aneurysm (p = 0.039) and AVM (p = 0.008). No patients with deep intracerebral haematoma had vascular lesions. The presence of an intravascular haemorrhage (IVH) had significant correlation with aneurysm (p = 0.008) but not AVM. There was no significant difference in mean age between patients with and without a vascular lesion (p = 0.134). Cerebral angiography is justified in patients with ICH accompanied by pure SAH (p = 0.001). Other factors associated with finding a vascular lesion were a history of hypertension and the presence of IVH. Diagnostic cerebral angiography is indicated for patients with ICH and SAH and IVH with a history of hypertension, regardless of age."}
{"id": "15662498", "title": "Intracranial angiolipoma as cause of subarachnoid haemorrhage. Case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Intracranial angiolipoma as cause of subarachnoid haemorrhage. Case report and review of the literature. A 33-year-old female with a longstanding history of seizures was admitted to our hospital with subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH). Computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) depicted a vascular fat-containing lesion overlying a right frontal cortical polymicrogyria. The diagnosis of angiolipoma was established. Conservatory management was undertaken with full recovery. She has been followed for 5 years since, with neither re-bleeding nor morphologic change of the lesion. This is a rare intracranial lesion, with only 11 intracranial angiolipomas published in the literature, and is the first case reported which is associated with SAH caused by this lesion."}
{"id": "16929579", "title": "Distal lenticulostriate artery aneurysm rupture presenting as intraparenchymal hemorrhage: case report.", "content": "Distal lenticulostriate artery aneurysm rupture presenting as intraparenchymal hemorrhage: case report. Aneurysms involving the distal lenticulostriate artery branches are a rare cause of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. We report a case of ruptured lenticulostriate aneurysm in an otherwise healthy patient and review the literature on this topic. Computed tomography showed a right basal ganglia hemorrhage in a 44-year-old Native American woman with acute left hemiparesis. Cerebral angiography showed a 2-mm aneurysm in a distal lenticulostriate artery branch. A pterional craniotomy was performed on a delayed basis using computed tomographic angiography and frameless stereotactic guidance. The basal ganglia hematoma was evacuated, and the aneurysm was identified and clipped using microsurgical technique. Because the base of the aneurysm involved a portion of the parent vessel wall, it was wrapped with cotton and reinforced with cyanoacrylate glue. The patient did well after surgery and was discharged to home with outpatient rehabilitation on the third postoperative day. Although intraparenchymal hemorrhages are fairly common, the underlying vascular abnormality is rarely identified. Most are related to hypertensive vascular degeneration, rupture of a Charcot-Bouchard aneurysm, or both. When intracerebral hemorrhage occurs in young patients, however, aggressive investigation is warranted to rule out a structural vascular abnormality."}
{"id": "16871745", "title": "[Endoscopic method in etiological diagnosis of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. Case report].", "content": "[Endoscopic method in etiological diagnosis of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. Case report]. The etiology of cerebral hemorrhage is not always easy to diagnose and modern neuroimaging methods may be deceptive. The authors report on a 48-year-old previously healthy male admitted to hospital with a first-time severe generalized epileptic seizure. The patient presented with aphasia, confusion, headaches, nausea, right hemianopia and early papilledema. CT revealed an intracerebral hematoma in the left occipital lobe but MRI and MRA failed to provide any further insight into the etiology of the hemorrhage. Due to persisting intracranial hypertension, the patient underwent neuroendoscopic removal of the hematoma. After blood clots were evacuated, pathologic vascularity was found. Tissue samples were collected from the walls of the hematoma cavity. Neoplastic cells adjacent to the blood vessels were identified in one of the samples. The patient was reoperated and a glioma-like tumor was removed. The diagnosis of cerebral intratumoral hemorrhage is difficult especially when there are no previous clinical signs of a tumor. Neuroendoscopy may speed up the diagnostic process which usually extends past resorption of the haematoma and the technique may be an alternative to stereotactic surgery."}
{"id": "16174896", "title": "Intracranial hemorrhage: the role of magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Intracranial hemorrhage: the role of magnetic resonance imaging. The initial and exclusive use of MRI in patients with a stroke syndrome is feasible, probably cost-effective, and even time saving when considering its potential wealth of information. MRI may be the diagnostic tool of choice in patients with all stages of stroke, especially in the hyperacute assessment of ICH, and could be equivalent to CT and CTA in SAH diagnosis. The authors' aim is to provide a comprehensive review about the potential role of MRI in evaluating ICH and SAH. Emerging applications, such as the assessment of microbleeds as a risk factor for secondary hemorrhage after thrombolysis and perihemorrhagic ischemic changes as a potential marker for patients likely to benefit from hematoma evacuation, are reviewed."}
{"id": "15771067", "title": "[Method of diagnostics of pathologic deformity of carotid arteries].", "content": "[Method of diagnostics of pathologic deformity of carotid arteries]. Pathologic deformity of carotid arteries in 137 patients with transitional ischemic attacks, ischemic stroke and dyscirculatory encephalopathy by means of magnetic-resonance and multislice computer angiography has been studied in. The fractal geometry and in particular, fractal dimensionality (FD) have been used to describe pathologic deformity of carotid arteries. The patients with FD < 0.6 subsequently underwent surgical intervention."}
{"id": "15662247", "title": "Computed tomography and magnetic resonance angiography in cervicocranial vascular disease.", "content": "Computed tomography and magnetic resonance angiography in cervicocranial vascular disease. Although catheter angiography, or digital subtraction angiography (DSA), is still regarded as the gold standard for imaging of cervicocranial vascular disease, its morbidity, cost, and time-consuming features have prompted the development of noninvasive techniques based on computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging. With the advent of powerful software, CT and magnetic resonance angiography are complementing and, in some cases, even replacing DSA in the diagnostic evaluation of carotid atherostenosis, unruptured aneurysms, dissections, stroke, penetrating trauma to the neck, and dural venous sinus occlusive disease. They offer advantages over DSA not only in reduced morbidity and time-saving but also in assessment of brain parenchyma, quantitative perfusion, and abnormalities of vessel walls. In the evaluation of blunt neck injuries and intracranial vascular malformations, fistulas, and vasculitis, CT and magnetic resonance angiography still do not provide as much information as DSA."}
{"id": "15645155", "title": "New developments in MRA: time-resolved MRA.", "content": "New developments in MRA: time-resolved MRA. For many clinical questions, less invasive angiography methods have at least in part already replaced digital subtraction angiography (DSA) as a routine diagnostic procedure. However, temporal resolution achievable with DSA is still indispensable in some patients. Recent advances in MR hardware performance and imaging techniques permit sub-second frame rate MR angiographies to be performed using a rapidly repeated fast T1 weighted gradient echo sequence during administration of a contrast bolus, and subsequent complex subtraction in k-space to emphasise the difference in phase between stationary tissue and contrast-enhanced blood. This technique allows two-dimensional projection angiograms to be obtained at a temporal frame rate of three images per second and with a spatial in-plane resolution of about one square millimetre. This time-resolved information is important for (a) the detection and follow-up of arteriovenous malformations, including their arterial feeders, the size of the nidus and their venous drainage patterns, (b) the demonstration of dural arteriovenous fistulas, recognised as an early filling of a dural sinus during the early arterial phase, and (c) the characterization of the vascularisation of brain tumours. With regards to vascular malformations, the direction of venous drainage and therefore the most pressing clinical questions concerning the need for therapeutic intervention can be ascertained. This technique is the only MR imaging method able to provide dynamic information on the cerebral vasculature. It therefore constitutes a helpful adjunct to the imaging armentarium in many clinical situations."}
{"id": "15633365", "title": "Ruptured arteriovenous malformation and subarachnoid hemorrhage during emergent cesarean delivery: a case report.", "content": "Ruptured arteriovenous malformation and subarachnoid hemorrhage during emergent cesarean delivery: a case report. Cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are formed from a vascular plexus of direct arterial-venous connections that progressively dilate, making them prone to rupture. They are frequently asymptomatic and often remain undiagnosed until they present with associated symptoms of headaches, seizures, neurological deficits, or hemorrhages. Occurrence of headache during pregnancy and labor is associated with several diverse etiologies, making definitive diagnosis extremely difficult. This case report describes the anesthetic management of a 31-year-old laboring patient who first complained of headache, then suffered an acute subarachnoid hemorrhage secondary to rupture of a previously undiagnosed AVM during emergent cesarean delivery."}
{"id": "15605820", "title": "[Practical aspects of using different types of angioarchitecture in assessment of brain vascular pathology in patients with circulatory encephalopathy].", "content": "[Practical aspects of using different types of angioarchitecture in assessment of brain vascular pathology in patients with circulatory encephalopathy]. The article contributes to establishing direct correlative interchanges between MRA and ultrasonic diagnostics data on cerebral arteries perfusion (CAP) in terms of lowering CAP by cerebro-vascular insufficiency type. The data obtained by means of pathomorphological and pathohistological analyses on arterial and venous angioarchitecture, mathematical models of features of vessels branching \"geometry\" with possible reaction of the vessels to intravascular blood pressure changes, all this can explain variety of trigger zones causing ischemic lesions formation occurred by disgemias of different origins. The issue on cerebral arteries visualization demands from researches to develop more sophisticated methods of MRA to get high resolution ratio and obtain more detailed information about distant segments of cerebral arteries."}
{"id": "15588953", "title": "Intracranial collateral pathways assessed by contrast-enhanced three-dimensional transcranial color-coded sonography.", "content": "Intracranial collateral pathways assessed by contrast-enhanced three-dimensional transcranial color-coded sonography. Individual parameter settings of the duplex machine and limited insonation angles may influence the visualization of small intracranial vessels in 2-D transcranial color-coded sonography. The aim of our study was the morphologic assessment of intracranial collateral pathways (first auditory area celiac artery, A(1)CA; anterior communicating artery, AComA; first parental generation celiac artery P(1)CA; posterior communicating artery, PComA) using 3-D transcranial color-coded duplex sonography (3-D TCCS) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). A total of 41 patients with large vessel disease and 30 patients who had suffered subarachnoidal hemorrhage (mean age 52 +/- 15 years) were involved. In all patients, angiography was performed within 10 days following 3-D sonography. The patients were investigated with a color-coded duplex system using the power mode. Contrast enhancement was achieved by continuous infusion of a galactose-based echo-enhancer using a perfusor pump. The 3-D system consists of an electromagnet that induces a low-intensity magnetic field near the head of the patient. A magnetic position sensor is attached to the ultrasound (US) probe and transmits the spatial orientation to a personal computer, which also receives the corresponding 2-D images from the video port of the duplex machine. Angiography revealed a \"complete\" circle of Willis in one third of the patients and, in the remaining patients at least one vessel was hypoplastic or absent. Sufficient temporal bone windows allowed the sonographic investigation of 466 (94%) of 497 expected arterial segments. The comparison of both techniques resulted in a weighted kappa value of 0.56 for the A(1)CA and 0.63 for the AComA. In the posterior circulation kappa values of 0.56 for the P(1)CA and 0.43 for the PComA were calculated. In 50 vessels (10%), 3-D sonography misdiagnosed the diameter of a collateral vessel as normal and angiography revealed hypoplasia or aplasia of this vessel. The main advantage of 3-D TCCS is that it enables the investigator to reconstruct virtually any arbitrary view angle. Compared with angiography or magnetic resonance (MR) angiography, 3-D sonography can be performed easily in critically ill patients on stroke units or intensive care units. The noninvasive assessment of the circle of Willis may be useful in patients who undergo carotid surgery without angiography. Combined with hemodynamic information, contrast-enhanced 3-D TCCS might increase the diagnostic impact of transcranial US."}
{"id": "15580489", "title": "MR angiography of the intracranial vessels: technical aspects and clinical applications.", "content": "MR angiography of the intracranial vessels: technical aspects and clinical applications. Evaluation of the intracranial circulation provides valuable information in the diagnosis and prognosis of various intracranial abnormalities and may influence patient management. Technical advances in magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) have improved the accuracy of this technique in various clinical situations, such as aneurysms, arterial and venous steno-occlusive diseases, vascular malformations, inflammatory arterial diseases, preoperative assessment of the patency of dural sinuses, and congenital vascular abnormalities. In many centers, MRA has replaced conventional digital subtraction angiography in screening for intracranial vascular disease, because of its non-invasive and non-ionizing character. Several MRA techniques have been developed for the imaging of the intracranial vascular system, such as time-of-flight MRA (TOF MRA), phase-contrast MRA (PC MRA), and more recently contrast-enhanced MRA (CE MRA). In the evaluation of steno-occlusive disease, the three-dimensional (3D) TOF-MRA technique is recommended for arterial evaluation, and the 2D TOF or 2D PC-MRA technique for venous evaluation. For the evaluation of aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations (AVMs), we recommend the 3D CE-MRA technique, especially dynamic sequences in case of AVM. In this review, the technical aspects, limitations, and optimization of these MRA techniques will be discussed together with their indications in intracranial disease."}
{"id": "15569748", "title": "Endovascular management of dolichoectasia of the posterior cerebral artery report.", "content": "Endovascular management of dolichoectasia of the posterior cerebral artery report. Congenital or nonatherosclerotic dolichoectasia is a rare condition; its etiology, natural history, and indications and technique of treatment are not yet clarified. During a workup for recent headaches and left-sided paresthesia in a 48 year-old female patient, brain MR imaging and cerebral angiography showed a large dolichoectasia of the P2 segment of the right posterior cerebral artery (PCA). The patient passed endovascular testing for occlusion of P2 with both balloon test occlusion and selective amytal testing. Endovascular coil occlusion of the right PCA dolichoectasia was successfully performed with hydrogel coils."}
{"id": "15549513", "title": "Superselective angiography increases the diagnostic yield in the investigation of intracranial haematomas caused by micro-arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "Superselective angiography increases the diagnostic yield in the investigation of intracranial haematomas caused by micro-arteriovenous malformations."}
{"id": "15545944", "title": "[Emergency imaging of cerebrovascular accidents].", "content": "[Emergency imaging of cerebrovascular accidents]. Over the last 25 years, advances in neuroimaging have significantly changed the evaluation and management of acute stroke syndromes. In the seventies, computed tomography (CT) could differentiate between ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is nowadays the imaging modality of choice in the initial assessment of acute stroke. MRI images can better discriminate acute, subacute and chronic infarcts, differentiate venous from arterial infarcts, detect arterial dissection, stenosis or occlusion. Diffusion-weighted images are highly sensitive and specific to acute infarction and the combination with perfusion technique is suitable to define potentially reversible ischemia (area of cerebral \"mismatch\" which is thought to represent the so-called ischemic penumbra). This penumbra is a potential therapeutic target of valuable interest for the treating physician."}
{"id": "15514901", "title": "[Cerebral haemorrhage in Sneddon's syndrome: case report and literature review].", "content": "[Cerebral haemorrhage in Sneddon's syndrome: case report and literature review]. Sneddon's syndrome is the association between livedo reticularis and stroke. Hemorrhagic strokes in Sneddon's syndrome are exceptional. A 39-year-old woman who had had a livedo reticularis for about 14 years attended the Emergency Unit complaining of sudden, severe headache and numbness and weakness in her left extremities. Physical examination revealed left supranuclear facial palsy and left crural hemiparesis and hemihypoalgesia. Cranial CT showed a right parieto-occipital lobar haemorrhage. Immunological studies, including antiphospholipid antibodies, were negative. A cerebral angiography showed anomalies in most distal branches of intracranial arteries. Biopsies of the skin and digital arteries yielded non conclusive results. The association between livedo reticularis and stroke, together with the angiographic findings led us to the diagnosis of Sneddon's syndrome. When comparing our case with similar ones, we must point out to its onset with a hemorrhagic stroke and to the lobar location of the bleeding."}
{"id": "15508739", "title": "[Bilateral chronic subdural hematoma in a young adult mimicking subarachnoid hemorrhage].", "content": "[Bilateral chronic subdural hematoma in a young adult mimicking subarachnoid hemorrhage]. A 33-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with a sudden severe headache five days after the onset CT scan showed a slight high-density area in the basal cistern, mimicking subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), and diffuse brain swelling. However, conventional cerebral angiography and CT angiography failed to demonstrate aneurysms and vascular malformations. MRI showed bilateral subdural hematoma, but no SAH. Irrigation of liquefied subdural hematoma, causing high intracranial pressure, was carried out. Postoperative course was uneventful and his headache resolved within a day. The author presented a case of bilateral chronic subdural hematoma who presented with a sudden severe headache mimicking a SAH. Hyper attenuation in the basal cistern and subarachnoid space in CT, don't always indicate SAH. MRI, including fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequences, is useful in differentiating the \"pseudo\" SAH from \"true\" SAH, and lead to the right diagnosis."}
{"id": "15506314", "title": "Endovascular treatment of arteriovenous malformation in a child.", "content": "Endovascular treatment of arteriovenous malformation in a child. Arteriovenous malformations are direct communications between the arterial and venous circulations without the usual passage through the capillary net. They are the most frequent type of malformations of the intracranial circulation and the second most frequent cause of intracranial hematomas or hemorrhage. We report on a 7-year-old girl with intracerebral hematoma following acute rupture of an arteriovenous malformation. The girl experienced a spontaneous headache and later became unconscious. At the time of admission to the hospital, her neurological status scored 5 on the Glasgow Coma Scale. Computerized tomography of the brain revealed a round hyperdense lesion in the left frontoparietal region. Digital subtractional angiography of the left internal carotid artery confirmed the suspicion of an arteriovenous malformation with one main feeding artery: a distal branch of the left anterior cerebral artery. The nidus was round and about 2 cm in diameter. The venous drainage was of the superficial type, flowing into the left superior sagittal sinus. After consultation with a neurosurgeon, we decided to treat the arteriovenous malformation by means of an endovascular technique. A flow-guided catheter was placed close to the nidus. Control angiography before embolization revealed the proper position for the injection of embolic material. We used the conventional mixture of acrylic polymerization glue, Lipiodol oil contrast medium and particles of tantalum powder. Control angiography at the end of the procedure revealed complete occlusion of the malformation. There were no signs of potential new feeding arteries that could appear as a result of changed hemodynamic conditions after embolization. Endovascular treatment of arteriovenous malformations could become the treatment of choice for these lesions, especially in combination with radiosurgery. The established microsurgical treatment is very effective but carries a higher risk of hemorrhagic complications."}
{"id": "15462362", "title": "[Dissecting vertebral aneurysm with subarachnoid hemorrhage after ischemic onset on the same day: a case report].", "content": "[Dissecting vertebral aneurysm with subarachnoid hemorrhage after ischemic onset on the same day: a case report]. We report a case of a dissecting vertebral aneurysm with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) after ischemic onset on the same day. A 48-year-old man had abrupt vertigo and nausea. CT & MRI on admission showed no abnormality, but he complained of left hemiparesis after admission. Twelve hours after the ischemic onset he suddenly complained of severe headache and his consciousness deteriorated. The follow-up CT showed diffuse SAH. Cerebral angiography showed occlusion of the right vertebral artery at the origin of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) and segmental stenosis of the left vertebral artery at the portion distal to the vertebral PICA junction. We treated the patient conservatively. Four days later, he suddenly fell into a coma, but CT showed no bleeding. Because of this we suspected brain stem ischemia due to deterioration of vertebral dissection. The patient died 8 hours after the ischemic reattack. We report difficulty of treatment of a dissecting vertebral aneurysm with simultaneous ischemia and subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "15448907", "title": "[Magnetic resonance angiography in the head-neck area].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance angiography in the head-neck area]. Magnetic resonance angiography is a noninvasive method in vascular imaging using non-contrast-enhanced and contrast-enhanced techniques. The contrast media used in contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography are different from the X-ray contrast me-dia and do not affect the thyroid gland or renal function. In detecting hypervascularized lesions in the head and neck, contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography is the method of choice, which provides an acceptable quality in comparison to digital subtraction angiography. Future developments in magnetic resonance imaging techniques will cause a wider use of magnetic resonance angiography, especially in head and neck imaging. Digital subtraction angiography should therefore only be used in problem cases and for preoperative embolization."}
{"id": "15362199", "title": "Study of clinical features of amyloid angiopathy hemorrhage and hypertensive intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Study of clinical features of amyloid angiopathy hemorrhage and hypertensive intracerebral hemorrhage. The purpose of this study was to differentiate between cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) and hypertension (HTN) based on hemorrhage pattern interpretation. From June 1994 to Oct., 2000, 83 patients admitted to our service with acute intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) were investigated retrospectively; 41 patients with histologically proven diagnosis of cerebral amyloid angiography and 42 patients with clear history of hypertension were investigated. Patients with a CAA-related ICH were significantly older than patients with a HTN-related ICH (74.0 years vs 66.5 years, P < 0.05). There was a significantly higher number of hematomas > or = 30 ml in CAA (85.3%) when compared with HTN (59.5%). No basal ganglional hemorrhage was seen in CAA, but in 40.5% in HTN. In CAA-related ICH, subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) was seen in 26 patients (63.4%) compared to only 11 patients (26.2%) in HTN-related ICH. Intraventricular hemorrhage was seen in 24.4% in CAA, and in 26.2% in HTN. Typical features of CAA-related ICH included lobar distribution affecting mainly the lobar superficial areas, lobulated appearance, rupture into the subarachnoid space, and secondary IVH from the lobar hemorrhage. More specifically, multiplicity of hemorrhage, bilaterality, and repeated episodes also strongly suggest the diagnosis of CAA. Multiple hemorrhages, defined as 2 or more separate hematomas in multiple lobes, accounted for 17.1% in CAA-related ICH. There are certain features in CAA on CT and MRI and in clinical settings. To some extent, these features may contribute to distinguishing CAA from HTN related ICH."}
{"id": "15352595", "title": "Do the morphological characteristics of arteriovenous malformations affect the results of radiosurgery?", "content": "Do the morphological characteristics of arteriovenous malformations affect the results of radiosurgery? The authors sought to determine which morphological features of arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are statistically predictive of preradiosurgical hemorrhage, postradiosurgical hemorrhage, and neuroimaging-defined failure of radiosurgical treatment. In addition, correlation between computerized tomography (CT) scanning and angiography for the identification of AVM structures was investigated. Archived CT dosimetry and available angiographic and clinical data for 268 patients in whom AVMs were treated with linear accelerator radiosurgery were retrospectively reviewed. Many of the morphological features of AVMs, including location, volume, compact or diffuse nidus, neovascularity, ease of nidus identification, number of feeding arteries, location (deep or superficial) of feeding arteries, number of draining veins, deep or superficial venous drainage, venous stenoses, venous ectasias, and the presence of intranidal aneurysms, were analyzed. In addition, a number of patient and treatment factors, including patient age, presenting symptoms, radiation dose, repeated treatment, and radiological outcome, were subjected to multivariate analyses. Two hundred twenty-seven patients were treated with radiosurgery for the first time and 41 patients underwent repeated radiosurgery. Eighty-one patients presented with a history of AVM hemorrhage and 91 patients had AVMs in a periventricular location. Twenty-six patients (10%) experienced a hemorrhage following radiosurgery. Of the 268 patients, 81 (30%) experienced angiographically defined cures, and 37 (14%) experienced MR imaging-defined cures. Eighty-six patients (32%) experienced neuroimaging-defined treatment failure, and 64 underwent insufficiently long follow up. A larger AVM volume (odds ratio [OR] 0.349; p = 0.004) was associated with a decreased rate of pretreatment hemorrhage, whereas periventricular location (OR 6.358; p = 0.000) was associated with an increased rate of pretreatment hemorrhage. None of the analyzed factors was predictive of hemorrhage following radiosurgery. A higher radiosurgical dose was strongly correlated with neuroimaging-defined success (OR 3.743; p = 0.006), whereas a diffuse nidus structure (OR 0.246; p = 0.008) and associated neovascularity (OR 0.428; p = 0.048) were each associated with a lower neuroimaging-defined cure rate. A strong correlation between CT scanning and angiography was noted for both nidus structure (p = 0.000; Fisher exact test) and neovascularity (p = 0.002; Fisher exact test). Patients presenting with AVMs that are small or periventricular were at higher risk for experiencing hemorrhage. A higher radiosurgical dose correlated strongly with neuroimaging-defined success. Patients in whom the AVM had a diffuse structure or associated neovascularity were at higher risk for neuroimaging-defined failure of radiosurgery. A strong correlation between CT scanning and angiography in the assessment of AVM structure was demonstrated."}
{"id": "15306978", "title": "[Unilateral decompressive craniectomy in left transverse and sigmoid sinus thrombosis].", "content": "[Unilateral decompressive craniectomy in left transverse and sigmoid sinus thrombosis]. Cerebral venous and dural sinus thrombosis is a rare cause of stroke. We explore the controversial issue of anticoagulation therapy and indication for decompressive craniectomy in association with severe sinus thrombosis. The 62-year-old female patient was admitted to hospital, because of first generalized seizure. A computed tomographic (CT) scan of the brain revealed a left occipital hemorrhage. Digital subtraction angiogram showing thrombosis of the left transverse and sigmoid sinus. An intravenously administered regimen of heparin was begun, because of a protein S deficiency. On the 6th day the patients level of consciousness deteriorated, necessitating intubation, hyperventilation, and mannitol. Repeat CT scan revealed increasing edema with midline shift and obliteration of the basal cisterns, although the hemorrhagic lesion was unchanged. The patient developed signs of diencephalic dysfunction. A large left temporoparietooccipital craniectomy was performed and the dura was opened. The multiloculated intraparenchymatous hemorrhage portion of the brain was not removed. In addition, the patient was treated postoperatively with heparin therapy for three months, than a regimen of phenprocoumon was begun. Twelve months later the hemianopsia had not improved and she had an incomplete Wernicke's dysphasia. When, despite adequate anticoagulation therapy and intensive care, neurological deterioration occurs in sigmoideus and/or transversus dural sinus thrombosis with unilateral edema, a decompressive craniectomy should be considered especially in young patients."}
{"id": "15295399", "title": "Postpartum cerebral angiopathy: an important diagnostic consideration in the postpartum period.", "content": "Postpartum cerebral angiopathy: an important diagnostic consideration in the postpartum period. A 32-year-old woman, gravida 4, para 2, presented with a severe headache 5 days after she had a vaginal delivery with epidural anesthesia. Nine days later she had neurologic symptoms develop. Magnetic resonance imaging and cerebral angiogram were abnormal with evidence of a vasculitis consistent with postpartum cerebral angiopathy. The patient received both methylprednisolone and cyclophosphamide pulses with improvement of her symptoms. This is an important diagnosis for obstetricians to consider because it may result in serious neurologic damage if it is not diagnosed and treated early."}
{"id": "15287488", "title": "[A surgically treated case with a ruptured bacterial aneurysm of the middle cerebral arterial bifurcation following occlusion].", "content": "[A surgically treated case with a ruptured bacterial aneurysm of the middle cerebral arterial bifurcation following occlusion]. A 56-year-old woman with aortic regurgitation (AR) developd a high fever on April 25th, 2003, followed by the sudden onset of left hemiparesis and dysarthria on May 10th, 2003. MRI and MRA showed cerebral infarction due to occlusion of the right proximal portion of the middle cerebral artery. Streptococcus was isolated from arterial blood culture at the time of admission and cardiac examination such as echocardiography revealed active infective endocarditis. Cerebral angiography on the 31st day after the onset of symptoms demonstrated a fusiform-shaped aneurysm at the occluded M2 portion of the middle cerebral artery. Despite administration of antibiotics, a small subcortical hematoma was observed in the right temporal lobe surrounding the aneurysm on the 35th day. The direct surgery of aneurysmal trapping and resection was subsequently performed to prevent rebleeding. The sylvian fissure and perianeurysmal area were strongly adherent to granulation tissue and blood clot. After exposing the aneurysm, the dilated portion of the vessel was successfully trapped and resected. Other than residual left hemiparesis, the postoperative course was uneventful. Histological examination confirmed bacterial aneurysm due to bacterial embolization originating from infective endocarditis (IE). We report a rare case having a ruptured bacterial aneurysm of the middle cerebral arterial bifurcation requiring surgery following occlusion due to bacterial embolization after sepsis and meningitis due to infective endocarditis."}
{"id": "15287364", "title": "[What benefit has an MRT-screening].", "content": "[What benefit has an MRT-screening]."}
{"id": "15275923", "title": "A method for the analysis of the geometrical relationship between white matter pathology and the vascular architecture of the brain.", "content": "A method for the analysis of the geometrical relationship between white matter pathology and the vascular architecture of the brain. A novel method for the visual and quantitative analysis of the geometrical relationship between the vascular architecture of the brain and white matter pathology is presented. The cerebro vascular system is implicated in the pathogenesis of many diseases of the cerebral white matter, for example, stroke, microcerebrovascular disease, and multiple sclerosis (MS). In our work, white matter lesions and vessels are depicted using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and extracted using image analysis techniques. We focus on measuring distance relationships between white matter lesions and vessels, and distribution of lesions with respect to vessel caliber. Vascular distance maps are generated by computing for each voxel the Euclidean distance to the closest vessel. Analogously, radius maps assign the radius of the closest vessel to each voxel in the image volume. The distance and radius maps are used to analyze the distribution of lesions with respect to the vessels' locations and their calibers. The method was applied to three MS patients to demonstrate its functionality and feasibility. Preliminary findings indicate that larger MS lesions tend to be farther from detected vessels and that the caliber of the vessels nearest to larger lesions tends to be smaller, suggesting a possible role of relative hypoperfusion or hypoxia in lesion formation."}
{"id": "15273857", "title": "Ventricular arteriovenous malformation bleeding: a rare cause of headache in children. Case report.", "content": "Ventricular arteriovenous malformation bleeding: a rare cause of headache in children. Case report. Headache as a chief complaint is rare in the paediatric emergency room. Actually, very seldom cases secondary to life threatening conditions as non-traumatic subarachnoid haemorrhage have been reported. A child with severe headache and nuchal rigidity and no other abnormalities on the physical examination is reported. Magnetic resonance angiography and cerebral angiography disclosed a ventricular arteriovenous malformation in the choroid plexus, supplied by the anterior choroidal artery, classified according to Spetzler grading system as grade 3 (deep venous drainage: 1; eloquence area: 0 and size: 2). The differences in the clinical presentations of the central nervous system arteriovenous malformation between children and adults are discussed."}
{"id": "15261499", "title": "Angiographic assessment of cerebral circulation time for outcome prediction in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Angiographic assessment of cerebral circulation time for outcome prediction in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. In the acute stage following subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), prolonged cerebral circulation time reflects increased intracranial pressure (ICP), which can lead to irreversible brain damage. We evaluated the ability of cerebral circulation time to predict outcome in SAH patients. We prospectively studied 40 consecutive patients treated for SAH according to standard intensive care guidelines. Lateral views in preoperative carotid digital subtraction arteriograms (DSA) were used to determine arteriovenous transit time (AVTT), defined as interval from initial opacification of the intracranial internal carotid artery to that of the Rolandic vein. We then analyzed relationship of AVTT to other prognostic parameters and outcome. AVTT depended on initial Glasgow Coma Scale score (GCS), ranging from 3.4 to 8.0 seconds (mean: 5.4) when initial GCS was 13 to 15; from 4.5 to 8.7 seconds (mean: 6.4) when initial GCS was 7 to 12; and from 5.8 to 15.0 seconds (mean: 9.1 seconds, excluding angiograms with nonfilling) when initial GCS was 3 to 6. AVTT correlated significantly with prognosis, longer AVTT predicting poorer outcome. No patient with an AVTT above 12 seconds recovered to a functioning state. AVTT obtained from routinely performed acute-phase DSA in SAH patients reflects ICP and functional prognosis, representing a cost-effective, practical, and reliable outcome predictor."}
{"id": "15261240", "title": "Intra-arterial thrombolysis in basilar artery occlusion and recent haemorrhagic stroke due to arteriovenous malformation.", "content": "Intra-arterial thrombolysis in basilar artery occlusion and recent haemorrhagic stroke due to arteriovenous malformation. We report the case of a young patient suffering from a severe ischaemic stroke due to basilar artery occlusion occurring during selective digital subtraction angiography. This examination was performed in order to assess an arteriovenous malformation in posterior cerebral artery territory responsible for haemorrhagic stroke occurring 17 days before. Intra-arterial thrombolysis with urokinase was performed and basilar artery recanalization was obtained 8 h after stroke onset. Despite the severe neurological impairment, the prolonged symptoms of ischaemia and the high bleeding risk due to the recent cerebral haemorrhage in the same vascular territory involved in thrombolysis, the treatment determined a very favourable clinical outcome."}
{"id": "15257380", "title": "[Multimodal computed tomography in acute cerebral infarction. Experience with a standardized protocol in 100 patients].", "content": "[Multimodal computed tomography in acute cerebral infarction. Experience with a standardized protocol in 100 patients]. Computed tomography (CT) is the standard method of brain imaging in acute stroke. To an experienced examiner, nonenhanced CT will exclude hemorrhage and may indicate early ischemic signs. Reliable description of an ischemic area and the underlying vascular disease is not possible in the acute phase but is possible, particularly within the first hours, when therapeutic decisions on matters such as systemic thrombolysis are to be made. For such rapid decision-making, imaging must provide more information. Novel, contrast-enhanced CT techniques can provide this information. Perfusion CT (CTP) can show brain perfusion, allowing one to distinguish between reversible and irreversible damage in an ischemic area. Also, CT angiography (CTA) can detect occlusion or stenosis in the relevant vasculature. Using a modern, multislice CT scanner, it is now possible to combine these modalities of imaging. In a fast protocol for emergency evaluation, all three methods can be performed and evaluated to provide the crucial information within 15 min. In the first 102 patients examined within 6 h of symptom onset using this protocol, multimodal CT contributed substantially to therapeutic decisions, even though there are some limitations in these methods."}
{"id": "15255268", "title": "Ruptured \"blisterlike\" aneurysm with a pseudoaneurysm formation requiring delayed intervention with endovascular coil embolization. Case report.", "content": "Ruptured \"blisterlike\" aneurysm with a pseudoaneurysm formation requiring delayed intervention with endovascular coil embolization. Case report. A ruptured blisterlike aneurysm of the supraclinoid ICA rarely occurs. Nevertheless, it is recognized as a dangerous lesion because of the high risk of intraoperative bleeding associated with this lesion's wide fragile neck. There has been only one report of a blisterlike aneurysm treated by endosaccular packing after surgical wrapping. The authors describe the case of a ruptured blisterlike aneurysm with a pseudoaneurysm cavity, which was treated by coil embolization. This 63-year-old woman suffered a subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Three cerebral aneurysms were identified on cerebral angiograms. A large saccular aneurysm at the ophthalmic portion of the right ICA was embolized with Guglielmi Detachable Coils (GDCs). Two small hemipherically shaped aneurysms on the C-2 and C-3 portions of the left ICA were observed conservatively. Thirteen days later, recurrent SAH was identified on computerized tomography scans. Angiography demonstrated the formation of a pseudoaneurysm from the aneurysm on the C-2 portion of the left ICA. Endosaccular embolization with GDCs was performed 40 days after admission. Disappearance of the pseudoaneurysm cavity and residual dome filling was seen immediately after the procedure. Follow-up angiography performed 9 months after embolization demonstrated complete obliteration of the aneurysm. This case illustrates that when treatment options for a blisterlike aneurysm with a pseudoaneurysm are unsuitable during the acute phase, coil embolization can be applied following progression of the lesion into a saccular aneurysm during the chronic stage."}
{"id": "15254797", "title": "Results of surgical and endovascular treatment of intracranial micro-arteriovenous malformations with emphasis on superselective angiography.", "content": "Results of surgical and endovascular treatment of intracranial micro-arteriovenous malformations with emphasis on superselective angiography. The authors retrospectively reviewed the results of two different treatment modalities (surgery and endovascular approach) in patients with intracranial micro-arteriovenous malformations (micro-AVMs). The goal of this study is to evaluate the respective role of surgical treatment and superselective acrylic embolization in the management of micro-AVMs. Fourteen patients with micro-AVMs who had been treated by surgical resection or endovascular acrylic embolization during a 6-year period were analyzed. The average age at presentation was 44.6 years (range, 24-65 yr) with no sex dominance. All patients presented with an intracranial haemorrhage, which was superficial in twelve patients and in eloquent brain areas in seven patients. Severe neurological deficits were observed in eleven patients. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) demonstrated micro-AVMs in eleven patients (78.5%) while in three patients (21.5%) the micro-AVM was detected only by superselective angiography (SA). Eight patients underwent surgical intervention which led to definitive resection in seven with no peri-operative morbidity. SA was performed in nine patients and followed by successful acrylic embolization of the micro-AVM in seven with haemorrhagic complications in two patients. All fourteen lesions were completely obliterated as demonstrated angiographically. Outcomes were classified according to the Modified Rankin Scale. With a mean long term clinical follow-up of 33 months (range, 8-75 mo), seven patients were Grade 0, six patients were Grade I and one patient was Grade IV. SA is deemed necessary to visualize micro-AVMs in case of questionable or negative findings also at delayed DSA in young healthy patients with otherwise unexplained intracranial haemorrhage. Obliteration of micro-AVM can be accomplished either surgically or endovascularly; however, the endovascular approach is associated with a defined procedural risk for haemorrhagic complications and long term angiographic follow-up is necessary."}
{"id": "15253544", "title": "Remote cerebellar hemorrhage following supratentorial craniotomy--case report.", "content": "Remote cerebellar hemorrhage following supratentorial craniotomy--case report. A 63-year-old man presented with sudden severe headache. Computed tomography (CT) demonstrated subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography demonstrated an aneurysm of the anterior communicating artery. Left frontotemporal craniotomy and neck clipping of the aneurysm via the pterional approach were performed. CT obtained 18 hours after surgery revealed cerebellar hemorrhage, and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging 17 days postoperatively demonstrated that the hemorrhage was located within the folia. Neurological examination after surgery revealed slight dysarthria after drainage of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) but no other neurological deficits. Follow-up CT and MR imaging showed characteristic findings of postoperative cerebellar hemorrhage clearly different from those of hypertension. The cerebellar hemorrhage was probably secondary to overdrainage of CSF. He was discharged without deficits."}
{"id": "15237729", "title": "[A case of organized chronic subdural hematoma presented with transient neurologic deficits].", "content": "[A case of organized chronic subdural hematoma presented with transient neurologic deficits]. A 59-year-old diabetic male presented with transient motor aphasia and monoparesis of the right upper limb. Brain CT scan showed a low density area in the left subdural space with a mild midline shift. Magnetic resonance (MR) T2-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) imagings revealed homogenous hyperintensity with a hypointense web-like structure in the subdural hematoma. Cervical MR angiography showed no abnormal lesion at the bifurcation of the bilateral common carotid arteries. Conventional cerebral angiography showed an avascular, crescent, space-occupying mass over the left hemisphere without an etiologic lesion of cerebral ischemia. CT perfusion imagings indicated reduced cerebral blood flow (CBF) and prolonged mean transit time (MTT) in the left middle cerebral artery territory underneath the subdural hematoma. No epileptic discharge was found in electroencephalogram. Operative findings indicated that the hematoma was encapsulated with thickened outer and inner membranes including paste-like materials, and the brain surface was intact. Postoperative CT perfusion imagings revealed normal CBF and MTT. The pathophysiological mechanism which the chronic subdural hematoma produces the transient neurological deficit is still uncertain. The mechanical pressure of the hematoma on the neighboring cerebral vessels may cause impairment of blood flow leading to cerebral ischemia and paralysis of function. Our case indicated the transient neurological deficits attributed to a decreased CBF around the subdural hematoma and a change in pressure exerted by the hematoma during changes of head position and increased blood viscosity."}
{"id": "15229828", "title": "[Cerebral dissecting aneurysms].", "content": "[Cerebral dissecting aneurysms]. Blood stream penetrates through the lacerations of the arterial layers determining dissecting aneurysms. Each intramural clot localization determines different clinical form. We present the clinical observations carried out in two patients with vertebrobasilar dissecting aneurysms and we review the state of the art of this process to remark the early identification of these unusual lesions. Two cases of vertebrobasilar dissecting aneurysms were described. They were young patients that debuted, one as posteroinferior artery brain steam infarction and the other one as a subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by a right posterior cerebral artery dissecting aneurysms. Lesions were confirmed by helicoidal cerebral angiotomographic and angiograms. This patient was operated on and we clipped the posterior communicating that irrigated dissecting segment. We carry out an anatomical and hemodynamic analysis of that lesion. Both patients had a satisfactory clinical evolution. Dissecting intramural hematomas of the vertebrobasilar territory are frequent cause of young people ictus. It has been suggested that the ictus may happen after minor head trauma and pain, main symptom, always precedes neurological dysfunction signs. Hemorrhagic presentation has a high incidence of rebleeding and elevated mortality. It always requires, as soon as possible, direct microsurgical treatment or endovascular methods (coils). Most useful microsurgical procedure, until today, is parent artery clipping. This technique has a low index of isquemic and neural postoperative damage."}
{"id": "15227842", "title": "[Multiple intracranial aneurysms and vascular abnormalities associated with neurofibromatosis type 1: a case report].", "content": "[Multiple intracranial aneurysms and vascular abnormalities associated with neurofibromatosis type 1: a case report]. We present an unusual case of multiple intracranial aneurysms, persistent primitive trigeminal artery (PPTA), and fenestration of the middle cerebral artery (MCA), associated with type 1 neurofibromatosis (NF 1). The patient was a 55-year-old woman in a state of semicoma. We observed widespread neurofibromas and caf\u00e9 au lait spots on her trunk and limbs. Computed tomography (CT) scan revealed diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage and right frontal intracerebral hemorrhage (WFNS grade IV, Fisher's classification group 4). Cerebral angiography showed two intracranial aneurysms at the anterior communicating artery, an aneurysm at the cavernous portion of the right carotid artery, a PPTA, and MCA fenestration. The patient remained in an apallic state, even after successful clipping of the anterior communicating artery aneurysms."}
{"id": "15218156", "title": "Predictors of cerebral infarction in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Predictors of cerebral infarction in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Clinical and radiologic predictors of cerebral infarction occurrence and location after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage have been seldom studied. We evaluated all patients admitted to our hospital with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage between 1998 and 2000. Cerebral infarction was defined as a new hypodensity located in a vascular distribution on computed tomography (CT) scan. Fifty-seven of 143 patients (40%) developed a cerebral infarction. On univariate analysis, occurrence of cerebral infarction was associated with a worse World Federation of Neurological Surgeons grade (P=0.01), use of ventriculostomy catheter (P=0.01), preoperative vasospasm (P=0.03), surgical clipping (P=0.02), symptomatic vasospasm (P<0.01), and vasospasm on transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (TCD) or repeat angiogram (P<0.01). On multivariable analysis, only presence of symptoms ascribed to vasospasm (P<0.01) and evidence of vasospasm on TCD or angiogram predicted cerebral infarction (P<0.01). TCD and angiogram agreed on the diagnosis of vasospasm in 73% of cases (95% CI, 63% to 81%), but the diagnostic accuracy of this combination of tests was suboptimal for the prediction of cerebral infarction occurrence (sensitivity, 0.72; specificity, 0.68; positive predictive value, 0.67; negative predictive value, 0.72). Location of the cerebral infarction on delayed CT was predicted by neurological symptoms in 74%, by aneurysm location in 77%, and by angiographic vasospasm in 67%. Evidence of vasospasm on TCD and angiogram is predictive of cerebral infarction on CT scan but sensitivity and specificity are suboptimal. Cerebral infarction location cannot be predicted in one quarter to one third of patients by any of the studied clinical or radiological variables."}
{"id": "15209548", "title": "The prevalence and severity of cerebrovascular disease in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery.", "content": "The prevalence and severity of cerebrovascular disease in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery. The degree of preoperative cerebrovascular disease in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery has not been well studied. Thus, the purpose of this study was to evaluate the prevalence and severity of cerebrovascular disease in such patients. The subjects were 91 patients who underwent cardiovascular surgery. We investigated the prevalence and severity of cerebral infarction (CI), intracranial artery stenosis (ICAS) of > or =50%, cervical carotid artery stenosis (CCAS) of > or =50%, and periventricular hyperintensity (PVH) using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). The prevalence of cerebrovascular diseases was: CI, 79 patients (86.8%) [33 had some small infarctions, 38 had multiple small infarctions, eight had broad infarctions greater than 15 mm); ICAS, 17 patients (18.7%)]; CCAS, 30 patients (33.0%) [21 had stenosis of <70%, and nine had stenosis of > or =70% or occlusion]; and PVH, 79 patients (86.8%). Patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery have a high prevalence of cerebrovascular disease in varying degrees."}
{"id": "15192245", "title": "Contribution of susceptibility-weighted imaging to acute stroke assessment.", "content": "Contribution of susceptibility-weighted imaging to acute stroke assessment. Susceptibility-weighted (SW) MRI provides insight into the pathophysiology of acute stroke. We report on the use of SW imaging (SWI) sequences in clinical practice and highlight the future applications. SWI exploits the magnetic susceptibility effects generated by local inhomogeneities of the magnetic field. The paramagnetic properties of deoxyhemoglobin support signal changes related to acute hemorrhage and the intravascular spontaneous blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) effect. SWI allows the early detection of acute hemorrhage within 6 hours after symptom onset. SWI may also identify previous microbleeds in acute ischemia; however, the impact of these findings on thrombolytic therapy safety has not been definitely established. The diagnosis of arterial occlusion is usually performed by magnetic resonance angiography. SWI allows intravascular clot detection at the acute stage.Substantial experimental data suggest that spontaneous BOLD contrast may improve tissue viability assessment. The ratio of oxyhemoglobin to deoxyhemoglobin, measured by MRI in the capillary and venous compartments, reflects the oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) and the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen. The combination of magnetic resonance (MR)-measured OEF and cerebral blood flow, via perfusion studies, may provide information about tissue viability. SWI offers a spectrum of current clinical applications and may improve our knowledge of the pathophysiology of acute stroke."}
{"id": "15165128", "title": "Evaluation of large intracranial aneurysms with cine MRA and 3D contrast-enhanced MRA.", "content": "Evaluation of large intracranial aneurysms with cine MRA and 3D contrast-enhanced MRA. The value of combined application of both ECG-gated cine MRA and 3D-CEMRA in the detection of large intracranial aneurysms was evaluated and the findings were compared with those of conventional MRA and DSA. Twenty-four patients with 26 large intracranial aneurysms underwent MRI and DSA. All these aneurysms, diameter from 15 to 39 mm, were located at internal cerebral artery (n=12), vertebral artery (n=3), basilar artery (n=4), anterior cerebral artery (n=2), middle cerebral artery (n=2), anterior communicate artery (n=2) and posterior communicate artery (n=1). Thirteen cases of hematoma or cavernoma were studied as control group. All patients were examined on GE 1.5T MR system. ECG-gated cine MRA was performed with 2D multi-phase fast gradient-recalled echo sequence in a single section. All the images were analyzed with signal intensity VS time curve for differentiating intraaneurysmal blood flow from static tissue. The results were analyzed by statistic \"t\" test. 3D-CEMRA was performed with spoiled gradient-recalled echo and one dose of Gd-DTPA. All data was processed with multi-plannar reformat (MPR) and tomography for the demonstration of aneurysms in detail. All 26 aneurysms were demonstrated successfully by combined application of both cine MRA and 3D-CEMRA. Compared to DSA and conventional 3D-MOTSA, its sensitivity and specificity figures were both 100%. Cine MRA could differentiate the blood flow from the static tissue. The intensity VS time curves of intraaneurysmal blood flow offered fluctuating form and average signal change between systole and diastole period was about 89.8 +/- 37.4; However, under the control group, intraaneurysmal thrombus or cerebral hemorrhage or cavernomas had no significant signal change and the curves offered steady form with the average signal change being about 8.2 +/- 6.3. There was statistically significant difference between the intraaneurysmal blood flow and static tissue (P=0.025, <0.05). 3D-CEMRA was very useful in demonstrating the aneurysmal size, intraaneurysmal thrombus formation, neck and the detailed relationship of the aneurysm to the surrounding structures. It was concluded that the combined application of both cine MRA and 3D-CEMRA might be a valuable clinical tool for the detection of large intracranial aneurysms."}
{"id": "15158221", "title": "Sickle cell cerebrovascular disease: usual and unusual findings on MR imaging and MR angiography.", "content": "Sickle cell cerebrovascular disease: usual and unusual findings on MR imaging and MR angiography. This paper demonstrates usual and unusual findings on MR imaging (MRI) including fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR), diffusion- and perfusion-weighted image and MR angiography (MRA) in 30 patients with sickle cell cerebrovascular disease. This paper also illustrates the underlying pathophysiology of sickle cell cerebrovascular disease by using the cases with usual and unusual MR findings, including long-time follow-up cases during transfusion therapy. MRI and MRA are useful in defining the basis for stroke and assessing the effects of chronic transfusion therapy."}
{"id": "15157293", "title": "Correlation of serum brain natriuretic peptide with hyponatremia and delayed ischemic neurological deficits after subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Correlation of serum brain natriuretic peptide with hyponatremia and delayed ischemic neurological deficits after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Serum brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) is elevated after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), causes diuresis and natriuresis (cerebral salt wasting), and may exacerbate delayed ischemic neurological deficits. We examined the temporal relationship between serum BNP elevation, hyponatremia, and the onset of delayed ischemic neurological deficits and determined whether serum BNP levels correlated with the 2-week outcome after SAH. Serum BNP and sodium were measured prospectively every 12 hours for 14 days in 40 consecutive patients admitted with SAH. All patients remained euvolemic, underwent transcranial Doppler assessment every 48 hours, and underwent angiography at the onset of delayed neurological deficits. New-onset neurological deficits were attributed to vasospasm only in the absence of other causes and when supported by transcranial Doppler or cerebral angiography. Sixteen patients (40%) experienced symptomatic cerebral vasospasm after SAH. A more than threefold increase in admission serum BNP was associated with the onset of hyponatremia (P < 0.05). Mean BNP levels were similar between vasospasm and nonvasospasm patients fewer than 3 days after SAH (126 +/- 39 pg/ml versus 154 +/- 40 pg/ml; P = 0.61) but were elevated in the vasospasm cohort 4 to 6 days after SAH (285 +/- 67 pg/ml versus 116 +/- 30 pg/ml; P < 0.01), 7 to 9 days after SAH (278 +/- 72 pg/ml versus 166 +/- 45 pg/ml; P < 0.01), and 9 to 12 days after SAH (297 +/- 83 pg/ml versus 106 +/- 30 pg/ml; P < 0.01). BNP level remained independently associated with vasospasm adjusting for Fisher grade and Hunt and Hess grade (odds ratio, 1.28; 95% confidence interval, 1.1-1.6). In patients in whom vasospasm developed, mean serum BNP increased 5.4-fold within 24 hours after vasospasm onset and 11.2-fold the first 3 days after vasospasm onset. Patients with increasing BNP levels from admission demonstrated no change (0 +/- 3) in Glasgow Coma Scale score 2 weeks after SAH versus a 3.0 +/- 2 (P < 0.05) improvement in Glasgow Coma Scale score in patients without increasing serum BNP levels. Increasing serum BNP levels independently were associated with hyponatremia, significantly increased the first 24 hours after onset of delayed ischemic neurological deficits, and predicted the 2-week Glasgow Coma Scale score."}
{"id": "15140733", "title": "Spinal schwannoma with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage: a diagnostic challenge.", "content": "Spinal schwannoma with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage: a diagnostic challenge. We report a case of spinal intradural schwannoma presenting with intracranial subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography studies were negative, but MR imaging of the spine revealed a large hemorrhagic tumor in the thoraco-lumbar junction. The tumor was misdiagnosed as ependymoma of the conus medullaris. This case illustrates the importance of a high index of suspicion for spinal disease in angiographically-negative subarachnoid hemorrhage and pitfalls in MR diagnosis of thoraco-lumbar tumors."}
{"id": "15137614", "title": "Association between an aplastic basilar artery, unaccompanied by a primitive carotid-vertebrobasilar anastomosis, and multiple aneurysms on the dominant posterior communicating artery.", "content": "Association between an aplastic basilar artery, unaccompanied by a primitive carotid-vertebrobasilar anastomosis, and multiple aneurysms on the dominant posterior communicating artery. Basilar artery (BA) aplasia when unaccompanied by a primitive carotid-vertebrobasilar anastomosis is exceedingly rare. The association of BA aplasia with two aneurysms on the dominant posterior communicating artery (PCoA) has not been previously reported. This 40-year-old man presented in a state of drowsiness and responded to simple commands only after being coaxed. He had complete left cranial third nerve palsy, right hemiparesis, and persisting signs of meningeal irritation. A computerized tomography (CT) scan revealed subarachnoid and intraventricular hemorrhage. An angiogram revealed BA aplasia. The right PCoA followed a sinuous course with multiple loops and provided the dominant supply to the posterior circulation. This vessel harbored two aneurysms, one at the origin of the PCoA from the internal carotid artery and the other at the looping segment just proximal to the brainstem. The left PCoA was extremely thin. The pterional transsylvian approach was used to clip the two aneurysms on the PCoA. The hemodynamic changes produced by the BA aplasia may have produced alterations in the cerebral vasculature leading to aneurysm formation and consequent subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "15121233", "title": "Perfusion- and BOLD-based fMRI in the study of a human pathological model for task-related flow reductions.", "content": "Perfusion- and BOLD-based fMRI in the study of a human pathological model for task-related flow reductions. In the present work, an arteriovenous malformation was taken as a pathological model for studying task-related flow decreases during a motor task. Combined Blood Oxygen Level Dependent (BOLD)-perfusion experiments were applied in order to evaluate the relative sensitivity of these techniques to task-related reductions in cerebral blood flow (CBF). Results shows that, by matching the sensitivity of the methods (which exhibit a different contrast-to-noise ratio) in the primary motor cortex, the spatial extent of the regions of decreased perfusion signal is larger than those of the BOLD signal reduction. The above finding suggests that perfusion imaging, that already represents a gold standard method in the detection of vascular phenomena, may estimate task-related flow decreases in a functional time-series better than BOLD."}
{"id": "15106337", "title": "[Angiography].", "content": "[Angiography]. The clinical usefulness of three dimensional images was widely recognized. The three dimensional digital subtraction angiography (3D-DSA) well demonstrated anatomical structures of cerebral arteries with high special resolution. This 3D observation allowed high quality planning for aneurysmal coil packing and neck clipping. Because of the bony structure and curvy arterial anatomy in the skull base region, 3D-CTA and MRA was sometimes distureved the demonstration of the anatomical relationship adjacent to the aneurysm. However, 3D-DSA not only demonstrated arterial anatomy, but also analyzed of vascular structure, quantifiably. And it was useful in radiation dose reduction by reduction of DSA exposure number. We believe that 3D-DSA should provided useful information for planning of surgical and endovascular treatment in the field of cerebro-vascular disease."}
{"id": "15106336", "title": "[Three dimensional MRI].", "content": "[Three dimensional MRI]. Three-dimensional(3D) MRI is discussed in the present and future clinical application. The newly reconstructed 3D MRI have been widely utilized as a routine examination, and 3D MRA have been substituted for cerebral angiograms in some diseases. The parallel image with multiple phased-array coils can improve time resolution and reduce MRI artifacts. Fusion of 3D anatomical MRI with CT, various functional MRI, SPECT, and PET results in precise diagnosis and improves the accuracy in navigational neurosurgery and stereotactic radiosurgery. High-field 3-tesla MRI can be clinically used, but its role on 3D MRI is not clear. As the data of 3D MRI and multi detector-row CT increases, it becomes the major problem how to restore and protect these data."}
{"id": "15105978", "title": "Detection of intracranial aneurysms with multislice CT: comparison with conventional angiography.", "content": "Detection of intracranial aneurysms with multislice CT: comparison with conventional angiography. We assessed the diagnostic accuracy of multislice CT in detection of intracranial aneurysms in patients presenting with subarachnoid or intracranial haemorrhage. Multislice CT and multiplanar digital subtraction angiography (DSA) images were obtained in 50 consecutive patients presenting with subarachnoid (SAH) and/or intracranial haemorrhage and reviewed by three neuroradiologists for the number, size and site of any aneurysms. The CT data were assessed using multiplanar reformats (MPR), maximum-intensity projections (MIP), surface-shaded display (SSD) and volume-rendering (VRT). In conventional angiography 51 aneurysms were detected in 41 patients. CT angiography (CTA) showed up to 48 aneurysms in 39 patients, depending on the observer. The overall sensitivity of multislice CT was 83.3% for small (< 4 mm), 90.6% for medium-size (5-12 mm) and 100% for large (> 13 mm) aneurysms. The sensitivity of multislice CTA to medium-size and large intracranial aneurysm is within the upper part of the range reported for helical single-slice CT. However, as small aneurysms may not be found, DSA remains the standard technique for investigation of SAH."}
{"id": "15101837", "title": "Vasoconstriction as the etiology of hypercalcemia-induced seizures.", "content": "Vasoconstriction as the etiology of hypercalcemia-induced seizures. Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction has been hypothesized to be the etiology of seizures due to hypercalcemia, but angiographic studies documenting vasoconstriction have not previously been available. We present a 43-year-old woman who had frequent seizures that later evolved to status epilepticus with marked hypercalcemia at the time of the seizures. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the patient's brain revealed high signal changes in T(2)-weighted imaging, fluorescence-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR), and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) over the bilateral occipital and thalamic areas. Cerebral angiography showed blood vessels narrowing, disappearing altogether over the right posterior cerebral artery (PCA) branch, which is compatible with vasoconstriction. Vasoconstriction caused the MRI high signal in the occipital area, which was associated with subsequent periodic lateralized epileptic discharges. The patient's clinical condition improved with management of seizures and hypercalcemia. A second brain MRI 2 weeks later revealed complete resolution of the high-signal lesions. Follow-up cerebral angiography study also showed total recovery of vasoconstriction. The sequence of events suggests the hypothesis that reversible cerebral vasoconstriction may play a role in hypercalcemia-induced seizures."}
{"id": "15090343", "title": "Three-dimensional digital angiography: new tool for simultaneous three-dimensional rendering of vascular and osseous information during rotational angiography.", "content": "Three-dimensional digital angiography: new tool for simultaneous three-dimensional rendering of vascular and osseous information during rotational angiography. Three-dimensional (3D) digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is the latest development in the neurovascular imaging armamentarium. 3D-DSA combines the anatomic resolution of DSA with 3D visualization abilities previously offered by only CT or MR angiography. 3D-DSA provides more detailed information than does DSA alone in the evaluation of neurovascular lesions, such as cerebral aneurysms. However, the inability of 3D-DSA to simultaneously image osseous and vascular structures is noted as a weakness of this technique compared with CT angiography. We describe a new 3D digital angiography reconstruction algorithm that allows the concurrent display of the cerebral vasculature and the osseous landmarks."}
{"id": "15073385", "title": "Hemorrhage burden predicts recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage after lobar hemorrhage.", "content": "Hemorrhage burden predicts recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage after lobar hemorrhage. Small asymptomatic cerebral hemorrhages detectable by gradient-echo MRI are common in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), particularly lobar ICH related to cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). We sought to determine whether hemorrhages detected at the time of lobar ICH predict the major clinical complications of CAA: recurrent ICH or decline in cognition and function. Ninety-four consecutive survivors of primary lobar ICH (age > or =55) with gradient-echo MRI at presentation were followed in a prospective cohort study for 32.9+/-24.0 months. A subset of 34 subjects underwent a second MRI after a stroke-free interval of 15.8+/-6.5 months. Study endpoints were recurrent symptomatic ICH or clinical decline, defined as onset of cognitive impairment, loss of independent functioning, or death. The total number of hemorrhages at baseline predicted risk of future symptomatic ICH (3-year cumulative risks 14%, 17%, 38%, and 51% for subjects with 1, 2, 3 to 5, or > or =6 baseline hemorrhages, P=0.003). Higher numbers of hemorrhages at baseline also predicted increased risk for subsequent cognitive impairment, loss of independence, or death (P=0.002) among subjects not previously demented or dependent. For subjects followed after a second MRI, new microhemorrhages appeared in 17 of 34 and predicted increased risk of subsequent symptomatic ICH (3-year cumulative risks 19%, 42%, and 67% for subjects with 0, 1 to 3, or > or =4 new microhemorrhages, P=0.02), but not subsequent clinical decline. Hemorrhages identified by MRI predict clinically important events in survivors of lobar ICH. Detection of microhemorrhages may be useful for assessing risk in ICH patients and as a surrogate marker for clinical studies."}
{"id": "15068515", "title": "Pulsatile tinnitus as a symptom of cervicocephalic arterial dissection.", "content": "Pulsatile tinnitus as a symptom of cervicocephalic arterial dissection. The aim of this study was to investigate pulsatile tinnitus as a presenting symptom in cervicocephalic arterial dissection (CCAD). Of the 136 consecutive patients with confirmed CCAD, 16 presented with pulsatile tinnitus. On admission 10 patients presented with subjective tinnitus and five with objective tinnitus, tinnitus being the only presenting symptom in one case. In one further case with bilateral ICA dissection (ICAD) subjective tinnitus appeared three months after the initial symptoms of arterial dissection, despite a contralateral cervical bruit being evident on admission. Thirteen patients presented with headache or neck pain. Ischaemic symptoms were detected in six and Horner's syndrome in four patients. Vertigo and dysgeusia were reported in two patients each. Arterial dissection involved unilateral ICA in 11, bilateral ICA in two, unilateral vertebral artery (VA) in two and bilateral ICA and bilateral VA in one patient. In angiography the most common finding was irregular stenosis, and the majority of these abnormalities normalized during follow-up. To avoid delay in diagnosis a high index of suspicion and early angiography (digital subtraction or magnetic resonance angiography) are warranted."}
{"id": "15060318", "title": "Hemorrhage in the atherosclerotic carotid plaque: a high-resolution MRI study.", "content": "Hemorrhage in the atherosclerotic carotid plaque: a high-resolution MRI study. High-resolution, multicontrast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has developed into an effective tool for the identification of carotid atherosclerotic plaque components, such as necrotic core, fibrous matrix, and hemorrhage/thrombus. Factors that may lead to plaque instability are lipid content, thin fibrous cap, and intraplaque hemorrhage. Determining the age of intraplaque hemorrhage can give insight to the history and current condition of the biologically active plaque. The aim of this study was to develop criteria for the identification of the stages of intraplaque hemorrhage using high-resolution MRI. Twenty-seven patients, scheduled for carotid endarterectomy (CEA), were imaged on a 1.5-T GE SIGNA scanner (sequences: 3-dimensional time of flight, double-inversion recovery, T1-weighted (T1W), PDW and T2W). Two readers, blinded to histology, reviewed MR images and grouped hemorrhage into fresh, recent, and old categories using a modified cerebral hemorrhage criteria. The CEA specimens were serially sectioned and graded as to presence and stage of hemorrhage. Hemorrhage was histologically identified and staged in 145/189 (77%) of carotid artery plaque locations. MRI detected intraplaque hemorrhage with high sensitivity (90%) but moderate specificity (74%). Moderate agreement in classifying stages occurred between MRI and histology (Cohen kappa=0.7, 95% CI: 0.5 to 0.8 for reviewer 1 and 0.4, 95% CI: 0.2 to 0.6 for reviewer 2), with moderate agreement between the 2 MRI readers (kappa=0.4, 95% CI: 0.3 to 0.6). Multicontrast MRI can detect and classify carotid intraplaque hemorrhage with high sensitivity and moderate specificity."}
{"id": "15055330", "title": "CT angiography ofthe carotid arteries.", "content": "CT angiography ofthe carotid arteries. The introduction of multislice scanning has made CT angiography (CTA) a serious competitor to MR angiography (MRA) as a second line method for the evaluation of the carotid arteries. For optimum display of the morphology of stenoses, it is necessary to apply the thinnest possible section collimation (ideally [symbol: see text] 1.25mm). While the scan range is limited for single slice CTA, it is possible to cover the whole supraaortic circulation from the aortic arch to the intracranial vessels using multislice scanning. Timing of contrast injection is important, however, the injection technique for carotid CTA is more forgiving than for other body regions. Image evaluation is mainly based on axial sections and curved planar reformations (CPR). Other techniques only serve as an adjunct to better be able to demonstrate the findings. Most potential pitfalls can be avoided by using the appropriate technique. CTA has been shown to have a pooled sensitivity of 95% and specificity of 98% for the detection of >70% stenoses, even if only older single-slice techniques are used. Differentiation between lipid, fibrous and calcified plaques may be possible, especially with multislice scanning. Multislice CTA can in addition detect tandem stenoses in the region of the carotid origin from the aorta, the carotid siphon, and the intracranial portion of the carotids. CT is able to provide a comprehensive evaluation of patients with acute stroke by using a combined approach of pre-contrast CT to detect hemorrhage and manifest infarction, CT brain perfusion measurements to differentiate between penumbra and infarct and CTA to detect the occluded vessel as well as potential concomitant carotid abnormalities. In summary, carotid CTA has come of age and can be used to quantify stenoses more precisely than ultrasound, to detect tandem stenoses and for the workup of acute stroke patients. The learning objectives include learning how to chose acquisition parameters for carotid CTA, how to process and interpret carotid CTA, to become familiar with the artifacts and pitfalls of carotid CTA, and to comprehend the role of CTA relative to the other modalities for carotid imaging."}
{"id": "15054716", "title": "[Reversible segmental cerebral vasoconstriction: the value of duplex transcranial Doppler in its diagnosis and follow up].", "content": "[Reversible segmental cerebral vasoconstriction: the value of duplex transcranial Doppler in its diagnosis and follow up]. Reversible segmental cerebral vasoconstriction, also known as Call Fleming syndrome, is a clinical entity that consists of segmental vasoconstriction of the arteries in the brain, which can course with focal neurological deficits and which is characteristically reversible. Diagnosis and follow up of reversible segmental cerebral vasoconstriction is performed using cerebral arteriography, but no previous evaluation has been conducted of the role that duplex transcranial Doppler can play in this syndrome. Here we describe the case of a 57 year old female patient who began suffering from sudden bouts of headaches with no other accompanying clinical features. After ruling out the possibility of a subarachnoid haemorrhage by means of a spinal tap, a suspicion diagnosis of reversible segmental cerebral vasoconstriction was made through duplex transcranial Doppler and this was later confirmed by arteriography, which revealed a segmental stenosis in the upper branch of the left middle cerebral artery. Following treatment with nimodipine, the patient presented a clear clinical improvement and the reversibility of the cerebral vasoconstriction was confirmed by duplex transcranial Doppler. Contrast enhanced duplex transcranial Doppler would enable us to obtain an early diagnostic approximation in patients in whom segmental vasoconstriction is suspected; it could also constitute the choice non invasive follow up method in these patients."}
{"id": "15050218", "title": "Cerebral MR venography.", "content": "Cerebral MR venography. This paper illustrates the technique and clinical use of cerebral MR venography (MRV). Dural sinus thrombosis is detected by both two-dimensional time-of-flight (TOF) and three-dimensional phase-contrast (PC) techniques. Venous angiomas are demonstrated by the three-dimensional PC method. The arterial feeders, nidus and draining veins of cerebral arteriovenous malformation (AVM) can be visualized on contrast-enhanced TOF three-dimensional MR angiogram. The high-flow draining veins of cerebral and dural AVMs, vein of Galen malformation and carotid cavernous fistula are better seen on contrast-enhanced three-dimensional gradient-echo MRV."}
{"id": "15046671", "title": "Rare presentations of delayed radiation injury: a lobar hematoma and a cystic space-occupying lesion appearing more than 15 years after cranial radiotherapy: report of two cases.", "content": "Rare presentations of delayed radiation injury: a lobar hematoma and a cystic space-occupying lesion appearing more than 15 years after cranial radiotherapy: report of two cases. Radiation vasculopathy and radionecrosis, constituting delayed radiation injury, are rare but recognized complications of radiation therapy occurring at a peak incidence of 3 years after treatment. Little information is available about these complications occurring more than 15 years after radiotherapy and presenting as other than solid intracranial masses. We describe two patients who presented with space-occupying cerebral lesions. Patient 1 presented as an emergency with a sudden loss of consciousness. Computed tomography revealed a large left intracerebral hemorrhage; cerebral angiography disclosed nothing abnormal, and a primary spontaneous hemorrhage was presumed. Twenty-seven years earlier, this patient had received adjuvant whole-brain and spine radiotherapy and concomitant chemotherapy after excision of a vermis medulloblastoma. Patient 2 presented with a left frontal cystic lesion (presumed malignant glioma) as the cause of personality and behavioral changes for some months. She had previously received external beam radiation for a basal cell epithelioma, which had been excised from her left forehead 19 years earlier. Both patients recovered well after undergoing craniotomies and removal of their lesions; they were discharged home with no neurological deficit. Even after long intervals after radiotherapy, it is important to consider radiation vasculopathy and radionecrosis as differential diagnoses of more common conditions. Histological confirmation of a delayed radiation injury in the absence of any evidence of neoplasia or vascular abnormality has allowed appropriate prognosis and management to be formulated with confidence in each of these patients."}
{"id": "15045615", "title": "Neuroradiological features of vertigo.", "content": "Neuroradiological features of vertigo. The diagnostic pathway in a patient with vertigo starts with the accurate evaluation of medical history followed by a general physical and neurological examination. This step can often lead to the identification of the correct cause of the disease or, at least, to a distinction between peripheral and central vertigo. Neuroradiological investigations have to be considered as elective diagnostic procedures and include: computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance (MR), MR angiography (MRA), angiography. For the diagnosis of peripheral vertigo, benign paroxysmal positional vertigo, labyrinthitis, Meniere disease, perilymphatic fistula, local trauma, toxic labyrinthitis, acute otitis media and chronic middle ear effusion,the role of imaging techniques is controversial. CT and MR are performed to rule out other pathologies and to confirm the diagnosis. Increased resolution and application of special MR sequences enhancing the intralabyrinthine fluids have enabled more detailed analysis of labyrinthine structures and pathology. Both T2 and T1 contrast sequences are necessary. A high resolution CT study is required when otitis media is suspected and in the follow-up of post-traumatic vertigo. The causes of central vertigo are numerous and include: vertebro-basilar circulation vascular events, multiple sclerosis (MS), migraine-associated vertigo, cerebellar and brainstem tumors, CNS infections. Among them cerebrovascular ischemia and multiple sclerosis are the most frequent. In these situations imaging studies become mandatory. CT can diagnose most cerebellar hemorrhages and some cerebellar and brainstem acute ischemia, enhanced MR has proved to be the most sensitive tool to detect posterior fossa lesion. Diffusion-weighted MR can reveal acute ischemic changes before routine MR. There has been evidence that MR angiography, providing angiogram-like images of the intracranial vessels may sometimes avoid invasive angiography. MRA resolution is not as good as traditional angiography and may also be compromised by movements and other artifacts. Selective angiography of the posterior circulation is often indicated for therapeutic decisions."}
{"id": "15045609", "title": "Neuroradiologic differential diagnosis of cerebral intraparenchymal hemorrhage.", "content": "Neuroradiologic differential diagnosis of cerebral intraparenchymal hemorrhage. Cerebral intraparenchymal hematoma (IH) is one of the most common causes of sudden onset of focal neurologic deficit. This is particularly true in the acute phase, in which IH appears hyperdense compared to the cerebral tissue. By three to four weeks, it becomes isodense with the cerebral gray matter and hypodense within 2 to 6 months. After contrast media administration, IH shows a peripheral ring of enhancement owing to the breakdown of the blood brain barrier. On magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), the appearance of IH depends upon the paramagnetic effects of the different derivates of hemoglobin and both the magnetic field strength and type of sequences used. In the hyperacute phase, IH appears hyperintense on T2 and hypointense on T1 owing to the presence of oxyhemoglobin. In the acute phase, IH is hypointense on T2 and iso-hypointense on T1 as a consequence of the presence of deoxyhemoglobin, which is converted into methemoglobin by 3 to 5 days. Methemoglobin has a strong paramagnetic effect, so in this phase IH becomes hyperintense on T1 and hypointense on T2. After 2 weeks, methemoglobin is converted in hemosiderin, responsible of the ring of hypointensity surrounding the lesion on T2WI. When an IH has been diagnosed, someone should think about the origin of bleeding. Among the different differential diagnosis, one should think about the possible origin, taking into account some parameters, such as: anamnestic data, site of the lesion, number of lesions, appearance on CT and MRI, and presence of perilesional edema. Computed tomography is a reliable and very fast tool for the diagnosis of IH, but MRI is able to provide additional information about the spontaneous or secondary nature of the hematoma, thus allowing a better characterization of the hemorrhagic lesion."}
{"id": "15044743", "title": "Acute ischemic stroke: predictive value of 2D phase-contrast MR angiography--serial study with combined diffusion and perfusion MR imaging.", "content": "Acute ischemic stroke: predictive value of 2D phase-contrast MR angiography--serial study with combined diffusion and perfusion MR imaging. To evaluate phase-contrast magnetic resonance (MR) angiography and diffusion- and perfusion-weighted imaging in predicting evolution of infarction and clinical outcome. Phase-contrast angiographic and diffusion-weighted images obtained 1 and 2 days after acute middle cerebral artery (MCA) stroke were assessed in 43 patients; 39 underwent perfusion-weighted imaging on day 1. Follow-up phase-contrast angiographic and T2-weighted images (n = 38) were obtained on day 8. Clinical outcome was assessed at 3 months. Patients were assigned to three groups according to angiographic findings on day 1: group 1, absence of flow in proximal MCA (M1 segment); group 2, internal carotid artery (ICA) occlusion with collateral M1 flow; group 3, flow in ICA and M1. Differences in lesion volumes on diffusion- and perfusion-weighted maps among groups were compared with one-way analysis of variance with Tukey post hoc multiple comparisons. Patients in group 1 had significantly larger infarct growth, volumes of hypoperfusion on relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV) and relative cerebral blood flow maps, and initial and final infarct volumes than did other patients (P <.05). Initial perfusion deficits on mean transit time maps were significantly (P =.002) larger in group 2 than in group 3, but there were no significant differences in infarct growth (P =.977), final infarct volume on day 8 (P =.947), and clinical outcome (P =.969). Absence of M1 flow on day 1 was significantly associated with unfavorable clinical outcome (modified Rankin score > or = 3) at 3 months (P =.010, chi(2) test). Discriminant analysis revealed that rCBV maps alone and combination of diffusion-weighted imaging and MR angiography yielded the highest accuracy in predicting an unfavorable clinical outcome. Phase-contrast MR angiography can provide complementary information to that with diffusion- and perfusion- weighted imaging in predicting the outcome of patients with acute stroke."}
{"id": "15042405", "title": "Three-dimensional MR digital subtraction angiography using parallel imaging and keyhole data sampling in cerebrovascular diseases: initial experience.", "content": "Three-dimensional MR digital subtraction angiography using parallel imaging and keyhole data sampling in cerebrovascular diseases: initial experience. We assessed the feasibility of MR digital subtraction angiography (DSA) using parallel imaging and keyhole data sampling in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular diseases (CVDs) in 11 patients. Their diseases included arterial trunk stenosis/occlusion ( n=4), aneurysm ( n=3), arteriovenous malformation ( n=2), venous angioma ( n=1), and sinus thrombosis ( n=1). The technique depicted not only anatomical features, comparably to MR angiography ( n=10/11), but also hemodynamics such as collateral flow at a temporal resolution of 1.68 s/frame. When compared with conventional angiograms ( n=7), details were missed in four patients (incomplete demonstration of aneurysmal neck in two and poor separation of AVM components in two). Although inferior to conventional angiography, this technique can provide both anatomical and hemodynamic information of CVDs."}
{"id": "15037474", "title": "Spontaneous superficial parenchymal and leptomeningeal hemorrhage in term neonates.", "content": "Spontaneous superficial parenchymal and leptomeningeal hemorrhage in term neonates. Intracranial hemorrhage in term neonates often results from asphyxia, obvious birth trauma, blood dyscrasia, or vascular malformation but may occur without an obvious inciting event. In this study, we review the clinical and neuroimaging features of healthy term neonates presenting with spontaneous superficial parenchymal and leptomeningeal (ie, subpial or subarachnoid) hemorrhage. The clinical records and neuroimaging studies of seven term neonates with spontaneous superficial parenchymal and leptomeningeal hemorrhage were retrospectively reviewed. All underwent diffusion-weighted MR imaging and 6 underwent CT within 72 hours of birth. Magnetic susceptibility-weighted imaging was performed in five, MR angiography in two, and MR venography in two. Follow-up MR imaging was performed in one infant. Clinical follow-up was done in four patients. All neonates had normal birth weights and high 5-minute APGAR scores. All were delivered vaginally (one with forceps assistance, and one with vacuum assistance). No blood dyscrasias were noted. Within 36 hours after delivery, all neonates presented with apnea or seizures or both. Neuroimaging subsequently revealed superficial parenchymal and leptomeningeal hemorrhage. Four occurred in the anterior-inferior-lateral temporal lobe adjacent to the pterion. The remaining three were located in the parietal lobe, frontal lobe, and lateral temporal lobe under the squamosal suture. Decreased diffusion in parenchyma adjacent to the hemorrhage and overlying subcutaneous soft-tissue swelling were apparent in five patients. Susceptibility-weighted imaging showed no additional lesions. MR angiography and MR venography findings were normal. Follow-up MR imaging in one patient demonstrated encephalomalacia. Four patients with short-term clinical follow-up were neurologically normal. Spontaneous superficial parenchymal and leptomeningeal hemorrhage occurs in otherwise healthy term neonates. The hemorrhage is most often in the temporal lobe and in proximity to sutures, accompanied by overlying soft-tissue swelling and adjacent decreased diffusion. This pattern leads us to implicate local trauma with contusion or venous compression or occlusion in the development of these hemorrhages."}
{"id": "15026732", "title": "Endovascular treatment of posterior cerebral aneurysm associated with Moyamoya disease.", "content": "Endovascular treatment of posterior cerebral aneurysm associated with Moyamoya disease. A patient with moyamoya disease associated with a ruptured posterior cerebral artery aneurysm treated by endovascular embolization is presented. A 47-year-old woman was admitted with severe headache to our hospital. Computed tomography demonstrated subarachnoid haemorrhage. Cerebral angiography revealed evidence of moyamoya disease and a saccular aneurysm at the P1 segment of the left posterior cerebral artery. Endovascular embolization was performed using Guglielmi detachable coil (GDC), and the aneurysm was completely occluded with preservation of the parent artery. Endovascular treatment using GDC seems comparatively safe and effective for the treatment of cerebral saccular aneurysms in patients with moyamoya disease."}
{"id": "14976322", "title": "Appearance of early venous filling during intra-arterial reperfusion therapy for acute middle cerebral artery occlusion: a predictive sign for hemorrhagic complications.", "content": "Appearance of early venous filling during intra-arterial reperfusion therapy for acute middle cerebral artery occlusion: a predictive sign for hemorrhagic complications. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the correlation between appearance of angiographic early venous filling during intra-arterial reperfusion therapy and posttherapeutic hemorrhagic complications. For the past 7 years, 104 patients prospectively underwent superselective local angiography via a microcatheter before and during intra-arterial reperfusion therapy for acute middle cerebral artery occlusion to evaluate the presence or absence of early venous filling. In principle, reperfusion therapy was discontinued just after appearance of early venous filling for fear of hemorrhage. There were 2 types of early venous filling: early filling of the thalamostriate vein from the lenticulostriate arteries and that of the cortical vein from the cortical arteries. Among these 104 patients, 31 (29.8%) had early venous filling: 19 had early filling of the thalamostriate vein, and the other 12 had early filling of the cortical vein. Eight of the 19 patients (42.1%) and 2 of the 12 patients (16.7%) had massive hematoma with neurological worsening, whereas only 1 of the 73 patients (1.4%) without early venous filling had massive hematoma. There was a significant correlation between early venous filling and massive hematoma in both the deep (P<0.0001) and superficial (P=0.0019) middle cerebral artery territories. The sensitivity and specificity of the presence of early venous filling as an indicator of parenchymal hematoma were 71% and 83%, respectively. None of the 31 ischemic areas with early venous filling could escape cerebral infarction. Appearance of early venous filling may indicate irreversible brain damage and may be a predictive sign for parenchymal hematoma."}
{"id": "14968262", "title": "MR-based full-body preventative cardiovascular and tumor imaging: technique and preliminary experience.", "content": "MR-based full-body preventative cardiovascular and tumor imaging: technique and preliminary experience. Recent improvements in hardware and software, lack of side effects, as well as diagnostic accuracy make magnetic resonance imaging a natural candidate for preventative imaging. Thus, the purpose of the study was to evaluate the feasibility of a comprehensive 60-min MR-based screening examination in healthy volunteers and a limited number of patients with known target disease. In ten healthy volunteers (7 men, 3 women; mean age, 32.4 years) and five patients (4 men, 1 woman; mean age, 56.2 years) with proven target disease we evaluated the performance of a comprehensive MR screening strategy by combining well-established organ-based MR examination components encompassing the brain, the arterial system, the heart, the lungs, and the colon. All ten volunteers and five patients tolerated the comprehensive MR examination well. The mean in-room time was 63 min. In one volunteer, insufficient colonic cleansing on the part of the volunteer diminished the diagnostic reliability of MR colonography. All remaining components of the comprehensive MR examination were considered diagnostic in all volunteers and patients. In the five patients, the examination revealed the known pathologies [aneurysm of the anterior communicating artery ( n=1), renal artery stenosis ( n=1), myocardial infarct ( n=1), and colonic polyp ( n=2)]. The outlined MR screening strategy encompassing the brain, the arterial system, the heart, the lung, and the colon is feasible. Further studies have to show that MR-based screening programs are cost-effective in terms of the life-years saved."}
{"id": "14752127", "title": "Association of infratentorial brain arteriovenous malformations with hemorrhage at initial presentation.", "content": "Association of infratentorial brain arteriovenous malformations with hemorrhage at initial presentation. The goal of this study was to analyze the association of hemorrhagic presentation with infratentorial brain arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). The 623 consecutive, prospectively enrolled patients from the Columbia AVM Databank were analyzed in a cross-sectional study. Clinical presentation (diagnostic event) was categorized as intracranial hemorrhage or nonhemorrhagic presentation. From brain imaging and cerebral angiography, AVM location was classified as either infratentorial or supratentorial. Univariate and multivariate statistical models were applied to test the effect of age, sex, AVM size and location, venous drainage pattern, and associated (ie, feeding artery or intranidal) arterial aneurysms on the likelihood of hemorrhage at initial AVM presentation. Of the 623 patients, 72 (12%) had an infratentorial and 551 (88%) had a supratentorial AVM. Intracranial hemorrhage was the presenting symptom in 283 patients (45%), and infratentorial AVM location was significantly more frequent (18%) among patients who bled initially (6%; odds ratio [OR], 3.60; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.09 to 6.20). This difference remained significant (OR, 1.99; 95% CI, 1.07 to 3.69) in the multivariate logistic regression model controlling for age, sex, AVM size, deep venous drainage, and associated arterial aneurysms. In the same model, the effect of other established determinants for AVM hemorrhage--ie, AVM size (in 1-mm increments; OR, 0.95; 95% CI, 0.94 to 0.96), deep venous drainage (OR, 3.09; 95% CI, 1.87 to 5.12), and associated aneurysms (OR, 2.78; 95% CI, 1.76 to 4.40)--remained significant. Our findings suggest that infratentorial AVM location is independently associated with hemorrhagic AVM presentation."}
{"id": "14744279", "title": "Detection of intracranial aneurysms with two-dimensional and three-dimensional multislice helical computed tomographic angiography.", "content": "Detection of intracranial aneurysms with two-dimensional and three-dimensional multislice helical computed tomographic angiography. Computed tomographic angiography (CTA) has become a diagnostic method for the detection of intracranial aneurysms in cases of subarachnoid bleeding. We sought to evaluate the detection of aneurysms with CTA with a novel multislice helical computed tomographic scanner. Prospectively, 179 patients underwent multislice CTA, followed by digital subtraction angiography (DSA) of both carotid arteries with or without the posterior circulation, DSA of one carotid artery with or without the posterior circulation, or DSA of the posterior circulation alone. The total number of carotid arteries studied was 298, and the number of vertebrobasilar arteries studied was 124. Of 178 aneurysms verified with DSA or intraoperatively, CTA failed to detect 7 aneurysms of 1 to 2 mm and 1 partially thrombosed, 4-mm aneurysm. The sensitivity and specificity of CTA for aneurysm detection were 0.96 and 0.97, respectively. The first generation of multislice computed tomographic technology does not improve CTA to surpass DSA for the detection of small aneurysms of 1 to 2 mm. In practice, however, CTA is superior as a fast noninvasive method without complications."}
{"id": "14734920", "title": "Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography of the carotid arteries: influence of injection rates and volumes on arterial-venous transit time.", "content": "Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography of the carotid arteries: influence of injection rates and volumes on arterial-venous transit time. To assess the influence of injection rates and volumes on the arrival time of contrast material (CM) in the common carotid artery, the jugular vein and the resulting arterial-venous transit time. Additionally the relationship between injection parameters and the extent of a CM plateau was evaluated. In 60 patients a CM injection was necessary to investigate suspected cranial disease. All patients were prospectively assigned to 6 protocol groups with varying volumes of gadolinium dimeglumine (2, 10, 20 mL) and injection rates (0.5, 1, 2, 4 mL/s). Simultaneously to the CM injection, 50 repetitive transverse measurements (1/s) were acquired at the level of the common carotid artery. Based on the resulting signal-time curves, the arrival time of the contrast material in the common carotid artery and the jugular vein, the resulting arterial-venous transit time, the peak enhancement and the extent of a CM-plateau were calculated as a function of the injection parameters. Smaller flow rates (0.5 mL/s) resulted in a longer arrival time in the common carotid artery (mean value 22,6 seconds +/- 2.3) and the jugular vein (mean value 32.6 seconds +/- 2.6) and resulted in longer arterial-venous transit time (mean value 10.1 second +/- 1.9). The volume showed no effect on these parameters. The peak arterial and venous signal intensity and a consistent CM-plateau after 50 seconds were dependent on the volume, but not on the injection rate. The injection rate showed an influence to the arrival time in the common carotid artery and the jugular vein and also to the arterial-venous transit time. The injected volume only affected the extent of the contrast plateau. A flow rate of 1 to 2 mL/s and a minimum of 20 mL gadolinium dimeglumine are recommended to achieve optimal image quality without venous overlay."}
{"id": "14712403", "title": "Sensitivity encoding (SENSE) for high spatial resolution time-of-flight MR angiography of the intracranial arteries at 3.0 T.", "content": "Sensitivity encoding (SENSE) for high spatial resolution time-of-flight MR angiography of the intracranial arteries at 3.0 T. 1) To evaluate feasibility of sensitivity encoding (SENSE) for high spatial resolution intracranial 3D time-of-flight (TOF) MR angiography at 3.0 T using a 1024 imaging matrix and 2) to compare image quality and diagnostic yield with 3.0 T TOF MRA without SENSE. In a prospective study TOF MR angiography of the circle of Willis was performed with SENSE in 24 patients on a clinical whole body 3.0 T MR system (Intera, Philips Medical Systems, NL). In the SENSE protocol (S-MRA), a SENSE factor of 2.5 was used to shorten acquisition time and to increase the anatomic coverage (5:12 min.; 150 slices). A matrix of 832 x 572 was acquired and reconstructed to 1024 yielding a non-zerofilled voxel size of 0.30 x 0.44 x 1.00 mm(3) (0.13 mm(3)). Two readers were asked to review the images regarding the presence of vascular disease, and to rate, in consensus, the quality of the angiograms on a 5-point scale (5 = excellent through 1 = non-diagnostic). Results were compared with the results in 15 subjects who underwent intracranial TOF MRA at 3.0 T without SENSE (NS-MRA: acquisition time, 7:57 min.; 100 slices). Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) served as standard of reference in the 4/24 patients in whom vascular disease was identified. S-MRA at 3.0 T was judged to provide image quality that was adequate for diagnosis or better in 24/24. Median score of image quality of S-MRA and NS-MRA were 5 and 5, respectively. In the 4 patients with DSA correlation, a total of 8 pathologic findings (7 steno-occlusive diseases, 1 aneurysm) were correctly identified on S-MRA. The use of SENSE for intracranial TOF MRA at very high imaging matrix is feasible at 3.0 T. Compared to the imaging technique without SENSE, it allows TOF MRA with substantially reduced acquisition time, and with substantially increased anatomic coverage while maintaining image quality of NS-MRA."}
{"id": "14706394", "title": "Cerebral vein thrombosis associated with aneurysmal subarachnoid bleeding: implications for treatment.", "content": "Cerebral vein thrombosis associated with aneurysmal subarachnoid bleeding: implications for treatment. Cerebral vein thrombosis associated with aneurysmal subarachnoid bleeding is an uncommon event rarely described in the literature. We report here a case and summarize the problems in the management of this patient. A 48-year-old female suffered from two episodes of severe headache and vomiting 7 days before and on the day of admission. She was deeply somnolent with mild paresis of her right leg. Computed tomography (CT) scans revealed diffuse basal subarachnoid bleeding and a left parietal subcortical hemorrhagic area. A cerebral angiogram demonstrated an anterior communicating artery aneurysm. The angiographic late venous phase showed nonopacification of the cortical veins on the hemorrhagic area compatible with cerebral vein thrombosis. She underwent successful aneurysm clipping combined with moderate systemic anticoagulation. After 7 days of gradual clinical improvement she presented acute bilateral cerebral herniation signs and died 48 hours later. CT scan showed a generalized brain swelling. Postmortem examination confirmed the correct occlusion of the ruptured aneurysm sac and the presence of a postthrombotic subcortical left parietal hemorrhage as well as a complete obstruction of the superior sagittal sinus extended into both transverse sinus. The fatal outcome with the documented extended thrombosis, despite careful anticoagulation therapy, indicates the necessity of closely meshed follow-up studies examining the sinus patency in such complicated cases with associated pathology."}
{"id": "14699177", "title": "Detection of intracranial aneurysms: multi-detector row CT angiography compared with DSA.", "content": "Detection of intracranial aneurysms: multi-detector row CT angiography compared with DSA. To prospectively compare the effectiveness of multi-detector row computed tomographic (CT) angiography with that of conventional intraarterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA) used to detect intracranial aneurysms in patients with nontraumatic acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. Thirty-five consecutive adult patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage were recruited into the institutional review board-approved study and gave informed consent. All patients underwent both multi-detector row CT angiography and DSA no more than 12 hours apart. CT angiography was performed with a multi-detector row scanner (four detector rows) by using collimation of 1.25 mm and pitch of 3. Images were interpreted at computer workstations in a blinded fashion. Two radiologists independently reviewed the CT images, and two other radiologists independently reviewed the DSA images. The presence and location of aneurysms were rated on a five-point scale for certainty. Sensitivity and specificity were calculated independently for image interpretation performed by the two CT image readers and the second DSA image reader by using the first DSA reader's interpretation as the reference standard. A total of 26 aneurysms were detected at DSA in 21 patients, and no aneurysms were detected in 14 patients. Sensitivity and specificity for CT angiography were, respectively, 90% and 93% for reader 1 and 81% and 93% for reader 2. The mean diameter of aneurysms detected on CT angiographic images was 4.4 mm, and the smallest aneurysm detected was 2.2 mm in diameter. Aneurysms that were missed at initial interpretation of CT angiographic images were identified at retrospective reading. Multi-detector row CT angiography has high sensitivity and specificity for detection of intracranial aneurysms, including small aneurysms, in patients with nontraumatic acute subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "14669061", "title": "Radiological approach to disorders of arterial brain vessels associated with childhood arterial stroke-a comparison between MRA and contrast angiography.", "content": "Radiological approach to disorders of arterial brain vessels associated with childhood arterial stroke-a comparison between MRA and contrast angiography. Recent studies of arterial ischaemic stroke in children have emphasised the higher frequency of cerebral arterial abnormalities than believed previously, explaining some of the strokes thought to have been idiopathic. Moreover, recurrent strokes are significantly more frequent in children with multiple risk factors, including those with demonstrable vascular abnormalities. Thus, cerebral arterial imaging is essential for the understanding and therapeutic approach to this pathology. Contrast angiography (CA) is the reference examination for the diagnosis of cerebral arterial abnormalities, but MR angiography (MRA) is a sensitive and non-invasive method to evaluate the vasculopathy of childhood stroke. In this article we highlight recent data concerning localisation and characterisation of arterial lesions and discuss the yield of MRA compared with CA."}
{"id": "14655034", "title": "MRI in acute subarachnoid haemorrhage; findings with a standardised stroke protocol.", "content": "MRI in acute subarachnoid haemorrhage; findings with a standardised stroke protocol. There is doubt as to whether acute haemorrhage is visible on MRI. We carried out MRI within 6 h of symptom onset on five patients with minor (low Hunt and Hess grades 1 or 2) subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) diagnosed by CT to search for any specific pattern. We used our standard stroke MRI protocol, including multiecho proton density (PD)- and T2-weighted images, echoplanar (EPI) diffusion- (DWI) and perfusion- (PWI) weighted imaging, and MRA. In all cases SAH was clearly visible on PD-weighted images with a short TE. In four patients it caused a low-signal rim on the T2*-weighted source images of PWI, and DWI revealed high signal in SAH. In the fifth patient SAH was perimesencephalic; susceptibility effects from the skull base made it impossible to detect SAH on EPI DWI and T2*-weighted images. Perfusion maps were normal in all cases. MRA and conventional angiography revealed an aneurysm in only one patient. Stroke MRI within 6 h of SAH thus shows a characteristic pattern."}
{"id": "14978474", "title": "Bleeding cerebral neoplasms with symptomatic hematoma.", "content": "Bleeding cerebral neoplasms with symptomatic hematoma. This article discusses the role of intracranial tumors in the etiology of spontaneous intracerebral hematomas, compared to other causes such as hypertension, aneurysm, arteriovenous malformation (AVM) or cavernoma. An analysis of cerebral tumors, with a particular oncological emphasis on intrinsic bleeding during growth and resulting in symptomatic hematoma, is presented. We analyzed 110 cases of intracranial tumor with symptomatic bleeding, accounting for 1.5% of 7373 intracranial neoplasms and 4.4% of 2514 intracerebral hematomas, surgically treated at the Department of Neurosurgery in Verona, from 1968 to 2000. The bleeding tumors comprised 36 (33%) glioblastomas, 23 (21%) metastases, 14 (13%) anaplastic gliomas, 13 (12%) low-grade gliomas, 13 (12%) meningiomas, 5 (5%) adenomas, 2 (2%) hemangioblastomas, 2 (2%) melanomas, 1 (1%) neuroblastoma and 1 (1%) pinealoblastoma. Analysis of the data of the 110 cases of tumors with symptomatic hematoma showed that there was a statistically significant correlation between the incidence of bleeding and histological groups according to the World Health Organization classification. A clinical study of these cases indicates that hematoma onset is more frequent in anaplastic gliomas (93%) and meningiomas (62%) than in other pathologies (p=0.008); meningiomas are prevalent on the left side (92%) (p=0.000); favorable bleeding factors correlate with meningioma (62%), (p=0.009). The postoperative short-term results following hematoma evacuation and tumor removal were significantly influenced only by patient age (p=0.000) and preoperative clinical condition (p=0.000). The analysis of our study population shows that the tumoral etiology of intracerebral hematomas is by no means negligible, accounting for 4.4% of 2514 hematomas operated on, and emphasizes the fact that not all bleeding neoplasms are malignant. Out of a total of 110 hemorrhagic tumors 23 (21%) were benign and 6 (5%) low-grade. The tumoral origin of cerebral hematoma is not always correctly diagnosed by non-contrast-enhanced CT and angiography, and therefore, in the presence of a hematoma with an \"atypical\" appearance, it is advisable to complete the diagnostic investigations with contrast-enhanced CT or MRI for the purposes of better planning surgical evacuation of hematoma and tumor removal, bearing in mind the high incidence of bleeding in benign and low-grade tumors as well as the optimal short and long-term results obtained with surgery."}
{"id": "14968401", "title": "Factors leading to hydrocephalus after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Factors leading to hydrocephalus after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Hydrocephalus is not a rare complication following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Hydrocephalus following subarachnoid hemorrhage can progress acutely (0-3 days), subacutely (4-13 days) or chronically (after 13 days). The predisposing factors leading to hydrocephalus after subarachnoid hemorrhage are not known exactly. This study assessed the predictive factors for the development of this condition. All patients presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage between 1992-2001 were evaluated. All of them had initial computed tomography (CT) and hydrocephalus was diagnosed on CT scans. Age, gender, preexisting diabetes mellitus and hypertension, neurological state according to the Hunt and Hess scale at admission, Fischer grade on CT, the presence of intraventricular hemorrhage and localization of aneurysm were analyzed to see if there was any meaningful relationship between hydrocephalus and these factors. One hundred and fourteen patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage were evaluated. The incidence of hydrocephalus was 28.1 %. The incidence for acute hydrocephalus was 18.4 %, for subacute 5.2 % and for chronic 4.3 %. Sixty-nine percent of patients with hydrocephalus were graded as 3, 4 or 5 according to the Hunt and Hess scale on admission. Fifty-five percent of patients with hydrocephalus were graded as 3 and 4 according to Fisher grade on initial CT scan. Preexisting diabetes, higher Fisher grade and intraventricular hemorrhage were statistically significant predictors for the development of hydrocephalus. But only preexisting diabetes and higher Fisher grade were independent predictors according to multivariate analyses."}
{"id": "14965000", "title": "[Clinical and topographic features of manifestations of cerebral vascular disorders in patients with vascular encephalopathy and cerebral arterial architecture anomalies].", "content": "[Clinical and topographic features of manifestations of cerebral vascular disorders in patients with vascular encephalopathy and cerebral arterial architecture anomalies]. The article presents the study of clinicotopographic features of the manifestations of cerebral disgemia in 129 patients with chronic cerebrovascular encephalopathy in the presence of abnormal cerebral arterioarchitectonics. It was completed by means of clinico-neurological and instrumental (MRI, MRA) investigations at the republican \"Pheophania\" clinic. Our data suggest that including MRI of brain with vascular mode into algorithm of investigation of patients with vascular encephalopathy to reveal and establish the degree of pathological changes is worthwhile as it will help to differentiate different kinds of cerebral affections, treat and evaluate a degree of risk of progressing a disease. Criteria for considerably early diagnostics of prognostically unfavourable forms of cerebrovascular insufficiency need further developing as at very this stage therapeutic actions are most effective."}
{"id": "14748402", "title": "MR angiography in steno-occlusive disease of the intracranial vessels.", "content": "MR angiography in steno-occlusive disease of the intracranial vessels. Technical advances in MR angiography (MRA) have improved the sensitivity and the accuracy of this technique in the evaluation of vascular stenoocclusive disease of the brain. In many centers, due to its non-invasive and non-ionizing character, MR angiography has already replaced conventional angiography for the screening of intracranial vascular disease. Several MRA techniques have been developed for imaging the intracranial vascular system, such as time-of-flight MRA (TOF-MRA), phased-contrast MRA (PC-MRA), and more recently contrast-enhanced MRA (CE-MRA)."}
{"id": "14734869", "title": "Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage and multiple infarction in Williams-Beuren syndrome.", "content": "Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage and multiple infarction in Williams-Beuren syndrome. A 7-year-old boy diagnosed with Williams-Beuren syndrome was admitted for spontaneous right hemispheric intracerebral hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography did not reveal any source of bleeding. After a short period of clinical improvement under conservative treatment, the boy deteriorated rapidly. CT showed the beginning of a complete infarction of both hemispheres. Operative evacuation of the bleeding and bilateral osteoclastic decompression had no perceptible influence on the clinical course. To the present day, the boy has remained in a vegetative state. Reports in the literature suggest that Williams syndrome with cerebral infarction is associated with a markedly poorer prognosis when there is additional intracerebral bleeding."}
{"id": "14723266", "title": "Ruptured aneurysm of the medial posterior choroidal artery first demonstrated by the microcatheter technique--case report.", "content": "Ruptured aneurysm of the medial posterior choroidal artery first demonstrated by the microcatheter technique--case report. A 50-year-old previously healthy woman presented with symptoms of subarachnoid hemorrhage. Initial cerebral angiography did not determine the site of the hemorrhage but repeat angiography disclosed an aneurysm-like image, probably in the medial posterior choroidal artery (PChA). Selective angiography performed using a microcatheter technique clearly revealed two medial PChAs arising from the ambient segment of the posterior cerebral artery. One medial PChA included an aneurysm on the cisternal segment, then ran peripherally to supply the plexus in the roof of the third ventricle. The other medial PChA mainly supplied the pineal body, tegmentum of the midbrain, and posterior border of the thalamus. The patient underwent open surgery following the zygomatic approach and the parent artery was clipped. She was discharged without neurological deficits or compromise of higher brain functions."}
{"id": "14676045", "title": "Misdiagnosis of spontaneous intracranial hypotension.", "content": "Misdiagnosis of spontaneous intracranial hypotension. Spontaneous intracranial hypotension is an important cause of \"new daily persistent headaches\" but is not a well-recognized entity. The misdiagnosis of spontaneous intracranial hypotension can have serious consequences. The clinical course in 18 consecutive patients with spontaneous intracranial hypotension who were evaluated for definitive surgical treatment of the underlying spontaneous spinal cerebrospinal fluid leak from January 1, 2001, through June 30, 2002, was investigated by correspondence with the patients and physicians. Seventeen patients (94%) initially received an incorrect diagnosis, and the diagnostic delay ranged from 4 days to 13 years (median, 5 weeks; mean, 13 months). Migraine, meningitis, and psychogenic disorder were the most commonly entertained diagnoses. Diagnostic or therapeutic procedures for disorders that mimicked spontaneous intracranial hypotension included cerebral arteriography in 2 patients, craniotomies for Chiari malformation in 2 patients, craniotomy for evacuation of subdural hematomas in 1 patient, and brain biopsy in 1 patient. Patients with spontaneous intracranial hypotension are commonly misdiagnosed, causing a significant delay in the initiation of effective treatments and exposing patients to the risks associated with treatment for disorders that mimic intracranial hypotension. Increasing the awareness of this spontaneous type of intracranial hypotension is required to decrease the high rate of misdiagnosis."}
{"id": "14670669", "title": "Giant aneurysm of the azygos pericallosal artery: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Giant aneurysm of the azygos pericallosal artery: case report and review of the literature. Pericallosal aneurysms are encountered less than 6.7%, and giant aneurysms among them even less. Giant azygos pericallosal artery aneurysm at the callosomarginal bifurcation is extremely rare, and our case presented herein is the second one. The case is discussed with thorough review of the literature. A 65-year-old woman presented with an extremely rare giant aneurysm on the azygos pericallosal artery manifesting as subarachnoid hemorrhage in World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies Grade 3. Computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), and four vessel angiography revealed a giant azygos pericallosal artery aneurysm associated with a second aneurysm at the left M1. After recovery to Grade 2, she underwent surgery via the right frontal interhemispheric approach for the azygos artery aneurysm on the 17th day after bleeding. The true dimensions of the aneurysm were greater than indicated by angiography because of partial thrombosis. Trilobulate aneurysm was carefully dissected from the surrounding structures. Postoperative cerebral angiography showed no filling of the clipped aneurysm and preservation of circulation. The treatment of distal anterior cerebral artery aneurysms is often difficult, because of their broad-based irregular configurations and adherence to surrounding tissue, tendency to bleed irrespective of size and the coexistence of other cerebral aneurysms. However, excellent outcomes can be obtained based on thorough preoperative radiologic evaluation, including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and correct selection of surgical approach."}
{"id": "14669530", "title": "Thrombosis and recanalization of symptomatic nongiant saccular aneurysm.", "content": "Thrombosis and recanalization of symptomatic nongiant saccular aneurysm. Complete thrombosis followed by recanalization of giant aneurysms is an infrequent process that has been exceptionally mentioned in relation to nongiant saccular aneurysms. A 25-year-old male presented with a right temporal hematoma and associated subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography revealed a small blister-like dilatation at the right middle cerebral artery bifurcation. The cerebral hematoma was surgically removed and a large thrombosed aneurysm was discovered and was wrapped. Follow-up angiography revealed complete recanalization of the aneurysm with preservation of all the arterial branches and the aneurysm was then completely occluded with detachable coils. This case provides insight into the well-known but poorly understood dynamic process of thrombosis and recanalization of cerebral aneurysms. The possible role of a cerebral hematoma in the pathogenesis of this process is discussed."}
{"id": "14657322", "title": "Time-of-flight MR angiography: comparison of 3.0-T imaging and 1.5-T imaging--initial experience.", "content": "Time-of-flight MR angiography: comparison of 3.0-T imaging and 1.5-T imaging--initial experience. Intracranial three-dimensional time-of-flight (TOF) magnetic resonance (MR) angiography was performed in seven healthy volunteers and eight patients with both 1.5-T and 3.0-T MR systems with standard and high spatial resolutions (true voxel sizes, 0.48 x 0.75 x 2.00 mm and 0.30 x 0.44 x 1.00 mm, respectively). Superior image quality and significantly better depiction of small vessel segments and vascular disease were observed at high-spatial-resolution 3.0-T TOF MR angiography but not at standard 1.5-T or standard 3.0-T TOF MR angiography (P <.01, respectively). Intracranial high-spatial-resolution TOF MR angiography at 3.0-T imaging provides diagnostic improvement in studies of cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "14643914", "title": "\"Occult\" ruptured cerebral aneurysms revealed by repeat angiography: result from a large retrospective study.", "content": "\"Occult\" ruptured cerebral aneurysms revealed by repeat angiography: result from a large retrospective study. Not infrequently, cerebral angiography performed immediately after the onset of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) fails to reveal any causative lesion. Although the cause of the SAH in most of these cases remains unknown, repeat angiography sometimes discloses a lesion not detected by the initial angiography. The frequency of finding a ruptured aneurysm by repeat angiography and the angiographic characteristics of such aneurysms have been investigated retrospectively. Nineteen among 316 non-traumatic SAH patients (6%) showed initially negative angiogram, and 7 of 19 patients (36%) were identified as harboring an \"initially occult\" aneurysm. It was possible to identify the expected cause of these initial false-negative angiograms in four of those seven patients. The aneurysm was located in the anterior communicating artery (ACoA) complex in four of the seven patients. When interpreting the angiograms of patients with SAH, neurologists and neurosurgeons should bear in mind the finding that the ACoA complex is the most frequent site of \"initially occult\" aneurysms. One patient had a dissecting aneurysm of the internal carotid artery, and although such lesions have been considered rare, they should be included in the differential diagnosis of SAH of unknown origin."}
{"id": "14628117", "title": "[Vascular malformations in newborn infants, infants and children].", "content": "[Vascular malformations in newborn infants, infants and children]. Vascular malformations are the cause of nearly all non-traumatic intracranial hemorrhage in children beyond the neonatal stage. Therefore, any child presenting with spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage should be evaluated for child abuse and for vascular malformations. Intracerebral malformations of the cerebral vasculature include vein of Galen malformations, arteriovenous malformation (AVM), cavernomas, dural arteriovenous fistulas, venous anomalies (DVA), and capillary teleangiectasies. Although a few familial vascular malformation have been reported, the majority are sporadic. Clinical symptoms, diagnostic and therapeutic options are discussed."}
{"id": "14625234", "title": "Active bleeding from ruptured cerebral aneurysms during diagnostic angiography: emergency treatment.", "content": "Active bleeding from ruptured cerebral aneurysms during diagnostic angiography: emergency treatment. Despite new developments in the treatment of cerebral aneurysms, recurrent hemorrhage of an aneurysm is the most feared complication of subarachnoid bleeding. The prognosis of patients with early reruptured aneurysms is discouraging. A rerupture of an aneurysm with active bleeding is extremely rare, and the mechanisms involved remain unclear. We report the management of active bleeding of reruptured aneurysms during diagnostic angiography. In two patients, emergency treatment of the active hemorrhage was performed by means of neurosurgical intervention and by an endovascular approach in one other case. The causes and management of reruptured aneurysms with active bleeding are also discussed within the context of a review of the literature."}
{"id": "14618806", "title": "[Some prognostic criteria of results of treatment of young and middle-aged patients with non-traumatic intracerebral hemorrhage].", "content": "[Some prognostic criteria of results of treatment of young and middle-aged patients with non-traumatic intracerebral hemorrhage]. The paper is based on the analysis of 235 young and middle-aged patients with nontraumatic hemorrhage, with hypertensive disease and atherosclerosis of cerebral vessels having been by far the commonest cause of the trouble (82.9%). In all observations, diagnoses were verified with computerized tomography, magnetic resonance tomography and angiography and during surgery and in autopsy as well. Basically, in the clinical course of nontraumatic intracerebral hemorrhages, there have been identified three syndromes that reflect to a considerable extent the time-related course of dislocation-type changes. Depending on the site of hemorrhage and in accordance with the WHO classification, a comparative description is given for groups of patients presented with blood in the basal ganglia and of those with caudad-capsular, striocapsular hemorrhage, medial, mixed, and intralobar ones, with certain prognostic criteria established."}
{"id": "14615608", "title": "Cerebrovascular disease in type 2 diabetic patients without hypertension.", "content": "Cerebrovascular disease in type 2 diabetic patients without hypertension."}
{"id": "14606056", "title": "[The diagnosis of arteriovenous malformations of the brain].", "content": "[The diagnosis of arteriovenous malformations of the brain]. Arteriovenous malformations (AVM) of the brain are, at present, entities that are difficult to diagnose owing to the variations in their clinical presentation and the different localisations in the central nervous system. Their most frequent clinical forms are haemorrhage, which is typically located in the intraparenchymatous region, seizures and, less frequently, vascular headache and progressive neurological deficit. Several imaging studies with different resolutions must be performed for a final and conclusive diagnosis of an AVM, and brain angiography remains the first choice procedure, both in diagnosis and in planning management. The more recent use of functional studies has enabled us to better evaluate the haemodynamic characters of AVM and the repercussion on the surrounding brain tissue. The use of transoperative angiography, as a complement in resective surgery, allows us to determine the level of resection before closing the skull and, thus, to correct technical defects. It therefore diminishes the post operative complications derived from remnants of the lesion."}
{"id": "14598647", "title": "[A case of ruptured aneurysm of the middle cerebral artery associated with dural arteriovenous fistula in the anterior cranial fossa].", "content": "[A case of ruptured aneurysm of the middle cerebral artery associated with dural arteriovenous fistula in the anterior cranial fossa]. A 66-year-old man suffered from subarachnoid hemorrhage due to the rupture of a right middle cerebral artery aneurysm that was detected by 3D-CTA. He underwent an emergent clipping operation. Incidentally, postoperative DSA demonstrated dural arteriovenous fistula in the left anterior cranial fossa, which was fed by the left anterior ethmoidal artery and drained into the superior sagittal sinus via the cortical vein of the left frontal lobe. We performed electrocoagulation and division of the fistula at the second surgery. Subsequently, he underwent a ventriculo-peritoneal shunt and was discharged without any neurological deficits. We reviewed reported cases of rare association of ruptured cerebral aneurysm and dural arteriovenous fistula in the left anterior cranial fossa."}
{"id": "14593630", "title": "[Overestimation of the degree of stenosis in the intracranial internal carotid artery determined by magnetic resonance angiography compared to conventional arteriography].", "content": "[Overestimation of the degree of stenosis in the intracranial internal carotid artery determined by magnetic resonance angiography compared to conventional arteriography]. In the evaluation of stenoses of the extracranial internal carotid artery (ICA), there are studies that suggest that magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) can be a substitute for conventional arteriography (CA), although it seems it has a tendency to overestimate the degree of stenosis. No similar comparison of the two techniques has been conducted in intracranial ICA. We report the case of a patient suffering from an acute ischemic stroke and symptomatic intracranial stenosis that was overestimated when MRA was used, compared to the results obtained using CA. We report the case of a 64-year-old male with a history of arterial hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and intermittent claudication who visited the emergency department because of the sudden onset of paresthesias in the left hemiface and hand. The cranial tomography scan performed in the emergency unit ruled out any acute bleeding or early signs of a stroke. Magnetic resonance (MR) diffusion imaging showed an acute ischemic stroke in the right parietal cortex. Extracranial MRA was normal and in the intracranial area a 73% stenosis was detected in the cavernous segment of the right ICA, whereas the use of CA showed the stenosis to be only 55%. On repeating the MRA to rule out a possible rechanneling of the ICA, the image obtained was exactly the same as the earlier one. Our observations suggest that, as occurs with the extracranial part, MRA tends to magnify the degree of stenosis in the intracranial vessels, and this technique would therefore appear to be less efficient than CA in the evaluation of intracranial stenoses."}
{"id": "14592617", "title": "Chronic expanding intracerebral hematoma.", "content": "Chronic expanding intracerebral hematoma. In order to study the clinical characteristics of chronic expanding intracerebral hematoma (CEICH), we analyzed retrospectively 21 patients with CEICH and reviewed the literature with regard to clinical manifestations, medical imaging features, surgical findings, pathological examinations, diagnoses, treatments and prognoses, etc. All patients recovered well and did not recur 1-2 months after operation, except one, who died of contralateral intracerebral hemorrhage three months later. Patients were followed-up by computerized tomographic (CT) scanning. MRI was useful for the preoperative diagnosis."}
{"id": "14571004", "title": "Three-dimensional CT angiography in the evaluation of cerebral arteries in acute hemorrhage.", "content": "Three-dimensional CT angiography in the evaluation of cerebral arteries in acute hemorrhage. We conducted this study to demonstrate the value of non-invasive three-dimensional CT angiography (3D CTA) in the detection of a cerebral aneurysm. A helical CT acquisition was obtained using non-ionic contrast media in 50 patients with 1 mm per second table speed, 1 mm collimation, and pitch 1:1. Axial source images were transferred into a workstation console (Advantage windows GE) and CTA was obtained using MIP (Maximum Intensity Projection) reconstruction. Fourteen patients underwent conventional digital subtraction angiography (DSA) after 3D CTA prior to surgery. A total of 39 aneurysms were detected in 50 patients. All patients with an aneurysm were operated and the presence of aneurysms was confirmed. 3D CTA detected 38 of these 39 aneurysms. In 37 aneurysms, the origin of the aneurysm and aneurysm neck was adequately visualized. 3D CTA was found to be 100% specific and 97.2% sensitive in picking up cerebral aneurysms. 3D CTA was 97% specific in demonstrating the exact origin and showing the neck of the aneurysm. CT angiography is a simple, quick, and non-invasive technique and can replace DSA in most patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage aneurysm for the detection and characterization of aneurysms of the circle of Willis. The relation of the aneurysm with bony landmarks was clearly depicted."}
{"id": "14568138", "title": "Primary intraventricular hemorrhage from dural arteriovenous fistula.", "content": "Primary intraventricular hemorrhage from dural arteriovenous fistula. Dural arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs) cause several types of intracranial hemorrhage, but rarely cause primary intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH). We report a 67-year-old man with sudden headache and a long history of a pulsatile bruit who developed intraventricular hemorrhage without any parenchymal hemorrhage. Cerebral angiogram revealed dural arteriovenous fistulas in transverse and sigmoid sinuses. Severe retrograde venous drainage seemed to have caused backward flow into the subependymal veins with their consequential rupture. Transvenous embolization was successful."}
{"id": "14520544", "title": "Value of the quantity and distribution of subarachnoid haemorrhage on CT in the localization of a ruptured cerebral aneurysm.", "content": "Value of the quantity and distribution of subarachnoid haemorrhage on CT in the localization of a ruptured cerebral aneurysm. Computed tomography (CT) is the \"gold standard\" for detecting subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) for visualising the vascular pathology. We studied retrospectively 180 patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) who underwent first non-enhanced computed tomography (CT), then digital subtraction angiography (DSA) and finally operative aneurysm clipping. Our aim was to assess if the location of the ruptured aneurysm could be predicted on the basis of the quantity and distribution of haemorrhage on the initial CT scan. 180 patients with SAH were retrospectively studied. All the CT and DSA examinations were performed at the same hospital. CT was performed within 24 hours after the initial haemorrhage. DSA was performed after the CT, within 48 hours after the initial haemorrhage. Two neuroradiologists, blind to the DSA results, analysed and scored independently the quantity and distribution of the haemorrhage and predicted the site of the ruptured aneurysm on the basis of the non-enhanced CT. DSA provided the location of the ruptured aneurysm. All the patients were operated upon, and the location of the ruptured aneurysm was determined. The overall reliability value (kappa-value) between the two neuroradiologists for locating all ruptured aneurysms was 0.780. The corresponding value for the right MCA was 0.911, that for the left MCA 0.877 and that for the AcoA 0.736. Not all of the kappa-values were calculated, either because the location of the rupture was constant or because the number of ruptures in the vessel was too small. Subarachnoid haemorrhage with a parenchymal hematoma is an excellent predictor of the site of the ruptured aneurysm with a statistical significance of p=0.003. The quantity and pattern of the blood clot on CT within the day of onset of SAH is a reliable and quick tool for locating a ruptured MCA or AcoA aneurysm. It is not, however, reliable for locating other ruptured aneurysms. Subarachnoid haemorrhage with a parenchymal hematoma is an excellent predictor of the site of a ruptured aneurysm."}
{"id": "14513785", "title": "[Ruptured frontopolar artery aneurysm: two cases].", "content": "[Ruptured frontopolar artery aneurysm: two cases]. We report two very rare cases of subarachnoid hemorrhage due to a ruptured frontopolar artery aneurysm in the cingulate sulcus. Only two surgically treated cases have been reported. Case 1: A 69-year-old woman suffered headache and was admitted to our hospital the next day. Computed tomography (CT) revealed focal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in the interhemispheric fissure. Cerebral angiography on admission failed to show an aneurysm, but follow-up study on day 14 revealed a small aneurysm in the cingulate sulcus at the origin of the frontopolar artery arising from the callosomarginal trunk. The aneurysm was successfully clipped on day 15 and the post-operative course was uneventful. Case 2: A 43-year-old man was transferred to our hospital complaining of severe headache. CT revealed diffuse SAH in the basal and interhemispheric cistern. Cerebral angiography showed an aneurysm at the origin of the callosomarginal trunk arising from the anterior communicating artery complex and another at the callosomarginal-frontopolar bifurcation in the cingulate sulcus. Both aneurysms were successfully clipped on the day of admission, and the frontopolar artery aneurysm was shown to be the cause of the SAH."}
{"id": "14505854", "title": "Aneurysm at the posterior inferior cerebellar artery of extradural origin for preoperative evaluation of safe clipping: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Aneurysm at the posterior inferior cerebellar artery of extradural origin for preoperative evaluation of safe clipping: case report and review of the literature. As far as we know, 6 cases of extracranial (including craniocervical junction) intradural aneurysms of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery have been previously reported. However, preoperative detailed evaluation of the origin site and a course of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery by means of angiography were not reported in previous papers. We report a rare case of aneurysm of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery, which originated extradurally from the right vertebral artery. A 69-year-old woman experienced a sudden headache 16 years ago and a computed tomography scan showed a subarachnoid hemorrhage around the midbrain. Four-vessel cerebral angiography, however, failed to disclose a source of the hemorrhage. Magnetic resonance angiography incidentally revealed an aneurysm at the craniocervical junction 16 years after the subarachnoid hemorrhage. The aneurysm was exposed and clipped via a suboccipital route. At surgery, it was of no use to apply a temporary clip on the intradural segment of the vertebral artery, because the posterior inferior cerebellar artery was found to enter the intradural space separately from the vertebral artery. The blood flow to such an aneurysm cannot be stopped with this procedure. Careful neuroimaging study is essential for the accurate diagnosis and successful treatment of such a rare aneurysm."}
{"id": "14504879", "title": "Endovascular treatment of ruptured intracranial aneurysms during pregnancy: report of three cases.", "content": "Endovascular treatment of ruptured intracranial aneurysms during pregnancy: report of three cases. Subarachnoid hemorrhage from an intracranial aneurysm during pregnancy is a rare complication with high maternal and fetal morbidity-mortality. We report three cases of ruptured intracranial aneurysms during pregnancy, treated by the minimal invasive endovascular approach."}
{"id": "14504847", "title": "Neurovascular MRI with dynamic contrast-enhanced subtraction angiography.", "content": "Neurovascular MRI with dynamic contrast-enhanced subtraction angiography. The first generation of digital subtraction MR angiography using thick-slab contrast-enhanced 2D projection techniques has confirmed the potential of MRI to produce noninvasive subsecond angiograms of the craniocervical circulation. As time-resolved techniques become more sophisticated and 3D acquisitions can be obtained with high isotropic spatial resolution we may start to see the demise of catheter angiography as a diagnostic procedure."}
{"id": "13679278", "title": "MR imaging of dural arteriovenous fistulas draining into cerebellar cortical veins.", "content": "MR imaging of dural arteriovenous fistulas draining into cerebellar cortical veins. Retrograde leptomeningeal venous drainage (RLVD) in a dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) is associated with intracerebral hemorrhage, nonhemorrhagic neurologic deficit, or death, and recognizing the presence of this drainage is important. We investigated the MR findings of DAVFs draining into cerebellar cortical veins and compared these findings with those of conventional angiography. The MR and angiographic findings of six patients (five men, one woman; mean age, 73.4 years) with DAVF with RLVD into cerebellar cortical veins were reviewed retrospectively. Signal intensity characteristics, contrast material enhancement, topography of the lesion, and presence of signal voids were evaluated on MR images. Site of the shunt, feeding arteries, and draining veins were evaluated on angiograms. In all patients, MR images showed high signal intensity on T2-weighted images and peripheral enhancement on gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted images at the inferior aspect of the cerebellar hemisphere. A combination of posterior meningeal and occipital arteries was the most frequent blood supply (83%) for these DAVFs. In all six patients, the inferior hemispheric vein was the primary draining vein. The characteristic MR findings of DAVF draining into cerebellar cortical veins represent venous congestive encephalopathy in the territory of the involved cortical vein."}
{"id": "13677803", "title": "Adults and children with headache: evidence-based diagnostic evaluation.", "content": "Adults and children with headache: evidence-based diagnostic evaluation. Headache represents one of the most common complaints in the outpatient and emergency room setting [1]. Most causes of headache are benign and do not require emergent imaging or intervention. The authors' review of the diagnostic tests does not offer absolute indications for neuroimaging because most of the evidence is based on studies that are not randomized controlled trials. Imaging guidelines for adults and children, however, have emerged based on the available level 2 and 3 literature. CT imaging remains the initial test of choice for new-onset headache in adults and headache suggestive of SAH. Most of the available literature also recommends performing lumbar puncture when CT is equivocal in ruling out SAH [1]. The sensitivity of MR imaging appears to be less than CT for SAH [1]. Newer MR imaging techniques need to be tested and developed to determine if they have higher sensitivity than CT or lumbar puncture in the detection of SAH. In adults with suspected brain metastatic disease, contrast-enhanced MR imaging is the imaging study of choice [38,39]. Contrast-enhanced MR imaging is the examination of choice for brain metastatic lesions less than 2 cm [39]. CT angiography and MR angiography have sensitivities greater than 85% for brain aneurysms larger than 5 mm [43]. If clinically warranted, aneurysms smaller than 5 mm may require digitally subtracted angiography because of the low sensitivity of MR and CT angiography. In children, the choice of diagnostic test strategy depends on the risk group. In high-risk patients, MR imaging is the test of choice whereas in low-risk patients, close clinical observation with periodic reassessment is the best strategy [44]. Clinical diagnosis will always play a key role in the evaluation of headache disorders; however, for the small subset of patients who present with headache secondary to an intracranial space-occupying lesion, bleeding, or SAH, making the diagnosis is crucial to decreasing morbidity and mortality. CT, MR imaging, and lumbar puncture play important roles in the assessment of headache disorders, but their future roles will continue to evolve as the technology becomes more sophisticated and robust, and physicians become more expert with their use [1]."}
{"id": "12970520", "title": "Analysis of mean transit time of contrast medium in ruptured and unruptured arteriovenous malformations: a digital subtraction angiographic study.", "content": "Analysis of mean transit time of contrast medium in ruptured and unruptured arteriovenous malformations: a digital subtraction angiographic study. To clarify hemodynamic risk factors for hemorrhage in arteriovenous malformations (AVMs), the mean transit time (MTT) of feeding arteries and draining veins in AVMs with and without hemorrhage was measured and analyzed. Morphological features such as the number and diameter of draining and feeding vessels and the AVM nidus volume were evaluated in 30 patients with supratentorial AVMs. The MTT of feeding arteries and draining veins was measured with the use of time-density curves obtained by digital subtraction angiography. The correlation between hemorrhage and morphology and hemorrhage and MTT was analyzed statistically. The nidus volume was not significantly different between hemorrhagic and nonhemorrhagic AVMs. However, between ruptured and unruptured AVMs there was a significant difference in the mean number of draining veins (1.5+/-0.69 versus 2.3+/-0.50; P=0.006), the MTT of the feeding artery (1.10+/-0.24 versus 1.62+/-0.55; P=0.03), and the ratio of the MTT of the draining to the feeding vessels (1.71+/-0.43 versus 1.05+/-0.07; P<0.001). A high ratio of the MTT of draining veins to feeding arteries suggests disequilibrium between nidal inflow and outflow. The consequent increased pressure in the draining vein may contribute to the development of AVM hemorrhage."}
{"id": "12956271", "title": "Measuring tortuosity of the intracerebral vasculature from MRA images.", "content": "Measuring tortuosity of the intracerebral vasculature from MRA images. The clinical recognition of abnormal vascular tortuosity, or excessive bending, twisting, and winding, is important to the diagnosis of many diseases. Automated detection and quantitation of abnormal vascular tortuosity from three-dimensional (3-D) medical image data would, therefore, be of value. However, previous research has centered primarily upon two-dimensional (2-D) analysis of the special subset of vessels whose paths are normally close to straight. This report provides the first 3-D tortuosity analysis of clusters of vessels within the normally tortuous intracerebral circulation. We define three different clinical patterns of abnormal tortuosity. We extend into 3-D two tortuosity metrics previously reported as useful in analyzing 2-D images and describe a new metric that incorporates counts of minima of total curvature. We extract vessels from MRA data, map corresponding anatomical regions between sets of normal patients and patients with known pathology, and evaluate the three tortuosity metrics for ability to detect each type of abnormality within the region of interest. We conclude that the new tortuosity metric appears to be the most effective in detecting several types of abnormalities. However, one of the other metrics, based on a sum of curvature magnitudes, may be more effective in recognizing tightly coiled, \"corkscrew\" vessels associated with malignant tumors."}
{"id": "12943592", "title": "Recurrence of a vertebral artery dissecting pseudoaneurysm after successful stent-supported coil embolization: case report.", "content": "Recurrence of a vertebral artery dissecting pseudoaneurysm after successful stent-supported coil embolization: case report. Dissecting aneurysms of the intracranial vertebral artery are increasingly recognized as a cause of subarachnoid hemorrhage. We present a case involving technical success of the stent-supported coil embolization but with recurrence of the dissecting pseudoaneurysm of the intracranial vertebral artery. The implications for the endovascular management of ruptured dissecting pseudoaneurysms of the intracranial vertebral artery are discussed. A 36-year-old man with a remote history of head injury had recovered functionally to the point of independent living. He experienced the spontaneous onset of severe head and neck pain, which progressed rapidly to obtundation. A computed tomographic scan of the head revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage centered in the posterior fossa. The patient underwent cerebral angiography, which revealed dilation of the distal left vertebral artery consistent with a dissecting pseudoaneurysm. Transfemoral access was achieved under general anesthesia, and two overlapping stents (3 mm in diameter and 14 mm long) were placed to cover the entire dissected segment. Follow-up angiography of the left vertebral artery showed the placement of the stents across the neck of the aneurysm; coil placement was satisfactory, with no residual aneurysm filling. Approximately 6 weeks after the patient's initial presentation, he developed the sudden onset of severe neck pain. A computed tomographic scan showed no subarachnoid hemorrhage, but computed tomographic angiography revealed that the previously treated left vertebral artery aneurysm had recurred. Angiography confirmed a recurrent pseudoaneurysm around the previously placed Guglielmi detachable coils. A test balloon occlusion was performed for 30 minutes. The patient's neurological examination was stable throughout the test occlusion period. Guglielmi detachable coil embolization of the left vertebral artery was then performed, sacrificing the artery at the level of the dissection. After the procedure was completed, no new neurological deficits occurred. On the second day after the procedure, the patient was discharged from the hospital. He was alert, oriented, and able to walk. We appreciate the value of preserving a parent vessel when a dissecting pseudoaneurysm of the intracranial vertebral artery ruptures in patients with inadequate collateral blood flow, in patients with disease involving the contralateral vertebral artery, or in patients with both. However, our case represents a cautionary note that patients treated in this fashion require close clinical follow-up. We suggest that parent vessel occlusion be considered the first option for treatment in patients who will tolerate sacrifice of the parent vessel along its diseased segment. In the future, covered stent technology may resolve this dilemma for many of these patients."}
{"id": "12931300", "title": "Real-time magnetic resonance imaging for interventional neuroradiological procedures.", "content": "Real-time magnetic resonance imaging for interventional neuroradiological procedures. Over the last two decades, interventional neuroradiologists have developed powerful techniques for the treatment of cerebrovascular disorders and brain tumors. Current interventional neuroradiological procedures are performed under X-ray fluoroscopy, which has allowed for high temporal and spatial resolution. However, these imaging techniques do not provide the treating physician with vital anatomic and functional information regarding vessel walls and the surrounding brain tissue. Better visualization of vessel structures and real-time information about the state of perfusion and metabolism of the surrounding brain tissue (real-time magnetic resonance arteriography, diffusion and perfusion-weighted imaging, apparent diffusion coefficient maps) would enhance safety and efficacy of neuroendovascular procedures available currently. Recent advances in magnetic resonance hardware and software have permitted significant enhancements in temporal and spatial resolution, which have resulted in the capability of visualizing anatomic structures with real-time fluoroscopy and angiography. This review outlines how real-time magnetic resonance procedures may replace conventional X-ray fluoroscopy in diagnostic and interventional neuroradiology during the next decade."}
{"id": "12920974", "title": "[Role of cerebral magnetic resonance angiography in childhood].", "content": "[Role of cerebral magnetic resonance angiography in childhood]. This study evaluates the role of cerebral MR Angiography (MRA), as a part of the flowchart for the assessment of the brain in childhood. This noninvasive technique provides intra- and extra-cranial anatomic and physiologic vascular information, with a level of precision almost equal to that of arterial angiography. Indeed, MRA has reached a level of diagnostic accuracy such that the need for arterial angiography can be avoided, in most cases of cerebrovascular disorder. Therefore arterial angiography could be performed at the subacute (and more neurologically stable) stage, or presurgically, yielding additional morphologic and hemodynamic insights into cerebrovascular disease. MRA is also indicated at follow-up examination, and in treatment planning."}
{"id": "12916556", "title": "Neuroimaging of stroke: a review.", "content": "Neuroimaging of stroke: a review. Advances in neuroimaging technology during the past 30 years have resulted in a virtual explosion in the amount of pathologic information that can be obtained in the clinical stroke setting. This neuroimaging revolution has led to a much better understanding of cerebrovascular and tissue pathology, creating a wide array of opportunities for acute treatment and secondary prevention. Advances include early and accurate detection of ischemic and infarcted tissue and the ability to reveal hypoperfused tissue at risk. Clinicians are increasingly able to noninvasively detect embolic and atherothrombotic intravascular lesions. Vascular lesions associated with stroke can be characterized through endovascular neuroimaging techniques and repaired by various means. In this article, we provide an overview and update on the various techniques used in the neuroimaging of stroke and intracranial hemorrhage, including computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound, and catheter angiography. We outline the specific role of each modality in clinical practice."}
{"id": "12886888", "title": "Imaging tutorial: differential diagnosis of bright lesions on diffusion-weighted MR images.", "content": "Imaging tutorial: differential diagnosis of bright lesions on diffusion-weighted MR images. High sensitivity (94%) and specificity (100%) have been reported in the diagnosis of acute cerebral infarction with diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. However, high signal intensity on diffusion-weighted MR images and low apparent diffusion coefficient values (similar to the findings in acute cerebral infarction) were reported in such diverse conditions as hemorrhage, abscess, lymphoma, and even Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. The differential diagnosis of these conditions (eg, acute ischemic infarction and acute cerebral hemorrhage) is critical for the determination of appropriate treatment. The authors present a systematic review of bright lesions on diffusion-weighted MR images and their differential diagnosis, with emphasis on the practical and clinical approaches of differential diagnosis."}
{"id": "12879949", "title": "Clinical and radiographic features of lobar cerebral hemorrhage: hypertensive versus non-hypertensive cases.", "content": "Clinical and radiographic features of lobar cerebral hemorrhage: hypertensive versus non-hypertensive cases. The underlying cause of lobar intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is often difficult to determine, since these vascular abnormalities are not necessarily visualized in radiographic studies. We sought to determine the clinical features of hypertensive and nonhypertensive lobar ICH, and further predict the presence or absence of vascular abnormalities in terms of clinical features and radiographic abnormalities. Eighty-one patients with lobar ICH were retrospectively assigned to either hypertensive or non-hypertensive groups based on their blood pressure levels during the chronic phase or a history of antihypertensive medication. The clinical and radiographic features of these two groups were compared. Forty-nine patients (60%) were hypertensive, and the other thirty-two (40%) were non-hypertensive. In the non-hypertensive group, amyloid angiopathy (n = 6), aneurysms (n = 5), arteriovenous malformation (n = 4), use of anticoagulants (n = 2), liver cirrhosis (n = 2) and thrombasthenia (n = 1) were found as underlying causes. There were no significant differences between these two groups in the frequencies of stroke risk factors except for hypertension, clinical features and initial neurological findings. On the contrary, subarachnoid extension of the hematoma on CT was significantly more frequent in the non-hypertensive lobar ICH group than in the hypertensive group (p < 0.001). The patients with subarachnoid extension were more likely to have vascular abnormality than those without subarachnoid extension (p < 0.01). Subarachnoid extension of the hematoma on CT strongly indicates a non-hypertensive cause, and more specifically, it suggests lobar ICH caused by vascular abnormalities."}
{"id": "12869717", "title": "Trial design and reporting standards for intra-arterial cerebral thrombolysis for acute ischemic stroke.", "content": "Trial design and reporting standards for intra-arterial cerebral thrombolysis for acute ischemic stroke. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) estimates that stroke costs now exceed 45 billion dollars per year. Stroke is the third leading cause of death and one of the leading causes of adult disability in North America, Europe, and Asia. A number of well-designed randomized stroke trials and case series have now been reported in the literature to evaluate the safety and efficacy of thrombolytic therapy for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke. These stroke trials have included intravenous studies, intra-arterial studies, and combinations of both, as well as use of mechanical devices for removal of thromboemboli and of neuroprotectant drugs, alone or in combination with thrombolytic therapy. At this time, the only therapy demonstrated to improve outcomes from an acute stroke is thrombolysis of the clot responsible for the ischemic event. There is room for improvement in stroke lysis studies. Divergent criteria, with disparate reporting standards and definitions, have made direct comparisons between stroke trials difficult to compare and contrast in terms of overall patient outcomes and efficacy of treatment. There is a need for more uniform definitions of multiple variables such as collateral flow, degree of recanalization, assessment of perfusion, and infarct size. In addition, there are multiple unanswered questions that require further investigation, in particular, questions as to which patients are best treated with thrombolysis. One of the most important predictors of clinical success is time to treatment, with early treatment of <3 hours for intravenous tissue plasminogen activator and <6 hours for intra-arterial thrombolysis demonstrating significant improvement in terms of 90-day clinical outcome and reduced cerebral hemorrhage. It is possible that improved imaging that identifies the ischemic penumbra and distinguishes it from irreversibly infarcted tissue will more accurately select patients for therapy than duration of symptoms. There are additional problems in the assessment of patients eligible for thrombolysis. These include being able to predict whether a particular site of occlusion can be successfully revascularized, predict an individual patient's prognosis and outcome after revascularization, and in particular, to predict the development of intracerebral hemorrhage, with and without clinical deterioration. It is not clear to assume that achieving immediate flow restoration due to thrombolytic therapy implies clinical success and improved outcome. There is no simple correlation between recanalization and observed clinical benefit in all ischemic stroke patients, because other interactive variables, such as collateral circulation, the ischemic penumbra, lesion location and extent, time to treatment, and hemorrhagic conversion, are all interrelated to outcome. This article was written under the auspices of the Technology Assessment Committees for both the American Society of Interventional and Therapeutic Neuroradiology and the Society of Interventional Radiology. The purpose of this document is to provide guidance for the ongoing study design of trials of intra-arterial cerebral thrombolysis in acute ischemic stroke. It serves as a background for the intra-arterial thrombolytic trials in North America and Europe, discusses limitations of thrombolytic therapy, defines predictors for success, and offers the rationale for the different considerations that might be important during the design of a clinical trial for intra-arterial thrombolysis in acute stroke. Included in this guidance document are suggestions for uniform reporting standards for such trials. These definitions and standards are mainly intended for research trials; however, they should also be helpful in clinical practice and applicable to all publications. This article serves to standardize reporting terminology and includes pretreatment assessment, neurologic evaluation with the NIH Stroke Scale score, imaging evaluation, occlusion sites, perfusion grades, follow-up imaging studies, and neurologic assessments. Moreover, previously used and established definitions for patient selection, outcome assessment, and data analysis are provided, with some possible variations on specific end points. This document is therefore targeted to help an investigator to critically review the scales and scores used previously in stroke trials. This article also seeks to standardize patient selection for treatment based on neurologic condition at presentation, baseline imaging studies, and utilization of standardized inclusion/exclusion criteria. It defines outcomes from therapy in phase I, II, and III studies. Statistical approaches are presented for analyzing outcomes from prospective, randomized trials with both primary and secondary variable analysis. A discussion on techniques for angiography, intra-arterial thrombolysis, anticoagulation, adjuvant therapy, and patient management after therapy is given, as well as recommendations for posttreatment evaluation, duration of follow-up, and reporting of disability outcomes. Imaging assessment before and after treatment is given. In the past, noncontrast CT brain scans were used as the initial screening examination of choice to exclude cerebral hemorrhage. However, it is now possible to quantify the volume of early infarct by using contiguous, discrete (nonhelical) images of 5 mm. In addition, CT angiography by helical scanning and 100 mL of intravenous contrast agent can be used expeditiously to obtain excellent vascular anatomy, define the occlusion site, obtain 2D and 3D reformatted vascular images, grade collateral blood flow, and perform tissue-perfusion studies to define transit times of a contrast bolus through specific tissue beds and regions of interest in the brain. Dynamic CT perfusion scans to assess the whole dynamics of a contrast agent transit curve can now be routinely obtained at many hospitals involved in these studies. The rationale, current status of this technology, and potential use in future clinical trials are given. Many hospitals are also performing MR brain studies at baseline in addition to, or instead of, CT scans. MRI has a high sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of ischemic stroke in the first several hours from symptom onset, identifies arterial occlusions, and characterizes ischemic pathology noninvasively. Case series have demonstrated and characterized the early detection of intraparenchymal hemorrhage and subarachnoid hemorrhage by MRI. Echo planar images, used for diffusion MRI and, in particular, perfusion MRI are inherently sensitive for the susceptibility changes caused by intraparenchymal blood products. Consequently, MRI has replaced CT to rule out acute hemorrhage in some centers. The rationale and the potential uses of MR scanning are provided. In addition to established criteria, technology is continuously evolving, and imaging techniques have been introduced that offer new insights into the pathophysiology of acute ischemic stroke. For example, a better patient stratification might be possible if CT and/or MRI brain scans are used not only as exclusion criteria but also to provide individual inclusion and exclusion criteria based on tissue physiology. Imaging techniques might also be used as a surrogate outcome measure in future thrombolytic trials. The context of a controlled study is the best environment to validate emerging imaging and treatment techniques. The final section details reporting standards for complications and adverse outcomes; defines serious adverse events, adverse events, and unanticipated adverse events; and describes severity of complications and their relation to treatment groups. Recommendations are made regarding comparing treatment groups, randomization and blinding, intention-to-treat analysis, quality-of-life analysis, and efficacy analysis. This document concludes with an analysis of general costs associated with therapy, a discussion regarding entry criteria, outcome measures, and the variability of assessment of the different stroke scales currently used in the literature is also featured. In summary, this article serves to provide a more uniform set of criteria for clinical trials and reporting outcomes used in designing stroke trials involving intra-arterial thrombolytic agents, either alone or in combination with other therapies. It is anticipated that by having a more uniform set of reporting standards, more meaningful analysis of the data and the literature will be able to be achieved."}
{"id": "12868394", "title": "[Cervical and intracranial arterial dissection: review of the acute clinical presentation and imaging of 48 cases].", "content": "[Cervical and intracranial arterial dissection: review of the acute clinical presentation and imaging of 48 cases]. Arterial dissections result from longitudinal tear of the vessel wall produced by an intramural haematoma. We have retrospectively review 48 consecutive patients with 53 arterial dissections diagnosed by cerebral angiography and/or magnetic resonance imaging. Arterial dissections were extracranial in 88% (carotid in 58% and vertebral in 30%) and intracranial in 12% of cases, with 19% of multiple dissections. Extracranial dissections presented with infarct (82%) (major 52%, multifocal 16%, focal 28% e watershed 4%), cervical pain and/or headache (38%) incomplete Horner syndrome (14%). The intracranial dissections presented with infarct, intracranial hypertension and hydrocephalus, subarachnoid hemorrhage and brain haematoma. Most common angiographic findings in the extracranial carotid dissections were stenosis with slow flow (66%), occlusion (34%) and dissecting aneurysm (7%). In the extracranial vertebral dissections the angiograms depicted stenosis with slow flow (82%), occlusion (18%) and dissecting aneurysm (18%). In the intracranial dissections stenosis and dissecting aneurysm were equally found. Extracranial arterial dissections have are an important cause of stroke in the younger population. Anti thrombotic drugs are used for the treatment of dissections presenting with infarct. Refractory extracranial dissections and intracranial dissection with haemorrhage presentation and/or dissecting aneurysms should be managed by endovascular treatment."}
{"id": "12845202", "title": "Ruptured middle cerebral artery aneurysm with intramural myxoid degeneration in a child.", "content": "Ruptured middle cerebral artery aneurysm with intramural myxoid degeneration in a child. A 9-year-old girl presented with a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography showed a saccular aneurysm arising from the horizontal portion of the right middle cerebral artery. The aneurysm was successfully clipped, and the dome of the aneurysm was excised for pathological study. Histological examination of the aneurysm wall showed that the entire thickness of the wall showed an increased myxoid degeneration. No dissection was present. Most intracranial aneurysms in childhood are believed to be of the saccular type similar to that in adults, but the pathogenesis of the aneurysm formation remains controversial. Myxoid degeneration may cause intracranial saccular aneurysm with eventual rupture, even in the absence of dissection. This is the first case reported of a ruptured saccular aneurysm caused by myxoid degeneration in a child. The possible pathophysiology is discussed."}
{"id": "12833876", "title": "[A case of subacute subarachnoid hemorrhage without xanthochromic cerebrospinal fluid--usefulness of emergent MRI].", "content": "[A case of subacute subarachnoid hemorrhage without xanthochromic cerebrospinal fluid--usefulness of emergent MRI]. We reported a case of subacute subarachnoid hemorrhage with watery clear cerebrospinal fluid. Emergent magnetic resonance image was useful not only for diagnosis by fluid attenuated inversion recovery image but also for evaluation of cerebral ischemia and vasospasm by magnetic resonance angiography, diffusion weighted image and perfusion weighted image. A 50-year-old man presented disturbance of consciousness and dysarthria. Neither computed tomographic scan nor cerebrospinal fluid study could diagnose subarachnoid hemorrhage clearly. However, emergent fluid attenuated inversion recovery image showed the show subarachnoid hemorrhage as high signal intensity. Diffusion weighted image showed multiple, round hypersignals both in the white and gray matter. In the area with diffusion hypersignal, the apparent diffusion coefficient value was 0.57 x 10(3) mm2/sec. Perfusion weighted image showed normal cerebral blood volume but prolonged mean transit time in the territory of the right middle cerebral artery. Magnetic resonance angiography revealed an aneurysm at the anterior communicating artery and severe vasospasm on the bilateral anterior cerebral artery, the right middle cerebral artery. Thus we are able to diagnose subarachnoid hemorrhage due to a ruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysm. The hyperintensity of the diffusion weighted image and the fluid attenuated inversion recovery image was caused by cerebral ischemia from vasospasm. After conservative therapy during the period of vasospasm, successful surgical clipping was performed with full clinical recovery."}
{"id": "12823895", "title": "Postoperative hyperperfusion in a patient with a dural arteriovenous fistula with retrograde leptomeningeal venous drainage: case report.", "content": "Postoperative hyperperfusion in a patient with a dural arteriovenous fistula with retrograde leptomeningeal venous drainage: case report. Hyperperfusion has been reported after carotid endarterectomy or stenting for stenosis of the internal carotid artery. Because few reports have examined postoperative hyperperfusion after treatment for dural arteriovenous fistulae (DAVFs), we present a case describing a patient who manifested this clinical entity. The patient was a 63-year-old man with a DAVF in the left transverse sigmoid sinus with retrograde leptomeningeal venous drainage. He experienced slowly progressive disorientation lasting for several months. Preoperative single-photon emission computed tomography with (123)I-labeled N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine revealed an area of hyperintensity on T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans that coincided with the hypoperfusion area; it was not increased after acetazolamide challenge. Complete DAVF obliteration was achieved by embolization, then sinus isolation. After treatment, he experienced frequent generalized convulsions that were terminated by 2-day barbiturate therapy. On T2-weighted MRI scans obtained 3 days after surgery, the hyperintense area not only persisted but had expanded to the left parietal lobe. Moreover, a subcortical hyperintense lesion was recognized on T1-weighted MRI scans; this was considered to reflect cortical laminar necrosis. Single-photon emission computed tomography revealed hyperperfusion in the left parietal lobe; it changed to hypoperfusion a month after treatment. In patients with DAVFs with preoperative findings of marked low perfusion and a poor perfusion reserve, postoperative study may reveal hyperperfusion on single-photon emission computed tomography or cortical laminar necrosis on MRI. This may be evidence of severe perfusion disturbance as a result of venous infarction. In these patients, careful blood pressure control and early treatment of seizures are important after DAVF treatment."}
{"id": "12818867", "title": "Three-dimensional time-of-flight subtraction angiography of subacute cerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Three-dimensional time-of-flight subtraction angiography of subacute cerebral hemorrhage."}
{"id": "12816270", "title": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage without evident cause on initial angiography studies: diagnostic yield of subsequent angiography and other neuroimaging tests.", "content": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage without evident cause on initial angiography studies: diagnostic yield of subsequent angiography and other neuroimaging tests. The aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic yield of imaging tests performed in patients in whom the cause of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) had not been demonstrated on initial angiography. By reviewing medical records of 806 patients with SAH who had been admitted during a 6.5-year period, the authors identified 86 in whom initial transfemoral catheter angiography failed to reveal the cause of SAH. Clinical and radiological data were analyzed to determine the diagnostic yield of subsequent catheter angiography, computerized tomography (CT) angiography, magnetic resonance (MR) angiography, and MR imaging of the brain and spine for various subtypes of SAH (bleeding not visualized on CT studies [CT-negative SAH], perimesencephalic SAH, and nonperimesencephalic SAH). Of 41 patients with nonperimesencephalic SAH, 36, 32, and 21 underwent repeated catheter angiography, CT angiography, and MR angiography, respectively; brain MR imaging was performed in 23 patients (18 with Gd and 15 with susceptibility contrast sequences), and spine MR imaging in 17. Of 36 patients with perimesencephalic SAH, 31, 23, and 17 underwent repeated catheter angiography, CT angiography, and MR angiography, respectively; brain MR imaging was performed in 18 patients (17 with Gd and 11 with susceptibility contrast sequences), and spine MR imaging in 14. Of nine patients with SAH not visualized on CT scanning, three, one, and six underwent repeated catheter angiography, CT angiography, and MR angiography, respectively; brain MR imaging was performed in eight patients (five with Gd and three with susceptibility contrast sequences), and spine MR imaging in seven. The cause of SAH could be determined in only four patients, all with nonperimesencephalic SAH. The only test that yielded a diagnosis was catheter angiography (three aneurysms on the second and one on the third angiography, all surgically secured). Diffusion-weighted MR imaging demonstrated small, deep infarcts in five patients. Repeated catheter angiography remains the most sensitive test to determine the cause of SAH that is not demonstrated on initial angiography, particularly in the subtype of nonperimesencephalic SAH. Newer, noninvasive imaging techniques provide little diagnostic yield."}
{"id": "12812954", "title": "Treatment of wide-necked intracranial aneurysms with a self-expanding stent system: initial clinical experience.", "content": "Treatment of wide-necked intracranial aneurysms with a self-expanding stent system: initial clinical experience. Currently available stents for intracranial use usually are balloon-expandable coronary stents that carry the risk of damaging a dysplastic segment of the artery, with potential vessel rupture. We assessed the technical feasibility and efficacy of the combined application of a flexible, self-expanding neurovascular stent and detachable coils in the management of wide-necked intracranial aneurysms in humans. Four consecutive patients with a wide-necked intracranial aneurysm were treated with a combined approach that consisted of delivery of a flexible self-expanding neurovascular stent through a microcather to cover the neck of the aneurysm and subsequent filling of the aneurysm with coils through the stent interstices. The aneurysms were located at the internal carotid artery (n=2) and the basilar tip encroaching the P1 segment (n=2). Previous attempts with conventional endosaccular coil packing alone failed in all cases. Stent placement in the desired position with complete or nearly complete occlusion of the aneurysms was feasible in all patients. In one patient, aneurysm perforation with the microcatheter occurred and necessitated ventricular drainage, which led to a large parenchymal and intraventricular hemorrhage because of the strong anticoagulation regimen. Six-month follow-up demonstrated no focal neurologic sequelae in any of the patients, except slight memory dysfunction in the patient with bleeding. Preliminary data demonstrate that this extremely flexible stent is technically easy to deploy and can be easily and safely maneuvered through severely tortuous vessels, enabling the treatment of intracranial wide-necked aneurysms. The combination of endovascular reconstruction of the parent vessel with use of a self-expanding stent followed by coil embolization offers a promising therapeutic alternative for wide-necked aneurysms not amenable to coil embolization alone. Although immediate angiographic results are promising, long-term angiographic and clinical follow-up is essential to determine permanent vessel patency and aneurysm occlusion rate."}
{"id": "12811633", "title": "Pronounced arterial collateralization was induced after permanent rat cerebral four-vessel occlusion. Relation to neuropathology and capillary ultrastructure.", "content": "Pronounced arterial collateralization was induced after permanent rat cerebral four-vessel occlusion. Relation to neuropathology and capillary ultrastructure. The present study investigates chronic changes in cerebral arterial vessel system, microvasculature, and brain histopathology using an adult rat model based on permanent and stepwise occlusion of four cerebral vessels. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) was performed to study chronic changes in arterial cerebral vessel system after permanent vessel occlusion. Long-lasting functional changes such as NMDA-, AMPA- and GABA(A)-receptor binding were detected in hippocampus and dentate gyrus using autoradiography. Structural changes in cerebral capillaries were investigated using light- and electron microscopy. Chronic cerebral oligemia did not cause any significant changes in the densities of excitatory glutamate and inhibitory GABA(A) receptors. By electron microscopy we could document, however, that most capillaries in vessel-occluded animals shrank, the endothelial cells were prominent with enlarged nuclei and increased cytoplasm, and the basal membrane was thickened. In contrast to the degenerative changes in brain capillaries, pronounced arterial collateralization was disclosed by DSA after chronic brain vessel occlusion. The model of chronic occlusion of four cerebral vessels is characterized by capillary degeneration and arterial collateralization proceeding in parallel. Thus, this rat model may be useful in investigations of long-lasting compensatory mechanisms contributing to cerebrovascular or neurodegenerative disorders."}
{"id": "12810006", "title": "Extensive bihemispheric ischemia caused by acute occlusion of three major arteries to the brain.", "content": "Extensive bihemispheric ischemia caused by acute occlusion of three major arteries to the brain. An 86-year-old woman developed cardioembolic stroke three times. In the last one, she fell into sudden coma and fatal outcome due to acute occlusion of bilateral internal carotid arteries (ICAs) and the basilar artery. Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) delineated brain ischemia in the whole bilateral cerebral hemisphere soon after the stroke onset. Signal intensity of the brain parenchyma increased in whole the hemisphere. Especially, all the cortical rims glittered. This is the first report of the cardioembolic stroke due to simultaneous occlusion of the three major arteries to the brain."}
{"id": "12805502", "title": "Stroke MRI in intracerebral hemorrhage: is there a perihemorrhagic penumbra?", "content": "Stroke MRI in intracerebral hemorrhage: is there a perihemorrhagic penumbra? Cerebral ischemia has been proposed as a contributing mechanism to secondary neuronal injury after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The search for surrogate parameters that allow treatment stratification for spontaneous ICH continues. We sought to assess the presence and prognostic effect of perihemorrhagic ischemic changes and hypoperfusion in a prospective stroke MRI study. We performed stroke MRI in 32 patients with hyperacute ICH (mean, 16.9+/-17.2 mL) within 6 hours after symptom onset (mean, 3.1+/-1.3 hours). Clinical data at baseline (National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale) and on day 90 (Barthel Index, modified Rankin Scale) were assessed. Perihemorrhagic perfusion- and diffusion-weighted imaging changes were assessed in a 1-cm-wide area around the clot. Despite a mild perihemorrhagic mean transit time prolongation of 0.7+/-1.1 second, there were no significant perihemorrhagic apparent diffusion coefficient or mean transit time changes indicating irreversible ischemia or hypoperfusion. ICH size, time to imaging, or clinical severity at baseline or outcome were not reflected by changes of relative apparent diffusion coefficient or perfusion-weighted imaging. ICH size correlated with baseline clinical severity (r=0.51, P=0.005). There was a significant association (P=0.0494) and a significant negative correlation (r=-0.468, P=0.0103) of perihemorrhagic perfusion change with time from symptom onset not associated with ICH size. Perihemorrhagic hypoperfusion probably is a consequence of reduced metabolic demand (diaschisis) rather than a sign of ischemia. We found no evidence for a perihemorrhagic and potentially salvageable ischemic penumbra in hyperacute ICH. Further studies should address metabolic, toxic, apoptotic, and microvascular aspects."}
{"id": "12805485", "title": "Reliability of assessing percentage of diffusion-perfusion mismatch.", "content": "Reliability of assessing percentage of diffusion-perfusion mismatch. Emergent neurovascular imaging holds promise in identifying new and optimum target populations for thrombolysis in stroke. Recent research has focused on patients with diffusion-weighted MRI (DWI)-perfusion-weighted MRI (PWI) mismatch as a marker of tissue at risk of infarction and a means to select the most suitable candidates for thrombolysis. The present study sought to estimate the reliability of assessing the percentage of DWI-PWI mismatch. Thirteen patients with acute strokes had DWI and PWI within 7 hours of symptom onset. Six raters independently created relative mean transit time (rMTT) maps and then compared them with DWI images to assess the percentage of mismatch (PWI>DWI) in 10% increments. The MR scans were reassessed by 4 raters, tracing around the lesions to calculate the volume percentage of mismatch. Visual assessment had an interrater reliability of 0.68 (95% CI, 0.52 to 1.0; SEM=21.6%) and an intrarater reliability of 0.80 (95% CI, 0.47 to 1.0; SEM=16.9%). Hand-drawn assessment had an interrater reliability of 0.66 (95% CI, 0.45 to 1.0; SEM=26.2%) and an intrarater reliability of 0.94 (95% CI, 0.81 to 1.0; SEM=10.9%). Results from the present study suggest that quantifying mismatch by the human eye is reproducible but not reliable among observers. This raises doubts about using mismatch for clinical decision making and clinical trial enrollment."}
{"id": "12803841", "title": "Definitive angiographic detection of subarachnoid haemorrhage compared with laboratory assessment of intracranial bleed in CT-negative patients.", "content": "Definitive angiographic detection of subarachnoid haemorrhage compared with laboratory assessment of intracranial bleed in CT-negative patients. Between 2.5% and 5% of cases of subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) give negative results for computed tomography (CT) scanning. Recent UK guidelines make recommendations as to standardization of laboratory methodology for the detection of SAH in individuals with a negative CT scan. We have compared this approach with our routine assessment using first-order derivative spectrophotometry, a recently reported iterative computer prediction model and measurement of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) ferritin concentration. All methods were judged against cerebral angiography as the definitive means of determining patient outcome. Scanning spectrophotometry of CSF is necessary for both the UK guidelines and our in-house method. Absorbance measurements at 360, 405, 414 and 455 nm are required for the computer model. CSF ferritin concentration was measured using a serum method on a DPC Immulite 2000. This gave a value of <12 microg/L for normal CSF. Ethical approval and informed patient consent to additional investigation were obtained. The sensitivity and specificity for the UK guidelines method, derivative spectrophotometry (in-house), iterative computer model and CSF ferritin were, respectively: 0.8, 1.0; 0.9, 1.0; 0.9, 0.5; 1.0, 0.78. First-order derivative spectrophotometry had best concordance with angiography. Combination of this with CSF ferritin measurement may improve sensitivity, although the zero-order method recommended in the UK guidelines for the detection of an intracranial bleed is more amenable and has comparable performance."}
{"id": "12802938", "title": "Venous variations of the brain and cranial vault.", "content": "Venous variations of the brain and cranial vault. Vascular anomalies involving both intra- and extra-cranial structures are more common than previously thought. It is important to evaluate the brain and its coverings carefully when imaging cervicofacial vascular malformations. Scientific knowledge regarding developmental mechanisms responsible for blood vessel formation is increasing rapidly and, hopefully, will contribute to better understanding of these clinical and imaging \"patterns.\""}
{"id": "12792169", "title": "Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging within 6 hours of stroke onset: inter- and intra-observer reproducibility.", "content": "Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging within 6 hours of stroke onset: inter- and intra-observer reproducibility. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides valuable pathophysiological information during the very first hours of cerebral ischemia. However, the reliability of prime-time MRI in the setting of emergency care remains unknown. To evaluate the reproducibility between and within observers of the assessment of MRI scans in stroke patients. We performed a MRI scan within 6 h of stroke onset, with time-of-flight (TOF), T2* gradient echo, FLAIR, diffusion- (DWI) and perfusion- (PWI) weighted images, in 17 consecutive patients. Four observers, blinded to the clinical history, separately performed a visual assessment of all scans, and repeated the assessment 2-8 days later. Two neuroradiologists made volumetric measures of diffusion and perfusion abnormalities using a semi-automatic technique 2 weeks after the 2nd visual assessment. We evaluated: (i) in the whole set of MRI scans, the quality of scans and their ability to identify primary hemorrhages on T2* gradient echo sequences; (ii) in patients with acute cerebral ischemia only, the inter- and intra-observer agreement for the presence of arterial occlusion and cerebral abnormalities on TOF sequences, and (iii) on DWI and PWI sequences, the relationship between visual and automatic assessments for the presence of a mismatch (defined as the difference between the perfusion and diffusion abnormalities) of >20%. Statistics used the kappa (kappa) method. The median delay between clinical onset and MRI was 285 min. Two patients had primary cerebral hemorrhages, 1 a post-ictal deficit, and 14 cerebral ischemia. The quality of the scans was judged as appropriate for all scans in all sequences except for FLAIR. All observers identified the 2 patients with hemorrhages. The inter- and intra-observer reliability was substantial to excellent (kappa values ranging from 0.63 to 1.00) for all sequences. The agreement between visual and automatic assessments for the presence of a mismatch of >20% was excellent in all observers. The visual assessment of T2* gradient echo, TOF, diffusion and perfusion sequences at the acute stage of stroke is reproducible between and within observers. The visual assessment is as good as the volumetric assessment to detect a mismatch of >20%."}
{"id": "12790284", "title": "Aneurysm and fenestration of the azygos anterior cerebral artery--case report.", "content": "Aneurysm and fenestration of the azygos anterior cerebral artery--case report. A 78-year-old female suffered sudden onset of nausea and headache. Computed tomography demonstrated diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography demonstrated an aneurysm arising from the right A1 segment of the azygos anterior cerebral artery, and the hypoplastic left A1. A right frontotemporal craniotomy was performed to obliterate the aneurysm by neck clipping. Surgical exploration found the fenestration of the right A1 and showed that the aneurysm had originated from the bifurcation of the fenestrated A1 and a small perforating artery arising from the fenestration. This unusual combination of an aneurysm associated with a fenestration of the right A1 and contralateral A1 hypoplasia may have been caused by local hemodynamic stress."}
{"id": "12774157", "title": "The accuracy of transcranial Doppler to detect vasospasm in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "The accuracy of transcranial Doppler to detect vasospasm in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. To examine the accuracy of transcranial Doppler to detect cerebral vasospasm in a patient population with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Prospective blind comparison of transcranial Doppler with cerebral angiography. Diagnostic accuracy of transcranial Doppler was assessed using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis and likelihood ratios. Sensitivity and specificity were calculated using directly measured middle cerebral artery diameter as reference standard. Intensive Care Unit of a large university teaching hospital. Twenty-two patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage were included. Patients underwent angiography on admission and after 8 days to diagnose vasospasm and were defined as having clinical vasospasm, angiographic vasospasm, or no vasospasm. Sensitivity and specificity were 1.00 and 0.75 for angiographic vasospasm and both equal to 1.00 for clinical vasospasm diagnosis. A transcranial Doppler mean velocity threshold value of 100 cm/s for angiographic vasospasm and 160 cm/s for clinical vasospasm detection were chosen by ROC analysis. A Transcranial Doppler mean velocity threshold of 160 cm/s, calculated by the ROC analysis, accurately detects clinical vasospasm. A daily transcranial Doppler examination performed by a trained operator should be routinely used to provide early identification of patients at high risk and to orient therapeutic decisions."}
{"id": "12768254", "title": "Comparison of MR angiography and conventional angiography in the investigation of intracranial arteriovenous malformations and aneurysms in children.", "content": "Comparison of MR angiography and conventional angiography in the investigation of intracranial arteriovenous malformations and aneurysms in children. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is an attractive alternative to conventional catheter angiography (CCA) in children, especially for the detection of intracranial arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) or aneurysms in the out-of-hours setting, because it has fewer risks and complications. OBJECTIVE. To compare MRA with CCA for the detection of intracranial AVMs, aneurysms and arterial anatomy in children. Retrospective blinded review of MRAs and CCAs by two independent paediatric radiologists, in a group of 19 children already diagnosed with AVMs, aneurysms and subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and who had undergone both imaging techniques. Abnormalities were identified on MRA in 15 of 19 patients and by CCA in 11 of 19 patients. MRA showed one aneurysm, nine AVMs, three haemorrhages and two indeterminate lesions. CCA showed nine AVMs and two indeterminate lesions. The two modalities showed excellent correlation in the detection of AVMs in nine patients. Vascular supply to the AVMs correlated well in four cases. There was complete disagreement in the determination of vessel supply in one case, and in two cases CCA showed additional vessel supply compared to MRA, while in two further cases MRA showed an additional vessel supply compared to CCA. CCA was superior to MRA in demonstrating arterial anatomy, except with regard to the anterior and posterior communicating arteries where MRA was superior. The high sensitivity of MRA in the detection of AVMs when compared to CCA and the low incidence of aneurysms support the use of MRA as the initial imaging modality when intracranial haemorrhage is diagnosed on CT, especially in the out-of-hours setting."}
{"id": "12762892", "title": "Midaortic syndrome and subarachnoid hemorrhage associated with ruptured middle cerebral artery aneurysm: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Midaortic syndrome and subarachnoid hemorrhage associated with ruptured middle cerebral artery aneurysm: case report and review of the literature. We describe the presentation, screening, management, and clinical outcome of a 21-year-old man who sought care for a ruptured middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysm and midaortic syndrome (MAS). Only three cases of MAS and intracranial aneurysm rupture have previously been described in the literature. Cranial computed tomographic (CT) scanning, cerebral and abdominal angiography, and multislice three-dimensional CT angiography were used to evaluate intracerebral hemorrhage and to assess medically intractable hypertension in the patient. Digital subtraction angiography revealed a right MCA aneurysm, and multislice three-dimensional CT angiography revealed narrowing of the abdominal aorta. The patient's right MCA aneurysm was successfully clipped via a right pterional craniotomy. A narrowed abdominal aorta was confirmed by an abdominal aortic angiogram (performed at Day 5 after surgery) and then dilated by using percutaneous transcatheter angioplasty during the same session. The patient was normotensive even without antihypertensive medications. Neurological examination and postoperative cranial CT findings were within normal limits at the last follow-up examination, performed 4 months after the operation. Our patient is the first reported case of ruptured MCA aneurysm with MAS in an adult. The most important problem in the management of MAS associated with ruptured intracranial aneurysm is medically intractable hypertension, which may markedly increase the incidence of rebleeding. It is hard to achieve normotension unless the narrowed aorta and its branches are dilated. For these reasons, MAS should be considered in patients with medically intractable hypertension associated with ruptured intracranial aneurysm."}
{"id": "12750866", "title": "Intracerebral hemorrhage associated with Sneddon's syndrome: is ischemia-related angiogenesis the cause? Case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Intracerebral hemorrhage associated with Sneddon's syndrome: is ischemia-related angiogenesis the cause? Case report and review of the literature. Sneddon's syndrome is characterized by livedo reticularis and multiple ischemic infarcts often associated with antiphospholipid antibodies. Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is unusual in Sneddon's syndrome and has not been reported as the presenting complaint. We report a 38-year-old woman with a history of two miscarriages, Raynaud's phenomenon and livedo reticularis who presented acutely with ICH. Angiography showed prominent leptomeningeal and transdural anastomoses (pseudoangiomatosis). Anticardiolipin antibodies were positive. A right frontal brain biopsy failed to reveal vasculitis and a skin biopsy was nonspecific. MRI showed residual intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), diffuse atrophy, multiple small white matter infarcts and leptomeningeal enhancement. This is the first report of Sneddon's syndrome presenting with an ICH. It shares features with the Divry-van Bogaert syndrome. We discuss the cause of the pseudoangiomatosis pattern and its role in the genesis of the hemorrhage and suggest that cerebral angiography should be done in every patient with Sneddon's syndrome, as it could impact therapy."}
{"id": "12750537", "title": "Acute focal neurological deficits in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: relation of clinical course, CT findings, and metabolite abnormalities monitored with bedside microdialysis.", "content": "Acute focal neurological deficits in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: relation of clinical course, CT findings, and metabolite abnormalities monitored with bedside microdialysis. We sought (1) to identify early metabolic markers for the development of (ir)reversible neurological deficits and cerebral infarction in subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) patients by using the microdialysis technique and (2) to evaluate the influence of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) on microdialysis parameters. We performed a prospective study of 44 SAH patients with acute focal neurological deficits (AFND) occurring acutely with SAH (due to ICH) or directly after surgery (due to clip stenosis, thromboembolism, or early edema). Fifty-one nonischemic SAH patients served as a control group. A microdialysis catheter was inserted into the vascular territory of the aneurysm after clipping. The microdialysates were analyzed hourly for extracellular glucose, lactate, lactate/pyruvate ratio, glutamate, and glycerol with a bedside analyzer. Microdialysis-related CT findings were evaluated for the presence of ICH and cerebral infarction. Reversibility of neurological symptoms after 4 weeks and 6- and 12-month outcomes were assessed. In patients with AFND, cerebral metabolism was severely disturbed when microdialysis started compared with controls (P<0.005). Infarction on CT was associated with pathological microdialysis parameters (P<0.002) and development of a fixed deficit (P<0.003), while the presence of ICH alone was not. A secondary neurological deterioration of AFND patients (n=11) was reflected by preceding (0 to 20 hours) changes of microdialysate concentrations. In the presence of ICH, pathological microdialysis values may indicate reversible tissue damage. Extreme microdialysis values and pathological microdialysis concentrations that further deteriorate 2-fold are highly indicative of the development of cerebral infarction and permanent neurological deficits. Therefore, the analysis of relative changes of microdialysis parameters is crucial for the detection of ischemia in SAH patients."}
{"id": "12748105", "title": "Varicella-zoster vasculitis presenting with intracranial hemorrhage.", "content": "Varicella-zoster vasculitis presenting with intracranial hemorrhage. Cerebral vasculitis presenting with intracranial hemorrhage is a rare but known entity. We discuss here the case of a 61-year-old woman presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography showed vasculitic changes involving the small and medium-sized vessels. She also had a concomitant herpes zoster rash on her back. A 3-month follow-up angiogram revealed partial resolution of the vasculitic changes."}
{"id": "12743859", "title": "[Clinical relevance of cranial CT under emergency conditions--basic neuroradiologic investigations].", "content": "[Clinical relevance of cranial CT under emergency conditions--basic neuroradiologic investigations]. To determine the diagnostic accuracy of cranial CT under emergency conditions. Four hundred cranial CT examinations (cerebrum, petrosal bone, fascial bone, sinuses, orbita) were evaluated retrospectively and correlated with the initial neurologic examination, the discharge and surgical diagnoses, and the results of other imaging modalities (conventional X-Ray, MRI, angiography). The average age was 49 (2 to 89) years, with 42 % male and 58 % female patients. The discharge diagnosis was defined as the gold standard, assuming that clinical examinations and laboratory and imaging studies were maximized to establish the diagnosis, together with any possible surgery. Overall sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic accuracy was 85 %, 70 % and 82 % for cranial CT, 66 %, 45 % and 61 % for the initial neurologic examination, 79 % and 29 % for acute cerebral infarction, and 65% and 13% for intracranial bleeding. Correlation of the CT diagnoses to the discharge and surgical diagnoses was high (82 % and 80 %, respectively; p < 0.01), to the diagnosis of conventional x-ray moderate and to the diagnoses of angiography and MRI unsatisfactory (74 % and 68 % and 60 %, respectively; p > 0.05). Craniotomy was performed in 47 of 400 (12%) patients after cranial CT, within 12 hours in 29, in 12 to 24 hours in 8, and after 24 hours in 10 patients. The risk for intracranial bleeding in patients with a skull fracture was increased by a factor of 3.3. The high diagnostic accuracy of cranial CT in establishing a precise, timely and reproducible diagnosis confirms the important role of CT as primary diagnostic method under emergency conditions."}
{"id": "12741100", "title": "[Cerebral metastasis in choriocarcinoma a case report].", "content": "[Cerebral metastasis in choriocarcinoma a case report]. Choriocarcinoma are malignant neoplastic tumors from the trophoblastic tissue with a tendency to early metastases. Beside pulmonary metastases there are often cerebral metastases, leading to intracerebral hemorrhage often responsible for the first clinical symptoms. In young women, symptoms like vaginal or pulmonary bleeding or neurologic disturbances shortly after a hydatiform mole or a normal pregnancy, accompanied by high levels of HCG in serum and CSF, choriocarcinoma should be considered. Choriocarcinoma are very sensitive to chemotherapy, which consists--depending on the stage of the disease--of a mono- or polychemotherapy. Cure rates are high, even in extended stages with cerebral metastases--as in the case described. Brain metastases with or without oncotic aneurysms can be rapidly controlled by immediate whole brain irradiation. Surgical interventions may be necessary in the case of life threatening bleedings. Levels of HCG in serum and cerebrospinal fluid are good markers to control the effect of therapy. But--as shown in this patient--levels of HCG in CSF may decrease protracted without affecting prognosis. Oncotic aneurysms are rarely reported and mostly detected post mortem. The presented case leads to a more optimistic attitude and demonstrates efficacy of immediately started radio- and chemotherapy."}
{"id": "12736768", "title": "MRI of intracerebral hematoma: value of vasogenic edema ratio for predicting the cause.", "content": "MRI of intracerebral hematoma: value of vasogenic edema ratio for predicting the cause. We evaluated a method for quantifying vasogenic edema (VE) on MRI to identify brain hematomas caused by neoplasms. We performed a blinded review of 68 acute and subacute hematomas caused by neoplasms (22), hypertension or presumed amyloid angiopathy (27), or vascular malformations (19). The extent of vasogenic edema was quantified on an axial T2-weighted image using the VE ratio: the maximum width of high signal surrounding a hematoma and the mean diameter of the hematoma. Hematomas caused by neoplasm were associated with more vasogenic edema (mean VE ratio 104%+/-15%; mean VE width 2.4+/-0.7 cm) than non-neoplastic hematomas (mean VE ratio 37%+/-5%; P =0.001). When the width of VE was equal to or more half the diameter the hematoma (VE ratio 50%), the positive predictive value for tumor was 66%; when it was equal to or more than the diameter, the positive predictive value was 71%. All six hematomas with VE ratios > or = 150% were caused by neoplasm."}
{"id": "12717298", "title": "[Lenticulostriate aneurysms. Radioclinical study].", "content": "[Lenticulostriate aneurysms. Radioclinical study]. The authors report four cases of aneurysm of the lenticulostriate arteries, three idiopathic and one with underlying MoyaMoya disease. This unusual pathology, which often affects young patients, is revealed by a meningeal syndrome and sometimes focal neurological signs. The bleeding is highlighted by a CT scan without contrast injection, even by MRI, these examinations making it possible to evaluate its repercussion. Arteriography or MRA show the aneurysm and eliminate vascular malformation. According to literature (15 cases published) and our experience, considering the difficulty of a surgical or endovascular approach, morbidity and the frequency of spontaneous thromboses, it seems that a conservative management is justified after a negative etiologic check-up and under radio-clinical monitoring."}
{"id": "12710259", "title": "[Significance of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis and surgical treatment in patients with intracranial arterial aneurysmal ruptures].", "content": "[Significance of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis and surgical treatment in patients with intracranial arterial aneurysmal ruptures]. In 123 patients with arterial aneurysms, brain MRI was performed in the routine and vascular modes. Ninety-five patients were hospitalized. Of them, 73 patients were operated on. Among the patients operated on, the diagnosis was verified and it corresponded to preoperative MRI diagnosis. In a group of patients who had died without being operated on, the diagnosis was verified at autopsy. In 11 cases, the diagnosis should be clarified by direct cerebral angiography. Analyzing MRI criteria that may be used to diagnose an aneurysm has indicated that the detection rate of some aneurysmal elements is not equal. The greatest problems arise in identifying the aneurysmal neck and carrying vessel, particularly in the presence of intracerebral hematoma that surrounds the aneurysm. The neck of aneurysm and its carrying artery could be visualized in 63 and 80% of cases, respectively. Nevertheless, aneurysmal clipping was successfully performed in 64 cases as shown by only MRI data. Aneurysmal MRI criteria were systematized, MRI signs being classified into direct and indirect and their rates presented. According to MRI, including MR angiography, the accuracy of diagnosis ranged from 61 to 88%. If there are no direct MRI signs of aneurysm, its preoperative diagnosis should be clarified by traditional cerebral serial angiography."}
{"id": "12702840", "title": "Scottish Intracranial Vascular Malformation Study (SIVMS): evaluation of methods, ICD-10 coding, and potential sources of bias in a prospective, population-based cohort.", "content": "Scottish Intracranial Vascular Malformation Study (SIVMS): evaluation of methods, ICD-10 coding, and potential sources of bias in a prospective, population-based cohort. The rarity of intracranial vascular malformations (IVMs) and the infrequency of their outcomes make large, prolonged cohort studies the best means to evaluate their frequency and prognosis. The Scottish Intracranial Vascular Malformation Study (SIVMS) is a prototype prospective, population-based study of adults resident in Scotland and diagnosed for the first time with an IVM after January 1, 1999. We evaluated the design of SIVMS using 2 complete years of data for adults with arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) of the brain. A collaborative network of clinicians, radiologists, and pathologists, combined with coding of hospital discharge data and death certificates, recruited a cohort distributed in proportion to the Scottish population. Coding (with International Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision [ICD-10] codes Q28.2 and I60.8) had a sensitivity of 72% (95% CI, 61% to 80%) and a positive predictive value of 46% (95% CI, 38% to 55%) for detecting incident brain AVMs. Adults who were detected by coding alone were significantly (P<0.05) younger, more likely to present with hemorrhage, more frequently investigated with catheter angiography, and more likely to be treated. Adults recruited from tertiary referral centers were significantly more likely to be investigated with catheter angiography and to be treated. Using catheter angiography as a diagnostic requirement for brain AVMs significantly biases the cohort toward younger adults presenting with hemorrhage and receiving treatment. Population-based studies of IVM frequency and prognosis should use multiple overlapping sources of case ascertainment, and such studies of brain AVMs should not require catheter angiography to be the diagnostic standard."}
{"id": "12702837", "title": "Prospective, population-based detection of intracranial vascular malformations in adults: the Scottish Intracranial Vascular Malformation Study (SIVMS).", "content": "Prospective, population-based detection of intracranial vascular malformations in adults: the Scottish Intracranial Vascular Malformation Study (SIVMS). Intracranial vascular malformations (IVMs) are an important cause of intracranial hemorrhage, epilepsy, and long-term disability in adults. There are no published prospective, population-based studies dedicated to the detection of any type of IVM (cavernous malformations, venous malformations, and arteriovenous malformations [AVMs] of the brain or dura). Therefore, we established the Scottish Intracranial Vascular Malformation Study (SIVMS) to monitor detection and long-term prognosis of people with IVMs. We used multiple overlapping sources of case ascertainment to identify adults (aged >or=16 years) with a first-ever-in-a-lifetime diagnosis of any type of IVM made between January 1, 1999, and December 31, 2000, while resident in Scotland (mid-1999 adult population estimate 4,110,956). Of 418 notifications to SIVMS, 190 adults (45%) were included, 181 (95%) of whom were deemed to harbor a definite IVM after review of diagnostic brain imaging and/or reports of autopsy/surgical excision pathology. The crude detection rate (per 100,000 adults per year) was 2.27 (95% CI, 1.96 to 2.62) for all IVMs, 1.12 (95% CI, 0.90 to 1.37) for brain AVMs, 0.56 (95% CI, 0.41 to 0.75) for cavernous malformations, 0.43 (95% CI, 0.31 to 0.61) for venous malformations, and 0.16 (95% CI, 0.08 to 0.27) for dural AVMs. In addition to providing data on the public health importance and comparative epidemiology of IVMs, continuing recruitment and follow-up of this prospective, population-based cohort will provide estimates of IVM prognosis."}
{"id": "12699570", "title": "Aneurysms at a temporopolar artery origin from the internal carotid artery: report of two cases.", "content": "Aneurysms at a temporopolar artery origin from the internal carotid artery: report of two cases. Origination of the temporopolar artery (TPA) from the supraclinoid internal carotid artery (ICA) represents a rare anatomic variation, and the presence of aneurysms at this uncommon site has never before been reported. Two patients presented with a sudden onset of headaches and meningism. Computed tomography demonstrated diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage in both cases. Cerebral angiography revealed ruptured aneurysms originating at a TPA origin from the ICA. The patients were surgically treated, and the aneurysms were successfully clipped. For technical reasons, the TPA was sacrificed in both cases. These are the first reported cases of aneurysms originating at the TPA origin from the ICA. Awareness of the existence of this variation is necessary, particularly for the management of superior wall aneurysms of the ICA."}
{"id": "12695209", "title": "Development of de novo intracranial aneurysm in three months: case report and literature review.", "content": "Development of de novo intracranial aneurysm in three months: case report and literature review. Formation of de novo intracranial aneurysms is rare. Their etiology is not known, but they are seen in patients with inherited collagen disorders, polycystic kidney disease, and familial history of aneurysms. Most de novo intracranial aneurysms are found 3-20 years after diagnosis of the initial aneurysm. We report the imaging findings in a 46-year-old man who developed a de novo intracranial aneurysm only 3 months after surgical clipping of another aneurysm."}
{"id": "12695205", "title": "Neuroradiologic and clinical features of arterial dissection of the anterior cerebral artery.", "content": "Neuroradiologic and clinical features of arterial dissection of the anterior cerebral artery. Case reports of nontraumatic arterial dissection of the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) have recently increased. The aim of this study was to investigate the neuroradiologic and clinical features of ACA dissection based on a series of collected cases. The cases of 18 patients with a diagnosis of ACA dissection based on clinical signs and neuroradiologic findings from 46 stroke centers during a 5-year period were collected. The neuroradiologic and clinical records were analyzed. The mean patient age was 52.8 +/- 9.8 years. Five cases presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage, nine with cerebral ischemia, and four with both ischemic symptoms and subarachnoid hemorrhage. In cases presenting with ischemia, the main site of the lesion was the A2 portion and the main angiographic finding was stenosis with or without dilation. Follow-up angiography showed progression of the stenosis in the acute stage and resolution of the stenosis in the chronic stage. Hyperintensity around the flow void due to intramural hematoma on T1-weighted MR images was often seen during the second week. In all cases, the findings of MR angiography corresponded to the findings of cerebral angiography. Eight of nine cases showed a good prognosis. In three of the patients with bleeding, in whom the site of the lesion was at the A1 portion, a diffuse thick subarachnoid hemorrhage was present and surgical treatment was required but resulted in a poor prognosis. In the other patients with bleeding, in whom the site of the lesion was at the distal ACA, the prognosis was good and no rebleeding or need for surgical treatment occurred. ACA dissection presenting with ischemia has several identifiable neuroradiologic and clinical characteristics, which suggests that it may be classified as a unique clinical entity."}
{"id": "12692471", "title": "Semi-quantitative CBF and CBF ratios obtained using perfusion-weighted MR imaging.", "content": "Semi-quantitative CBF and CBF ratios obtained using perfusion-weighted MR imaging. To clarify the utility of semi-quantitative cerebral blood flow (CBF) measurements using perfusion-weighted MR imaging (PWI), a comparison of this method with quantitative CBF obtained using PET was conducted in 10 patients with chronic occlusive cerebrovascular disease and unilateral occlusion of the cerebral artery. Semi-quantitative CBF obtained using PWI and quantitative CBF obtained using PET showed no statistically significant correlation. The CBF ratios of the affected side relative to the contralateral unaffected side obtained using PWI and PET were 0.94 +/- 0.22 and 0.88 +/- 0.19, respectively. A statistically significant positive correlation was obtained between these ratios (p < 0.01). The CBF ratio, but not the semi-quantitative CBF, obtained using PWI has a potential to detect changes in the CBF."}
{"id": "12684998", "title": "[Spontaneous epidural hematoma in a patient undergoing hemodialysis: a case report].", "content": "[Spontaneous epidural hematoma in a patient undergoing hemodialysis: a case report]. A 54-year-old male with chronic renal failure due to diabetic nephropathy suffered dysphagia and left facial spasm without head trauma during a hemodialysis session. CT scan revealed a right acute epidural hematoma. MRI and cerebral angiography did not reveal any abnormalities in the intracranial vasculature. The occurrence of intracranial spontaneous epidural hematoma in a haemodialysis patient has not been reported. During hemodialysis, the intracranial pressure transiently increases and rapidly recovers. It is assumed that the decreasing intracranial pressure caused epidural hematoma."}
{"id": "12684715", "title": "Dissecting aneurysms of the middle cerebral artery: neuroradiological and clinical features.", "content": "Dissecting aneurysms of the middle cerebral artery: neuroradiological and clinical features. There are few reported cases of nontraumatic dissecting aneurysms of the middle cerebral artery (MCA), and their neuroradiological and clinical features have not been analysed. We looked at these aspects in a collaborative study. We reviewed 13 patients diagnosed as having a dissecting aneurysm of the MCA based on clinical signs and neuroradiological findings in 46 stroke centres between 1995 and 1999. There were four patients who presented with cerebral ischaemia, and nine who presented with bleeding. Of the former group, three were aged less than 15 years. Cerebral angiography showed extensive stenosis and a double lumen of the M1 portion in all four patients. High signal on T1-weighted images around the arterial flow void, due to intramural haematoma, was often seen in the second week. MR angiography showed findings corresponding those of intra-arterial angiography in all four cases. We saw an infarct on CT or MRI in territory of the perforating branches of the M1 segment in all four patients. In the patients presenting with bleeding, pure subarachnoid haemorrhage or a sylvian fissure haematoma was seen on initial CT, and the predominant angiographic finding was dilatation with stenosis, but the site of the lesions was not uniform. A double lumen or intimal flap was seen in about half the cases. Rebleeding occurred within 14 days of the onset in five of the nine patients, with a poor prognosis."}
{"id": "12682329", "title": "Pure dysarthria due to small cortical stroke.", "content": "Pure dysarthria due to small cortical stroke. The authors describe six patients who presented with dysarthria as their isolated or major symptom from a small cortical stroke. Five had infarction and one had hemorrhage. In the patients with ischemic stroke, the lesions were identified by diffusion-weighted MRI but not by T-2 weighted MRI. The lesions were located lateral to the precentral knob usually at the most lateral part of the imaging. The presumed pathogenesis included embolism in five patients and hypertensive hemorrhage in one."}
{"id": "12657199", "title": "Emergency image transfer system through a mobile telephone in Japan: technical note.", "content": "Emergency image transfer system through a mobile telephone in Japan: technical note. We report the first application and usefulness of image transfer through a mobile telephone, which can be used between the hospital and another location. With this system, brain computed tomographic scans, magnetic resonance images, and angiograms obtained from more than 100 patients in the emergency department were transferred and diagnostically analyzed via a mobile phone. The mobile phone had a 110,000-pixel digital camera and a built-in thin-film transistor liquid crystal display. We reviewed the distribution of pathological characteristics on the transferred images and compared them with the diagnoses made using full-scale original film. This system of transferring images was useful in all cases for correct early diagnosis and early treatment. The quality of magnetic resonance images received was better than that of computed tomographic scans. Hemorrhage provided better contrast than infarction for allowing easy identification. Cerebral angiography revealed small aneurysms if the target area was focused properly. Image quality was sufficient for interpretation despite the small dimensions of the monitor. Ease of operation and portability were both satisfactory. The mean time from commencement of image uptake to complete reception was 2 to 3 minutes. The mobile phone system is adequately useful for early diagnosis and initiation of treatment in emergent cases. This is attributable to its low cost and ease of handling for sending images to remote areas and between hospitals, despite the small dimensions of the monitor. Better-quality image transfer will be realized through an advanced mobile phone system based on the new International Mobile Telecommunication 2000 standards, which also will be useful in the development of telemedicine and telecare."}
{"id": "12637295", "title": "Cortical blood flow during cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: three-dimensional N-isopropyl-p-[(123)I]iodoamphetamine single photon emission CT findings.", "content": "Cortical blood flow during cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: three-dimensional N-isopropyl-p-[(123)I]iodoamphetamine single photon emission CT findings. The relationship between regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and angiographic vasospasm and the value of rCBF in predicting vasospasm and the prognosis are not fully delineated. Our aim was to investigate the changes in extent of vasospasm-induced decreased cortical rCBF on three-dimensional (3D) displays of single photon emission CT (SPECT) findings. The clinical usefulness of these assessments was analyzed. In 58 cases of SAH, SPECT and digital subtraction angiography were performed on the same day, 5-9 days after SAH or within 24 hours after the onset of delayed ischemic neurologic deficit (DIND). Cerebral blood flow data were assessed by measuring the area of decreased cortical rCBF on 3D SPECT images. The area of decreased cortical rCBF on the 3D images was significantly increased in cases with DIND (P <.001), in cases with a large infarction due to vasospasm (P =.006), and in cases with a poor prognosis after vasospasm (P =.045). These increases were also related to the type of angiographic vasospasm; the greatest decrease in cortical rCBF occurred in the combined type (combination of the peripheral and proximal types) of vasospasm, followed by cases with the peripheral type, proximal type, and no angiographic vasospasm. In cases with DIND, patchy decreased cortical rCBF areas were seen before the onset of DIND. Combined-type vasospasm leads to reductions in CBF greater than those due to isolated peripheral or proximal vasospasm. Two-dimensional and mean-hemispheric CBF analyses are less sensitive for this change than is 3D SPECT."}
{"id": "12637284", "title": "Pediatric intracranial aneurysm: a diagnostic dilemma solved with contrast-enhanced MR imaging.", "content": "Pediatric intracranial aneurysm: a diagnostic dilemma solved with contrast-enhanced MR imaging. Childhood intracranial aneurysms are exceedingly uncommon. Diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms in infancy may be difficult because of their infrequency and confusing clinical presentation. Findings with routine radiographic methods may be misleading and difficult to interpret. We present a case of the rupture of an anterior communicating artery aneurysm in a 7-month-old child. The rupture had eluded diagnosis until contrast-enhanced MR imaging was performed."}
{"id": "12633951", "title": "Chronic intraventricular encapsulated hematoma presenting unique radiological features: a case report.", "content": "Chronic intraventricular encapsulated hematoma presenting unique radiological features: a case report. Chronic encapsulated hematoma is relatively rare and the exact mechanisms of this condition remain uncertain. In this report, we present a case of chronic encapsulated hematoma in the lateral ventricle and discuss the pathophysiology of this condition. A 68-year-old-woman presented with progressive gait disturbance. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a dumbbell-shaped mass arising from the wall of the right lateral ventricle. The mass connecting to the ventricle wall mimicked a hemorrhagic tumor and the other part mimicked a cystic mass. Cerebral angiography demonstrated arteriovenous shunt in the right lateral ventricle wall. The operative findings revealed that the part arising from the ventricle wall contained hematoma showing various stages of coagulation and that the cystic mass visible on MRI was a granulomatous solid mass. Histologic examination revealed that the capsules of both were compatible with chronic encapsulated intracerebral hematomas. In the present case, one part of the mass contained only granulomatous tissue, indicating the possibility that the mass was undergoing spontaneous resolution. This fact might indicate that the presence of neo-vascularization in the capsule is not the sole factor in the expansion of hematoma."}
{"id": "12633950", "title": "Vertebrobasilar artery dissection presenting with simultaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage and brain stem infarction: case report.", "content": "Vertebrobasilar artery dissection presenting with simultaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage and brain stem infarction: case report. Intracranial dissecting aneurysms have been associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) or cerebral ischemia. We encountered a patient presenting with simultaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage and brainstem infarction caused by a dissecting aneurysm of the vertebrobasilar artery, which was diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) but did not show abnormal findings on cerebral angiography. A 55-year-old man had sudden onset of headache and left abducens palsy. Computed tomography revealed a subarachnoid hemorrhage localized in the left prepontine cistern and the left cerebellomedullary fissure. Cerebral angiography showed neither a saccular aneurysm nor fusiform dilatation causing the subarachnoid hemorrhage. MRI demonstrated a small infarction in the left dorsal pons, and an intramural hematoma of the left vertebral artery and lower basilar artery. This is a rare case of a vertebrobasilar dissecting aneurysm that simultaneously caused both SAH and brain stem infarction. MRI should be performed in the acute phase of SAH of unknown origin to determine the possible coexistence of a dissecting aneurysm, as occurred in this case."}
{"id": "12621685", "title": "[Diagnosis of stroke--an update].", "content": "[Diagnosis of stroke--an update]. In practical day-to-day terms, most patients have one of the common causes of stroke: ischemic stroke caused by the complications of atherothrombosis, intracranial small Vessel disease, embolism from the heart, primary intracerebral hemorrhage caused by hypertension, or subarachnoid hemorrhage as a result of a ruptured saccular aneurysm. There are three issues to be considered in assessing the reliability of the clinical diagnosis of stroke: the diagnosis of stroke itself: is it a stroke or not; whether the stroke is caused by an infarct or a hemorrhage and particular in ischemic stroke the site and size of the lesion (anterior vs. posterior circulation, lacunar vs. cortical, etc.) No clinical scoring method can differentiate with absolute reliability ischemic stroke from primary intracerebral hemorrhage. To do this brain computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging is required. For vascular diagnosis ultrasound and magnetic resonance angiography are ideal and complementary non-invasive techniques. Both have no risks and are reasonably sensitive. Catheterangiography is only reserved for patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage with a view to surgical or endovascular treatment or in exceptional cases to establish a more firm prognosis. The diagnosis of ischemic stroke caused by embolism from the heart can only be considered at all if there is an identifiable cardioembolic source which is the case in about 30% of ischemic stroke, a higher proportion in recent studies using transoesophageal echocardiography. It is not clear that transoesophageal echocardiography provides much more information for clinical decision-making than transthoracic echocardiography, although it certainly provides more anatomical information in selected patients. This article summarises the diagnostic armamentarium which is used for the diagnosis of stroke and gives an overview of clinically reliable and relevant measures."}
{"id": "12619787", "title": "Intracranial malignant glioma presenting as subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Intracranial malignant glioma presenting as subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral aneurysms are the predominant cause of spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). However, if an aneurysmal cause has been excluded, there remains but a short list of other potential etiologies. Cerebral neoplasms are clearly on this list but are most commonly meningiomas or metastatic lesions. This article details a case of a neoplasm that presented exclusively with SAH. A 40-year-old male presented with a SAH with normal cerebral angiography. The initial magnetic resonance image revealed a lesion in the right insula thought to be resolving hemorrhage. Subsequent images, however, revealed the mass to be enlarging. Craniotomy and resection of the lesion established a diagnosis of a malignant oligodendroglioma. An affirmation is made that patients experiencing 'angiographically-negative' SAH should undergo MRI, occasionally on a serial basis, to exclude other etiologies for hemorrhage, including neoplasia."}
{"id": "12594560", "title": "Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography in neurologically asymptomatic children and young adults with sickle cell disease.", "content": "Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography in neurologically asymptomatic children and young adults with sickle cell disease. The purpose of the study was to evaluate transcranial Doppler ultrasonography for identifying cerebrovascular disease in neurologically asymptomatic children and young adults with sickle cell disease. A total of 47 consecutive patients with sickle cell disease (28 females, 19 males; age range 8 months to 29 years, mean age 9 years 6 months) were evaluated by transcranial color and duplex Doppler ultrasonography via transtemporal and occipital (2-MHz probe) as well as by transocular (5-MHz probe) approach. Eleven vessels (middle, posterior, anterior cerebral artery, vertebral artery, ophthalmic artery on each side and basilar artery) were analyzed in each patient. Following nine transcranial Doppler findings predictive for cerebrovascular disease, patients with one or more of those abnormal sonographic findings underwent MR imaging and MR angiography. In 8 patients with abnormal transcranial Doppler the MR angiography was normal. Thirty-one patients demonstrated normal results. In 15 of 16 patients with one or more abnormal Doppler findings (34% of all studied patients) MR imaging and MR angiography were performed. The MR angiography disclosed cerebrovascular stenosis in 7 patients (15% of all patients, 44% of those with pathological transcranial Doppler findings). In one of those patients MR imaging revealed silent peripheral ischemic infarction as well. Our findings indicate the usefulness of transcranial Doppler ultrasonography to reveal occult cerebrovascular lesions in neurologically asymptomatic patients with sickle cell disease. It should regularly be performed in all sickle cell patients in order to detect patients at risk for later stroke. Patients with homozygous disease and a high frequency of preceding sickle cell crises should be followed most closely."}
{"id": "12591647", "title": "Simultaneous dual vessel cerebral angiography in gamma knife planning.", "content": "Simultaneous dual vessel cerebral angiography in gamma knife planning. Gamma knife radiosurgery is an effective technique for treating arteriovenous malformations. However, treatment failures can occur as a result of incomplete visualization of the arteriovenous malformation nidus. We describe the use of bilateral femoral artery catheterization and simultaneous dual vessel cerebral angiography to facilitate treatment planning during gamma knife treatment."}
{"id": "12582941", "title": "[Dural arteriovenous fistulas with intracranial hemorrhage: diagnostic and therapeutic aspects].", "content": "[Dural arteriovenous fistulas with intracranial hemorrhage: diagnostic and therapeutic aspects]. Seven patients presented with intracranial hemorrhage due to arteriovenous dural fistula. Six patients showed intracerebral hemorrhage combined with subdural hematoma and intraventricular hemorrhage in one case respectively, and one patient had infratentorial subarachnoid hemorrhage. Location of the fistulae was frontobasal (n=2), tentorium (n=2), transverse sinus (n=2), and superior sagittal sinus (n=1). Angiography revealed reflux into cortical veins in all cases. Therapy was surgery in both cases with fistula of the anterior cranial fossa with good results. An endovascular intraarterial therapy was performed in a case with circumscribed fistula of the superior sagittal sinus, this patient developed a second dural fistula during follow-up. Two patients with tentorial fistulae had primary endovascular treatment complicated by infarction of both thalami in one case and a recurrence of the fistula in the other. In the last case the fistula was closed by surgery. Out of two patients with widespread fistulae of the transverse sinus one made a good clinical recovery and the other remained unchanged. In the first case definite closure of a remnant of the fistula was refused, in the second no further therapy was recommended."}
{"id": "12546372", "title": "Development of multiple cerebral arteriovenous malformations documented in an adult by serial angiography. Case report.", "content": "Development of multiple cerebral arteriovenous malformations documented in an adult by serial angiography. Case report. A 50-year-old woman with a parietal intracerebral hematoma was initially treated by hematoma evacuation. Initial preoperative and follow-up angiograms obtained 6 months later demonstrated no pial arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). She suffered a subarachnoid hemorrhage 8 years later. Results of follow-up cerebral angiography revealed the development of previously undetected multiple cerebral AVMs. This appears to be the first reported case of the development of multiple cerebral AVMs in an adult, demonstrated on serial angiography."}
{"id": "12528009", "title": "Reversible angiopathy and encephalopathy after blood transfusion.", "content": "Reversible angiopathy and encephalopathy after blood transfusion."}
{"id": "12525742", "title": "The empty delta sign.", "content": "The empty delta sign."}
{"id": "12511756", "title": "Angiographic dilatation and branch extension of the anterior choroidal and posterior communicating arteries are predictors of hemorrhage in adult moyamoya patients.", "content": "Angiographic dilatation and branch extension of the anterior choroidal and posterior communicating arteries are predictors of hemorrhage in adult moyamoya patients. The cause of intracranial bleeding in moyamoya disease patients is still unknown. To identify factors that contribute to bleeding, we assessed the angiographic findings of moyamoya disease patients. We examined angiograms obtained from 107 moyamoya patients; 70 manifested ischemic and 37 had hemorrhagic lesions. Patients with intracerebral aneurysms or both hemorrhagic and ischemic lesions in the same cerebral hemisphere were not included. Patients were divided into those <20 years of age (n=47) and those > or =20 years of age (n=60). The right and left hemispheres in each patient were individually classified as hemorrhagic, ischemic, or asymptomatic. Each hemisphere was assessed for dilatation and branch extension of the anterior choroidal artery (AChA) and posterior communicating artery (P-CoM) and for the degree of proliferation of basal moyamoya vessels. These data were then statistically analyzed for correlation with intracranial bleeding events. The degree of proliferation of basal moyamoya vessels was not statistically correlated with hemorrhagic events. On the other hand, there was a correlation between hemorrhage and dilatation and abnormal branching of the AChA. In 27 of 37 hemorrhagic hemispheres (73.0%), this artery was dilated, and its abnormal branches served as collateral supply vessels to other regions. This phenomenon was observed in 4 of 5 hemorrhagic hemispheres from young patients; it was noted in fewer than one third of ischemic and asymptomatic hemispheres from this age group. Similarly, 71.9% of hemorrhagic hemispheres from adult patients manifested AChA dilatation and branching, and the difference between hemorrhagic hemispheres and those that were ischemic or asymptomatic was statistically significant (P<0.01). Although the incidence of dilatation and abnormal branching of the P-CoM was relatively low in hemorrhagic hemispheres from adult patients (18.8%), it was significantly higher than in the ischemic and asymptomatic hemispheres from this age group. Using dilatation and abnormal branching of the AChA and/or P-CoM as assessment criteria, we obtained high specificity (86.4%) and sensitivity (84.4%) for hemorrhagic events in adult moyamoya patients. In adult moyamoya patients, dilatation and abnormal branching of the AChA and/or P-CoM are strong predictors of hemorrhagic events."}
{"id": "12898950", "title": "Arteriovenous angiomas in pictures of digital subtractional angiography (DSA).", "content": "Arteriovenous angiomas in pictures of digital subtractional angiography (DSA). The value of digital subtractional angiography (DSA) was presented in the material of 16 arteriovenous angiomas found in the group of 591 angiographies of cerebral arteries. Visualisation of arterial supplying vessels, vascular mass, nucleus and draining vessels was analyzed. Angiograms were correlated with CT contrast sections to reconstruct coexisting intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhages. The degree of visualization of mass effect in the two examinations was compared. There was emphasized the role of angiographic demonstration of the sucking effect of angiomas in the so-called stealing syndromes."}
{"id": "12747100", "title": "[Disrupted circle of Willis and crisis course of arterial hypertension].", "content": "[Disrupted circle of Willis and crisis course of arterial hypertension]. Two patients, aged 17 and 55 years, with partly or completely open circle of Willis were examined using cerebral magnetic resonance angiography. A role of anatomical structure of circle of Willis and other anastomotic peculiarities of brain blood supply in cerebral vascular crises development is demonstrated. The latter can proceed as hypertensive ones on the background of emotional overloading and also reflect other features of brain blood supply in its clinical picture e.g. an absence of one of spinal arteries on the background of atherosclerosis and arterial hypertension."}
{"id": "12595805", "title": "Angiographic cerebral vasospasm and delayed ischemic deficit on anterior part of the circle of Willis. Usefulness of transcranial Doppler.", "content": "Angiographic cerebral vasospasm and delayed ischemic deficit on anterior part of the circle of Willis. Usefulness of transcranial Doppler. After subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), cerebral vasospasm (VS) may be revealed by cerebral angiography, during follow-up clinical examination with the occurrence of delayed ischemic deficit (DID). Moreover, transcranial Doppler (TCD) could be useful in determining the level of the velocimetric threshold. The aims of the study were, on a prospectively collected series of 460 patients, to assess angiographic VS incidence, to determine possible risk factors, and to evaluate diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of TCD. A total of 460 patients consecutively operated on for an aneurysm located on the anterior portion of the circle of Willis (mean age 47.2 +/- 14 years, sex ratio F/M=1.18) were included in the study. Preventive treatment against VS was administered in all patients. On the 10(th) day, we performed the following routine examinations: cerebral angiography, CT scan and TCD. Angiographic VS occurred in 38.5% of the patients, and the single risk factor was delayed admission (p=0.02, Mann-Whitney test). DID occurred in 15.6% and was complicated by cerebral infarct in 4.7%. The risk factors were admission date (p=0.001, Mann-Whitney test) and severity of arterial narrowing (significant tendency). Diagnostic sensitivity of TCD decreased from 83.6% for MCA aneurysms, to 66.6% for ICA aneurysms and 40.6% for AcoA aneurysms. Diagnosis specificity remained between 88.6% and 97.6% for the 3 locations. The unique risk factor for angiographic VS and DID was the admission date. TCD demonstrated high specificity but its sensitivity was too low for the aneurysms located far from the middle cerebral artery bifurcation."}
{"id": "12577013", "title": "[Three dimensional image for diagnosis and neurosurgical treatment--clinical application to navigational neurosurgery and neuroendovascular treatment].", "content": "[Three dimensional image for diagnosis and neurosurgical treatment--clinical application to navigational neurosurgery and neuroendovascular treatment]."}
{"id": "12536290", "title": "Subarachnoid haemorrhage with \"Ecstasy\" abuse in a young adult.", "content": "Subarachnoid haemorrhage with \"Ecstasy\" abuse in a young adult. Abuse of the drugs like amphetamine, cocaine and \"Ecstasy\" may be complicated by intracerebral, subdural or subarachnoid haemorrhage. Contrary to historical opinion, drug-related intracranial haemorrhage (ICH) is frequently related to an underlying vascular malformation. We report the case of an 18-year-old man with a history of Ecstasy abuse preceding the onset of severe occipital headache. Cerebral computed tomography revealed right-sided subarachnoid haemorrhage and cerebral angiography showed right-sided middle cerebral artery aneurysm of 1 cm diameter. The patient was treated surgically with aneurysm clipping. Three weeks after onset of intracranial haemorrhage, neurological examination demonstrated normal findings. A history of severe headache immediately after using amphetamine, Ecstasy, or cocaine should alert doctors to the possibility of intracerebral haemorrhage. Arteriography should be part of the evaluation of most young patients with stroke or non-traumatic ICH."}
{"id": "12500710", "title": "Obliteration of bilateral dissecting aneurysms of the vertebral arteries following repeated subarachnoid hemorrhage: a case report.", "content": "Obliteration of bilateral dissecting aneurysms of the vertebral arteries following repeated subarachnoid hemorrhage: a case report. A 51-year-old man presented with loss of consciousness when he underwent urological examination at another hospital. CT scans showed subarachnoid hemorrhage, and cerebral angiography showed bilateral dissecting aneurysms of the vertebral arteries. Following ventricular drainage, the lesion was managed conservatively with blood pressure control but again ruptured on day 8. Cerebral angiography revealed narrowing of both the dissecting aneurysms. On day 11, the right vertebral artery had been spontaneously obliterated and the right dissecting aneurysm was filled in a retrograde fashion via the left vertebral artery. Proximal occlusion of the right vertebral artery was performed to prevent recanalization. Two months later, cerebral angiography revealed that both vertebral arteries were obliterated and the basilar artery and right posterior inferior cerebellar artery were filled via the right posterior communicating artery. The present case demonstrated that the hemodynamic status of bilateral dissecting aneurysms of the vertebral artery changed variably indicating the necessity of careful angiographic observation."}
{"id": "12483445", "title": "Ruptured pericallosal aneurysm causing hemorrhage along the fornix.", "content": "Ruptured pericallosal aneurysm causing hemorrhage along the fornix. We present a 57 year-old man with a pericallosal aneurysm causing parenchymal hemorrhage in the preseptal region of the frontal lobe with extension into the fornix. We briefly discuss the literature pertaining to ruptured pericallosal aneurysms and their bleeding patterns."}
{"id": "12476574", "title": "[MR image (diffusion MRI and perfusion MRI)].", "content": "[MR image (diffusion MRI and perfusion MRI)]."}
{"id": "12474730", "title": "[Brain computed tomography angiography in case of subarachnoid hemorrhage].", "content": "[Brain computed tomography angiography in case of subarachnoid hemorrhage]. Objective was to evaluate sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic accuracy of brain computed tomography (CTA) in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). In the period of January-September, 2001 CTA was performed in 46 patients (with SAH on initial CT) of Clinic of Neurosurgery and Clinic of Neurology clinics, Kaunas University Hospital. CTA was performed at different time from the onset (from several hours to one year). Each patient underwent care bolus procedure (slice thickness 5 mm, rotation time 1.0 s, voltage 140 kV, delay time 11 s, scan plane suspected aneurysm or cavernous sinus, number of scans 15 (each 2 s), volume 20 ml, flow rate 2.8 ml/s) and CTA (slice thickness 1 mm, rotation 2.0, rotation time 1.0 s, voltage 120 kV, increment 1.0, delay time individual, volume 80 ml, flow rate 2.8 ml/s). Axial and 3D (maximum intensity projection (MIP), volume rendering technique (VRT) and surface shaded display (SSD) images were evaluated. Before or after CTA procedure, digital subarachnoid angiography (DSA) was performed in 44 patients. Twenty-three aneurysms of various localization and size were found. There were no findings in 21 patients. One false negative and one false positive result was present. Specificity and sensitivity was 95.8% (23/24), and diagnostic accuracy--95.6% (44/46). Two patients were operated according to CTA results. Two patients had repeat-DSA (according to CTA results), and the aneurysms were finally found. CTA is a quick, noninvasive method to be performed in outpatient and inpatient basis. It gives information about vessels and surrounding tissues. In some cases it can replace DSA. CTA must not be considered as replacement of DSA, instead, it should be considered as method providing more additional information."}
{"id": "12472213", "title": "Spontaneous resolution of nontraumatic bilateral intracranial vertebral artery dissections.", "content": "Spontaneous resolution of nontraumatic bilateral intracranial vertebral artery dissections. A 49-year-old man presented with nontraumatic bilateral intracranial vertebral artery dissections without subarachnoid hemorrhage manifesting as Wallenberg's syndrome on the right. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an infarct in the right dorsolateral aspect of the medulla oblongata. Antiplatelet therapy was administered. Vertebral angiography performed on the 9th hospital day (Day 9) revealed pearl and string sign in the right vertebral artery and narrowing of the left vertebral artery. Second angiography performed on Day 25 showed no change, but third angiography performed on Day 74 revealed spontaneous resolution of the bilateral vertebral artery dissections. Magnetic resonance angiography performed on Day 250 showed no evidence of dissection. However, magnetic resonance imaging revealed a small infarct in the splenium of the corpus callosum. Spontaneous resolution of stenotic dissections of the bilateral vertebral arteries is extremely unusual. Serial cerebral angiography and magnetic resonance angiography are very important for monitoring the time course of changes in patients with vertebral artery dissections."}
{"id": "12458439", "title": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage without aneurysm].", "content": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage without aneurysm]. The rupture and bleeding of intracranial aneurysms is the most common cause of a spontaneous, non-traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). In up to 20% of these patients, no aneurysm is found, but the prognosis of these patients is known to be better than in those with aneurysms. The retrospective evaluation of the initial CT- and angiographic findings of 773 patients with spontaneous SAH, who underwent (up to three) 4-vessel DSA, brought a percentage of 12.4% with negative angiography. We found the favourable prognosis of these patients with negative angiography not only to be dependent from the distribution of the hemorrhage, with preference to perimesencephalic pattern, but the initial clinical state. 85% of our patients, who presented with perimesencephalic blood pattern and even 80% of those patients with additional intraventricular hemorrhage but the good clinical condition of Hunt-Hess I/II were discharged without neurological deficits. We recommend the obligatory 4-vessel catheter-angiography (DSA) in all patients with spontaneous SAH, independent of the blood pattern on initial CT, and one control in the presence of other than perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage, CTA might be reserved for additional controls."}
{"id": "12452904", "title": "Dural sinus thrombosis presenting as unilateral lobar haematomas with mass effect: an easily misdiagnosed cause of cerebral haemorrhage.", "content": "Dural sinus thrombosis presenting as unilateral lobar haematomas with mass effect: an easily misdiagnosed cause of cerebral haemorrhage. Dural sinus thrombosis has protean clinical and radiological manifestations ranging from minimal effacement of sulci with no symptoms to severe haemorrhagic infarcts associated with focal deficits, coma and even death. An uncommon form of presentation is characterized by unilateral lobar haemorrhage associated with extensive oedema and parenchymal distortion. In an acute presentation, this might resemble haemorrhage into a tumour. In delayed presentations, the haematoma, being iso- or hypodense and showing peripheral ring-like enhancement, can mimic aggressive tumours or infective processes. As this is an uncommon condition, misdiagnosis is common with the potential for mismanagement and adverse outcomes. We present five such consecutive cases that were initially misdiagnosed as other entities. Each of these cases on closer inspection show features observed on CT and MRI that should have suggested a diagnosis of dural venous sinus thrombosis. One of these cases progressed to not only extensively involve the superficial sinuses but also the deep veins, with a significant adverse outcome. The imaging features of this interesting variant of dural sinus thrombosis are reviewed. The haemodynamic basis for haemorrhage and anatomical basis for the lateralization of the lesions are discussed."}
{"id": "12442080", "title": "[Imaging of meningitis complications].", "content": "[Imaging of meningitis complications]. The authors describe the radiological pattern of meningitis neurological complications. These complications are vascular lesions, arteritis and thrombophlebitis, brain swelling, hydro-cephalus, extra-cerebral collections, neuritis and labyrinthitis. When meningitis complication is suspected, MRI must be the first neuroradiological investigation."}
{"id": "12436395", "title": "[Cerebral venous thrombosis in a girl carrier of the prothrombin gene mutation 20210G--> A treated by local fibrinolysis of the superior sagittal sinus].", "content": "[Cerebral venous thrombosis in a girl carrier of the prothrombin gene mutation 20210G--> A treated by local fibrinolysis of the superior sagittal sinus]. Girl, aged 4, without antecedents who was admitted to our hospital for drowsiness and progressive sensorial depression. Within 24 hours the clinical picture deteriorated with partial seizures of the right hand side of the body and right hemiparesis. A brain CAT scan showed a left temporoparietal parenchymatous haematoma with collapse of the left lateral ventricle and moderate obliteration of the basal cisterns. MR angiography and cerebral arteriography displayed images that were compatible with thrombosis of the superior sagittal, the left transverse and the sigmoid sinuses. The patient was heterozygotic for the G A mutation in position 20210 of the prothrombin gene, which is linked with a high risk of thrombosis. She was given heparin intravenously, but continued to display endocranial hypertension and tissue ischemia with partial response to hyperosmolar agents and barbituric coma. She was therefore submitted to selective catheterization of the superior sagittal sinus and continuous local fibrinolysis with urokinase for 72 hours. The outcome was satisfactory, with repermeabilisation of the thrombosed sinuses and a good clinical response with no complications. At present the patient has functional paresis of the right hand and receives treatment with oral anticoagulants. We advocate the use of early local fibrinolytic treatment with urokinase in children affected by thrombosis of the venous sinuses who do not respond to treatment with sodium heparin. We consider it necessary to include the molecular study of the G20210A mutation of the prothrombin gene in screening for prothrombotic risk factors in small children"}
{"id": "12428352", "title": "[A ruptured aneurysm in the bifurcation of the proximal anterior cerebral artery and the frontopolar artery: case report].", "content": "[A ruptured aneurysm in the bifurcation of the proximal anterior cerebral artery and the frontopolar artery: case report]. We report a case of ruptured aneurysm in the bifurcation of the proximal anterior cerebral artery and the frontopolar artery. A 49-year-old woman complained of sudden onset of severe headache on December 24, 2000. She was admitted to our hospital and CT scan revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography on the next day revealed an aneurysm in the bifurcation of the frontopolar artery and the proximal anterior cerebral artery. She was operated on using the left pterional approach and complete neck clipping was performed. The post-operative course was uneventful. She was discharged with no neurological deficit two months after the operation."}
{"id": "12426741", "title": "[Prevention without radiation--a strategy for comprehensive early detection using magnetic resonance tomography].", "content": "[Prevention without radiation--a strategy for comprehensive early detection using magnetic resonance tomography]. Recent advances in hardware technology, noninvasiveness, lack of radiation and high diagnostic accuracy combine to allow the usage of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for disease screening in asymptomatic people. 175 volunteers were examined by means of a comprehensive 60-minute MR-screening-protocol covering four organ systems: the brain, the arterial vasculature, the heart and the colon. In 28% of the cases vascular pathology (cerebral, peripheral or cardiovascular) was detected. In up to 17% of the single examination parts relevant incidental findings were seen. The outlined comprehensive MR-protocol is an accurate and patient-friendly imaging tool for the detection of vascular pathology as well as colonic polyps. The socio-economic relevance of this screening exam has to be further investigated in larger patient cohorts."}
{"id": "12409180", "title": "Intracerebral hemorrhage and postpartum cerebral vasculopathy.", "content": "Intracerebral hemorrhage and postpartum cerebral vasculopathy. Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) associated with pregnancy commonly occurs in the postpartum period in the setting of preeclampsia/eclampsia. We describe the clinical course of two patients with ICH due to postpartum cerebral vasculopathy in the absence of toxemia. We reviewed two cases with ICH and postpartum vasculopathy in our hospital (1996-2001) and compared them with seven similar case reports from the literature. Mean age of all patients is 28.7+/-5.6 years (mean+/-S.D.). Toxemia of pregnancy was absent in all cases. ICHs were cortical in eight and putaminal in one patient. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate was elevated in two. Two cases rehemorrhaged during the same admission. No cerebral infarctions were reported. All patients had diffuse vasculopathy on conventional catheter angiography, with no clinical manifestations or laboratory data supportive of extracerebral or systemic vasculitis. Eight patients were treated with corticosteroids, two with additional cytotoxic agents and one with nimodipine alone. Improvement on follow-up cerebral angiography (catheter or MRA) and transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (TCD) was noted in eight cases. One did not have follow-up cerebral imaging but had an excellent clinical outcome. All cases had good to excellent functional recovery. Postpartum ICH in the absence of toxemia may be associated with isolated cerebral vasculopathy. The clinical course and functional outcome is good to excellent. This entity appears to be distinct from cerebral vasculitis, which is usually associated with poor outcome."}
{"id": "12409105", "title": "Imaging of haemorrhagic stroke.", "content": "Imaging of haemorrhagic stroke. Computed tomography (CT) is the reference standard for the imaging of acute non-traumatic intracranial haemorrhage. The sensitivity with which CT detects haemorrhage falls with time and lumber puncture remains mandatory for the exclusion of subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH). Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is, however, superior to CT in the subacute and chronic stages after haemorrhage. MR in addition offers pathophysiological information that can help with assessment of both the aetiology of and complications arising from both SAH and intra-parenchymal haemorrhage."}
{"id": "12378995", "title": "Presentation and management of patients with initial negative 4-vessel cerebral angiography in subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Presentation and management of patients with initial negative 4-vessel cerebral angiography in subarachnoid hemorrhage. The importance of repeat-angiography in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and initial negative angiography has been reviewed in the light of our patient population (19 patients with initial negative angiography/168 patients with SAH). The type of SAH i.e., nontraumatic perimesencephalic SAH versus focal or generalized non perimesencephalic SAH, as well as the amount and distribution of blood on the initial CT examination are important factors in decision making. 3D-Angio-CT, in 3/5 patients, and MR-angiography (MRA) in 1/5 patients were complementary non-invasive methods to diagnose aneurysms on repeated examinations. Repeat-cerebral angiography confirmed the source of hemorrhage in 3 patients."}
{"id": "12378026", "title": "Takayasu's arteritis presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage: report of two cases.", "content": "Takayasu's arteritis presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage: report of two cases. Takayasu's arteritis is a chronic inflammatory disease that produces a narrowing of the aorta and its major branches. Fibrosis and thickening of the arterial wall often occur in later stages, resulting in a cerebrovascular accident. The authors report two young women patients who presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and occlusive cerebrovasular disease associated with Takayasu's arteritis. Both patients had sudden headache and hemiparesis. Physical examination showed weak radial pulse, carotid bruit, and asymmetrical blood pressure. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) was elevated in both patients. SAH was confirmed by brain computerized tomography (CT) or lumbar puncture. Occlusive cerebrovascular disease was diagnosed by brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), brain magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), and cerebral angiography. The findings of aortography and cerebral angiography were compatible with Takayasu's arteritis, but intracranial aneurysm was not found in either patient."}
{"id": "12364733", "title": "Comparison of CT and CT angiography source images with diffusion-weighted imaging in patients with acute stroke within 6 hours after onset.", "content": "Comparison of CT and CT angiography source images with diffusion-weighted imaging in patients with acute stroke within 6 hours after onset. Although stroke MRI has advantages over other diagnostic imaging modalities in acute stroke patients, most of these individuals are admitted to emergency units without MRI facilities. There is a need for an accurate diagnostic tool that rapidly and reliably detects hemorrhage, extent of ischemia, and vessel status and potentially estimates tissue at risk. We sought to determine the diagnostic accuracy of the combination of non-contrast-enhanced CT, CT angiography (CTA), and CTA source images (CTA-SI, showing early parenchymal contrast enhancement) in comparison with a multiparametric stroke MRI protocol in patients with acute stroke within 6 hours after onset. Non-contrast-enhanced CT, CTA, stroke MRI including diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), and MR angiography (MRA) were performed in patients with symptoms of acute stroke within 6 hours after onset. We analyzed infarct volumes on days 1 and 5 as shown on CTA-SI, DWI, and T2-weighted images (Wilcoxon, Mann-Whitney, Spearman tests), estimated the collateral status, and assessed clinical outcome (modified Rankin Scale, Barthel Index, National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale, Scandinavian Stroke Scale). We analyzed the data of 20 stroke patients who underwent CT and MRI scanning within 6 hours (mean, 2.83 and 3.38 hours, respectively). Vessel occlusion was present in 16 of 20 patients. CTA-SI volumes did not differ from DWI volumes (P=0.601). Furthermore, the CTA-SI lesion volumes significantly correlated with the initial DWI lesion volumes (P<0.0001, r=0.922) and with outcome lesion volumes (P=0.013 r=0.736). Patients with poor collaterals experienced infarct growth (P=0.0058) and had a significantly worse clinical outcome (all P<0.012); patients with good collaterals did not (P=0.176). The combination of non-contrast-enhanced CT (exclusion of intracranial hemorrhage), CTA (vessel status), and early contrast-enhanced CTA-SI (demarcation of irreversible infarct) allows diagnostic assessment of acute stroke with a quality comparable to that of stroke MRI. Furthermore, it is possible to distinguish patients at risk of infarct growth from those who are not according to the collateral status, in analogy with the stroke MRI mismatch concept."}
{"id": "12361650", "title": "Three dimensional digital subtraction angiography imaging of a ruptured aneurysm on the anterior communicating artery.", "content": "Three dimensional digital subtraction angiography imaging of a ruptured aneurysm on the anterior communicating artery. Although angiography is still gold standard for the diagnosis of cerebral aneurysms, false-negative angiograms in cases of subarachoid hemorrhage due to a rupture of an anterior communicating artery aneurysm have been previously reported. We now report a case of an anterior communicating aneurysm demonstrated by 3-dimensional digital angiography (3D-DSA) after a negative standard angiogram. A 41-year-old female was admitted in a comatose state. Computed tomography (CT) revealed intraventricular hemorrhage and a clot in the frontal interhemispheric fissure, suggestive of rupture of an anterior communicating artery aneurysm. Two days later, angiography was performed. Although standard 3-vessel angiogram with multiple views, using cross-compression on each carotid artery, was negative, 3D-DSA revealed an anterior communicating aneurysm. The aneurysm was successfully clipped based on the findings obtained from the 3D-DSA. The outcome was favorable, with mild memory disturbance. The standard angiogram sometimes fails to demonstrate aneurysms, especially those on the anterior communicating artery. In this case, 3D-DSA was useful for the diagnosis of the anterior communicating aneurysm which was not seen on standard angiogram."}
{"id": "12244474", "title": "[Diagnostic evaluation of the craniocervical vascular system with a 16-slice multi-detector row spiral CT. Protocols and first experiences].", "content": "[Diagnostic evaluation of the craniocervical vascular system with a 16-slice multi-detector row spiral CT. Protocols and first experiences]. The newly developed 16-slice multi detector row computed tomography (MDCT) allows for isotropic imaging at rotation times under 500 ms. We aim to describe our first experiences with this novel technology in the diagnostic imaging of the craniocervical vascular system. The craniocervical vascular system of 8 consecutive patients was examined with a standardized protocol with the new 16-slice MDCT. The volume covered included the carotid arteries from their origin at the aortic arch and the intracranial arterial and venous vessels in their entirety. Homogeneity of contrast, contrast-to-parenchyma ratios, image quality and radiation doses were assessed. A homogeneous vessel-to-parenchyma ratio was reached in the carotids as well as in the intracranial arterial and venous vessels. Image quality was rated as excellent in all patients. The estimated mean effective radiation dose amounted to 2.31 mSv +/-0.57, the mean dose length product to 608 mGy*cm +/-151. The newly developed 16-slice MDCT technology appears to be a promising tool in the diagnostic assessment of the cervicocranial vessels."}
{"id": "12239982", "title": "Atypical presentation of subarachnoid hemorrhage: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Atypical presentation of subarachnoid hemorrhage: case report and review of the literature. Subarachnoid hemorrhage is a threatening condition often associated with significant morbidity and mortality. The risk of rebleeding and ischemic complications can be markedly reduced when the prompt diagnosis of cerebral aneurysmal rupture is made. The sudden onset of severe headache with or without neurologic deficit raises the clinical suspicion, however atypical symptoms exist making the diagnosis difficult. A 49-year-old male with a 3-day history of neck discomfort, without headache, was admitted following a generalized seizure. A serum sodium of 115 mEq/L was noted. A computed tomographic scan of the brain revealed a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Two intracranial cerebral aneurysms were identified by cerebral angiography and subsequently treated. The diagnosis and treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage is reviewed."}
{"id": "12238622", "title": "Post-partum cerebral angiopathy: repetitive TCD, MRI, MRA, and EEG examinations.", "content": "Post-partum cerebral angiopathy: repetitive TCD, MRI, MRA, and EEG examinations. We report of a woman with post-partum cerebral angiopathy (PCA), in whom we repetitively performed transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD), MR imaging (MRI), and MR angiography (MRA) to evaluate the underlying pathophysiology. A 31-year-old woman, Gemini pregnant, complained of severe throbbing frontal headache four days after an uneventful delivery by Cesarean section. Blurred vision occurred eight days after delivery, followed by three generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Neurological examination revealed a somnolent woman without focal neurological deficits. At the day of the seizures increased flow velocities and disturbed flow were observed in the right posterior and anterior cerebral artery on transcranial Doppler (TCD). MRI showed infra- and supratentorial patchy hyperintensities in T2-weighted images and in the FLAIR sequence. Diffusion-weighted imaging revealed corresponding multi-focal hyperintense areas indicating increased diffusion and MRA showed a diffuse multisegmental narrowing of all pial arteries. MRI at day 10 was completely normal, but MRA still revealed vascular narrowing in the right posterior cerebral artery. General slight flow accelerations in all basal arteries occurred after 10 days and lasted for three weeks. PCA is apparently associated with a vascular narrowing causing cerebral ischemia with increased diffusion. Later reactive cerebral hyperperfusion is observed. Vascular narrowing and cerebral hyperperfusion still persist after MRI has normalized."}
{"id": "12234418", "title": "Ruptured aneurysm of the ophthalmic artery trunk demonstrated by three-dimensional rotational angiography: case report.", "content": "Ruptured aneurysm of the ophthalmic artery trunk demonstrated by three-dimensional rotational angiography: case report. Aneurysms arising from the ophthalmic artery are extremely rare, compared with carotid-ophthalmic aneurysms arising from the wall of the internal carotid artery. We present a very unusual type of aneurysm arising from the ophthalmic artery itself. A 54-year-old man presented with a sudden onset of headache and was transferred to a local hospital. Computed tomography demonstrated subarachnoid hemorrhage around the left anterior clinoid process, but digital subtraction angiography failed to localize the source of the hemorrhage. The patient was referred to our hospital for further evaluation and treatment. Conventional cerebral angiography did not reveal the source of the hemorrhage, but three-dimensional rotational angiography clearly demonstrated an aneurysm arising from the ophthalmic artery trunk, apart from the internal carotid artery. The patient underwent microsurgical clipping of the aneurysm via a left pterional craniotomy. The aneurysm originated from the bifurcation of the ophthalmic artery and a perforating artery to the optic nerve. The aneurysm was successfully obliterated, and the postoperative course was uneventful. This report is the first to describe a case of a ruptured aneurysm arising from the ophthalmic artery trunk. We discuss the clinical significance of an aneurysm at this site, as well as the role of three-dimensional rotational angiography in determining the source of subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "12234400", "title": "Evaluation of vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage by use of multislice computed tomographic angiography.", "content": "Evaluation of vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage by use of multislice computed tomographic angiography. Multislice computed tomographic angiography (CTA) can provide clearer vascular images, even of the peripheral arteries, than conventional CTA. Multislice CTA was compared with digital subtraction angiography (DSA) for the detection of cerebral vasospasm in patients with acute aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) to analyze whether multislice CTA can replace DSA in the detection of vasospasm after SAH. Within 72 hours after the onset of symptoms, multislice CTA and DSA were performed in 20 patients with SAH. Multislice CTA and DSA were repeated on Day 7 to assess cerebral vasospasm. Regions of interest were established in the proximal and distal segments of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries on both multislice CTA and DSA images, and the agreement between the severity of vasospasm on multislice CTA and DSA images was statistically compared. The multislice Aquilon computed tomography system (Toshiba, Inc., Tokyo, Japan) used the following parameters: 1 mm collimation and 3.5 mm per rotation table increment (pitch, 3.5). The degree of vasospasm as revealed by multislice CTA correlated significantly with the degree of vasospasm revealed by DSA (P < 0.0001). The agreement between the severity of vasospasm on multislice images obtained via CTA and DSA in the overall, proximal, and distal segments of the cerebral arteries was 91.6, 90.8, and 92.3%, respectively. Multislice CTA can detect angiographic vasospasm after SAH with accuracy equal to that of DSA."}
{"id": "12234399", "title": "Management of intracranial vertebral artery dissections initially presenting without subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Management of intracranial vertebral artery dissections initially presenting without subarachnoid hemorrhage. The clinical and angiographic follow-up results for intracranial vertebral artery (VA) dissections that initially presented without subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) were retrospectively investigated, to clarify their management. Twenty-one patients with VA dissections that initially presented without SAH were studied. Initial angiography revealed aneurysmal dilation in 11 cases (typical pearl-and-string sign in 8 cases, aneurysmal dilation only in 2, and aneurysmal dilation with double-lumen sign in 1), occlusion in 7, double-lumen sign in 2, and string-like stenosis in 1. Nine patients (six with pearl-and-string sign, one with occlusion with aneurysmal dilations, and two with double-lumen sign), including three patients who experienced subsequent SAH, underwent endovascular proximal parent artery occlusion. The other 12 patients were treated conservatively. All patients were monitored with magnetic resonance angiography or digital subtraction angiography. Three patients experienced subsequent SAH, 1 day (two patients) or 51 months after onset. Follow-up angiographic assessments of the 20 patients demonstrated complete resolution in five cases, reduction of aneurysmal dilation in one case, and partial recanalization in one case. However, enlargement or formation of an aneurysmal dilation was recognized in four cases and progression of dissection was observed in one case. Eighteen patients experienced good recoveries, and three patients demonstrated moderate disabilities as a result of the initial ischemic insult. The risk of bleeding from unruptured VA dissections is higher than previously considered. Therefore, endovascular treatment should be considered for patients with VA dissections with relatively large or growing aneurysmal dilations."}
{"id": "12217683", "title": "Mistaken identity: a case of false positive on CT angiography.", "content": "Mistaken identity: a case of false positive on CT angiography. We describe the case of a 42-year-old female presenting with subarachnoid haemorrhage from a posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) aneurysm rupture on intracranial digital subtraction angiography (DSA). One year postoperatively, the patient was followed with CT angiography and was reported to show a de novo aneurysm at the bifurcation of the left inferior cerebellar artery (ICA). Subsequent DSA revealed an aberrant vein crossing over the ICA bifurcation on mask phase images. This is the first reported case of a such a reason for a 'false positive' on CT angiography (CTA). The case demonstrates that although CTA has a reported high specificity, careful interpretation of multiple views is required to diagnose intracranial aneurysms when compared to the 'gold' standard of CTA."}
{"id": "12169481", "title": "Anatomic features predictive of complete aneurysm occlusion can be determined with three-dimensional digital subtraction angiography.", "content": "Anatomic features predictive of complete aneurysm occlusion can be determined with three-dimensional digital subtraction angiography. Complete occlusion of intracranial aneurysms is the goal of endovascular treatment and is influenced by several aneurysm-related anatomic factors. The anatomic features of aneurysms can be characterized by three-dimensional reconstructed images by use of rotational digital subtraction angiography (3D-DSA). The purpose of this study was to determine the anatomic factors that could help predict complete endosaccular packing of cerebral aneurysms by use of 3D-DSA and to design a simple scoring system to predict the difficulty of achieving complete occlusion of the aneurysm. Forty-seven patients with 47 intracranial berry (<12 mm) aneurysms underwent 3D-DSA. Aneurysms were subsequently treated by endosaccular packing with coils. The following aneurysm-related anatomic parameters were measured on 3D-DSA images: largest diameter, neck size, dome-to-neck ratio, shape, and relationship to the neighboring artery. The relationship between each parameter and the rate of successful treatment was determined, and a score used to rate difficulty of attaining occlusion (ie, difficulty score) was developed on the basis of the identified predictors of successful treatment. Subsequently, we assessed the correlation between the score and the rate of successful occlusion. Four anatomic parameters correlated significantly with the rate of successful occlusion: neck size (P =.014), shape (P=.042), dome-to-neck ratio (P <.01), and relationship to neighboring artery (P=.025). The difficulty score based on two parameters (dome-to-neck ratio and relationship to neighboring artery) significantly correlated with the occlusion rate (r = 0.63, P <.01). In this population, the difficulty score based on 3D-DSA findings provides useful information for prediction of successful endovascular treatment for intracranial aneurysms."}
{"id": "12169479", "title": "Detection and characterization of very small cerebral aneurysms by using 2D and 3D helical CT angiography.", "content": "Detection and characterization of very small cerebral aneurysms by using 2D and 3D helical CT angiography. Many cases of subarachnoid hemorrhage are due to rupture of small cerebral aneurysms. Our purpose was to evaluate the usefulness of helical CT angiography (CTA) in the detection and characterization of very small (<5 mm) intracranial aneurysms. One hundred eighty consecutive patients underwent CTA for suspected intracranial aneurysms. All aneurysms prospectively detected by CTA were confirmed by digital subtraction angiography (DSA) or at surgery. CT angiograms and digital subtraction angiograms were reviewed by two independent blinded radiologists who performed aneurysm detection, quantitation, and characterization using 2D multiplanar reformatted and 3D volume-rendering techniques. Fifty-one patients harboring 41 very small intracranial aneurysms were included in this series. Eighty-one percent (33 of 41 aneurysms) were </=4 mm in maximal diameter, and 37% (15 of 41 aneurysms) were </=3 mm in maximal diameter. Sensitivity of CTA for very small intracranial aneurysm detection ranged from 98% to 100% (95% confidence intervals, 0.871, 0.999, 0.914, and 1.0), compared with 95% for DSA. The specificity of CTA and DSA for very small intracranial aneurysms was 100% (26 of 26 aneurysms). Positive predictive value ranged from 98% to 100%. Negative predictive value ranged from 96% to 100%. Accuracy of CTA for detection of very small intracranial aneurysms was 99% and 100% (kappa = 0.969 - 1.0 +/- 0.1221). Forty-eight percent of aneurysms were detected in the presence of subarachnoid hemorrhage. The sensitivity of CTA for the detection of cerebral aneurysms </=5 mm is higher than that of DSA, with equal specificity and high interoperator reliability. High quality, noninvasive CTA aneurysm detection and characterization can be performed using routine clinical CT scanners and commercially available image processing workstations."}
{"id": "12133461", "title": "[Value of three-dimensional digital subtraction angiography in diagnosis and planning endovascular treatment of cerebrovascular diseases].", "content": "[Value of three-dimensional digital subtraction angiography in diagnosis and planning endovascular treatment of cerebrovascular diseases]. To evaluate the value of three-dimensional (3D) digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in diagnosis and planning endovascular treatment of cerebrovascular diseases. Standard DSA and 3D-DSA were performed in 40 adult patients (aged 21 approximately 74 years) suspected to be with cerebrovascular diseases. The schemes of endovascular treatment were worked out according to the results of 3D-DSA. Positive rate of standard DSA and 3D-DSA were 85.0% and 95.0% respectively in diagnosis of cerebrovascular diseases. 100% occlusion was achieved in 11 patients with intracranial aneurysms and in 7 patients with arteriovenous malformations, and 100% recanalization was achieved in 9 patients with ischemic stroke. Temporary complications were found in 3 of all patients (7.9%). 3D-DSA is an ideal tool superior to standard DSA in diagnosis of cerebrovascular diseases and has potential value for evaluating endovascular treatment of cerebrovascular diseases."}
{"id": "12111635", "title": "Churg-Strauss syndrome presenting as spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "Churg-Strauss syndrome presenting as spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage. Churg-Strauss syndrome (CSS) is a systemic small-vessel vasculitis characterised by the presence of asthma and eosinophilia. Central nervous system involvement (cerebral infarctions or intracerebral haemorrhage) is rare in CSS. Spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) has been described in other systemic vasculitides. SAH is exceptional in CSS. We present a 47-year-old woman with CSS presenting as a spontaneous SAH with cerebral angiography findings consistent with vasculitis of the basilar artery and without aneurysms or arteriovenous malformations. She received treatment with prednisone and cyclophosphamide, and 2 months later the basilar artery was normal on magnetic resonance angiography."}
{"id": "12093133", "title": "Cranial venous outflow obstruction in the pseudotumour syndrome: incidence, nature and relevance.", "content": "Cranial venous outflow obstruction in the pseudotumour syndrome: incidence, nature and relevance. This study reports a retrospective analysis of the evidence of cranial venous outflow pathology in 188 patients with pseudotumour syndrome (PTS) investigated over the period 1968-1999. Standard methods of investigation appropriate to the period were used, i.e. cerebral angiography, CT and MR scanning. Recently, some patients had specific venous studies including intraluminal cranial venous sinus pressure measurements. A sub-group (25 patients) was investigated for haematological abnormalities. The overall incidence of cranial venous outflow abnormality was 19.7% (37 cases). In decades, related to the predominant investigative method, the figures were: to 1979, 4.2% (2 cases); to 1989, 15.0% (8 cases); to 1999, 31.0% (27 cases). A cause of the venous abnormality was identified in 20 cases, most commonly haematological and iatrogenic. In 17 patients (all females) no cause was identified. Fifteen of the 25 patients (60%) tested specifically were found to have a haematological abnormality, although no correlation was shown between this and a demonstrable venous outflow abnormality. The conclusion was drawn that there is a high incidence (close to one-third) of venous outflow abnormalities in PTS with detailed investigation. Issues of mechanism and therapy are discussed."}
{"id": "12076942", "title": "Quantitative evaluation of mean transit times obtained with dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced MR imaging and with (133)Xe SPECT in occlusive cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Quantitative evaluation of mean transit times obtained with dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced MR imaging and with (133)Xe SPECT in occlusive cerebrovascular disease. We report on quantitative mean transit time images obtained using dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced MR imaging after an IV bolus injection of a contrast agent. Our study compared cerebral hemodynamics measured using dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced MR imaging with the cerebral perfusion reserve obtained using dynamic (133)Xe single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Seventeen patients with chronic cerebral artery occlusion or stenosis diagnosed by digital subtraction angiography were examined. Dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced MR imaging data were acquired using a multishot echoplanar sequence. Our procedure for quantification of mean transit time was based on the indicator dilution theory and deconvolution analysis. The increased mean transit time values obtained with dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced MR imaging correlated well (r=-0.789, p < 0.0001) with decreased cerebral perfusion reserve determined by performing dynamic (133)Xe SPECT before and after administration of acetazolamide. The mean transit time values in the regions with severely decreased perfusion reserve were significantly higher than those in the regions with normal or moderately decreased perfusion reserve (p < 0.0001 and p = 0.0004, respectively). Mean transit time images generated from dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced MR imaging data could be used to evaluate the extent of cerebral perfusion reserve impairment in patients with occlusive cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "12075669", "title": "White and black blood volumetric angiographic filtering: ellipsoidal scale-space approach.", "content": "White and black blood volumetric angiographic filtering: ellipsoidal scale-space approach. Prefiltering is a critical step in three-dimensional (3-D) segmentation of the blood vessel and its display (see the recent book by Suri et al.). This paper presents a scale-space approach for filtering the white blood and black blood angiographic volumes and its implementation issues. The raw MR angiographic volume is first converted to isotropic volume followed by 3-D higher order separable Gaussian derivative convolution with known scales to generate edge volume. The edge volume is then run by the directional processor at each voxel where the eigenvalues of the 3-D ellipsoid are computed. The vessel score per voxel is then estimated based on these three eigenvalues which suppress the nonvasculature and background structures yielding the filtered volume. The filtered volume is ray-cast to generate the maximum intensity projection images for display. The performance of the system is evaluated by computing the mean, variance, signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), and contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) images. The system is run over 20 patient studies from different areas of the body such as the brain, abdomen, kidney, knee, and ankle. The computer program takes around 150 s of processing time per study for a data size of 512 x 512 x 194, which includes the complete performance evaluation. We also compare our strategy with the recently published MR filtering algorithms by Alexander et al. and Sun et al."}
{"id": "12072693", "title": "Symptomatic vasospasm diagnosis after subarachnoid hemorrhage: evaluation of transcranial Doppler ultrasound and cerebral angiography as related to compromised vascular distribution.", "content": "Symptomatic vasospasm diagnosis after subarachnoid hemorrhage: evaluation of transcranial Doppler ultrasound and cerebral angiography as related to compromised vascular distribution. To evaluate the reliability of transcranial Doppler ultrasound in detecting symptomatic vasospasm in patients after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and monitoring response after hypertensive and endovascular treatments. Retrospective chart review. Neurosciences critical care unit in a tertiary-care university hospital. All patients admitted to a neurosciences critical care unit with the diagnosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage between January 1990 and June 1997. None We reviewed transcranial Doppler ultrasound data of 199 patients; 55 had symptomatic vasospasm. Clinical symptoms and corresponding vascular distributions were identified, as was angiographic vasospasm (n = 35). The sensitivity and specificity of transcranial Doppler ultrasound for anterior circulation vessels were calculated by using a mean cerebral blood flow velocity criterion of >120 cm/sec. Clinical diagnosis of symptomatic vasospasm was used as the standard to determine sensitivity and specificity of transcranial Doppler ultrasound and cerebral angiography. The sensitivity of transcranial Doppler ultrasound for anterior circulation in patients with symptomatic vasospasm was 73% with a specificity of 80%. The sensitivity of cerebral angiography was 80%. For individual vessels, the sensitivity and specificity of transcranial Doppler ultrasound were middle cerebral artery, 64% and 78%; anterior cerebral artery, 45% and 84%; and internal carotid artery, 80% and 77%, respectively. The mean times for symptomatic and transcranial Doppler ultrasound signs of vasospasm presentation were 6.4 +/- 2 and 6.1 +/- 3 days, respectively. In patients without symptomatic vasospasm, the mean time for mean cerebral blood flow velocities >120 cm/sec was 7.0 +/- 3 days (p <.05). Symptomatic vasospasm also was associated with thickness of clot on head computed tomography scan and rapidly increasing mean cerebral blood flow velocities. Transcranial Doppler ultrasound signs of vasospasm improved after endovascular treatment in 30 patients. The reliability of transcranial Doppler ultrasound was better at detecting high mean cerebral blood flow velocities in patients with symptomatic vasospasm related to middle cerebral and internal carotid artery distributions than for anterior cerebral artery distribution. Transcranial Doppler ultrasound was as sensitive as cerebral angiography at detecting symptomatic vasospasm. High mean cerebral blood flow velocities can be apparent before the presence of symptomatic vasospasm. Daily transcranial Doppler ultrasound monitoring could provide early identification of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage who are at high risk for symptomatic vasospasm and may be helpful at following success of endovascular treatment."}
{"id": "12070447", "title": "Efficiency of CT-angiography in the diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Efficiency of CT-angiography in the diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms. CT-angiography is a non-invasive method, alternative to cerebral angiography in the diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms. The aim of the study was the assessment of the efficiency of CT-angiography in a large material, which has been mostly verified with angiography and/or surgery. CT-angiography was performed in 196 patients with intracranial bleeding. Seventy-three (73) patients underwent also cerebral angiography (CA), 121 were operated on, 74 of them solely on the basis of CT-angiography. A spiral CT scanning (2 mm slices, 1-1.5 pitch, 1 mm-gap reconstruction) combined with an injection of 120 mL of contrast medium (5 mL/sec) was used. Subsequently three-dimensional MIP reconstructions were received, supplemented in some cases with SSD, VRT and MPR. CT-angiography revealed 128 aneurysms in 106 patients, located mostly in anterior communicating, middle cerebral and internal carotid arteries. The size of most aneurysms was 6-10 mm, but nearly one-third of them did not exceed 5 mm. In the group of patients who underwent CA, there was only 1 false negative CT-angiography result, while in 7 patients CT-angiography allowed for the diagnosis of small aneurysms which were not clearly visible on CA. CT-angiography was superior to CA in assessment of aneurysm morphology by 3 independent radiologists in 17 out of 22 cases. CT-angiography findings were confirmed during surgery in all 74 patients. CT-angiography is highly effective in the diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms and the evaluation of their morphology. In our opinion, in most cases, CT-angiography is precise enough to plan a surgical or endovascular procedure."}
{"id": "12066899", "title": "Investigations using magnetic resonance imaging: is neurovascular compression present in patients with essential hypertension?", "content": "Investigations using magnetic resonance imaging: is neurovascular compression present in patients with essential hypertension? A possible relationship between neurovascular compression of the rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata (RVLM) and essential hypertension is investigated using a specifically designed magnetic resonance (MR) imaging method. In conjunction with the ninth and 10th cranial nerves, baroreceptor afferents enter the RVLM, which represents a crucial relay for regulation of autonomic blood pressure. In 1985 Jannetta and coworkers proposed a causal relationship between essential hypertension and intraoperatively observed neurovascular compression of the left RVLM. Currently, MR imaging is the method of choice for the assessment of neurovascular relationships at the brainstem. By obtaining axial images of a thin-slice turbo inversion-recovery sequence and three-dimensional time-of-flight MR angiograms (fast imaging with steady-state precision), the authors documented the occurrence of neurovascular contacts with the RVLM at the level of the root entry zones (REZs) of the ninth and 10th cranial nerves in 25 patients with essential hypertension, 30 normotensive volunteers, and 10 patients with renal hypertension. Neurovascular contacts with the REZ at the left RVLM were found in 32% of patients with essential hypertension, 37% of normotensive volunteers, and 20% of patients with renal hypertension. In total, neurovascular contacts on either side of the RVLM were documented in 68% of patients with essential hypertension, 53% of normotensive volunteers, and 50% of patients with renal hypertension. The results do not support the theory of neurovascular compression in cases of essential hypertension. Findings of neurovascular contacts on MR images are not indications for decompression surgery. For further clarification, however, prospective MR imaging studies should be considered in young patients with essential hypertension in whom the history of high blood pressure is short."}
{"id": "12063222", "title": "Cerebral microarteriovenous malformations: diagnostic and therpeutic features in a series of patients.", "content": "Cerebral microarteriovenous malformations: diagnostic and therpeutic features in a series of patients. Few collected series of cerebral microarteriovenous malformations (micro-AVMs) have been reported. Our propose was to assess the unique diagnostic and therapeutic challenges posed by these lesions and their influence on outcomes. The clinical presentation, diagnostic features, principles of endovascular or surgical treatment, and outcomes for a consecutive series of 10 patients (five male, five female; mean age, 48.8 years; age range, 31-65 years) with angiographically demonstrated cerebral micro-AVMs were retrospectively analyzed. All patients presented with a cerebral hematoma (supratentorial in eight, infratentorial in two, intraventricular in one, subarachnoid in one; mean volume, 11.6 cm(3)), which was superficially situated in nine patients. Neurologic deficits were observed in nine patients, and three patients had seizures. The mean delay between the onset of symptoms and diagnosis was 129.8 days (range, 6 days to 1 year). Superselective angiography was performed in seven patients and followed by successful acrylic embolization of the lesion in five. Five patients underwent surgical intervention, which led to definitive resection. Although long-term neurologic problems were present in eight patients, they were able to return to their previous activities and employment. The diagnosis of cerebral micro-AVMs requires a high index of suspicion, especially in young adults with atypical hemorrhaging. Single-shot embolization of micro-AVMs may be a safe alternative to the established surgical therapy in select cases. Outcomes depend mostly on the clinical conditions at admission."}
{"id": "12015847", "title": "Complementary use of computed tomographic angiography in treatment planning for posterior fossa subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Complementary use of computed tomographic angiography in treatment planning for posterior fossa subarachnoid hemorrhage. The goal of this study was to determine whether the complementary use of computed tomographic angiographic (CTA) assessments would provide additional benefits in the evaluation and treatment of ruptured vertebrobasilar artery aneurysms. In the past 4.5 years, 35 patients with an infratentorial dominant pattern of subarachnoid hemorrhage were complementarily examined with CTA scanning, after undergoing one or more three-dimensional rotational projection digital subtraction angiographic (DSA) studies. The results of these studies were interpreted by the treating neurosurgeon and an interventional radiologist, to examine the usefulness of the findings for the detection of aneurysms and to determine the grade of parent artery vascular filling and the optical definition of the aneurysm. This information provided additional benefits for case management. Thirty-three aneurysms were detected. For 10 patients, no aneurysm was identified in repeated examinations with the two methods. We detected only 16 of the 25 ruptured aneurysms (64%) on the first DSA scans and, even with repeated examinations, 6 aneurysms were not clearly identified with this technique. CTA scanning revealed the ruptured aneurysms in 25 cases and demonstrated increased vascular filling and improved optical definition of the aneurysms, compared with DSA scanning, in 12 cases (48%). The information obtained from the CTA scans allowed the selection of five patients for endovascular treatment and facilitated the surgical procedures in five cases. Complementary CTA examination of the vertebrobasilar complex provides a higher rate of aneurysm detection and improves the optical definition and anatomic projection of these aneurysms, compared with DSA scanning alone. This facilitates therapeutic decision-making (surgical versus endovascular procedures) and allows neurosurgeons to use more restricted surgical exposures."}
{"id": "12014239", "title": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage without aneurysm on the angiogram: the value of repeat angiography].", "content": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage without aneurysm on the angiogram: the value of repeat angiography]. To determine the yield of repeated angiography in patients with a non-perimesencephalic subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and a negative first cerebral angiogram. Retrospective. All diagnostic data of patients with a spontaneous SAH admitted to the Department of Neurology, St. Elisabeth Hospital, Tilburg, the Netherlands, in the period 1 January 1992-30 June 2000 were analysed. Patients with a perimesencephalic haemorrhage on a CT-scan were excluded and follow-up was completed. A negative angiogram was considered false-negative, if an aneurysm was shown on a repeat angiogram or after a rebleed. These angiograms were reviewed. A total of 333 patients with a spontaneous SAH were registered. Of these, 249 patients had one or more angiograms made, which resulted in 59 first angiograms being negative (24%). A total of 36 patients had a non-perimesencephalic SAH (26 women and 10 men; mean age: 54 years (range: 25-77)). In 25 of these 36 patients, angiography was repeated revealing 9 aneurysms. Four patients suffered from a rebleed after a previous negative angiogram. Altogether, in 13 of these 36 patients the first negative angiogram was false-negative (36%). In 5 of the 9 patients with a positive repeat angiogram, the first angiogram had been incorrectly assessed as negative. Of the 36 patients with a non-perimesencephalic subarachnoid haemorrhage and a negative angiogram, 13 were revealed to have an aneurysm. Nine of these 13 aneurysms were demonstrated on a repeat angiogram. Technical and interpretation factors appeared to play an important role in missing an aneurysm on a cerebral angiogram."}
{"id": "11988908", "title": "[Cerebrovascular disease in childhood and adolescence. Ischaemic cerebral accidents].", "content": "[Cerebrovascular disease in childhood and adolescence. Ischaemic cerebral accidents]. In recent years attention has been drawn to cerebrovascular disease in children and adolescents, since cases are now better detected and hence there has been an apparent increase in their incidence. The traditional risk factors of adult cerebrovascular disease are considered to be unimportant in children and adolescents. In these young patients there are many other more important risk factors, genetic, metabolic and infections, acting alone or in combination. The most important of these are cardiac disorders, prothrombotic states and vascular disorders. There are many imaging techniques available for the investigation of patients with ischaemic symptoms, which permit early diagnosis using non invasive methods. The newer perfusion diffusion MR techniques may play an important part in evaluation and treatment, especially in patients at risk. Most treatment currently available is symptomatic. However, interventionist neuroradiology may in future play an important part in treatment in this age group. Recent studies have shown that the prognosis is not as good as previously thought and half the patients have motor sequelas and a similar number require special schooling."}
{"id": "11984472", "title": "DWI prediction of symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation in acute MCA infarct.", "content": "DWI prediction of symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation in acute MCA infarct. Symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation is a severe complication of acute ischemic stroke which occurs at a higher frequency after thrombolysis. The present study was designed to analyze whether early DWI can be used for predicting the risk of hemorrhagic transformation with clinical worsening in MCA stroke patients. Of 28 patients with a middle cerebral artery (MCA) infarct and proven MCA or carotid T occlusion on DWI and MR angiography performed within 14 hours after onset (mean 6.5 +/- 3.5 hours, median 5.2 hours), 4 developed hemorrhagic transformation with clinical worsening, while 24 did not. For the 2 groups, we compared admission NIHSS score, site of arterial occlusion, volume of DWI abnormalities, and several apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) measurements: ADC(infarct) (mean ADC value of the whole infarct), ADC(core) (peak ADC decrease as calculated in a 57 mm(2) circular ROI, manually centered on the ischemic area with the lowest ADC value on the ADC maps), ADC(superficial) and ADC(deep). Discriminant function analysis was used to determine the most accurate predictors of symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation. The best predictor was the ADC(core) (F=5.34, p=2.9%, cut-off value=300 x 10(-6) mm(2)/s). This monovariate model allowed to correctly classify all 4 patients (ADC(core) 300 x 10(-6) mm(2)/s) with subsequent symptomatic hemorrhage, and 17 of the 24 patients without symptomatic hemmorrhage (ADC(core)>300 x 10(-6) mm(2)/s) (100% sensitivity, 71% specificity). Although preliminary, these results suggest that a simple measurement of minimum ADC values within an acute MCA stroke could be useful in targeting those patients with a high risk of severe hemorrhagic transformation."}
{"id": "11981069", "title": "Intracranial aneurysms and dolichoectasia in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.", "content": "Intracranial aneurysms and dolichoectasia in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. Intracranial saccular aneurysms (ICA) are a known extrarenal manifestation of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). In order to facilitate the definition of subgroups who are at risk for ICA and to determine the prevalence of ICA in these subgroups we studied ADPKD patients with a positive family history for a cerebral event, including cerebral stroke (group I) and intracranial bleeding or known ICA (group II). Within an enrolment period of 21 months, 43 ADPKD patients from our outpatient clinic and hospital were examined with cerebral magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). ICA were detected in six patients (14%). Three out of 32 patients (9.4%) in group I and three out of 11 patients (27.3%) in group II had an ICA. A dolichoectasia of intracerebral vessels was found in two out of 43 patients (4.7%). Using MRA a high prevalence of ICA was shown only in patients with a family history of cerebral bleeding or ICA. A family history for cerebral stroke does not imply an elevated risk for ICA. However, dolichoectasia, rare in the normal population, was detected in two patients. We recommend screening for ICA in patients with a positive family history for cerebral bleeding or ICA. Because of potential complications, examiners should direct their attention to dolichoectasia in ADPKD patients."}
{"id": "11975086", "title": "[Modern nuclear magnetic resonance techniques in stroke].", "content": "[Modern nuclear magnetic resonance techniques in stroke]. In industrialized nations, stroke is the most common cause of permanent disability and need of care. Causal treatment is possible only during the first few hours following the stroke, in the form of systemic fibrinolysis. An exact diagnosis of the causative pathology must be made before starting the therapy, and this must happen in the shortest possible period of time. Using imaging techniques, the whole spectrum of differential diagnoses of cerebral ischemia must be covered, including above all intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Although computed tomography (CT) is excellently suited for determining hemorrhage, infarct can be recognized with much better contrast using diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging (DWI). Stroke MR imaging additionally allows the representation of vital \"tissue at risk\" of infarction using perfusion images as well as the recognition of vessel occlusion using MR angiography. This paper is intended to define the usefulness of DWI in comparison to CT techniques and to elucidate the use of diffusion coefficients for differentiating the various stages of infarction. Besides presenting an explanation of the basic principles of modern stroke MR imaging, typical results of MR perfusion measurements and the appearance of hemorrhages on MR will be explained."}
{"id": "11972150", "title": "[Metastatic and hemorrhagic brain arteriovenous fistulae due to a choriocarcinoma. Case report].", "content": "[Metastatic and hemorrhagic brain arteriovenous fistulae due to a choriocarcinoma. Case report]. Brain metastasis of choriocarinoma is uncommon. These tumors develop in women of childbearing age and commonly produce signs and symptoms of subarachnoid hemorrhage, intracerebral hemorrhage, or brain tumor. Diagnosis can be established by histologic study of operative swabs and bioassay of the patient's blood, urine and cerebrospinal fluid for chorionic gonadotropin. This condition is highly chemo- and radiosensitive. We report the case of a 36-year-old woman with intracranial neoplastic fistulae. Rupture occurred 3 days after spontaneous abortion at 3 months of pregnancy. The patient presented with hemiplegia, aphasia and unclear consciousness. Left fronto-parietal hematoma was diagnosed on the CT scan, and cerebral angiography showed an arteriovenous intracranial fistulae. The hematoma and angioma were surgically removed successfully. The histological examination showed a metastatic choriocarcinoma. Surgery was followed by chemotherapy and radiotherapy. After 6 years of follow-up, complete remission has been obtained."}
{"id": "11967595", "title": "Detection of brain death onset using the bispectral index in severely comatose patients.", "content": "Detection of brain death onset using the bispectral index in severely comatose patients. To evaluate the accuracy of bispectral index (BIS) monitoring for the diagnosis of brain death in severely comatose patients. A prospective study in an intensive care unit of a university hospital. Fifty-six severely comatose patients (Glasgow Coma Score < or = 5) admitted to the ICU mainly because of intracerebral hemorrhage, head injury, or postanoxic coma. BIS was recorded continuously during the hospitalization in the ICU. Where necessary, clinical brain death was confirmed by EEG or cerebral angiography. Twelve patients were already clinically brain dead at the time of admission, and their individual BIS values were 0. In each of these 12 patients brain death was thereafter confirmed by EEG or cerebral angiography. Forty-four patients were not clinically brain-dead at the time of admission, and their individual BIS values were between 20 and 79. Twenty-seven of these patients became brain-dead, and their individual BIS values dropped to 0 in a few hours to a few days. In these 27 patients EEG or cerebral angiography was performed after the BIS value decreased to 0 and confirmed brain death in all cases. Seventeen patients who did not become brain dead during their hospitalization in the ICU had persistent electrocerebral activity on EEG, and their average BIS values remained above 35. BIS can be used in severely comatose patients as an assessment of brain death onset, enabling appropriate scheduling of either EEG or cerebral angiography to confirm brain death."}
{"id": "11954867", "title": "Multi-slice CT angiography in the evaluation of patients with acute cerebrovascular disease--a promising new diagnostic tool.", "content": "Multi-slice CT angiography in the evaluation of patients with acute cerebrovascular disease--a promising new diagnostic tool. Single-slice computed tomographic angiography (CTA) is an established imaging method for the cerebrovascular system (CVS), but it suffers from technical limitations with respect to the coherent high resolution visualization of longer vascular segments, such as the extra- and intracranial CVS. The recently introduced multi-slice (MS) technology has been attributed with a superior imaging quality for angiographic procedures due to increased scan speed and improved spatial resolution. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the suitability of multi-slice CTA (MS-CTA) for the assessment of the arteriovenous CVS in patients with acute symptoms of either arterial or venous occlusive diseases. 41 patients with clinically suspected acute cerebral ischaemia (hemispheric in 29 and vertebrobasilar in 12 patients) and 4 patients with suspected cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) underwent CTA in a MS-CT scanner. In addition, doppler ultrasonography (DUS) was erformed in 34, magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) in 5 and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in 6 patients. All findings were reviewed for stenoses or occlusion of the extra-and intracranial CVS and correlated with the clinical outcome. In 43 (96%) of 45 patients, MS-CTA yielded images of diagnostic quality with comprehensive visualization of the arterial and venous CVS including the cervical carotid bifurcation, the third segment of the major cerebral arteries and the dural sinus as well as internal cerebral veins. In 2 patients, assessment of the carotid bifurcation was limited because of tooth artefacts. In all patients, in whom imaging and clinical follow-up proved a non-lacunar infarction (n = 22), MS-CTA detected the underlying vascular pathology. Suspected CVT could be confirmed in 2 and ruled out in another 2 patients through MS-CTA. In conclusion, multi-slice CT an giography may be a promising new diagnostic tool for the rapid and comprehensive assessment of the arteriovenous CVS in patients with clinical signs of acute cerebrovascular diseases."}
{"id": "11950419", "title": "De novo cerebral arteriovenous malformation: case report.", "content": "De novo cerebral arteriovenous malformation: case report. Arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are generally thought to have a congenital cause. This is the first report of an angiographically proven de novo cerebral AVM in an adult patient without previous vascular abnormality. A 26-year-old African-American woman developed multiple cranial nerve deficits and ataxia over the course of a few days after a streptococcal throat infection. T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scans revealed a hyperintense signal in the midbrain with extension into the diencephalon. A cerebral angiogram performed at that time to exclude vasculitis revealed normal cerebral vasculature. The patient was treated with corticosteroids, and symptoms resolved. Subsequently, at the age of 32, this patient presented with a severe headache and emesis, but with no focal neurological deficit. The patient's cranial computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging scans revealed a right posterior temporal intraparenchymal hemorrhage, and cerebral angiography revealed a new 3- by 2-cm AVM. The patient underwent microsurgical resection of the AVM and associated hematoma. Postoperative angiography revealed no evidence of residual AVM. This study details the case of a woman who developed a de novo cerebral AVM during a 6-year period. This report challenges the conventional belief that all AVMs have a congenital cause."}
{"id": "11935060", "title": "Dysplastic vessels after surgery for brain arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "Dysplastic vessels after surgery for brain arteriovenous malformations. The cause and clinical significance of residual dysplastic vessels after surgery for brain arteriovenous malformations (AVM) are unclear. We studied predictors and frequency of residual dysplastic vessels on cerebral angiography after AVM surgery. The 240 prospectively enrolled surgical patients from the New York AVM Databank underwent 269 AVM-related surgical procedures. Reported postoperative brain angiographic findings were classified post hoc as showing (1) persistent dysplastic vessels, (2) a residual AVM, (3) focal hyperemia in the surgical bed, (4) other changes, or (5) a normal angiogram. Univariate and multivariate models were applied to test for an association between residual dysplastic vessels and patient age, sex, preoperative AVM size, anatomic AVM location, number of embolization procedures before surgery, and the time interval between AVM surgery and the postoperative angiogram. Of the 224 documented postoperative angiograms, 78 (35%) showed dysplastic vessels, 24 (11%) had evidence for a residual AVM, 16 (7%) showed focal hyperemia, 6 (2%) revealed other findings, and 100 (45%) were normal. The number of cases showing angiographic evidence for dysplastic vessels was significantly associated with increasing size of the AVM (in millimeter increments; P=0.0001); the mean diameter of AVMs in patients showing dysplastic vessels after surgery was significantly larger (41 mm, SD +/-14) than in those without residual dysplastic vessels (27 mm, SD +/-13; P<0.001). Symptomatic postoperative intracerebral hemorrhage occurred in 4 patients (1%), in 2 of whom dysplastic vessels were seen on the postoperative angiogram. The findings suggest that persistent dysplastic vessels may be found in approximately one third of angiograms after AVM surgery. Preoperative AVM size was found to be an independent predictor for the occurrence of dysplastic vessels on the postoperative angiogram."}
{"id": "11935041", "title": "Dissecting aneurysms of intracranial carotid circulation.", "content": "Dissecting aneurysms of intracranial carotid circulation. Clinical features of nontraumatic dissecting aneurysms of intracranial carotid circulation remain unclear because investigation of this disease has been limited to case reports. The aim of this study was to investigate the clinical features of this disease through the use of cooperatively collected cases. The cases diagnosed as dissecting aneurysms of intracranial carotid circulation on the basis of clinical signs and neuroradiological findings in 46 stroke centers from 1995 through 1999 were collected, and their clinical features were analyzed. Forty-nine cases of dissecting aneurysms of intracranial carotid circulation were collected. Thirty-two patients presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), and 17 presented with cerebral ischemia. The ratio of this disease to all intracranial dissecting aneurysms treated in the same institutes for the same period was 19.1%, and the ratio of SAH resulting from this disease to SAH of unverified origin treated in the same institutes for the same period was 6.2%. The predominant site of lesion was the internal carotid artery in 18 of 32 patients (56%) with SAH and the anterior cerebral artery in 13 of 17 patients (76%) with cerebral ischemia. The predominant angiographic findings were that stenosis with dilatation occurred in 20 of 32 patients (63%) with SAH and stenosis without dilatation was seen in 11 of 17 patients (65%) with cerebral ischemia. Poor prognosis was seen in 21 of 32 patients (66%) with SAH, which was due largely to rebleeding seen preoperatively, during operation, and even postoperatively when clipping or wrapping of the aneurysmal bulge was performed. Nontraumatic dissecting aneurysm of intracranial carotid circulation is not as rare as expected. It seems to be one of the important causes of SAH of unverified origin."}
{"id": "11913605", "title": "Differences between Hispanics and non-Hispanic Whites in use of hospital procedures for cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Differences between Hispanics and non-Hispanic Whites in use of hospital procedures for cerebrovascular disease. This study examined disparities in the use of in-hospital diagnostic and therapeutic procedures for Hispanics with cerebrovascular disease compared to their non-Hispanic White counterparts. This is a cross-sectional study using 1996 hospital administrative data. Hispanics and non-Hispanic Whites with diagnosis codes indicating occlusion or stenosis of precerebral arteries or transient cerebral ischemia were included, with a total of 18,674 New York patients (5.1% Hispanic) and 22,624 California patients (11.1% Hispanic). Adjusted odds ratios compared Hispanics with non-Hispanic Whites for six diagnostic and therapeutic procedures for cerebrovascular disease, controlling for patient and hospital characteristics. Hispanics had higher rates of non-invasive diagnostic procedures (head CT scan, head/neck diagnostic ultrasound, echocardiogram, and head MRI). The odds of invasive diagnostic testing (cerebral arteriogram) and therapeutic procedures (carotid endarterectomy) were lower for Hispanics. Most findings remained unchanged in logistic regression models with patient and hospital characteristics. Adding a measure of the concentration of Hispanic patients by hospital eliminated or reduced observed differences between Hispanics and Whites. Controlling for each hospital's experience with Hispanic patients eliminated or reduced the magnitude of the disparities in procedure use, suggesting that the concentration of Hispanic patients in a hospital is associated with different patterns of procedure use."}
{"id": "11905025", "title": "[A case of a ruptured pseudoaneurysm arising from the distal part of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery].", "content": "[A case of a ruptured pseudoaneurysm arising from the distal part of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery]. We report a rare case of a pseudoaneurysm arising from the distal part of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) and which was associated with intraventricular hemorrhages. A 48-year-old female had sudden onset of severe headache and vomiting, and was admitted in a semicomatous state to our hospital. Initial CT scan showed ventricular hematomas resulting in acute hydrocephalus, but no obvious parenchymal or subarachnoid hemorrhage. Ventricular drainage was carried out. Subsequently, cerebral angiography was performed, but neither, an aneurysm nor other vascular abnormality was detected. 50 days after admission, MRI revealed a homogenous and well-circumscribed hypointense mass (12 mm in diameter) in the right cerebellar tonsil, suggesting the presence of hemosiderin. 60 days after the onset, the second angiography showed an aneurysmal shadow arising from the distal part of the PICA. An aneurysmal clipping was performed via the suboccipital approach. A thrombosed aneurysm was identified in the right tonsil. At the time of the operation, we confirmed that the part of the PICA around the aneurysm was intact with neither branching nor discoloration. Histological examination revealed that elastic fiber was not identified in the aneurysmal wall, and the aneurysm was diagnosed as a pseudoaneurysm. Histories of trauma or infection, which may have induced the cerebral pseudoaneurysm, were not obtained by interview."}
{"id": "11903121", "title": "Primary intraventricular haemorrhage in adults.", "content": "Primary intraventricular haemorrhage in adults. Primary intraventricular haemorrhage (PIVH) is an uncommon type of intracerebral haemorrhage. Relatively little is known about clinical and imaging features, and even less about prognosis and predictors of mortality. We analysed clinical and imaging features, causative factors and outcome of 26 patients with CT brain scan evidence of PIVH. A multivariate regression model of failure time data was used to assess predictors of in-hospital mortality. Loss of consciousness was the first manifestation of PIVH in six patients and occurred after all other symptoms in five. In other patients, onset was characterized by headache, vomiting, confusion and disorientation (n=8) or by headache with or without vomiting (n=7). Angiography revealed vascular malformations in eight patients (31%). Other possible causative factors were clotting disorder in one patient and arterial hypertension in 10. No cause was identified in seven patients. Early hydrocephalus was the most frequent complication and resolved spontaneously in a minority of patients. In-hospital mortality was high (42%): four patients died early of direct consequence of bleeding and seven died after clinical worsening because of increasing hydrocephalus or other adverse events. Multivariate analysis indicated Glasgow Coma Scale < or = 8 (OR 4.67; 95% CI 1.22-17.92) and early hydrocephalus (OR 4.93; 95% CI 1.13-21.59) as independent predictors of in-hospital mortality. In patients with PIVH, hydrocephalus seems to be a critical determinant of in-hospital mortality and this suggests the need for early treatment strategies."}
{"id": "11901239", "title": "Imaging of white matter lesions.", "content": "Imaging of white matter lesions. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is very sensitive for the detection of white matter lesions (WML), which occur even in normal ageing. Intrinsic WML should be separated from physiological changes in the ageing brain, such as periventricular caps and bands, and from dilated Virchow-Robin spaces. Genuine WML are best seen with T2-weighted sequences such as long TR dual-echo spin-echo or FLAIR (fluid-attenuated inversion recovery); the latter has the advantage of easily separating WML from CSF-like lesions. Abnormal T2 signal in MRI is not specific, and can accompany any change in tissue composition. In the work-up of WML in small vessel disease, magnetic resonance angiography can be used to rule out (concomitant) large vessel disease, and diffusion-weighted MRI to identify new ischaemic lesions (amidst pre-existing old WML). The differential diagnosis of WML includes hereditary leukodystrophies and acquired disorders. The leukodystrophies that can present in adult age include metachromatic leukodystrophy, globoid cell leukodystrophy, adrenomyeloneuropathy, mitochondrial disorders, vanishing white matter, and cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis. These metabolic disorders typically present with symmetrical abnormalities that can be very diffuse, often with involvement of brainstem and cerebellum. Only the mitochondrial disorders tend to be more asymmetric and frequently involve the grey matter preferentially. Among the acquired white matter disorders, hypoxic-ischaemic causes are by far the most prevalent and without further clinical clues there is no need to even consider the next most common disorder, i.e. multiple sclerosis (MS). Among the nonischaemic disorders, MS is far more common than vasculitis, infection, intoxication and trauma. While vasculitis can mimic small vessel disease, MS has distinctive features with preferential involvement of the subcortical U-fibres, the corpus callosum, temporal lobes and the brainstem/cerebellum. Spinal cord lesions are very common in MS, but do not occur in normal ageing nor in small vessel disease."}
{"id": "11900996", "title": "The emergence of time-resolved contrast-enhanced MR imaging for intracranial angiography.", "content": "The emergence of time-resolved contrast-enhanced MR imaging for intracranial angiography."}
{"id": "11898086", "title": "[The value of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for the follow-up of patients with transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunts (TIPS)].", "content": "[The value of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for the follow-up of patients with transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunts (TIPS)]. To prospectively determine the value of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with flow quantification in the portal vein for the follow-up of patients with transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS). Thirty-six patients with TIPS (23 m, 13 f) were evaluated with MR of the liver parenchyma and quantification of flow in the portal vein. MR examinations were correlated with Doppler sonography and conventional angiography including measurement of the portal pressure gradient (PPG). In cases of re-interventions (dilatation/stent application) additional examinations with MRI and Doppler sonography were performed. MR flow measurements in the portal vein correlated with Doppler sonography (r = 0.69) whereas no correlation of both methods with the PPG was found. No threshold velocity in the portal vein could be determined to predict shunt stenosis. All shunt occlusions (n = 5) were diagnosed correctly by MRA. Thirty measurements before and after successful angiographic interventions revealed a significant increase in portal flow velocity and a significant decrease of the PPG. Magnetic resonance images enabled a reliable detection of procedural complications (parenchymal bleedings, n = 31; extra and subcaspular hematomas, n = 2 each) and newly occurring hepatocellular carcinomas (n = 2) in the follow-up period. Magnetic resonance imaging in the follow-up of TIPS enables a morphological assessment of the liver and an accurate velocity mapping, but is not suited to predict shunt dysfunction as a single method."}
{"id": "11872917", "title": "The unusually shaped bifrontal hematoma.", "content": "The unusually shaped bifrontal hematoma."}
{"id": "11872897", "title": "Old microbleeds are a potential risk factor for cerebral bleeding after ischemic stroke: a gradient-echo T2*-weighted brain MRI study.", "content": "Old microbleeds are a potential risk factor for cerebral bleeding after ischemic stroke: a gradient-echo T2*-weighted brain MRI study. T2*-weighted gradient-echo MRI is known to detect old microbleeds (MBs), considered indicative of microangiopathy. MBs might be a potential risk factor for early cerebral bleeding (CB) after ischemic stroke. Therefore, we assessed the impact of MBs on the occurrence of CB after cerebral infarction. We included prospectively stroke patients who had documented ischemic damage. The imaging protocol involved baseline CT scan, T2*-weighted gradient-echo MRI, diffusion-weighted imaging, T2-weighted imaging, and magnetic resonance angiography and had to be performed within 24 hours after symptom onset. The assessment of CB with T2*-weighted gradient-echo sequence necessitated a focal area of signal loss either within the ischemic area revealed by diffusion-weighted imaging or remote from it. Old MBs were defined on T2*-weighted images as homogeneous rounded areas of signal loss without surrounding edema. CT scan was systematically repeated within the first week to verify CB as diagnosed by the T2* weighted sequence. One hundred patients (mean age, 60 +/- 13 years; range, 19 to 83 years; 58 men, 42 women) met the inclusion criteria. MBs were seen in 20 patients on T2*-weighted imaging. Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that age, diabetes, previous use of antithrombotic drugs, evidence of an atherothrombotic source of stroke, and lacunar infarct were significantly associated with MBs (P<0.0001). CB was diagnosed in 26 patients: at the acute stage by T2*-gradient echo sequence in 18 patients and with CT scan performed within the first week in 8 patients. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that baseline National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score, diabetes, and MBs were considered significant and independent predictors of CB (P<0.001). Although the pathogenesis of CB after ischemic stroke is multifactorial, the increased observation of CB in patients with MBs suggests that the associated vascular vulnerability contributes to CB."}
{"id": "11872886", "title": "Characteristics of brain arteriovenous malformations with coexisting aneurysms: a comparison of two referral centers.", "content": "Characteristics of brain arteriovenous malformations with coexisting aneurysms: a comparison of two referral centers. Patients harboring a brain arteriovenous malformation (BAVM) often have coexisting arterial aneurysms. Experts have argued about the clinical significance of these aneurysms, which may be important for risk stratification in patient management and clinical trials. We studied the association between coexisting aneurysms and initial presentation with intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) in patients with BAVM evaluated at two tertiary-care centers. Demographic and clinical data were collected from a prospective series of patients evaluated for BAVM at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF; n=82), and Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, New York (CPMC; n=254). Using multivariate logistic regression, we examined the independent association between ICH presentation and the presence of a coexisting aneurysm, and compared the association at the two hospitals. Aneurysms were associated with 28 BAVMs at UCSF (34%) and 74 at CPMC (29%; P=0.39). Initial presentation with ICH was associated with the presence of a coexisting aneurysm at CPMC (odds ratio 1.8, 95% confidence interval 1.0 to 3.0, P=0.044). The opposite trend was observed at UCSF (odds ratio 0.4, 95% confidence interval 0.2 to 1.1, P=0.085). We observed an interaction by site involving the association between ICH presentation and aneurysm (P=0.016). Although many BAVM characteristics were similar at the referral centers studied, the association between initial presentation with ICH and coexisting aneurysms was not. This heterogeneity between populations undermines the validity of inferences on the role of aneurysms from any single referral series, and emphasizes the complexity in creating BAVM risk-stratification models that incorporate aneurysms."}
{"id": "11857942", "title": "[A ruptured distal aneurysm, thought to be a mycotic aneurysm, associated with acute subdural hematoma: case report and review of the literature].", "content": "[A ruptured distal aneurysm, thought to be a mycotic aneurysm, associated with acute subdural hematoma: case report and review of the literature]. A case is described of a ruptured intracranial mycotic aneurysm in the distal middle cerebral artery associated with an acute subdural hematoma. A 55-year-old woman, with a history of tuberculous meningitis at the age of 7, presented left hemiparesis. She was in a state of semi-coma. Computed tomography scan showed a right acute subdural hematoma. Magnetic resonance angiography revealed no cerebral aneurysm. Emergency external decompression was performed and a distal central artery aneurysm was found and was resected during the operation. Numerous areas of hemosiderin pigmentation were recognized around the aneurysm and in the subarachnoid space. Microscopic examination of the aneurysmal sections showed neither elastic lamina nor membranous structures and no infiltration of any inflammatory cells. We think this aneurysm is a pseudoaneurysm. The incidence of ruptured mycotic aneurysms presenting with acute subdural hematoma is extremely low. There have been only four previously reported cases as far as I can ascertain. This case and a review of the literature are discussed."}
{"id": "11841715", "title": "Reoperation for acute hemispheric stroke after carotid endarterectomy: is there any value?", "content": "Reoperation for acute hemispheric stroke after carotid endarterectomy: is there any value? Because the clinical benefit of urgent investigation and carotid re-repair for acute stroke complicating carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is uncertain, the results of this approach were examined in a large series of patients. In a consecutive series of 700 CEAs, 24 patients (3.4%) had a postoperative stroke. Thirteen of these 24 patients experienced major hemispheric deficits (hemiplegia with or without aphasia, forced eye deviation, and decreased consciousness) that prompted either immediate surgical reexploration or cerebral angiography with reoperation on the basis of angiogram results; these 13 patients are the subject of this report. Neurological improvement was attributed to carotid reopening when affected muscle strength increased to antigravity power within 6 hours of reoperation. Of the 13 patients with severe postoperative deficits, 5 (38%) had the deficits when they awakened, 7 deficits occurred within 12 hours of surgery, and the only intracerebral hemorrhage in this series occurred 8 days after surgery. Five patients underwent urgent reoperation without angiography, and carotid occlusions were found and repaired in two patients. In another patient, the carotid was patent, and an intra-arterial injection of tissue plasminogen activator (20 mg) was given. In the seven patients who underwent cerebral angiography as the first step, two carotid occlusions and one residual stenosis with thrombus were found and repaired on an urgent basis. Surgical reopening of occluded arteries was followed by improvement in two of four patients, and early improvement was noted in one patient with a stenosis correction as well as in the patient who received intraoperative tissue plasminogen activator. Four patients who underwent urgent reoperation did not demonstrate a benefit soon after surgery. Two patients died, two were left with major deficits and five with moderate deficits, and four patients eventually had good recovery at a minimum of 6 months of follow-up. In this series, approximately one-half of hemispheric strokes complicating CEA had an underlying correctable lesion (occlusion or stenosis), and these patients typically had delayed-onset strokes. Approximately one-half of these patients improved early as a result of reopening, although computed tomography revealed new infarcts in most of them. Urgent carotid repair may benefit a minority of selected patients who have a major stroke after CEA."}
{"id": "11834281", "title": "Moyamoya disease in a Hispanic child: a case report.", "content": "Moyamoya disease in a Hispanic child: a case report. Moyamoya disease was initially described by Suzuki and Takaku in 1963 as a radiographic phenomenon relating to the tiny collateral vessels characteristic of the disease that resemble a cloud or puff of smoke. The disease is rare and initially it was believed that the disease was confined to the Japanese population. It consists of occlusive vascular disease at the Circle of Willis with a tendency toward multiple ischemic neurological events and small strokes. In older populations it can often be associated with further vascular degeneration and intracerebral hemorrhage. This paper discusses the diagnosis, treatment, and management of moyamoya disease in a Hispanic child. The case of a Hispanic child who presented with transient ischemic attacks over a period of 1 year is reported. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed occlusive vascular disease in the posterior Circle of Willis. Digital subtraction cerebral angiography showed vascular occlusion at the base of the skull with collateral leptomeningeal and posterior circulation contribution in a pattern typical of moyamoya disease. Technetium was injected for a SPECT study demonstrating less uptake in the left frontal and left parieto-occipital regions. The patient underwent a left superficial temporal-to-middle cerebral artery anastamosis followed by a right-sided anastamosis in a second operation. The patient tolerated the cerebral revascularization and was symptom-free at 6-month follow-up. Cerebral angiography demonstrated improved perfusion in both cerebral hemispheres postoperatively. This article reports the occurrence of moyamoya in a Hispanic child. It illustrates the improved perfusion postoperatively as seen on digital subtraction cerebral angiography. Direct revascularization is felt to be difficult in children and alternatives such as encephaloduroarteriosynangiosis have been advocated. Direct revascularization was effective in treating moyamoya disease in this instance. Most of the discussion of moyamoya disease has been focused on the Japanese and Far East population. This report confirms the entity as occurring in a Hispanic individual in the United States with no known Japanese ancestry."}
{"id": "11823665", "title": "Progression of middle cerebral artery occlusive disease and its relationship with further vascular events after stroke.", "content": "Progression of middle cerebral artery occlusive disease and its relationship with further vascular events after stroke. Serial changes of flow velocities of transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) in symptomatic middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusive disease may be related to the occurrence of further vascular events, but prospective data are lacking. We conducted a prospective study on patients with cerebral ischemia who were hospitalized with symptomatic MCA stenosis or occlusion. We repeated TCD examinations 6 months after the initial examinations and recorded any stroke or coronary events during this period. The changes of MCA flow velocities were categorized as normalized artery, stable artery, and progressed artery, which were determined according to the changes of MCA velocities at 6 months. We studied 143 consecutive patients who had relevant MCA occlusive diseases (107 with stenosis and 36 with occlusion). At 6 months, the velocities in the MCA returned to normal in 42 patients (29%), they were stable in 80 patients (62%), and they progressed in 13 patients (9%). The number of clinical events varied significantly among the 3 groups: there were 2 patients (4.8%) with clinical events in the normal group, 11 patients (12.5%) with clinical events in the stable group, and 5 patients (38.5%) with clinical events in the progressed group (P=0.004). The 18 recurrent events included 10 recurrent strokes, 5 transient ischemic attacks, and 3 acute coronary syndromes. Progression of MCA occlusive diseases is associated with an increased risk of vascular events. Further studies are required to establish the value of serial TCD examinations in predicting future clinical events."}
{"id": "11806111", "title": "[A case of multiple mycotic intracranial aneurysms presenting with subdural hematoma].", "content": "[A case of multiple mycotic intracranial aneurysms presenting with subdural hematoma]. A patient with subdural hematoma associated with multiple mycotic intracranial aneurysms is reported. A 22-year-old woman presented with headache and disturbance of consciousness. A CT showed subdural hematoma at the tentrium and the left cerebral convexity. Conservative treatment and was used and she was discharged 10 days later. However, follow-up CT demonstrated a parenchymal hematoma in the right posterior temporal lobe. Cerebral angiography demonstrated a large right posterior cerebral aneurysm and multiple right middle cerebral aneurysms. A cardiac ultrasonography showed a verruca at the mitral valve. The posterior cerebral aneurysms increased in size and one new middle cerebral aneurysm appeared at follow-up angiography one week later. Endovascular treatment with coils was applied for the right posterior cerebral aneurysm, and others were treated with antibiotic therapy under serial observation, using MR angiography. She was discharged without any symptoms two months after embolization. Follow-up angiography at one year after embolization showed disappearance of the aneurysms. The possibility of mycotic aneurysm should be considered in the differential diagnosis of non-traumatic acute subdural hematoma."}
{"id": "11748432", "title": "Non-invasive quantitative monitoring of cerebral blood flow in aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage with 99mTc-ECD.", "content": "Non-invasive quantitative monitoring of cerebral blood flow in aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage with 99mTc-ECD. The purpose of this prospective study was to detect symptomatic cerebral vasospasm in aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) by a non-invasive mean cerebral blood flow (mCBF) quantification using 99mTc-ethyl cysteinate dimer. Measurement of mCBF without blood sampling and single photon emission tomography (SPECT) were performed at 1 and 7 days after surgery in 35 consecutive SAH patients, of whom 16 were examined at day 30 as well. A decrease in mCBF of more than 10% on day 7 versus day 1 was considered to indicate vasospasm. On visual interpretation of SPECT, a perfusion decrease which appeared newly on day 7 was considered to indicate vasospasm. In total, nine of 35 patients had cerebral vasospasm confirmed by computed tomography (CT) and/or angiography. The mCBF measurement showed a 77.8% (7/9) sensitivity, a 88.5% (23/26) specificity, a 70.0% (7/10) positive predictive value, and a 92.0% (23/25) negative predictive value. SPECT yielded a 33.3% (3/9) sensitivity, a 73.1% (19/26) specificity, a 30.0% (3/10) positive predictive value, and a 76.0% (19/25) negative predictive value. On SPECT, decreased perfusion was observed in most of the patients at clipping sites, which might represent post-operative transient abnormal perfusion and should not be read as vasospasm. In conclusion, this mCBF measurement is more accurate than visual interpretation of SPECT for detecting vasospasm."}
{"id": "12536503", "title": "[Detection of brain vascular diseases with CT angiography].", "content": "[Detection of brain vascular diseases with CT angiography]. To identify the diagnostic effect of spiral CT in brain vascular diseases. Sixty four patients underwent CT angiography, including 22 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), 6 patients with oculomotor nerve paralysis, 5 patients with brain substance hemorrhage, 6 patients with arteriovenous malformation (AVM), 4 patients with mass or aneurysm, 5 patients with brain infarction, 16 patients with epilepsy or headache and dizzy. 8 cases also underwent digital subtraction angiography (DSA), 4 cases were performed operation in 64 cases. Spiral computed tomography angiography (SCTA) was all succeeded in 64 cases. 26 aneurysms and 8 AVMs were found by SCTA; in 6 of 8 cases of AVMs, their supply arteries and drainage veins were clearly displayed; SCTAs of 5 cases with substance hemorrhage were normal; in 1 of 5 cases with cerebral hemisphere infarction, its internal carotid obstruction was demonstrated by SCTA; the results of 12 SCTAs were identical with the results of their DSA or operation. SCTA is a useful non-invasive inspection method for detecting brain vascular diseases such as aneurysms and AVMs."}
{"id": "11935669", "title": "[Transcranial color-coded Doppler sonography: getting started].", "content": "[Transcranial color-coded Doppler sonography: getting started]. Transcranial color Doppler sonography, in contrary to conventional transcranial Doppler ultrasound, allows outlining of the parenchymal structures and visualization of the vessel examined. Angle-corrected blood velocities can be obtained which are closer to in-situ values. In this educational assay, we demonstrate cerebral vascular anatomy using 3-D MR angiographic images of the major cerebral arteries to show their relationship to neighboring structures, the acoustic window, and the ultrasound beam. We describe principles of the examination, and discuss the different types of physiological flow velocity spectra. We show how to identify with color Doppler ultrasonography the main intracranial arterial trunks, and how to avoid pitfalls caused by anatomic variability of their course and location. We draw attention on significant age and sex dependency of blood flow parameters which makes standardization of obtained transcranial Doppler results indispensable for clinical valuable concluding."}
{"id": "11817482", "title": "Assessment of brain vascularization with magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Assessment of brain vascularization with magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "11780889", "title": "Surgical anatomy of the cerebral arteries in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage: comparison of computerized tomography angiography and digital subtraction angiography.", "content": "Surgical anatomy of the cerebral arteries in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage: comparison of computerized tomography angiography and digital subtraction angiography. The purpose of this study was to compare computerized tomography (CT) angiography and digital subtraction (DS) angiography studies in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) to assess their vascular anatomy relevant to cerebral aneurysm surgery. From a prospective series of 100 patients with SAH, the authors selected 73 patients whose CT angiography studies were of adequate quality and in whom DS angiography of both carotid arteries had been performed. Eleven patients with no DS angiographic studies of the vertebrobasilar artery were only evaluated for the anterior half of the circle of Willis. Anterior communicating arteries (ACoAs), both precommunicating anterior cerebral arteries (A1 segments), both posterior communicating arteries (PCoAs), and both precommunicating posterior cerebral arteries (P1 segments) were assessed on CT angiography and DS angiography by two independent observers. Computerized tomography angiography compares well with DS angiography for visualizing normal-sized arteries, and is superior for visualizing ACoAs and hypoplastic A1 and P, segments. Important preoperative aspects such as dominant A1 segments and PCoAs are equally well seen using either modality. Neither method enabled the authors to visualize more than 50% of PCoAs. Use of CT angiography can provide the required preoperative anatomical information for aneurysm surgery in most patients with SAH."}
{"id": "11755971", "title": "Cerebral blood flow imaging in arteriovenous malformation complicated by normal perfusion pressure breakthrough.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow imaging in arteriovenous malformation complicated by normal perfusion pressure breakthrough. A patient with normal perfusion pressure breakthrough (NPPB) after surgical removal of an arteriovenous malformation (AVM) was evaluated using single photon emission computed tomography cerebral blood flow (CBF) imaging. A 48-year-old man suffered consciousness disturbance because of an intraventricular hemorrhage and underwent ventricular drainage. Cerebral angiography showed a medium-sized AVM in the left parietal lobe. Three months after the ictus, a left parietal craniotomy was performed and total removal of the AVM was achieved. A brain region adjacent to the AVM with preoperative decreased vasoreactivity to acetazolamide showed marked hyperperfusion after AVM excision. Hemorrhage subsequently occurred in this area. CBF mapping seems to offer a noninvasive method for the preoperative identification of AVM patients at risk for NPPB, and to allow for early postoperative diagnosis of NPPB."}
{"id": "11740001", "title": "Peripheral hemodialysis shunt with intracranial venous congestion.", "content": "Peripheral hemodialysis shunt with intracranial venous congestion. Intracranial venous congestion is often caused by local venous thrombosis or brain arteriovenous fistulas. Hemodialysis shunts are known to cause venous enlargement in the arm or chest but have not been related to intracranial vascular pathology. Case Description- A 59-year-old woman who presented with increasing headache, gait instability, and memory loss was a renal transplant recipient who still carried a left upper arm shunt. Cranial CT scan showed enlarged veins in the posterior fossa with incipient hydrocephalus. Extracranial duplex sonography revealed reversed flow in the left internal jugular vein, which normalized on cuff inflation around the shunt-carrying arm. The reversed flow, intracranial venous congestion, and neurological status improved after surgical shunt ligation. To our knowledge, this is the first case description of an intracranial venous outflow obstruction caused by a peripheral arteriovenous shunt."}
{"id": "11734989", "title": "Identification of an arteriovenous fistula in a child. Case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Identification of an arteriovenous fistula in a child. Case report and review of the literature. A 6-year-old girl sustained a subarachnoid hemorrhage after a mild head injury and was discovered to have an arteriovenous fistula (AVF). The etiology of subarachnoid hemorrhage was not evident on the initial brain CT. Brain CT with CT angiography identified the lesion. The AVF was further imaged with brain MRI followed by cerebral angiography and successfully embolized. The child did not suffer any neurological sequelae."}
{"id": "11720332", "title": "Three-dimensional image display without special eyeglasses: observation of magnetic resonance angiography using the stereoscopic liquid crystal display.", "content": "Three-dimensional image display without special eyeglasses: observation of magnetic resonance angiography using the stereoscopic liquid crystal display. The authors have developed a new stereoscopic liquid crystal display that provides real-time 3-dimensional image viewing without special eyeglasses. The device consists of 3 major parts: (1) an image display composed of a 10.4-inch color liquid crystal plate with a resolution of 640 x 480, (2) an automatic head tracking system, and (3) a special backlight unit for the right and left eyes. Eight radiologists interpreted 60 cases of magnetic resonance angiography (29 cases of cerebrovascular disease and 31 normal cases) to compare film display and the liquid crystal display (ie, pseudo 3-dimensional display and true 3-dimensional display). Using a continuously distributed scale ranging from 0% to 100%, the observers ranked their confidence levels in determining the presence or absence of steno-occlusive disease, aneurysm, and arteriovenous malformation (AVM) and their locations. For statistical evaluation, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis and Brier score were used. For detecting AVM, film reading showed a significantly higher value in the area under the binormal ROC curve (Az) than did pseudo-3-dimensional display (P < .05). Excluding this, however, no significant difference existed in Az values among the 3 viewing methods. Also, there was no significant difference in Brier score between not only the stereoscopic view and nonstereoscopic view groups, but also the senior and junior groups. Subjective estimation of true 3-dimensional display showed that vessels were more distinguishable with less eye fatigue compared with stereoscopic film reading. The stereoscopic liquid crystal display provided almost equal efficacy to film reading; however, the short optimum distance for observation and the low resolution should be improved."}
{"id": "11688694", "title": "MRI of acute post-ischemic cerebral hemorrhage in stroke patients: diagnosis with T2*-weighted gradient-echo sequences.", "content": "MRI of acute post-ischemic cerebral hemorrhage in stroke patients: diagnosis with T2*-weighted gradient-echo sequences. The use of T2*-weighted sequences has been advocated for early differentiation between hematoma and ischemia in patients with acute stroke. Early hemorrhagic transformation of ischemic stroke is an adverse event which may occur under treatment and may impair the prognosis: our aim is to evaluate the ability of T2*-weighted gradient-echo sequence (T2* GRE) to detect post-ischemic cerebral hemorrhage. The imaging procedure included: (1) baseline CT scan at admission. (2) MRI performed within 24 h of therapy onset including: (a) dual fast spin echo T2 sequence, (b) axial isotropic echoplanar diffusion-weighted imaging sequence, (c) conventional T2* GRE, and (d) 3D TOF turbo MRA. Post-ischemic cerebral hemorrhage was diagnosed if T2* GRE detected a focal intraparenchymal area of signal loss. The diameter of this lesion had to be more than 5 mm in order to eliminate past microbleeds. (3) Patients who showed an early suspicion of bleeding on MRI promptly had a second CT scan, and, if this one was negative for bleeding, another CT scan was performed 1 day later. All the other patients had a control CT scan during the first week. Forty-five consecutive patients have been included. T2* GRE showed intracranial bleeding in seven. The diagnosis of post-ischemic cerebral bleeding was confirmed by CT in all patients. Control CT scans did not reveal any post-ischemic cerebral hemorrhage in patients with negative MRI. In one case, hemorrhage was seen earlier on MRI than on CT scan. In conclusion, T2* GRE appeared to be at least as efficient as CT scan in the detection of early post-ischemic cerebral hemorrhage."}
{"id": "11684714", "title": "ACP Best Practice No 166: CSF spectrophotometry in the diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "ACP Best Practice No 166: CSF spectrophotometry in the diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage. After subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH), cerebral angiography is usually performed to establish a site of bleeding, which may then be treated surgically to prevent a potentially catastrophic re-bleed. The investigation of choice in the diagnosis of SAH is computerised tomography (CT). However, because CT can miss some patients with SAH, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) spectrophotometry should be performed in those patients with negative or equivocal CT scans or those who have presented several days after the suspected bleed. Spectrophotometry should aim to detect the presence of both oxyhaemoglobin and bilirubin because either one or both of these pigments may contribute to xanthochromia following SAH. CSF supernatant is scanned using a double beam spectrophotometer at wavelengths between 350 nm and 650 nm. Oxyhaemoglobin alone produces an absorption peak at 413-415 nm, bilirubin alone produces a broad peak at 450-460 nm, and bilirubin together with oxyhaemoglobin produce a shoulder at 450-460 nm on the downslope of the oxyhaemoglobin peak. To minimise the frequency of false positive and false negative results, a protocol has been developed, which is described."}
{"id": "11680519", "title": "The clinical utility of contrast-enhanced 3D MR angiography for cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "The clinical utility of contrast-enhanced 3D MR angiography for cerebrovascular disease. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of contrast-enhanced 3D MR angiography (CE-MRA) with an automated bolus-detection algorithm (SmartPrep technique) and the specialized phased-array coils for the patients suspected cerebrovascular disease. Forty-three patients with brain attack were examined with CE-MRA. A tracker volume of SmartPrep technique was placed along the ascending aorta in the coronal image. After the bolus injection of gadolinium, an increase in signal that corresponded to the arrival of gadolinium was used to trigger centric re-ordered spoiled gradient echo arterial selective MRA with imaging time of 20-40 sec. We were able to achieve a 100% successful triggering rate of SmartPrep technique and selectively arterial-phase carotid and vertebral arteries with almost no venous contamination could be delineated. These techniques enabled high resolution imaging of entire craniocervical arteries from aortic arch to the circle of Willis. This CE-MRA was useful to evaluate both occlusion of arteries and the collateral pathways and to measure stenosis and residual flow of dissection accurately. CE-MRA was a reliable less-invasive alternative to investigate the patients of cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "11677890", "title": "Massive cerebral edema after recanalization post-thrombolysis.", "content": "Massive cerebral edema after recanalization post-thrombolysis. Intravenous thrombolysis with tissue plasminogen activator is an approved and effective therapy for acute ischemic stroke within the first 3 hours from onset. In addition to the risk of hemorrhage, there is a risk of postrecanalization cerebral edema. The authors present the case of a patient with an ischemic stroke treated successfully with intra-arterial thrombolysis who subsequently developed massive brain edema in the face of clinical improvement. An 81-year-old man presented within 1 hour of developing a full right middle cerebral artery (MCA) syndrome. Computed tomography (CT) was normal. A cerebral angiogram demonstrated an occlusion of the M1 segment of the right MCA. The patient was treated with intra-arterial urokinase 750,000 units. He recovered during the procedure. Serial CT scans demonstrated progressive edema with mass effect in the right MCA distribution. The patient remained asymptomatic except for a mild sensory deficit. Postrecanalization cerebral edema is an uncommon but potentially lethal complication of thrombolysis. It is postulated that the edema is due to ischemic injury aggravated by reperfusion with vasogenic edema. The presence of this massive edema is usually associated with clinical worsening. The present case illustrates that this disorder can be associated with good outcome."}
{"id": "11677889", "title": "Continuous arterial spin labeling perfusion magnetic resonance imaging findings in postpartum vasculopathy.", "content": "Continuous arterial spin labeling perfusion magnetic resonance imaging findings in postpartum vasculopathy. Postpartum vasculopathy (PPV) is a rare heterogeneous nonatherosclerotic vasculopathy that occurs in the puerperium. It occurs spontaneously but may be triggered by vasoconstrictor substances. The angiographic findings vary and include narrowing of the intracranial arteries and vasospasm. The angiographic findings and the occurrence of ischemic infarcts suggest that cerebral blood flow (CBF) is impaired in PPV. The purpose of this study is to determine CBF in patients with PPV. The authors conducted a case study of 3 patients with clinical and laboratory criteria for PPV examined during a 2-year period. Clinical examination, computed tomography imaging, structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cerebral angiography, and continuous arterial spin labeling perfusion (CASL-PI) MRI were performed in all patients. Mean global CBF was determined, and perfusion maps were visually inspected. The CBF values and perfusion maps were correlated with the clinical symptoms and the neuroimaging findings. Three women were studied (22, 34, and 36 years old). The median time of presentation was 4 days postpartum. One presented with intracranial hemorrhage and diffuse arterial narrowing, the other 2 with stroke-like lesions, encephalopathy, and segmental narrowing mainly in the posterior circulation. CASL-PI was performed within 1 week of symptom onset in all 3 patients. Global mean CBF values were 51.8, 39.3, and 41.8 cc/100 g/min. Although global CBF was mildly diminished, it was above ischemic levels. Visual inspection of the CASL-PI perfusion maps did not reveal areas of focal hypoperfusion or hyperperfusion. In this series of patients with PPV, CBF was close to normal. Although angiography often reveals diffuse arterial narrowing, the CBF values encountered in this study do not support a state of generalized or focal oligoemia. Vasomotor tone may change intermittently in patients with PPV."}
{"id": "11593282", "title": "[Cerebrovascular disease and neurocysticercosis].", "content": "[Cerebrovascular disease and neurocysticercosis]. We report three cases of stroke secondary to neurocysticercosis. The first one is a 36 years old man with bilateral middle cerebral artery occlusions who had presented acute right hemiparesia and aphasia. MRI demonstrated several enhancing subarachnoid cysts surrounding the occluded vessels, a right parietal racemose cyst and a left temporal large infarction area. Angiographic study showed total occlusion of left middle cerebral artery and a subtotal occlusion of right middle cerebral artery. The second one is a 42 years old man with vasculitis of small cortical vessels who presented with headache, seizures and focal neurological deficit. CT scan demonstrated several calcifications and a left temporal infarction area. Cerebral angiographic study was normal. The third case was a woman, 53 years old, with a past history of six stroke events and an actual behavior disturbance and seizures. MRI demonstrated several cortical and subcortical infarction areas and cisternal cysts. Angiographic study showed diffuse arteritis of basilar and carotid arterial system. In all three cases CSF study showed linfomonocitic pleocytosis and positive ELISA for cysticercosis."}
{"id": "11570235", "title": "[MR angiography: technical principles and uses in the diagnosis of neurological diseases].", "content": "[MR angiography: technical principles and uses in the diagnosis of neurological diseases]. During the last decade, magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) has been incorporated into the routine evaluation of patients with suspected cerebrovascular disease. Although digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is still the gold standard in diagnostics of intracranial vascular disease, it has been replaced by MRA in numerous clinical applications. In this paper we first provide a review of the various MRA techniques. In the second part, the diagnostic value as well as advantages and disadvantages of the different techniques are assessed for various cerebrovascular diseases, such as vessel occlusion, stenosis, dissection, cerebral aneurysms, and spinal and cerebral arteriovenous malformations."}
{"id": "11565879", "title": "Spontaneous retroclival hematoma presenting as a thunderclap headache. Case report.", "content": "Spontaneous retroclival hematoma presenting as a thunderclap headache. Case report. An excruciating headache of instantaneous onset, or thunderclap headache, may be caused by a variety of serious disorders, including aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage, cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, pituitary apoplexy, and carotid artery or vertebral artery dissection. The authors describe a patient with this type of headache who was found to have a spontaneous retroclival hematoma. A 49-year-old woman experienced an instantaneous excruciating headache. Results of computerized tomography (CT) scans of the head were normal, but on examination of the cerebrospinal fluid xanthochromia was found. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the cervical spine revealed a retroclival hematoma. Three cerebral angiographic studies did not reveal the source of the hemorrhage and a repeated MR image demonstrated resolution of the hematoma. The patient made an uneventful recovery. Spontaneous retroclival hematoma is an exceedingly rare type of intracranial hemorrhage and may be associated with normal findings on CT scans. Spontaneous retroclival hematoma should be included in the differential diagnosis of thunderclap headache."}
{"id": "11564264", "title": "Aneurysm of the distal posteroinferior cerebellar artery of extracranial origin: case report.", "content": "Aneurysm of the distal posteroinferior cerebellar artery of extracranial origin: case report. We describe a very rare case involving a ruptured intracranial aneurysm at the distal posteroinferior cerebellar artery (PICA) branching from the extracranial vertebral artery. A 53-year-old woman experienced the sudden onset of a severe occipital headache and vomiting. Computed tomographic scanning revealed subarachnoid and intraventricular hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography of the left vertebral artery demonstrated the left PICA branching from the extracranial segment of the extracranial vertebral artery at the level of C2; a saccular aneurysm arose from the intracranial portion of the distal PICA. Via the transcondylar approach, we were able to obtain adequate visualization without retracting important structures. To avoid injury to the anomalous PICA, the aneurysm was clipped. Only four other cases of a distal aneurysm of the PICA branching from the extracranial vertebral artery have been reported in the literature. In all cases, the aneurysm originated at the intradural extracranial portion of the PICA. To our knowledge, the case presented here is the first report of a ruptured aneurysm at the level of the intracranial portion of the PICA branching from the extracranial segment of the vertebral artery."}
{"id": "11552375", "title": "[The vascular patient--diagnosis and minimally invasive therapy. Which technique for what illness?].", "content": "[The vascular patient--diagnosis and minimally invasive therapy. Which technique for what illness?]. The non-invasive imaging modalities, color coded duplex sonography (CCDS), magnetic resonance tomography (MRT), and computed tomography (CT), have pushed conventional angiography out of most diagnostic fields. The experienced user will achieve fast, reliable answers with CCDS in dedicated clinical settings. MRT as well as CT are concurring imaging modalities for the most appropriate diagnostic answer. Not only pure image quality, but also patient management, and availability play a major role. Catheter based angiography will in the future still play a role in mesenteric ischemia (non occlusive disease) and for imaging of very small vessel pathology, e.g. on panarteritis nodosa. At the moment, peripheral leg run-offs are still best performed with conventional angiography, nevertheless, MR as well as CT seem to have the ability to perform diagnostic procedures. Ongoing studies will allow a solid judgement in the near future. The true value of catheter angiography is in the direct assessment, planning, and performance of interventional procedures, e.g. catheter based obliteration or revascularization. Implantation of stent devices and a whole range of different mechanical and pharmacological revascularization procedures have improved the interventional management of vascular stenoses and occlusions. The interventional radiologist is treating physician in the classical sense in this setting. Acute bleeding episodes, e.g. in the brain, thorax, abdomen, or pelvis, are best imaged with computed tomography. Conventional angiography still plays a major diagnostic and therapeutic role in bleeding into preformed cavities, such as the bile ducts or the intestine. In this setting, all available information including CT scans should be valued. For complex therapeutic regimens in oncology or in pure palliative situations, angiographic diagnosis followed by embolization and/or ablation therapy is established."}
{"id": "11548178", "title": "The ability of plain radiography to predict intracranial aneurysm occlusion instability during follow-up of endosaccular treatment with Gugliemi detachable coils.", "content": "The ability of plain radiography to predict intracranial aneurysm occlusion instability during follow-up of endosaccular treatment with Gugliemi detachable coils. Incomplete occlusion of an intracranial aneurysm at follow-up after treatment with Gugliemi detachable coils (GDC) increases the risk of rebleeding and serial angiographic monitoring is therefore currently indicated. We aimed to determine if a change in the plain radiographic appearances of the GDC ball could accurately predict the presence of unstable angiographic occlusion. Paired GDC radiographs (in two planes) and cerebral angiograms, performed immediately after treatment and at follow-up or at two consecutive follow-up examinations, were retrospectively compared. Radiographs were assessed for the radiographic change (loosening, compaction or reorientation) in the coil-ball and angiograms for unstable aneurysm occlusion (neck recurrence or deteriorating occlusion). We compared 49 paired films from 38 patients. Radiographic change in the coil ball had a negative predictive value of 96%, positive predictive value of 57% and accuracy of 76% for the presence of angiographic aneurysm instability. It may be possible to increase the interval between follow-up angiographic examinations after GDC treatment safely if there is no change in the radiographic appearances in two planes."}
{"id": "11546897", "title": "B-mode flow imaging of the carotid artery.", "content": "B-mode flow imaging of the carotid artery. B-mode ultrasonography has been used to evaluate cervical carotid artery lesions. Recently, the technology for direct visualization of blood reflectors has made B-mode flow imaging (B-flow) possible without the limitations of Doppler technology. We evaluated the efficacy of B-flow in examining the cervical carotid artery. Sixty patients with ischemic cerebrovascular disease were examined. Conventional B-mode imaging and blood flow images by power Doppler imaging (PDI) and B-flow were obtained. B-flow enabled simultaneous imaging of tissue and blood flow. Compared with PDI, B-flow provided higher spatial resolution and higher frame rate hemodynamic imaging. Consequently, a clear definition of the vessel lumen was obtained even in the stenotic portion of the carotid artery. In evaluating the degree of carotid stenosis, B-flow measurement agreed with digital subtraction angiography as well as PDI measurement. In addition, bloodstream swirl at the site of wall ulceration or vascular elongation was observed. B-flow was prominent in visualizing hemodynamic flow and detection of stenotic lesion in the cervical carotid artery. Combined with conventional B-mode technique, B-flow seems to be useful in evaluating carotid stenosis."}
{"id": "11523689", "title": "M2/M2 side-to-side rescue anastomosis for accidental M2 trunk occlusion during middle cerebral artery aneurysm clipping: technical note.", "content": "M2/M2 side-to-side rescue anastomosis for accidental M2 trunk occlusion during middle cerebral artery aneurysm clipping: technical note. A technically feasible and rapid technique for revascularizing the main branches of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) is described. This technique is applied mainly when clipping of an MCA aneurysm is complicated and occlusion of the origin of an MCA main branch results. M2/M2 side-to-side anastomosis was applied in two patients in whom unplanned M2 occlusion occurred during the course of complicated MCA aneurysm clipping. The first patient underwent an emergency procedure after temporoparietal intracerebral hemorrhage. Unilateral mydriasis precluded preoperative angiographic workup, and a complex large MCA aneurysm was found as the source of hemorrhage. Shaping of the aneurysm neck by bipolar coagulation and clipping resulted in accidental occlusion of the superior trunk, and patency could not be regained despite multiple clip corrections. The second patient had an unruptured multilobulated aneurysm 8 mm in maximum diameter. Continuity of the inferior trunk was lost during clipping because of a tear at the origin. In both instances, side-to-side anastomosis was placed approximately 15 mm from the bifurcation, where the MCA main trunks ran side by side for a length of approximately 5 mm. After intracerebral hemorrhage, the first patient recovered to a level of moderate disability within 2 months. Substantial hemiparesis and expressive dysphasia remained as sequelae of the intracerebral hemorrhage. Digital subtraction angiography 2 months after the emergency procedure confirmed patency of the side-to-side anastomosis. The second patient was neurologically intact after recovery from anesthesia. Before discharge from the hospital on postoperative Day 8, digital subtraction angiography confirmed patency of the anastomosis. The MCA main branches usually run in close proximity for a short segment at the bottleneck entrance to the insular cistern. M2/M2 side-to-side anastomosis at this site is a rapid and feasible mode of revascularization of an M2 trunk accidentally occluded during complicated MCA aneurysm clipping."}
{"id": "11523685", "title": "A neurocytoma and an associated lenticulostriate artery aneurysm presenting with intraventricular hemorrhage: case report.", "content": "A neurocytoma and an associated lenticulostriate artery aneurysm presenting with intraventricular hemorrhage: case report. Hemorrhage associated with central neurocytoma has been described previously, but never in association with an aneurysm originating from a feeding artery. We present the first reported case of a central neurocytoma in a patient with intraventricular hemorrhage caused by rupture of an aneurysm on a lenticulostriate artery that supplied the tumor. A 35-year-old man who presented with an intraventricular hemorrhage underwent magnetic resonance imaging and cerebral angiography that disclosed a right lateral intraventricular mass and a 7-mm fusiform aneurysm from a lateral lenticulostriate branch of the right middle cerebral artery. The patient underwent a contralateral transcallosal exploration and resection of the tumor, with excision of the adjacent lenticulostriate artery aneurysm. Pathological review demonstrated that the tumor was a neurocytoma. The aneurysm was discrete from the tumor but occurred on a vessel that supplied the tumor. Previous reports have demonstrated that intraventricular neurocytoma may present with tumor hemorrhage. In this case, an aneurysm separate and distinct from the tumor was the bleeding culprit, and the aneurysm was on an artery that fed into the tumor. Any such aneurysm must be identified and treated appropriately for therapy to be complete."}
{"id": "11518136", "title": "Neurogenic pulmonary edema and large negative T waves associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Neurogenic pulmonary edema and large negative T waves associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage. We describe a 72-year-old woman with hypertension who developed acute neurogenic pulmonary edema and giant negative T waves on electrocardiography (ECG) due to subarachnoid hemorrhage. The patient was alert and complained of precordial chest discomfort, dyspnea and shoulder stiffness. Echocardiography demonstrated normal left ventricle contraction with hypertrophy. Computed tomography (CT) and subsequent cerebral angiography revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage and saccular aneurysm at the anterior communicating artery. It is important to consider the possibility of subarachnoid hemorrhage when a patient shows pulmonary edema and ECG abnormalities even without typical clinical signs of subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "11516709", "title": "Symbolic description of intracerebral vessels segmented from magnetic resonance angiograms and evaluation by comparison with X-ray angiograms.", "content": "Symbolic description of intracerebral vessels segmented from magnetic resonance angiograms and evaluation by comparison with X-ray angiograms. We describe and evaluate methods that create detailed vessel trees by linking vessels that have been segmented from magnetic resonance angiograms (MRA). The tree-definition process can automatically exclude erroneous vessel segmentations. The parent-child connectivity information provided by our vessel trees is important to both surgical planning and to guidance of endovascular procedures. We evaluated the branch connection accuracy of our 3D vessel trees by asking two neuroradiologists to evaluate 140 parent-child connections comprising seven vascular trees against 17 digital subtraction angiography (DSA) views. Each reviewer rated each connection as (1) Correct, (2) Incorrect, (3) Partially correct (a minor error without clinical significance), or (4) Indeterminate. Analysis was summarized for each evaluator by calculating 95% confidence intervals for both the proportion completely correct and the proportion clinically acceptable (completely or partially correct). In order to protect the overall Type I error rate, alpha-splitting was done using a top down strategy. We additionally evaluated segmentation completeness by examining each slice in 11 MRA datasets in order to determine unlabeled vessels identifiable in cross-section following segmentation. Results indicate that only one vascular parent-child connection was judged incorrect by both reviewers. MRA segmentations appeared complete within MRA resolution limits. We conclude that our methods permit creation of detailed vascular trees from segmented 3D image data. We review the literature and compare other approaches to our own. We provide examples of clinically useful visualizations enabled by our methodology and taken from a visualization program now in clinical use."}
{"id": "11516475", "title": "Vertex epidural hematoma associated with traumatic arteriovenous fistula of the middle meningeal artery: a case report.", "content": "Vertex epidural hematoma associated with traumatic arteriovenous fistula of the middle meningeal artery: a case report. Vertex epidural hematomas are rare. We describe the features of a vertex epidural hematoma associated with an arteriovenous fistula (AVF) of the meningeal artery created by a laceration of the dura mater underlying a linear skull fracture. Although AVF associated with convexity epidural hematomas has been reported, we know of no such previous report of vertex epidural hematomas. A 65-year-old woman presented with generalized headache following head injury. On hospital day 3, she developed a left hemiparesis. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) disclosed a thick epidural hematoma at the vertex. Cerebral angiography showed an AVF between the middle meningeal artery and a venous lake. On hospital day 4, the epidural hematoma was evacuated. Although coronal MRI was important for diagnosis of this vertex epidural hematomas, the case particularly illustrates the importance of cerebral angiography. The delayed onset of hemiparesis most likely reflected a continuing increase in hematoma volume because of bleeding from the lacerated meningeal artery."}
{"id": "11507445", "title": "[Transcranial Doppler imaging: state of the art].", "content": "[Transcranial Doppler imaging: state of the art]. Initially introduced in the early 1980's, transcranial Doppler followed by transcranial Doppler sonography were used in neurosurgical units for management and follow-up of intracranial vasospasm in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. This imaging technique, more sensitive and less invasive than catheter angiography, also proved to be of value for diagnosis of intracranial atherosclerosis, management of patients with head trauma, and evaluation of collateral flow through the circle of Willis. Doppler US would also allow prediction of the risk of symptomatic embolic events through monitoring of HITS. Evaluation of the middle cerebral arteries during carotid occlusion testing is useful for evaluating the need for particular revascularization techniques. Finally, Doppler imaging is useful to assess patients with possible brain death. A recent advance in Doppler imaging is the ability to provide a three-dimensional projection (3D Doppler) of the intracranial arteries enabling improved detection and evaluation of stenoses involving the circle of Willis and improved characterization of intracranial aneurysms. These new applications benefit from the use of US contrast agents and harmonic US imaging."}
{"id": "11504126", "title": "Effects of surgical revascularization on peripheral artery aneurysms in moyamoya disease: report of three cases.", "content": "Effects of surgical revascularization on peripheral artery aneurysms in moyamoya disease: report of three cases. The beneficial effects of surgical revascularization on rebleeding in moyamoya disease remain unclear. This report is intended to clarify the effects of surgical revascularization on peripheral artery aneurysms, which represent one of the causes of intracranial bleeding in moyamoya disease. Findings for three female patients who experienced intracranial bleeding are presented. Cerebral angiography revealed that intracranial bleeding resulted from the rupture of peripheral artery aneurysms arising from dilated collateral vessels such as the lenticulostriate artery. The patients successfully underwent superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery anastomosis combined with encephaloduromyoarteriosynangiosis. Angiography demonstrated obliteration of the peripheral artery aneurysms, together with the disappearance or decrease in caliber of the parent collateral arteries, after surgery. None of the patients experienced rebleeding during the follow-up period (up to 52 mo). The results strongly suggest that surgical revascularization potentially improves cerebral circulation and decreases hemodynamic stress on collateral vessels, obliterating peripheral artery aneurysms."}
{"id": "11481858", "title": "[An autopsy case of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome showing various types of cerebrovascular disease].", "content": "[An autopsy case of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome showing various types of cerebrovascular disease]. We report a 73-year-old woman with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) and hypertension who had developed various types of cerebrovascular disease. She had suffered from cerebral hemorrhage of the left putamen at the age of 58, of the left parietal lobe at 64 and cerebral infarction of right internal capsule at 71. EDS type II or III was suggested by two times of skin biopsies. A brain CT at the age of 73 revealed a comparatively large cerebral aneurysm in the territory of the anterior cerebral artery. The patient was treated conservatively, but died due to rupture of the aneurysm. The wall of the aneurysm was made up thin collagen fibers without elastic fibers. There were other multiple small aneurysms in the cerebral arteries, but none in other organs. Deposition of acid mucopolysaccharides was noted in the media of the abdominal aorta. Finally, the present case was thought most likely to be of EDS type IV. It was suggested that one of the causes of the cerebral hemorrhage at the ages of 58 and 64 and the infarction at 71 was related to hypertension, since brain MR angiography at 71 showed no clear aneurysms. In cases of EDS, one should consider the possible formation or rupture of cerebral aneurysm even though the course is favorable."}
{"id": "11474808", "title": "Pericapillary arteriovenous malformations angiographically manifested as cerebral venous malformations.", "content": "Pericapillary arteriovenous malformations angiographically manifested as cerebral venous malformations. Cerebral venous malformations have been diagnosed by angiographic features and are considered to be a benign anomaly. However, ample evidence indicates that stroke or similar symptomatology occurs in patients harboring a cerebral vascular malformation that was diagnosed angiographically as a venous malformation. The purpose of the study is to confirm the presence of a pericapillary arteriovenous malformation in these patients by analyzing the clinical history and surgical findings and correlating them with histological features. Thirteen patients were included in this study. Each patient fulfilled four criteria: 1. the patient was neurologically symptomatic; 2. the angiographic diagnosis was a venous malformation; 3. at operation, shunting arterioles (50-100 microns) were found to contribute to the malformation; and 4. histologically, a mixture of venous channels and arterioles with arterioles directly connected to venules was found. Based on the above findings, the malformation present in the 13 patients can be termed a 'pericapillary arteriovenous malformation'. Its angiographic distinction from the cerebral venous malformation requires technological advancement in the capability of magnifying images of arterioles and venules, along with improvement in image resolution."}
{"id": "11462307", "title": "Cerebral vasculitis: diagnosis and follow-up with transcranial Doppler ultrasonography.", "content": "Cerebral vasculitis: diagnosis and follow-up with transcranial Doppler ultrasonography. The authors report a patient with postpartum intracerebral hemorrhage associated with cerebral vasculitis. Cerebral circulation was assessed with transcranial Doppler (TCD) ultrasonography, magnetic resonance angiography, and conventional cerebral angiography. Initial TCD studies demonstrated bilateral patchy increased cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV) in the anterior circulation with complete normalization during remission. This case report provides evidence that cerebral vasculitis leads to relevant CBFV changes and that the TCD technique may assist in diagnosis and follow-up of these patients."}
{"id": "11462295", "title": "Helical high-resolution volume-rendered 3-dimensional computer tomography angiography in the detection of intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Helical high-resolution volume-rendered 3-dimensional computer tomography angiography in the detection of intracranial aneurysms. This study was carried out to determine whether high-resolution 3-dimensional prospective-volume-rendered computed tomographic (CT) angiography can replace conventional intra-arterial digital subtractional angiography in the diagnostic evaluation of patients with an acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) due to ruptured intracranial aneurysm. Both techniques were performed in 30 consecutive patients within 2 to 12 hours after their admission to the hospital. In this group of 30 patients, CT angiography with 3-dimensional volume-rendered reconstruction detected 31 aneurysms in 25 patients. Two aneurysms were missed on CT angiography. Conventional angiography detected 33 aneurysms in 27 patients. The authors considered angiograms in 3 patients presenting with SAH as normal. In all cases where an aneurysm was detected on CT angiography, the finding was confirmed by conventional angiography. CT angiography with 3-dimensional post-processing is a sensitive, noninvasive method that provides a 3-dimensional view of intracranial vessels and the aneurysm. It is also very useful in planning either surgical or endovascular treatment."}
{"id": "11460184", "title": "[Magnetic resonance angiography of intracranial aneurysms: comparative study with cerebral angiography].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance angiography of intracranial aneurysms: comparative study with cerebral angiography]. We studied by magnetic resonance angiography and cerebral angiography 41 patients with 55 aneurysms confirmed by surgery. The MR angio detected 52 aneurysms with sensibility of 94.5% and the cerebral angiography detected 53 aneurysms with sensibility of 96.3%. For being non invasive, more quickly and less expensive MR angio may substitute vascular angiography in the diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms and prognosis of the subarachnoid hemorrhage"}
{"id": "11458743", "title": "Delayed, transient neurological deterioration after mild head injury--case report.", "content": "Delayed, transient neurological deterioration after mild head injury--case report. A 16-year-old boy presented with delayed, transient neurological deterioration 18 days after mild head injury. Left hemiparesis and left homonymous hemianopsia appeared after right frontal contusional and mild subdural hematomas subsided. Neuroimaging examinations including cerebral angiography, magnetic resonance imaging, and single photon emission computed tomography showed vasodilation and hyperemia in the right cerebral hemisphere. The present case is not typical of acute \"juvenile head trauma syndrome,\" but may represent a possible pathophysiology of the delayed type of transient neurological deterioration after mild head injury."}
{"id": "11452501", "title": "[A case of aneurysm of the peripheral middle cerebral artery undetectable on preoperative angiogram].", "content": "[A case of aneurysm of the peripheral middle cerebral artery undetectable on preoperative angiogram]. The authors describe a rare case of an aneurysm of the peripheral middle cerebral artery. A 63-year-old female with a past history of hypertension suddenly fell into a comatose state, and was brought to our hospital. On admission, CT scan showed intracerebral hematoma located in the right putamen with diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage. To exclude vascular lesions, an angiography was performed just after admission. The right carotid angiogram showed an aneurysm at the cavernous portion of the internal carotid artery (ICA), but failed to show any aneurysms in the rest of the intracranial circulation. Just after the angiography, emergent operation was performed for the main purpose of evacuation of the hematoma, and with only the secondary purpose of searching for undetectable aneurysms. The patient underwent a right frontotemporal craniotomy. After partial evacuation of the hematoma through the corticotomy of the right frontal operculum, the Sylvian fissure was opened widely. No aneurysm was observed either in the main trunk of the right ICA or the middle cerebral artery (MCA). During the final stage of evacuation of the hematoma through the corticotomy, arterial bleeding occurred. While evacuating the blood, we detected a saccular aneurysm arising from MCA branch (M2-M3 junction) and we clipped the aneurysm. We discuss peripheral MCA aneurysms with a review of the literature."}
{"id": "11449719", "title": "[Cavernous sinus dural arteriovenous shunt presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage and acute subdural hematoma: a case report].", "content": "[Cavernous sinus dural arteriovenous shunt presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage and acute subdural hematoma: a case report]. Cavernous sinus dural arteriovenous shunt (CdAVS) usually presents with exophthalmos, conjunctival chemosis, ophthalmoplegia, headache, bruit, or pulsatile tinnitus. Intracranial hemorrhage associated with CdAVS is rare. We describe a patient with CdAVS presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage and acute subdural hematoma. A 65-year-old woman presented headache and temporary loss of consciousness and was transferred to our hospital. On admission, the patient was alert and complained of a left-sided temporal headache. There were no ocular symptoms. A CT scan revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage and left acute subdural hematoma. When we prepared for cerebral angiography, the patient presented loss of consciousness following sudden onset of severe headache. Urgent angiography revealed left CdAVS, which was fed by both the internal carotid artery and the external carotid artery and drained only into ipsilateral (left) vein of the sylvian fissure. Aneurysmal dilatation of the draining veins and leptomeningeal drainage were present. No cerebral aneurysms were detected. After the angiography, a CT scan showed enlarged subdural hematoma, so left fronto-temporo-parietal craniotomy was immediately performed. On opening the dura mater, arterial bleeding from Sylvian fissure appeared and was uncontrollable. Unfortunately, the patient died 3 days after the operation. We concluded that subarachnoid hemorrhage and subdural hematoma were due to the rupture of engorged cortical veins. Our case report suggests that CdAVS with angiographic findings such as aneurysmal dilatation of the draining veins and leptomeningeal drainage should be treated urgently because of the high risk of the life-threatening complications resulting from a surgically uncontrollable hemorrhage."}
{"id": "11440445", "title": "Posterior fossa decompression and clot evacuation for fourth ventricle hemorrhage after aneurysmal rupture: case report.", "content": "Posterior fossa decompression and clot evacuation for fourth ventricle hemorrhage after aneurysmal rupture: case report. Massive intraventricular hemorrhage due to aneurysmal rupture is associated with a dismal prognosis. An intraventricular clot causing fourth ventricle dilation can cause compression to the brainstem similar to other posterior fossa masses such as cerebellar hemorrhage or infarction. The presence of fourth ventricle dilation carries a very high risk of death within 48 hours. Neither ventricular drainage nor fibrinolytic infusion has been successful in eliminating clots of the fourth ventricle. Posterior fossa decompression and direct evacuation of the clot could have good results in relieving brainstem compression caused by the clot. A 45-year-old woman was admitted to our intensive care unit after experiencing an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. The neurological examination at admission revealed that she was in Grade V according to the World Federation of Neurological Surgeons grading system, but brainstem reflexes were present. Computed tomographic scanning revealed a massive intraventricular hemorrhage, with fourth ventricle dilation caused by an intraventricular clot. Bilateral external ventricular drains were placed to relieve elevated intracranial pressure. Cerebral angiography revealed a 1-cm basilar tip aneurysm, which was embolized with Guglielmi detachable coils (Boston Scientific, Boston, MA) during the same procedure. Given the patient's poor neurological condition, it was decided that brainstem compression should be relieved. A posterior fossa decompressive craniectomy was performed immediately after coil therapy, with direct evacuation of the intraventricular clot. The patient experienced a clear improvement in the level of consciousness and has achieved a good neurological result at early follow-up. Dilation of the fourth ventricle by an intraventricular clot is a sign of brainstem compression that can be relieved by posterior fossa decompression and direct clot evacuation."}
{"id": "11428794", "title": "Mr angiography in cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Mr angiography in cerebrovascular disease. MR angiography has become a realistic diagnostic option for patients with neurovascular disease. MR angiography is not a single imaging sequence, but a collection of related methods for obtaining angiographic data. As a guide for practice, we review the literature on MR angiography in a spectrum of neurovascular indications with particular attention paid to choice of technique. The principles underlying the different techniques available are also presented. Summers, P. E.et al."}
{"id": "11424358", "title": "[Usefulness of time-resolved projection MRA on evaluation of hemodynamics in cerebral occlusive diseases].", "content": "[Usefulness of time-resolved projection MRA on evaluation of hemodynamics in cerebral occlusive diseases]. The usefulness for evaluation of cerebral hemodynamics using time-resolved projection MRA was studied in normal volunteers and patients of cerebrovascular diseases. Six normal volunteers and ten patients with cerebrovascular occlusive diseases including 6 of IC occlusion and 4 of post EC/IC bypass surgery underwent time-resolved projection MRA on a 1.5 T clinical MRI system. Projection angiograms are acquired with 2 D-fast SPGR sequence with a time resolution of approximately one image per second, 40 images being acquired consecutively before and after bolus injection Gd-DTPA. And all images were calculated by complex subtraction from the background mask in a work station. In normal volunteers, the quality of images of time-resolved projection MRA was satisfactory. The arteries from internal carotid artery through M 2 segment of middle cerebral artery and all major venous systems were well portrayed. In 4 cases of IC occlusion who were assessed the collateral flow through the anterior communicating artery and posterior communicating artery, there were delayed to demonstrate the ipsilateral MCA. However, in 2 cases of IC occlusion that were assessed the collateral flow through leptomeningeal anastomosis, ipsilateral MCA and collateral circulation were not demonstrated. In all patients of post EC/IC bypass surgery, the patency of EC/IC bypass could be evaluated as properly with time-resolved projection MRA as 3 D-TOF MRA. Although the temporal and spatial resolutions are insufficient, time-resolved projection MRA was powerful non-invasive method to evaluate the cerebral hemodynamics via the basal communicating arteries in IC occlusion and identify the patency of EC/IC bypass."}
{"id": "11396307", "title": "\"Early\" apoplexy due to traumatic intracranial aneurysm--case report.", "content": "\"Early\" apoplexy due to traumatic intracranial aneurysm--case report. A 76-year-old man presented with a traumatic aneurysm of the left internal carotid artery which caused repeated subarachnoid hemorrhages within 20 hours of a fall from a height. Early computed tomography (CT) detected no brain abnormalities, but repeat CT found subarachnoid hemorrhage. Internal carotid angiography detected a pseudoaneurysm, which was not treated because of his poor clinical condition. He died of multiple organ failure. Early detection of a traumatic intracranial aneurysm is important for the prevention of aneurysmal rupture, or \"delayed\" apoplexy. Review of 171 cases with traumatic aneurysms from the literature found that false negative angiography occurred only in three cases on post-trauma day 7 and thereafter. Early diagnostic angiography within a week of the initial trauma is indicated if traumatic aneurysm is suspected to detect early signs of irregularity, spasm, and narrowing of the arterial wall. Repeat angiography is indicated if aneurysmal formation is still highly suspected in spite of negative initial angiography."}
{"id": "11387693", "title": "[Non-traumatic meningeal hemorrhage].", "content": "[Non-traumatic meningeal hemorrhage]."}
{"id": "11377006", "title": "A 10-year-old boy with Marfan syndrome exhibiting cerebrovascular abnormalities.", "content": "A 10-year-old boy with Marfan syndrome exhibiting cerebrovascular abnormalities. A young male with Marfan syndrome, diagnosed at the age of 10 years, presented with conspicuous elongation and tortuosity of the internal carotid, middle cerebral, vertebral and basilar arteries on cranial magnetic resonance and computed tomography angiography. There is a little mention of cerebral blood vessel examinations in the guidelines of the American Academy of Pediatrics for Marfan syndrome. Guidelines may be provided for the evaluation of cerebrovascular system for the patients with Marfan syndrome who have family history of Marfan syndrome as well as a family history of death from subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "11372556", "title": "Proximal M2 false aneurysm after head trauma--Case report.", "content": "Proximal M2 false aneurysm after head trauma--Case report. A 72-year-old male presented with a post-traumatic false aneurysm of the right proximal M2 artery with massive subarachnoid hemorrhage after closed head injury. Serial computed tomography (CT) and angiography showed the development of the aneurysm which was verified at autopsy. He was admitted in a drowsy state just after a motorcycle accident. Initial brain CT showed subarachnoid hemorrhage without skull fracture. Follow-up brain CT showed a huge hematoma in the right temporal lobe. He died 47 hours after the accident. Histological examination of the aneurysm showed a false aneurysm. Delayed diagnosis of traumatic aneurysms leads to high mortality, so early surgical treatment is essential to save such patients."}
{"id": "11354405", "title": "Role of bedside microdialysis in the diagnosis of cerebral vasospasm following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Role of bedside microdialysis in the diagnosis of cerebral vasospasm following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Ischemia due to vasospasm is a feared complication in patients following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Cerebral online microdialysis monitoring may detect the metabolic changes in the extracellular fluid associated with ischemia. The aims of the present study were to correlate clinical course, microdialysis-recorded data, transcranial Doppler (TCD) ultrasonography findings, and angiographic findings in patients with SAH. In 60 patients a microdialysis catheter was inserted into the brain parenchyma that is most likely to be affected by vasospasm directly after aneurysm clipping. Hourly analyses of glucose, pyruvate, lactate, and glutamate levels were performed using a bedside device. Blood-flow velocities were obtained using serial TCD measurements. Cerebral angiography was routinely performed on Day 7 after aneurysm clipping or earlier in cases of clinical deterioration (30 patients). In all patients the results of microdialysis monitoring, TCD ultrasonography, and angiography were correlated. The mean duration of monitoring was 7.3+/-2.5 days. In patients with acute ischemic neurological deficits (18 patients) immediate microdialysis-recorded alterations were observed if the probe was placed close to the malperfused region. In 13 of 15 patients with symptomatic vasospasm (delayed ischemic neurological deficit [DIND]), the microdialysis-recorded values revealed secondary deterioration. In terms of confirming DIND, microdialysis had the highest specificity (0.89, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.78-1) compared with TCD ultrasonography (0.63, 95% CI 0.46-0.8) and angiography (0.53, 95% CI 0.35-0.7). For microdialysis, the positive likelihood ratio was 7.8, whereas this was significantly lower for TCD ultrasonography (1.7) and angiography (2.1). Although angiography also demonstrates vessel narrowing in asymptomatic patients, online microdialysis reveals characteristic metabolic changes that occur during vasospasm. Thus, online microdialysis may be used to confirm the diagnosis of vasospasm."}
{"id": "11350282", "title": "Post-traumatic cerebral infarction. Neuroimaging findings, etiology and outcome.", "content": "Post-traumatic cerebral infarction. Neuroimaging findings, etiology and outcome. To assess the radiological characteristics of post-traumatic cerebral infarctions (PTCIs), the etiology and site of infarction, and to provide neuroimaging indicators of a poor clinical outcome. A retrospective study of 16 patients with the neuroimaging-based diagnosis of PTCI was carried out. All CT, MR examinations, cerebral angiograms and medical records of the patients were reviewed. Infarcts were diagnosed in the territory of the posterior cerebral artery in 9 patients, in the middle cerebral artery in 5, in the anterior cerebral artery in 3, lenticulostriate-thalamoperforating in 2, vertebrobasilar in 3, and cortical infarcts in 2 patients. Neuroimaging studies suggested focal mass effect and/or acquired intracranial herniations as the cause of infarction in 13/16 patients (81.2%). In 3/16 patients (18.8%), PTCI was due to vascular injury of which 2 were angiographically documented (carotid artery dissection). Eight of the 16 patients in this study died or were left in a persistent vegetative state. Patients with associated subdural hematoma, brain swelling/edema and traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage (tSAH) exhibited the worst outcome. Gross mechanical shift of the brain and herniation across the falx and/or tentorium accounted for infarction in a majority of cases in our study. The overall death rate was 43.8% and this result suggests that PTCI is an indication of a poor clinical outcome, especially among patients with associated subdural hematoma, brain swelling/edema and tSAH."}
{"id": "11340317", "title": "Cerebral Haemorrhage. Parenchymal intracranial haemorrhage.", "content": "Cerebral Haemorrhage. Parenchymal intracranial haemorrhage. While there have been substantial improvements in the management of patients with cerebral infarction and there are likely to be further improvements over the next decade, the same may not be true for cerebral haemorrhage. Diagnostic facilities and neurosurgical techniques have improved but not all patients are benefiting from these. The current literature is reviewed. Further controlled trials of the utility of modern neurosurgical techniques are urgently required as at present no therapeutic intervention holds out hope for these patients other than optimum medical management. The main focus must be on prevention."}
{"id": "11321976", "title": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage and computerized tomography cerebral angiography].", "content": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage and computerized tomography cerebral angiography]. We present a review of 57 cases of nontraumatic subarachnoid hemorrhagesubmitted to CT angiography of the cerebral vessels. The purpose of our study was to estimate the value of CT angiography in the detection of intracranial aneurysms. These findings were compared with those from selective angiography. The results showed that CT angiography is a rapid, low-risk technique with a low level of invasiveness and high specificity and sensitivity in the detection of cerebral aneurysms, allowing the planning of endovascular intervention and surgical approach."}
{"id": "11314698", "title": "Isolated angiitis of the CNS in children.", "content": "Isolated angiitis of the CNS in children. To clarify the clinical features and pathologic manifestations of isolated angiitis of the CNS (IACNS) in children. The authors report two new cases and summarize the literature of childhood IACNS confirmed by pathology. IACNS affecting small vessels (n = 5). Neurologic manifestations included headaches, focal seizures, and progressive, behavioral, or multifocal neurologic impairment. MRI showed multifocal, T2-hyperintense, cerebral lesions without mass effect or tumor-like lesions. CSF, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and cerebral angiograms were often normal.CNS biopsy disclosed a nongranulomatous vasculitis. Children were treated with prednisone alone or combined with cyclophosphamide. One child died. Four children had a favorable outcome. IACNS affecting large and medium arteries (n =5). Three children presented with acute ischemic stroke or TIA. Brain CT showed ischemic infarcts. Two children presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage. In this group, CSF, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and angiograms were often abnormal. No patient received immunosuppressive therapy. Five children died. Autopsy showed granulomatous IACNS (n =5). Clinical and radiologic features correlate with the size of affected vessels. Prognosis differs between groups. Potential markers of poor outcome are acute stroke presentation secondary to large and medium-sized artery involvement, granulomatous angiitis, and delayed institution of immunosuppressive therapy."}
{"id": "11306760", "title": "Early diagnosis of hemorrhagic transformation: diffusion/perfusion-weighted MRI versus CT scan.", "content": "Early diagnosis of hemorrhagic transformation: diffusion/perfusion-weighted MRI versus CT scan. Standard magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques failed to image adequately acute hemorrhagic transformation (HT). Therefore, computed tomography (CT) is still needed to exclude intracerebral hemorrhage. New MRI techniques such as diffusion- and perfusion-weighted imaging (DWI and PWI) may improve the early detection of HT. The utility of this approach requires a direct comparison of the sensitivity of CT with these MRI techniques. Nine patients experienced an acute carotid artery territory ischemic stroke diagnosed on a first CT performed 3.8 +/- 2 h after the onset of stroke. They underwent a second CT 12 +/- 4 h after the onset of stroke, followed 35 +/- 10 min later by an MRI protocol including: (1) an axial isotropic DWI SE echo-planar imaging (EPI) sequence; (2) time of flight MR angiography (TOF MRA); (3) PWI with an axial T(2)*-weighted gradient echo EPI sequence using 20 ml gadolinium contrast agent (Gd-DTPA); HT was characterized on DWI SE EPI as a heterogeneous area of signal loss within the ischemic area; (4) at day 7, CT was also performed in all patients who had an early suspicion of bleeding according to MRI. An HT was detected exclusively with CT in 1 out of 9 patients, while an MRI pattern of HT was found in 6 out of 9 patients. In 5 of these 6 patients, the CT scan did not show an obvious pattern of HT. Day 7 CT confirmed HT in all patients who had early suspicion of bleeding according to DWI criteria. This study suggests that new MRI techniques may allow an early detection of HT, thus improving the management of stroke."}
{"id": "11305772", "title": "Intracranial hemorrhage from an aneurysm encased in a pilocytic astrocytoma--case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Intracranial hemorrhage from an aneurysm encased in a pilocytic astrocytoma--case report and review of the literature. The authors present an unusual complication of a recurrent chiasmal/hypothalamic pilocytic astrocytoma. From his second year of life onwards, the patient was repeatedly operated on and also underwent external radiation therapy (54 Gy total dose) 1 month after the first subtotal tumor resection. Nine years after irradiation, the patient was referred to our center with a sudden onset of severe headache, vomiting and neck stiffness. Computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and cerebral angiography demonstrated an intratumoral, intraventricular, and subarachnoidal hemorrhage from an anterior communicating artery aneurysm encased in the pilocytic astrocytoma. The aneurysm was clipped and the patient recovered nicely from the hemorrhage. Three years later, the patient suddenly died of cardiac failure. Autopsy disclosed vessel wall changes compatible with radiation-induced vasculopathy. In light of this finding, the importance of radiation therapy and intracranial neoplasms for aneurysm formation is discussed."}
{"id": "11296888", "title": "Cerebral cast angiography as an aid to medicolegal autopsies in cases of death after adult cardiac surgery.", "content": "Cerebral cast angiography as an aid to medicolegal autopsies in cases of death after adult cardiac surgery. Due to an increase in age of the patient population in cardiac surgery, cerebral complications are increasing in frequency, also as a cause of death. In order to reveal cerebral pathology associated with a fatal outcome after cardiac surgery, we re-evaluated the cast angiographs and medico-legal autopsy documents of 144 adult cardiac surgery subjects over a 7-year period. Special attention was paid to the ability of post-mortem cast angiography to aid in diagnosing cerebral pathology. The autopsy detected new ischemic cerebral lesions in 29 (20%) cases, of which 22 (15.3%) were recent infarcts, and 7 were cases of anoxic brain damage. Of the recent cerebral infarcts, 12 were associated with cerebral artery thrombosis, 4 showed multiple lesions, and the remaining 6 were small single infarcts. In addition, one subject had an intracerebral hemorrhage and 72 (50%) cerebral edema. By cast angiography, the leakage of contrast medium in the case of intracerebral hemorrhage and stenoses of intracranial and cervical arteries could be well demonstrated and also revealed 17 (77%) of the 22 recent cerebral infarcts. It was found to be suitable for detecting recent brain infarcts associated with main cerebral artery thrombosis, with a sensitivity of 92% (11 out of 12 cases), but was less sensitive in showing small recent infarcts with a sensitivity of 60% (6 out of 10 cases) and inferior for the older ones where none of the 6 cases were detected. Filling defects caused by cerebral edema were difficult to differentiate from technical errors and were encountered in 7 (4.8%) cases. A significant predictor for the 29 recent ischemic brain lesions was perioperative hypotension. The immediate cause of death was most often of cardiac (83%) and cerebral (14%) origin. In 14 cases, cerebral damage was considered to be an additional cause of death. The use of cerebral post-mortem cast angiography should be recommended, especially for its excellent ability to visualize intravascular pathology such as arterial stenoses and thromboses, with a 92% sensitivity in showing new main cerebral artery thromboses, before likely distortion of the vascular anatomy by dissection."}
{"id": "11287160", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography of the intracranial vessels.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography of the intracranial vessels. In this overview the results and indications of Magnetic Resonance Angiography of the intracranial vasculature will be discussed. The value of MRA will be studied in the visualisation of normal variants of the cerebral anatomy, the imaging of cerebrovascular disease, the diagnosis of aneurysms and cerebral arteriovenous malformations, the preoperative setup of cerebral tumors and the demonstration of vascular compression."}
{"id": "11283386", "title": "Cerebrovascular manifestations in 321 cases of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia.", "content": "Cerebrovascular manifestations in 321 cases of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia. Patients with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) are at risk for developing cerebral vascular malformations and pulmonary arteriovenous fistulae. We assessed the risk of neurological dysfunction from these malformations and fistulae. Three hundred twenty-one consecutive patients with HHT seen at a single institution over a 20-year period were studied. Any evidence of prior neurological symptoms or presence of an intracranial vascular malformation was recorded. All cases of possible cerebral arteriovenous malformation were confirmed by conventional arteriography. Twelve patients (3.7%) had a history of cerebral vascular malformations. Ten patients had arteriovenous malformations, 1 had a dural arteriovenous fistula, and 1 had a cavernous malformation. Seven patients (2.1%) presented with intracranial hemorrhage, 2 presented with seizures alone, and 3 were discovered incidentally. The average age at the time of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage was 25.4 years. All patients with a history of intracranial hemorrhage were classified as Rankin grade I or II at a mean follow-up interval of 6.0 years. A history of cerebral infarction or transient ischemic attack was found in 29.6% of patients with HHT and a pulmonary arteriovenous fistula. The risk of intracranial hemorrhage is low among people with HHT. Furthermore, a majority of these patients have a good functional outcome after hemorrhage. The data do not suggest a compelling indication for routine screening of patients with HHT for asymptomatic cerebral vascular malformations. By comparison, pulmonary arteriovenous fistulae are a much more frequent cause of neurological symptoms in this population."}
{"id": "11259939", "title": "Cerebral air emboli from angiography in a patient with stroke. A case report.", "content": "Cerebral air emboli from angiography in a patient with stroke. A case report. A 42-year-old woman with subarachnoid and intracerebral hemorrhage was investigated with diagnostic angiography, disclosing an occlusion of the left internal carotid artery and the middle cerebral artery. CT examination immediately after the angiography revealed a 12-h-old infarct of the left middle cerebral artery territory. There was also gas in the arteries supplying the infarcted part of the brain, but not in other vessels. Air had most probably been introduced during the angiography and had consequently been \"trapped\" in the cortical arteries of the ischemic brain. In the non-ischemic parts of the brain air may have passed through the vessels leaving no trace."}
{"id": "11255632", "title": "Growth of occult arteriovenous malformation after cerebral hemorrhage demonstrated by serial magnetic resonance imaging--case report.", "content": "Growth of occult arteriovenous malformation after cerebral hemorrhage demonstrated by serial magnetic resonance imaging--case report. A 19-year-old male presented with sudden onset of right hemiparesis caused by left cerebral hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography demonstrated no vascular abnormality, and the hematoma was removed surgically. At operation, no abnormal vascular lesion was found in the brain adjoining the hematoma. Two years later, magnetic resonance (MR) imaging demonstrated a few foci of flow voids adjacent to the hematoma cavity. Four years after the hemorrhage, MR imaging showed more extensive flow-void abnormalities that indicated growth of an occult arteriovenous malformation (AVM). Cerebral angiography indicated a definite AVM supplied mainly by branches of the middle cerebral artery. Total resection of this lesion was performed. The histological diagnosis was typical AVM. Immunohistochemistry with vascular endothelial growth factor showed staining in the walls of the abnormal vessels. Serial MR imaging is very useful for the diagnosis and management of occult AVMs."}
{"id": "11248318", "title": "Spontaneous middle cerebral artery occlusion leading to moyamoya phenomenon and aneurysm formation on collateral arteries.", "content": "Spontaneous middle cerebral artery occlusion leading to moyamoya phenomenon and aneurysm formation on collateral arteries. Spontaneous middle cerebral artery occlusion associated with moyamoya phenomenon is distinct from moyamoya disease. The hemodynamic stress on the collateral channel occasionally leads to aneurysm formation, which may manifest as hemorrhage. The etiology of this disease has not been fully understood. A 63-year-old woman presented with left putaminal hemorrhage. The cerebral angiogram revealed a significant stenosis in the proximal segment of the left middle cerebral artery. Collateral arteries originating from the horizontal segment of the ipsilateral anterior cerebral artery and the ambient segment of the ipsilateral posterior cerebral artery supplied the middle cerebral artery distal to the stenosis. Both of the collateral channels had associated aneurysms that were surgically obliterated. The aneurysm on the collateral artery from the posterior cerebral artery was responsible for the putaminal hemorrhage. Spontaneous middle cerebral artery occlusion may lead to focal moyamoya phenomenon and aneurysmal intracerebral, intraventricular, or subarachnoid hemorrhage. The presence of a co-existing anomalous collateral artery in the present case suggests a congenital etiology of the focal middle cerebral artery occlusion."}
{"id": "11239176", "title": "Is there a temporal pattern in the occurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage in the southern hemisphere? Pooled data from 3 large, population-based incidence studies in Australasia, 1981 to 1997.", "content": "Is there a temporal pattern in the occurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage in the southern hemisphere? Pooled data from 3 large, population-based incidence studies in Australasia, 1981 to 1997. Publications on the temporal pattern of the occurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) have produced conflicting results. Variations between studies may relate to the relatively small numbers of SAH cases analyzed, including those in meta-analyses. We identified all cases of SAH from 3 well-designed population-based studies in Australia (Adelaide, Hobart, and Perth) and New Zealand (Auckland) during 3 periods between 1981 and 1997. The diagnosis of SAH was confirmed with CT, cerebral angiography, cerebrospinal fluid analysis, or autopsy in all cases. Information on the time of occurrence of each event was obtained. Risk ratios (RRs) and 95% CIs were calculated using Poisson regression, with age, sex, smoking status, and history of hypertension entered in the model as covariates. A total of 783 cases of SAH were registered. Age- and sex-adjusted RRs of SAH occurrence were highest in the period between 6 AM and 12 MIDNIGHT (RR 3.2, 95% CI 2.4-4.3) and in winter and spring (RR 1.3, 95% CI 1.1-1.5; RR 1.3, 95% CI 1.1-1.5; respectively). No particular pattern of SAH occurrence was observed according to the day of the week. Restriction of the analyses to proved aneurysmal SAH did not substantially change the point estimates. Circadian and circaseptan (weekly) fluctuations of SAH occurrence in the southern hemisphere are similar to those in the northern hemisphere, but the occurrence of SAH in Australasia exhibits clear seasonal (winter and spring) peaks."}
{"id": "11234662", "title": "Spontaneous brain hemorrhage associated with Lyme neuroborreliosis.", "content": "Spontaneous brain hemorrhage associated with Lyme neuroborreliosis. We present the case of a patient with late neuroborreliosis and a spontaneous temporal lobe hemorrhage. Although ischemic stroke and subarachnoid hemorrhage have been reported in association with Lyme disease, intraparenchymal brain hemorrhage has not been previously described in the course of this disease. The patient is a 48-year old male with a progressive spastic paraparesis of months' duration who presented acute headache, confusion, severe left hemiparesis with sensory deficit and homonymous hemianopsia. A cranial computed tomography scan showed an extensive right temporal lobe hemorrhage with subarachnoid invasion. Brain angiographic and angio-magnetic resonance imaging studies excluded hemorrhage-predisposing vascular abnormalities. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) studies disclosed mononuclear pleocytosis with elevated protein levels. Both serum and CSF anti-Borrelia titers were significantly increased, and serum Western Blot showed bands to protein 34 (ops B), 57, 59 and 62. The patient was treated with ceftriaxone for 4 weeks, with a favorable outcome. It is suspected that cause of the hemorrhage was parenchymatous Lyme-associated vascular damage and/or microaneurysmatic rupture."}
{"id": "11218636", "title": "Successful treatment of a ruptured enlarged infundibular widening of the posterior communicating artery--case report.", "content": "Successful treatment of a ruptured enlarged infundibular widening of the posterior communicating artery--case report. A 67-year-old female with a history of hypertension and cerebral infarction presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) (Hunt and Kosnik grade 4). Brain computed tomography (CT) revealed a clot dominantly on the right (Fisher's classification Group 4). Cerebral angiography showed funnel-shaped widenings at the origins of the bilateral posterior communicating arteries. The maximum diameter of the widening was greater than 3 mm, so this widening was called an enlarged infundibular widening. Angiography showed a small bulge protruding posterolaterally from the wall of the right enlarged infundibular widening, and the right posterior communicating artery arose from the apex of the enlarged infundibular widening. Based on the findings of the brain CT and cerebral angiography, the diagnosis was SAH due to rupture of the right enlarged infundibular widening. Approximately 12 hours after the onset, the clot was evacuated through the right pterional approach. Bleeding from the small bulge of the right enlarged infundibular widening occurred intraoperatively, so a right-angled ring clip was applied parallel to the right internal carotid artery to obliterate the rupture point. Postoperatively, she was discharged without neurological deficit, and follow-up CT showed no other new infarction. We recommend clipping rather than wrapping or coating for similar cases of ruptured enlarged infundibular widening."}
{"id": "11213959", "title": "High-field magnetic resonance imaging in patients with moyamoya disease.", "content": "High-field magnetic resonance imaging in patients with moyamoya disease. The purpose of this study was to assess the utility of high-field magnetic resonance (MR) imaging as a quantitative tool for estimating cerebral circulation in patients with moyamoya disease. Eighteen patients with moyamoya disease who were scheduled to undergo revascularization surgery and 100 healthy volunteers were examined using T2-reversed MR imaging performed using a 3-tesla system. Ten of the 18 patients underwent a second study between 1 year and 3 years after revascularization. Magnetic resonance images obtained in the patients with moyamoya disease were statistically analyzed and compared with those obtained in healthy volunteers. The MR imaging findings were also correlated with results of single-photon emission computerized tomography and conventional cerebral angiography studies. Transverse lines in the white matter (medullary streaks) were observed in almost all persons. In healthy volunteers, the diameter sizes of the medullary streaks increased significantly with age (p < 0.001). Multiple logistic regression analysis revealed that age-adjusted medullary streak diameters were significantly larger in patients with moyamoya disease (p < 0.001). Diameter sizes also increased significantly with the increased severity of cerebral hypoperfusion (p < 0.001) and a higher angiographically determined stage of the disease (p < 0.001). Diameter sizes decreased significantly after surgery (p < 0.001). The increases in medullary streak diameters observed in patients with moyamoya disease appear to represent vessels dilated due to cerebral hypoperfusion. High-field T2-reversed MR imaging is useful in estimating cerebral circulation in patients with moyamoya disease."}
{"id": "11181854", "title": "Clinical features associated with internal carotid artery occlusion do not correlate with MRA cerebropetal flow measurements.", "content": "Clinical features associated with internal carotid artery occlusion do not correlate with MRA cerebropetal flow measurements. The aetiology of clinical symptoms in patients with severe internal carotid artery (ICA) lesions may be thromboembolic or haemodynamic. The purpose was to assess whether changes in cerebropetal blood flow caused by an ICA occlusion have an effect on clinical symptoms and cerebral metabolism. Forty three patients with an ICA occlusion who had hemispheric ischaemia (transient ischaemic attack or stroke), retinal ischaemia, or without symptoms, and 34 patients without significant ICA lesions with either hemispheric ischaemia or no symptoms were studied. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) was used to investigate total cerebropetal flow (flow in the ICAs plus basilar artery) and the flow in the middle cerebral arteries. Cerebral metabolic changes in the flow territory of the middle cerebral artery were determined with proton MR spectroscopy. Low total cerebropetal flow (r=-0.15, p<0.05) and low middle cerebral artery flow (r=-0.31, p<0.001) were found in patients with an ICA occlusion, but did not correlate with the clinical syndrome. By contrast, patients with prior symptoms of hemispheric ischaemia had decreased cerebral N-acetylaspartate/choline ratios (r=-0.35, p<0.001). However, the presence of an ICA occlusion (and subsequent low flow) did not correlate with low N-acetylaspartate/choline ratios. Neurological deficit caused by (transient) hemispheric ischaemia is associated with low N-acetylaspartate/choline ratios, whereas prior clinical features are not associated with low cerebropetal blood flow, as measured with MR angiography. As a result, differences in cerebropetal flow cannot explain why patients with similar carotid artery disease experience different neurological features."}
{"id": "11176220", "title": "Imaging in cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Imaging in cerebrovascular disease. Various functional imaging modalities can be applied in acute ischaemic stroke to identify functionally impaired, but morphologically preserved tissue (i.e. the penumbra), and to distinguish it from irreversibly damaged tissue. Flow thresholds for irreversible tissue destruction resulting in functional impairment, as determined by positron emission tomography, perfusion and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging, single-photon computed tomography and xenon computed tomography, were comparable and ranged between 5 and 12 ml/100 g per min for the lower and 14 and 22 ml/100 g per min for the upper limit of penumbra. These imaging modalities help to select patients for thrombolytic therapy and provide evidence for the effect of this treatment on critically perfused tissue. They can also serve as surrogate markers in the evaluation of therapeutic efficacy. Further progress in interventional neuroradiology has been achieved with intra-arterial thrombolysis, which has become a treatment option beyond the 3-h therapeutic window in acute ischaemic stroke. Angioplasty and stenting of stenosis of arteries that supply the brain with blood have reached a point in their development at which a randomized trial to compare these treatments with vascular surgery is warranted."}
{"id": "11157554", "title": "Subarachnoid haemorrhage: diagnosis, causes and management.", "content": "Subarachnoid haemorrhage: diagnosis, causes and management. The incidence of subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) is stable, at around six cases per 100 000 patient years. Any apparent decrease is attributable to a higher rate of CT scanning, by which other haemorrhagic conditions are excluded. Most patients are <60 years of age. Risk factors are the same as for stroke in general; genetic factors operate in only a minority. Case fatality is approximately 50% overall (including pre-hospital deaths) and one-third of survivors remain dependent. Sudden, explosive headache is a cardinal but non-specific feature in the diagnosis of SAH: in general practice, the cause is innocuous in nine out of 10 patients in whom this is the only symptom. CT scanning is mandatory in all, to be followed by (delayed) lumbar puncture if CT is negative. The cause of SAH is a ruptured aneurysm in 85% of cases, non-aneurysmal perimesencephalic haemorrhage (with excellent prognosis) in 10%, and a variety of rare conditions in 5%. Catheter angiography for detecting aneurysms is gradually being replaced by CT angiography. A poor clinical condition on admission may be caused by a remediable complication of the initial bleed or a recurrent haemorrhage in the form of intracranial haematoma, acute hydrocephalus or global brain ischaemia. Occlusion of the aneurysm effectively prevents rebleeding, but there is a dearth of controlled trials assessing the relative benefits of early operation (within 3 days) versus late operation (day 10-12), or that of endovascular treatment versus any operation. Antifibrinolytic drugs reduce the risk of rebleeding, but do not improve overall outcome. Measures of proven value in decreasing the risk of delayed cerebral ischaemia are a liberal supply of fluids, avoidance of antihypertensive drugs and administration of nimodipine. Once ischaemia has occurred, treatment regimens such as a combination of induced hypertension and hypervolaemia, or transluminal angioplasty, are plausible, but of unproven benefit."}
{"id": "11153891", "title": "Intracranial vertebral artery dissection presenting as subarachnoid hemorrhage: successful endovascular treatment.", "content": "Intracranial vertebral artery dissection presenting as subarachnoid hemorrhage: successful endovascular treatment. Intracranial vertebral artery dissection is a rare condition which may present as subarachnoid hemorrhage. In this situation, treatment is controversial. A case of intracranial right vertebral artery dissection in a 55-year-old woman presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage is reported. The patient underwent therapeutic occlusion of the dissected artery through microcatheterization using pushing detachable platinum microcoils and had a good outcome. At this moment, the patient has a normal neurologic examination and a control digital subtraction angiography 1 year after the procedure showed an occluded right vertebral artery at V3; there was retrograde flow in the right intracranial vertebral artery up to the origin of a meningeal branch; the artery was thin and had mural irregularities, without any evidence of aneurismatic dilatation. We review the literature and discuss the role of endovascular therapy and other therapeutic options in the treatment of this condition."}
{"id": "11152352", "title": "Distal anterior choroidal artery aneurysm in a patient with moyamoya disease: case report.", "content": "Distal anterior choroidal artery aneurysm in a patient with moyamoya disease: case report. Distal anterior choroidal artery (AChA) aneurysms in moyamoya disease are rare, with few surgically verified reported cases. We report a rare case of distal AChA aneurysm associated with moyamoya disease in a 48-year-old man who presented with vomiting and severe headache. Computed tomographic scans revealed an intracerebral hematoma in the right temporoparietal lobe and a diffuse intraventricular hemorrhage. The hematoma was removed via computed tomography-guided stereotactic aspiration and ventricular drainage. Cerebral angiography showed a saccular aneurysm located at the distal branch of the right AChA. By means of magnetic resonance imaging, a small signal void lesion was detected in the periventricular area lateral to the trigone of the right lateral ventricle. The aneurysm was accurately accessed via a parietal cortical incision by use of magnetic resonance imaging-guided stereotactic localization. The aneurysm was successfully resected after undergoing trapping of the parent artery, and when the patient was discharged, he had no evidence of neurological deficit. The aneurysm was histologically verified to be a true aneurysm. Direct surgery should be considered in cases of ruptured distal AChA aneurysms located in the periventricular or intraventricular regions."}
{"id": "11147881", "title": "Cerebrospinal fluid dynamics of the cava septi pellucidi and vergae. Case report.", "content": "Cerebrospinal fluid dynamics of the cava septi pellucidi and vergae. Case report. This case involved a 26-month-old boy who had recurrent hemorrhagic venous infarction caused by venous sinus occlusion. Distension and enlargement of the cavum septi pellucidi (CSP) and cavum vergae (CV), along with hydrocephalus, was detected during the course of the disease and was observed to regress together with resolution of the venous occlusion. Venous hypertension caused by sinus occlusion was thought to be responsible for the disturbed resorption of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the CSP and CV in this patient. This case is unique because it is the first one to support the hypothesis of resorption of CSF in the cava by a pressure gradient involving the septal capillaries and veins."}
{"id": "11980093", "title": "Giant aneurysm of the pericallosal artery causing acute subdural hematoma--case report.", "content": "Giant aneurysm of the pericallosal artery causing acute subdural hematoma--case report. A 66-year-old female presented with a very rare giant aneurysm of the distal pericallosal artery. She lost consciousness and was admitted. Computed tomography demonstrated a subdural hematoma over the left cerebral convexity and a mass in the frontal lobe. Cerebral angiography disclosed a giant aneurysm located on the distal segment of the right pericallosal artery. The subdural hematoma was removed and the aneurysmal neck was clipped, but she died 15 days after the operation. Autopsy found the giant aneurysm (33 x 30 x 27 mm) on the distal segment of the right pericallosal artery. Highly atheromatous changes were recognized in part of the aneurysmal wall, the arteries near the circle of Willis, and the distal anterior cerebral artery (ACA) adjacent to the aneurysm. There were no anomalous vessels such as azygos ACA. Giant aneurysms situated beyond the genu of the corpus callosum are extremely rare. Atherosclerosis was probably a major etiological factor in this case."}
{"id": "11775535", "title": "Diagnosis and surgical treatment of posterior fossa solid hemangioblastomas.", "content": "Diagnosis and surgical treatment of posterior fossa solid hemangioblastomas. To elucidate the diagnosis and surgical treatment of the posterior fossa solid hemangioblastomas (PFSHs). The data from 22 patients with PFSHs verified by surgery and pathology were analyzed retrospectively and a review of relevant literature was conducted. The preoperative definitive diagnosis rate was 13/22. Total tumor removal was achieved in 20 patients. Two of the 22 patients died after surgery, one of brain-stem injury and the other from an intracranial hemorrhage. Twenty patients were followed up for 2 months to 8 years (average, 2 years). Kamofsky scale was > or = 80 in 15 patients, 60-70 in 1 patient and not measured in 4 patients who died during follow-up. The causes of death were pneumonia (2 patients) and purulent meningitis (2). MRI and DSA (digital subtraction angiography) are major preoperative diagnostic modalities for PFSH, but PFSH remains a challenging benign neoplasm. Special microsurgical techniques and improved operative manipulation can improve surgical efficacy."}
{"id": "11752922", "title": "Primary antiphospholipid antibody syndrome: neuroradiologic findings in 11 patients.", "content": "Primary antiphospholipid antibody syndrome: neuroradiologic findings in 11 patients. To describe the neuroradiologic findings of primary antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (PAPS). During a recent two-year period, abnormally elevated antiphospholipid antibodies were detected in a total of 751 patients. In any cases in which risk factors for stroke were detected-hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, smoking, and the presence of SLE or other connective tissue diseases-PAPS was not diagnosed. Neuroradiologic studies were performed in 11 of 32 patients with PAPS. We retrospectively reviewed brain CT (n = 7), MR (n = 8), and cerebral angiography (n = 8) in 11 patients with special attention to the presence of brain parenchymal lesions and cerebral arterial or venous abnormalities. CT or MR findings of PAPS included nonspecific multiple hyper-intensity foci in deep white matter on T2-weighted images (5/11), a large infarct in the territory of the middle cerebral artery (4/11), diffuse cortical atrophy (2/11), focal hemorrhage (2/11), and dural sinus thrombosis (1/11). Angiographic findings were normal (5/8) or reflected either occlusion of a large cerebral artery (2/8) or dural sinus thrombosis (1/8). Neuroradiologic findings of PAPS are nonspecific but in young or middle-aged adults who show the above mentioned CT or MR findings, and in whom risk factors for stroke are not present, the condition should be suspected."}
{"id": "11452855", "title": "Our own experience with CT angiography in early diagnosis of cerebral vascular malformations.", "content": "Our own experience with CT angiography in early diagnosis of cerebral vascular malformations. Computed tomography (CT) and intraarterial cerebral angiography are essential methods in early diagnosis of cerebral vascular malformations. In recent years however non-invasive or minimally invasive methods like MR angiography and CT angiography (CTA), which could potentially replace angiography, have been developed. The aim of presented study is to demonstrate our own experience in application of CTA in early diagnosis of cerebral vascular malformations. The material consists of 86 CTA examinations performed shortly after non-traumatic intracranial haemorrhage. Angiographic correlation has been available in 23 patients and surgical one--in 31 cases. CTA studies began with serio-CT to select the optimal time between contrast injection and CT scanning. After that 100-120 ml of non-ionic contrast medium was injected intravenously (5 ml per sec.) and spiral CT acqusition was performed with the delay calculated on the basis of the serio-CT. The obtained images were postprocessed on the workstation using always MIP and in many cases also SSD and VRT reconstructions. Vascular malformations have been diagnosed in 44 of 86 CTA studies including 38 patients with aneurysms (total number 51) and 6 patients with AVMs. In 17 cases the diameter of the aneurysm did not exceed 5 mm. In all surgical cases the CTA diagnosis of the aneurysm has been confirmed. There was however one false-negative case. On the other hand in 7 patients CTA revealed the small aneurysm, despite unclear angiographic appearance. In 2 of 6 patients with CTA suspicion of AVM this diagnosis has been excluded either by angiography or surgery. Comparison of CTA and angiography in 22 aneurysms showed in 17 cases superiority of CTA in evaluation of aneurysmal neck and the relationship between aneurysm and adjacent vessels (especially with VRT and SSD reconstructions). In patients with AVMs however the evaluation of supplying and draining vessels was better with angiography. On the base of our material we can conclude that CTA is very efficient in detecting and evaluating the aneurysms. We believe that CTA can replace angiography if it reveals aneurysm in a site corresponding with location of haemorrhage on CT. In patients with suspicion of AVM value of CTA is doubtful and angiography remains the method of choice."}
{"id": "11305560", "title": "Two-dimensional thick-slice MR digital subtraction angiography for assessment of cerebrovascular occlusive diseases.", "content": "Two-dimensional thick-slice MR digital subtraction angiography for assessment of cerebrovascular occlusive diseases. Although spatial resolution of current MR angiography is excellent, temporal resolution has remained unsatisfactory. We evaluated clinical applicability of 2D thick-slice, contrast-enhanced subtraction MR angiography (2D-MR digital subtraction angiography) with sub-second temporal resolution in cerebrovascular occlusive diseases. Twenty-five patients with cerebrovascular occlusive diseases (8 moyamoya diseases, 10 proximal internal carotid occlusions, and 2 sinus thromboses ) were studied with a 1.5-T MR unit. The MR digital subtraction angiography (MRDSA) was performed per 0.97 s continuously just after a bolus injection of 15 ml of gadolinium chelates up to 40 s in sagittal (covering hemisphere) or coronal planes. Subtraction images were generated at a workstation. We evaluated imaging quality and hemodynamic information of MRDSA in comparison with those of routine MR imaging, non-contrast MR angiography, and X-ray intra-arterial DSA. Major cerebral arteries, all of the venous sinuses, and most tributaries were clearly visualized with 2D MRDSA. Also, pure arterial phases were obtained in all cases. The MRDSA technique demonstrated prolonged circulation in sinus thromboses, distal patent lumen of proximal occlusion, and some collateral circulation. Such hemodynamic information was comparable to that of intra-arterial DSA. Two-dimensional thick-slice MRDSA with high temporal resolution has a unique ability to demonstrate cerebral hemodynamics equivalent to that of intra-arterial DSA and may play an important role for evaluation of cerebrovascular occlusive diseases."}
{"id": "11221340", "title": "[Diagnosis of cerebral arterial aneurysms in acute and subacute subarachnoid hemorrhage].", "content": "[Diagnosis of cerebral arterial aneurysms in acute and subacute subarachnoid hemorrhage]. The paper pools experience in using computed tomographic and magnetic resonance angiographies in patients with intracranial berry aneurysms in different periods following subarachnoid hemorrhage. The new low-invasive techniques for visualization of arterial vessels have been found to detect the aneurysm and to define its topographic and anatomic location in most cases (as high as 90%) by being on a par with direct cerebral angiography and to compare favourably with the latter. Based on the analysis of complex studies (angiography, CT- and MR-angiographies), the authors have developed algorithms for diagnosing intracranial aneurysms by the stage of subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "11219912", "title": "[Magnetic resonance and magnetic resonance angiography in the diagnosis of vascular anomalies in childhood].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance and magnetic resonance angiography in the diagnosis of vascular anomalies in childhood]. The aim of this study is to demonstrate the accuracy of MRI and MR angiography, using 3D and 2D TOF sequences to diagnose vascular malformation in children with non-traumatic intracranial hemorrhage (subarachnoid or intracerebral hemorrhage). In two years period 7 children, 4 boys and 3 girls range age 8 to 14 years with non-traumatic intracranial hemorrhage were examined on 1.0 TMR unit, using T1,PD,T2 WI and 3D and 2D TOF MR angiography with MIP reconstruction. In the group of 7 children, 2 were with aneurysms, 2 with AV malformation, and 1 with cavernous angioma. The results of these were correlated with those of IA DSA. The results were in agreement regarding the presence, location and size of aneurysms, the presence, vasculation and drenage of AV malformation. MRI with MR angiography is rapid and non-invasive examination which can confirm the diagnosis of vascular anomalies in children and to follow them up."}
{"id": "11205716", "title": "New radiographic techniques to evaluate cerebrovascular disorders in children.", "content": "New radiographic techniques to evaluate cerebrovascular disorders in children. The radiographic evaluation of the pediatric patient with cerebrovascular disease has dramatically improved during the past decade. Few new technologies have been introduced, but significant new developments in data acquisition and post-processing have resulted from refinements in both software and, to a lesser extent, hardware. This review focuses on the advantages and limitations of the different imaging modalities and their recommended role in managing the pediatric patient who presents with signs or symptoms of cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "11201650", "title": "Calloso-marginal artery aneurysm missed by three angiographic studies.", "content": "Calloso-marginal artery aneurysm missed by three angiographic studies."}
{"id": "11201540", "title": "Pediatric cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Pediatric cerebrovascular disease. Stroke in children is thought to be a rare phenomenon, but in a pediatric hospital, it is much more common than is expected. The development of rapid MRI imaging with diffusion techniques and MR spectroscopy has brought to the attention of both the neuroradiologists and clinicians that pediatric infarction, in both detection and management, are challenges for the future. Since 1995, cerebral diffusion has been performed at The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia in the evaluation of patients with acute cerebral compromise. Diffusion imaging looks at the motion of water molecules both intra- and extracellular, and the manner in which they become restricted in their motion when higher gradient strength is applied during the imaging sequence. Restricted diffusion is seen in cytotoxic edema, an early acute manifestation of ischemia/infarction. Diffusion studies are often positive when routine MRI and CT are as yet negative. Confirmation of the death of tissue is provided on proton spectroscopy by a rise in lactate from anaerobic glycolysis and a loss of N-acetylaspartate from neuronal death. Confirmation of the diffusion image findings, by mapping the apparent co-efficient (ADC), is also valuable. Application of these techniques, together with magnetic resonance angiography and magnetic resonance venography, is the substance of this paper."}
{"id": "11147323", "title": "[Magnetic resonance angiography in inflammatory brain diseases].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance angiography in inflammatory brain diseases]. In this review, we discuss the diagnostic potential of time of flight (TOF) MRA and contrast enhanced (CE) MRA in inflammatory disorders of the meninges and the brain. Cerebrovascular complications are frequently observed during infectious meningoencepalitis. 3D TOF-MRA and CE-MRA are complementary for the detection of basal intracranial artery stenosis and septic cerebral vein and sinus thrombosis due to secondary vasculitis. MRA reveals stenosis and occlusion as indirect signs of vasculitis, whereas MRI shows the inflammation of the brain and meninges and occasionally the vessel wall, together with the ischemic or hemorrhagic complication. In case of septic emboli MRA can detect peripheral occlusions and \"mycotic\" aneurysms. For the diagnosis of noninfectious vasculitides of the intracranial vessels, high resolution 3D TOF-MRA is superior to CE-MRA for the detection of multiloculated segmental stenoses. However, there are presently no prospective studies on the sensitivity and specificity of MRA for these indications. Therefore, only positive MRA results can directly influence clinical management. In case of normal MRA, confirmation by catheder angiography may still be required."}
{"id": "11142626", "title": "Computed tomographic angiography and computed tomographic perfusion imaging of hyperacute stroke.", "content": "Computed tomographic angiography and computed tomographic perfusion imaging of hyperacute stroke. The roles of noncontrast computed tomography (NCCT) and CT angiographic/CT perfusion (CTA/CTP) imaging in the rapid triage of clinically suspected hyperacute stroke patients to appropriate therapy is reviewed. Contraindications to thrombolysis include NCCT hemorrhage (absolute) and significant parenchymal hypodensity (relative). The sensitivity of NCCT for early (<6 h) stroke detection, higher than that of conventional magnetic resonance imaging, is improved further by using nonstandard window and level review settings. CTA/CTP is fast and convenient, adding approximately 10 min to the NCCT examination. CTA/CTP's accuracy in diagnosing ischemia and localizing thrombus to proximal or distal intracranial vessels far exceeds that of clinical examination (including National Institutes of Health stroke scale use), facilitating triage of appropriate candidates to intra-arterial thrombolysis. The size of the ischemic CTP hypodensity (proportional to reduced cerebral blood volume) predicts final infarct volume and clinical outcome; its location can guide the decision to perform intra-arterial thrombolysis, intravenous thrombolysis, or other treatment."}
{"id": "11127530", "title": "Computed tomographic angiography findings in 103 patients following vascular events in the posterior circulation: potential and clinical relevance.", "content": "Computed tomographic angiography findings in 103 patients following vascular events in the posterior circulation: potential and clinical relevance. We studied the diagnostic value of computed tomographic angiography (CTA) in the posterior circulation as a noninvasive substitute for intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA). We prospectively investigated 103 patients with acute stroke in the posterior circulation. All patients underwent CTA and Doppler ultrasound, and DSA was performed in 22 patients. Vascular findings were classified in categories according to the type of lesion and the location in the vertebral, basilar, or posterior cerebral artery. In the first part of the analysis we examined the correlation between CTA and intra-arterial DSA (n=22), and in the second part that between CTA and Doppler ultrasound (n=103). Intra-arterial DSA identified 11 stenoses, 13 occlusions, and 3 hypoplasias. The correlation between DSA and CTA was best for the basilar artery (all lesions were identified with CTA). Of the 14 lesions detected in the vertebral artery by DSA 13 were also detected by CTA, but the specific type of lesion was identified in only 7 cases. The correlation between CTA and Doppler ultrasound was lower. In conclusion, CTA is thus a reliable method for detecting lesions in the posterior circulation and may replace DSA in many cases. However, particularly in the vertebral artery DSA remains the superior technique."}
{"id": "11118573", "title": "Spontaneous peritumoral haemorrhage associated with sinus confluence meningioma: case report.", "content": "Spontaneous peritumoral haemorrhage associated with sinus confluence meningioma: case report. Torcular or sinus confluence meningioma is rare and surgically formidable. This reported sinus confluence meningioma was associated with peritumoral intracerebral hemorrhage. The surgical strategy and the mechanism of peritumoral hemorrhage are discussed. A 42-year-old woman presented with a history of headache, vomiting, and cerebellar dysfunction for 2 months. Plain computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated a high-density mass in the torcular region involving both lateral sinuses. MR angiography demonstrated complete occlusion of the left lateral sinus and straight sinus and stenosis of the right lateral sinus. Two years after her first operation she experienced sudden headache and left upper quadrant hemianopsia. Plain CT scan and MRI showed a hyperintense tumor in the torcular region with an intracerebral hematoma in the right occipital lobe. An angiogram demonstrated occlusion of the caudal part of the superior sagittal sinus, bilateral transverse sinuses, and straight sinus. Gross total removal of the tumor was done along with the left lateral sinus through a suboccipital and a supratentorial occipital craniotomy in the first operation. The patient underwent total resection of the tumor at second operation through a bilateral occipital and suboccipital craniotomy along with resection of the dura including the confluence, the caudal part of the superior sagittal sinus, the right lateral sinus, and the straight sinus. The postoperative course was uneventful and postoperative MRI showed total removal of the tumor. Sinus confluence meningioma may present with peritumoral hemorrhage. Radical removal may be possible when the sinus confluence is completely occluded and there is good collateral drainage."}
{"id": "11108759", "title": "Perimesencephalic hemorrhage and CT angiography: A decision analysis.", "content": "Perimesencephalic hemorrhage and CT angiography: A decision analysis. The method of choice for detecting or excluding a vertebrobasilar aneurysm still is a matter of debate in patients with a characteristically perimesencephalic pattern of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) on CT. We used decision analysis to compare possible diagnostic strategies in these patients. A decision analytic model was developed to evaluate the effect of 4 different diagnostic strategies following a perimesencephalic pattern of SAH on CT: 1, no further investigation; 2, digital subtraction angiography (DSA) by catheter; 3, CT angiography as initial modality, not followed by DSA if negative; and 4, CT angiography as initial modality, followed by DSA. We used a 4% prevalence of a vertebrobasilar aneurysm given a perimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage, a 97% sensitivity and specificity of CT angiography, and a 99.5% sensitivity and 100% specificity of DSA. In a prospectively collected series, the complication rate from DSA in patients with a perimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage was 2.6%. We calculated the expected utility of each of the 4 diagnostic options and used sensitivity analyses to examine the influence of the plausible ranges of the various estimates used. The expected utilities were 99.09 for CT angiography only, 98.96 for no further investigation, 98.22 for DSA, and 96.34 for CT angiography plus DSA. The results of the sensitivity analysis indicate that over a wide range of assumptions, CT angiography only is the most beneficial option. Only when the complication rate of catheter angiography is <0.2% is DSA the preferred strategy. Our decision analysis shows that in patients with a perimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage on CT, CT angiography only is the best diagnostic strategy. DSA can be omitted in patients with a perimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage and a negative CT angiogram."}
{"id": "11108754", "title": "Stroke and pregnancy.", "content": "Stroke and pregnancy. We sought to characterize the subtypes of stroke associated with pregnancy and the puerperium, with emphasis on timing, etiology, risk factors, and outcome. We conducted a retrospective analysis of patients admitted to the Toronto Hospital between January 1, 1980, and June 30, 1997, with a diagnosis of stroke during pregnancy or within 6 weeks postpartum. Strokes were classified as ischemic (arterial or venous) or hemorrhagic (subarachnoid or intracerebral). All patients were investigated with at least a CT scan of the head, and most had MRI and/or cerebral angiography. Of approximately 50 700 admissions for delivery, 34 patients with a diagnosis of stroke were identified (21 infarctions and 13 hemorrhages). Of patients with infarction, 13 were arterial and 8 were venous. Nine of 13 arterial events occurred in the third trimester or puerperium. Seven of 8 venous occlusions occurred postpartum. An etiologic diagnosis was made in 7 of 13 patients with arterial territory infarction, including cardiac emboli, coagulopathies, and carotid artery dissection. Of patients with hemorrhage, 7 were subarachnoid and 6 were intracerebral. The etiology was identified in 10 patients: 3 were due to ruptured aneurysms, 5 were associated with arteriovenous malformations, and 2 were associated with disseminated intravascular coagulation. All patients with infarction survived, but 3 patients with hemorrhage died. The majority of strokes associated with pregnancy were arterial occlusions. Most presented during the third trimester and puerperium."}
{"id": "11103684", "title": "[The Susac syndrome--a retinocochleocerebral angiopathy].", "content": "[The Susac syndrome--a retinocochleocerebral angiopathy]. There has been a series of case reports of otherwise healthy patients suffering from microangiopathy of the brain, retina and cochlea. Most patients were young women presenting clinically with a subacute encephalopathy, branch retina artery occlusions, and hearing loss. In 1994 the name \"Susac syndrome\" has been proposed for this disease entity. Case report and review of 64 published cases, identified through MEDLINE are given. We describe a 32-year-old otherwise healthy woman presenting with a subacute encephalopathy, multiple branch retinal artery occlusions and bilateral hearing loss. MRI of the brain revealed multiple small white and grey matter lesions without contrast enhancement. CSF protein was elevated, oligoclonal bands were negative. Immunological laboratory parameters, microbiology, virology, coagulation studies, SEP, AEP, VEP and cerebral DSA were normal. Of 64 identified patients 58 were women. The mean age of the patients was 30 years. 60 patients (94%) had arterial occlusions, which were bilateral in 39%. 48 patients reported hearing loss, 37 patients (58%) had a global encephalopathy, but other neurologic manifestations were common. This rare syndrome has a strong young female preponderance. MRI of the brain often shows lesions suggestive of multiple sclerosis. Fluorescein angiography may show arteriolar wall hyperfluorescence. Patients can be identified at an early stage with a careful history and physical examination. Early treatment with corticosteroids is often associated with a good prognosis. Cyclophosphamide and antiplatelet drugs may be added in complicated cases."}
{"id": "11098637", "title": "Endovascular treatment of basilar tip aneurysm associated with moyamoya disease--case report.", "content": "Endovascular treatment of basilar tip aneurysm associated with moyamoya disease--case report. A 58-year-old female was admitted unconscious to a local hospital. Computed tomography demonstrated subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography revealed evidence of moyamoya disease and a saccular aneurysm at the tip of the basilar artery. The patient was transferred to our hospital for embolization of the basilar tip aneurysm. Endovascular embolization was performed using Guglielmi detachable coils (GDCs), and the aneurysm was completely occluded with preservation of the parent artery. No change in the patient's neurological status was seen during and after the procedure. Endovascular treatment using GDCs appears to be particularly suitable for ruptured cerebral saccular aneurysms in patients with moyamoya disease."}
{"id": "11086808", "title": "Three-dimensional computed tomographic angiography in four patients with dissecting aneurysms of the vertebrobasilar system.", "content": "Three-dimensional computed tomographic angiography in four patients with dissecting aneurysms of the vertebrobasilar system. Recently, three-dimensional computed tomographic angiography (CTA) has been used for the diagnosis and treatment planning of cerebral aneurysm presenting with or without subarachnoid haemorrhage, but the diagnostic value of CTA has not been established. This study evaluated the usefulness of CTA in patients with dissecting aneurysms of the vertebrobasilar system. Four patients with acute dissecting aneurysms were examined by CTA, including 3 women and 1 man with a mean age of 60.5 +/- 8.5 years (range: 52-67 years). There were three patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage and one patient presenting with ischaemia. One patient underwent CTA twice and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) once, while one patient had both examinations three times. CTA was performed with a nonionic contrast medium (100 ml of iomeprol 350 mg I/ml) administered via an auto-injector into an antecubital vein at 1.5-1.7 ml/s. To reconstruct three-dimensional images, the volume rendering method was utilized. All initial CTA studies were performed safely within 5 hours after onset. In patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage, all lesions were demonstrated by finding either the \"pearl and string sign\" or a \"double shadow\" on CTA. In the patient presenting with ischaemia, \"pearl and string sign\" and \"double shadow\" was shown after the second CTA, and follow-up CTA was able to demonstrate the change of the lesion morphology. All lesions had more irregular luminal surfaces than the non-lesional segments of the involved vessels. CTA was safe in patients with acute vertebrobasilar dissection and demonstrated either the \"pearl and string sign\" or a \"double shadow\" which were commonly showed on DSA. An \"irregular luminal surface sign\" on CTA seems to be one of the characteristics of vertebrobasilar dissection. The view shown by CTA is not less useful than that by DSA to diagnosis and treatment planning in the acute phase of vertebrobasilar dissection, and can also be employed to follow the changes of lesion morphology over time."}
{"id": "11081268", "title": "[The use of magnetic resonance venography in diagnosis of cerebral venous blood flow disorders].", "content": "[The use of magnetic resonance venography in diagnosis of cerebral venous blood flow disorders]. The paper presents an examination of 85 patients aged 16-72 years with cerebral venous dyscirculation resulted from the obstruction of cerebral venous sinuses, major veins of the neck and upper regions of the mediastenum. 70 healthy volunteers were also observed. Magnetic-resonance venography of brachyocephal veins and venous sinuses and ultrasound duplex scanning of internal jugular veins together with colored mapping of the blood flow were performed. Both the causes and the magnetic-resonance semiotics of the obstructive damages of brachyocephal veins and of the cerebral venous sinuses were described. The criteria for hemodynamic significance of the obstruction of brachyocephal veins were defined in case of extravasal compression of brachyocephal veins."}
{"id": "11065268", "title": "Echo-enhanced color Doppler sonography in children and adolescents.", "content": "Echo-enhanced color Doppler sonography in children and adolescents. Fifty-one patients, with a range of underlying pathologic conditions, were studied prospectively to assess the diagnostic value of echo-enhanced color Doppler sonography in the pediatric and adolescent population Their diagnoses included various tumors, vascular disorders, cerebral bleeding, pathologic conditions of small parts, and focal lesions of parenchymal organs. All patients underwent color Doppler sonography before proceeding to echo-enhanced color Doppler sonography. Diagnoses were confirmed by additional imaging (computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, angiography, and scintigraphy) performed as appropriate, with or without histologic study. An additional 20 children did not proceed to echoenhanced color Doppler sonography as color Doppler sonography alone was found to be sufficiently diagnostic. Levovist (SHU 508A), a contrast agent based on galactose-encapsulated air microbubbles, is approved for pediatric applications in Austria and was used as the echo-enhancing agent. Echo-enhanced color Doppler sonography was performed a total of 63 times in 51 patients (mean age, 9.8 years). Compared to color Doppler sonography, echo-enhanced color Doppler sonography either detected or enhanced visualization of pathologic conditions in 55 investigations (87.3%), yielding an overall accuracy of 95.2% (sensitivity, 95%), versus 65.7% with color Doppler sonography. One spinal arteriovenous malformation, one cerebral cavernoma, and one liver lesion were missed. The contrast material was easy to administer; no adverse reactions were observed. We conclude that echoenhanced color Doppler sonography is beneficial in pediatric sonography. It enhances visualization of vessels and perfusion, thus offering a nonionizing imaging tool for detection and follow-up evaluation of pathologic conditions with disturbed vasculature in specific cases. In infants and in persons with superficial lesions it did not offer significant advantages over color Doppler sonography."}
{"id": "11064872", "title": "[A case of delayed subrachnoid hemorrhage from vertebrobasilar artery dissecting aneurysm].", "content": "[A case of delayed subrachnoid hemorrhage from vertebrobasilar artery dissecting aneurysm]. We report a case of delayed subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) from a vertebrobasilar artery dissecting aneurysm (VBA-DA). The patient was a healthy 32-year-old woman with a sudden onset of severe occipitalgia. Next day, her headache improved gradually, and she consulted with our department. Although we initially suspected that she was suffering from SAH, neurological findings, CT, and cerebrospinal fluid examination did not reveal any abnormal conditions, including SAH. Therefore, she was treated conservatively with analgesics. Twelve days after the initial onset of the headache, she was admitted because of severe re-attack of headache, rt. hemiparesis with rt. oculomotor nerve palsy and loss of consciousness. CT revealed moderate SAH and cerebral angiograms showed VBA-DA. After the cerebral angiography, bleeding reoccurred two times and she lost her life. We present the case, review the literature and discuss the relationship between presenting symptom of headache and non-hemorrhagic VBA-DA. A few cases of non-hemorrhagic VBA-DA have been reported in the literature in which the only presenting symptom was headache, followed by delayed SAH from non-hemorrhagic dissecting aneurysm. Consequently, we concluded that her initial symptom of headache was due to dissection of vertebrobasilar artery, and that SAH was due to delayed hemorrhage of non-hemorrhagic VBA-DA. Even when neurological findings, CT and cerebrospinal fluid examination reveal no abnormalities in the early stage after the sudden onset of headache, especially in the occiptal or nuchal regions, non-hemorrhagic VBA-DA, which has a risk of fatal hemorrhage, cannot be ruled out with certainty. Therefore, MRI, MRA, three-dimensional CT, or cerebral angiography should be performed in such cases."}
{"id": "11063104", "title": "Transcranial brainstem stab injuries: a retrospective analysis of 17 patients.", "content": "Transcranial brainstem stab injuries: a retrospective analysis of 17 patients. Transcranial stab injuries remain a frequent cause of emergent neurosurgical admissions to neurosurgical units in South Africa. Brainstem stabs are an uncommon, yet often fatal, form of brain injury. A retrospective audit of 597 patients with transcranial stab injuries admitted to our unit over a 12-year period (January 1987 to December 1998) identified 17 patients (2.85%) with brainstem stab injuries. The computed tomographic scans of all patients were analyzed, and a detailed autopsy examination of the skull and its contents was performed in all patients who died. Stepwise linear regression analysis was used to formulate a predictive model of outcome for the entire series of 597 patients. The majority of the patients were males (16 patients), and the study group had a mean age of 28.65 +/- 9.59 years and a mean Glasgow Coma Scale score of 8.59 +/- 2.76. Knives (82%) were the most common instruments of penetration. Cerebral angiography identified 3 patients with vascular abnormalities, and autopsy revealed an additional 4 patients with vascular injury. Emergency ventriculostomy was performed in 10 patients for obstructive hydrocephalus. Four of the 17 patients survived (76.5% mortality). Factors significantly predictive of outcome in patients with transcranial stab injuries were the Glasgow Coma Scale score (F = 43.7), the occurrence of intraventricular hemorrhage (F = 22.8), the type of associated lesion (intracranial bleed, vascular abnormality, or brain abscess) (F = 5.9), and the number of operations (F = 3.2). The Glasgow Coma Scale score is the most significant predictor of outcome in low-velocity transcranial stab injuries. Brainstem stab injuries have a great propensity for vascular damage. Survivors are incapacitated by severe, fixed neurological deficits."}
{"id": "11056969", "title": "[MR angiography of the supraaortic vessels].", "content": "[MR angiography of the supraaortic vessels]. To compare high resolution contrast-enhanced MR angiography (MRA) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in the assessment of supraaortic vessel stenosis. 14 patients with suspicion of cerebrovascular disease or upper limb ischemia underwent selective DSA and high resolution contrast enhanced MRA employing a new Panoramic-Array coil. Stenosis assessment in comparison to DSA followed NASCET criteria. Additionally signal-/noise ratios (SNR) were evaluated to assess contrast enhancement. Diagnostic image quality was achieved in all patients. Sensitivity and specificity for assessing high-grade stenosis of the supraaortic vessels were 100% and 96% respectively. In the assessment of high-grade common or internal carotid artery stenosis sensitivity and specificity was 100%. High resolution contrast enhanced supraaortic MRA combined with new coil systems allow for a reliable assessment of stenoses along the whole vessel course including the aortic arch. Previous stent procedures limit its use in postinterventional follow-up."}
{"id": "11039340", "title": "The role of MR angiography in the pretreatment assessment of intracranial aneurysms: a comparative study.", "content": "The role of MR angiography in the pretreatment assessment of intracranial aneurysms: a comparative study. With developments in coil technology, intracranial aneurysms are being treated increasingly by the endovascular route. Endovascular treatment of aneurysms requires an accurate depiction of the aneurysm neck and its relation to parent and branch vessels preoperatively. Our goal was to estimate the clinical efficacy of MR angiography (MRA) in the pretreatment assessment of ruptured and unruptured intracranial aneurysms. We compared MRA source data (axial acquired partitions), multiplanar reconstruction (MPR) of these data, as well as maximum intensity projection (MIP) and 3D-isosurface images with intraarterial digital subtraction angiography (IA-DSA). The study was performed in 29 patients with 42 intracerebral aneurysms. The MRA data were examined in four different forms--as axial source data, MPR images of the source data, and MIP and 3D isosurface--rendered images. A composite standard of reference for each aneurysm was then constructed using this information together with the IA-DSA findings by looking at aneurysm detection rate, aneurysm morphology, neck interpretation, and branch vessel relationship to the aneurysm. All techniques, including conventional IA-DSA, were then scored independently on a five-point scale from 1 (non diagnostic) to 5 (excellent correlation with the standard of reference) for each of the aneurysm components as compared with the composite picture. An overall score for each technique was also obtained. Of the 42 aneurysms examined, 34 were small (<10 mm), six were large (10-25 mm), and two were giant (>25 mm). Three aneurysms were not detected with MRA. These were smaller than 3 mm and either in an anatomically difficult location (middle cerebral artery bifurcation) or obscured by adjacent hematoma. Two large aneurysms were depicted as undersized by IA-DSA owing to the presence of intramural thrombus shown by MRA axial source data. IA-DSA received the highest scores overall and in three of the four subgroups. Three-dimensional isosurface reconstructions scored higher than did IA-DSA for depiction of the aneurysm neck, although this difference was not significant. The MPR and 3D-isosurface images were comparable to those of IA-DSA in all categories. MPR images were particularly useful for defining branch vessels and the aneurysm neck. MIP images scored poorly in all subgroups (P < .005) compared with IA-DSA findings, except for in aneurysm detection. Source data images were significantly inferior to those of IA-DSA in all categories (P < .005). MRA is currently inferior to IA-DSA in pretreatment assessment of intracranial aneurysms, and can miss small lesions (<3 mm). It can, however, provide complementary information to IA-DSA, particularly in anatomically complex areas or in the presence of intramural thrombus. If MRA is used in aneurysm assessment, a meticulous technique with reference to both axial source data and MPR is mandatory. The axial source data should not be interpreted in isolation. Three-dimensional isosurface images are comparable to those of IA-DSA and are more reliable than are MIP images, which should be interpreted with caution."}
{"id": "11030125", "title": "Strategy for reduction of stroke incidence in coronary bypass patients with cerebral lesions. Early results and mid-term morbidity using pulsatile perfusion.", "content": "Strategy for reduction of stroke incidence in coronary bypass patients with cerebral lesions. Early results and mid-term morbidity using pulsatile perfusion. Cerebral complication is an important factor affecting the outcome after coronary artery bypass surgery under cardiopulmonary bypass. One of the causes for cerebral complication is preoperative cerebrovascular stenotic lesion. Here, we have studied the effect of pulsatile perfusion on the rate of cerebral complication due to a cerebrovascular lesion in patients undergoing coronary arterial bypass graft under cardiopulmonary bypass. 261 consecutive elective patients underwent operation using cardiopulmonary bypass for management of the atherosclerotic ascending aorta. Group 1 consisted of 62 patients with a cerebrovascular stenotic lesion (> or = 75%) identified on a magnetic resonance angiogram or multiple cerebral infarction diagnosed using a computer tomogram. Group 2 consisted of 199 patients diagnosed with no significant cerebral lesion. In Group 1, the systolic blood pressure during cardiopulmonary bypass was maintained at a level of 80 mmHg by means of pulsatile flow. In Group 2, non-pulsatile perfusion was used as usual. The overall hospital mortality was 1.5%, and no mortality was caused by a cerebral event. Only one patient in Group 1 suffered from temporary hemiparalysis. A cerebral complication occurred in only 1.6% in Group 1, and 0.4% overall. The actuarial freedom from cerebrovascular accident after 54 months was 84.4% in Group 1, and 96.2% in Group 2 (p = 0.0011). Management of the atherosclerotic ascending aorta and the use of pulsatile perfusion were helpful in preventing cerebral injury during CABG."}
{"id": "11024512", "title": "Interhemispheric subdural hematoma caused by a ruptured internal carotid artery aneurysm: case report.", "content": "Interhemispheric subdural hematoma caused by a ruptured internal carotid artery aneurysm: case report. Interhemispheric subdural hematoma (ISH) usually occurs after head trauma; nontraumatic ISH is extremely rare. The authors describe a 62-year-old male presenting with severe headache and ptosis on the left side. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging disclosed a hematoma in the interhemispheric subdural space without subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography revealed an aneurysm arising from the left internal carotid-posterior communicating artery (IC-PC) junction. The patient underwent emergency clipping of the aneurysm and was discharged without neurological deficit. Ruptured aneurysms resulting in ISH without subarachnoid hemorrhage have been reported in only a few cases; this is the second case to describe the association of a ruptured IC-PC aneurysm with an ISH. The etiology of ISH formation due to ruptured aneurysms and the diagnosis are discussed."}
{"id": "11024510", "title": "Distal superior cerebellar artery aneurysm in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus: case report.", "content": "Distal superior cerebellar artery aneurysm in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus: case report. The authors describe a case of ruptured distal superior cerebellar artery (SCA) aneurysm in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). A 31-year-old female who had been treated for SLE for 13 years presented with a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography demonstrated an aneurysm arising from the cisternal portion of the left superior cerebellar artery. The patient underwent early endovascular coil embolization and was discharged from our hospital without neurological deficit. Aneurysms arising from peripheral segments of cerebellar arteries are rare, and delayed surgical clipping has been recommended for these lesions. In addition, the outcomes of SLE patients with ruptured cerebral aneurysms are reported to be very poor due to the systemic complications of SLE. However, our patient had a favorable outcome with early endovascular treatment for the ruptured aneurysm and with appropriate medical treatment for the accompanying SLE. Therefore, early endovascular coil embolization is worthy of consideration among the options for therapeutic intervention in these conditions."}
{"id": "11024509", "title": "Ruptured intracranial aneurysm in an adolescent with Alport's syndrome--a new expression of type IV collagenopathy: case report.", "content": "Ruptured intracranial aneurysm in an adolescent with Alport's syndrome--a new expression of type IV collagenopathy: case report. Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage is uncommon in the pediatric and adolescent age groups. Collagenopathies, particularly of collagen type III and IV, have been recognized in the pathogenesis of intracranial (i.c.) aneurysms in recent studies of cerebrovascular immunoreactivity and the molecular architecture of the walls of cerebral blood vessels. Alport's syndrome is a genetic disease characterized by imperfect synthesis of type IV collagen leading to sensorineural hearing loss and hematuria. The hematuria results from an abnormal synthesis of the type IV collagen of the glomerular basement membrane. After a motor vehicle accident, this 14-year-old male driver presented with diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage confirmed by computerized tomography. Subsequent cerebral angiography revealed a left carotid artery bifurcation aneurysm. A retrospective review of the patient's history disclosed renal biopsy-proven hereditary Alport's syndrome. The patient underwent left pterional craniotomy and clipping of the aneurysm, which had clearly ruptured. The authors present the first clinical observation of a ruptured cerebral aneurysm in an adolescent male with Alport's syndrome. In this case the type IV collagenopathy of Alport's syndrome may have contributed to the genesis of this adolescent's aneurysm. Intracranial aneurysms may be more common in the population of collagenopathies than previously suspected and non-invasive screening may be appropriate."}
{"id": "10979263", "title": "Intracerebral hemorrhage from a ruptured pseudoaneurysm after STA-MCA anastomosis--case report.", "content": "Intracerebral hemorrhage from a ruptured pseudoaneurysm after STA-MCA anastomosis--case report. A 43-year-old hypertensive male developed a pseudoaneurysm at the site of a superficial temporal artery (STA)-middle cerebral artery (MCA) anastomosis, causing massive intracerebral hemorrhage 5 years after the operation. He first experienced repeated transient ischemic attacks, and cerebral angiography disclosed complete occlusion in the cervical portion of the left internal carotid artery. STA-MCA anastomosis was performed, and the ischemic attacks stopped. Postoperative angiography confirmed patency of the anastomosis and good filling of the cortical branches of the left MCA. Five years after surgery, the patient suffered sudden onset of generalized convulsions and consciousness disturbance. Computed tomography disclosed a massive intracerebral hemorrhage in the left frontoparietal region, and angiography revealed an aneurysmal dilatation at the site of the anastomosis that was not seen before. Emergency evacuation of the hematoma and clipping of the aneurysmal dilatation were performed. The patient recovered well and became ambulatory. Histological examination of the surgical specimen showed collagen tissue, indicating a pseudoaneurysm. Patients who undergo STA-MCA anastomosis, especially hypertensive patients, should be followed up by repeated magnetic resonance angiography to confirm the patency of the anastomosis and cerebral perfusion, and to detect the formation of pseudoaneurysms at the anastomosis site, which can cause fatal bleeding."}
{"id": "10975539", "title": "Endovascular treatment of a \"blister-like\" aneurysm of the internal carotid artery.", "content": "Endovascular treatment of a \"blister-like\" aneurysm of the internal carotid artery. \"Blister-like\" aneurysms of the supraclinoid internal carotid artery have recently been recognized as having unique pathological and clinical features. Little is known regarding their optimal treatment modality. We report a case of a \"blister-like\" aneurysm of the internal carotid artery treated with Guglielmi detachable coil (GDC) embolization. A 55-year-old man presented with a Hunt & Hess grade II subarachnoid hemorrhage. Computed tomography revealed diffuse subarachnoid blood. Cerebral angiography demonstrated a broad-based bulge on the medial wall of the right distal internal carotid artery. The patient was taken to the operating room and underwent a right pterional craniotomy and wrapping of this unclippable aneurysm. On postoperative day 11, he developed signs of vasospasm, and repeat angiography showed remarkable growth of the aneurysm. The aneurysm was believed to be amenable to endovascular therapy and was treated by GDC embolization. The patient recovered well and remained neurologically intact on follow-up examinations. Repeat cerebral angiography was performed three and nine months following his initial presentation and revealed a significant aneurysm neck remnant. This neck remnant was treated by repeat GDC embolization 13 months following his subarachnoid hemorrhage. \"Blister-like\" aneurysms of the internal carotid artery are important to recognize and are difficult to manage using traditional surgical approaches. Early repeated cerebral angiography is indicated and, where appropriate, endovascular therapy should be considered in the management of these patients."}
{"id": "10971665", "title": "Case reports: postpartum cerebral angiopathy in a patient with chronic migraine with aura.", "content": "Case reports: postpartum cerebral angiopathy in a patient with chronic migraine with aura. A 25-year-old woman with a history of chronic severe migraine with aura presented in an apoplectic state 1 week after the delivery of her third child. She developed a severe headache and within hours lapsed into a coma. A CT scan of the brain showed cerebral edema and an occipital hemorrhage. A four-vessel angiogram showed diffuse arterial narrowing of all the intracranial vessels with segmental narrowing of the suprasellar portion of the internal carotid arteries bilaterally. She had no risk factors for stroke or vasculitis. Her pregnancy and delivery were uneventful with no preeclampsia or eclampsia. Apart from ergometrine at the time of the delivery, no vasoconstrictor drugs were used. She recovered spontaneously. Serial CT scans of the brain demonstrated resolution of the edema and hemorrhage with the development of cortical and watershed infarcts. A repeat cerebral angiogram was normal. She was, therefore, diagnosed as having suffered from postpartum cerebral angiopathy, a form of reversible cerebral vasoconstriction, called the Call or Call-Fleming syndrome. The relationship between migraine and postpartum angiopathy in the development of reversible cerebral vasoconstriction is discussed."}
{"id": "10942023", "title": "Fenestration of the posteroinferior cerebellar artery: case report.", "content": "Fenestration of the posteroinferior cerebellar artery: case report. Fenestrations of cerebral arteries are rare, but very important to diagnose given their high association with saccular aneurysms. We present the first reported case of a fenestration of the posteroinferior cerebellar artery (PICA). A 62-year-old man who presented with a subarachnoid hemorrhage underwent repeated four-vessel cerebral angiography. An isolated right PICA abnormality consistent with a dissection or fenestration was revealed. The patient underwent surgical exploration of his PICA, which confirmed a PICA fenestration without an associated saccular aneurysm. The fenestration was wrapped with cotton. Our case report illustrates the novel anatomic finding of a fenestration of the PICA. Knowledge of this entity would be helpful in the differential diagnosis of a posterior fossa subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "10940422", "title": "Surgical resection of a cerebral arteriovenous malformation for treatment of superficial siderosis: case report.", "content": "Surgical resection of a cerebral arteriovenous malformation for treatment of superficial siderosis: case report. To our knowledge, there are only two reported cases of cerebral arteriovenous malformation associated with superficial siderosis. In both cases, the patients were asymptomatic and were discovered on retrospective review of magnetic resonance imaging. We describe a case of superficial siderosis in a 47-year-old male with a remote history of closed head injury that presented with progressive hearing loss, cerebellar ataxia, and urinary incontinence. Lumbar puncture was indicative of active subarachnoid bleeding. Cerebral angiography revealed a small vascular malformation that was resected. Pathological examination confirmed the diagnosis of the arteriovenous malformation. Six months after surgery the patient is neurologically stable with no further progression of clinical signs or symptoms. We report the first case of surgical resection of an intracranial arteriovenous malformation for the treatment of superficial siderosis. We emphasize the necessity of a detailed evaluation when superficial siderosis is suspected to localize and resect potential bleeding sources, because the disease is progressive and often irreversible."}
{"id": "10940421", "title": "Distal anterior choroidal artery aneurysm associated with an arteriovenous malformation. Intraoperative localization and treatment.", "content": "Distal anterior choroidal artery aneurysm associated with an arteriovenous malformation. Intraoperative localization and treatment. Distal anterior choroidal artery aneurysms are rare. The outcome of patients with distal anterior choroidal artery aneurysms has been poor, and the treatment of such aneurysms is surgically challenging. The authors describe the case of an 8-year-old girl with a ruptured distal anterior choroidal artery aneurysm associated with an arteriovenous malformation (AVM). The patient experienced sudden onset of headache and vomiting. Computed tomography revealed an intraventricular haemorrhage, and cerebral angiography demonstrated an aneurysm arising from the distal portion of the right anterior choroidal artery. The patient also had an AVM in the ipsilateral temporal lobe fed by the branches of the middle cerebral artery. A right frontotemporal craniotomy was performed with the aid of intraoperative angiography to eliminate both the AVM and the aneurysm. Intraoperative angiography was helpful in confirming the complete removal of the AVM and in accurate localization of the small and deeply placed distal anterior choroidal artery aneurysm. Both the AVM and the aneurysm were successfully treated and the patient was discharged without any neurological deficits. This case is the youngest reported patient with a distal anterior choroidal artery aneurysm. This report is also the first to describe an association of such an aneurysm with an AVM. The etiology of the aneurysm formation in this case and surgical strategy for deeply placed vascular lesions are discussed."}
{"id": "10935245", "title": "[Moyamoya disease and primary intraventricular hemorrhage in an adult patient. A case report].", "content": "[Moyamoya disease and primary intraventricular hemorrhage in an adult patient. A case report]. Moyamoya disease is generally considered to be paediatric cerebrovascular pathology, but in some cases the symptoms are seen in adults. Primary intraventricular hemorrhage, as a consequence of this disorder, is rare. One should be clear as to the diagnostic and neuroimaging criteria of 'definite moyamoya disease'. A 52 year old man with a family history of two brothers having died of hemorrhagic cerebrovascular accidents and a personal history of headaches for many years and arterial hypertension. He was sent to us with stroke, headache, neck stiffness+4, disorientation in time and space and stuporous. On cranial CAT scan a small left intraventricular subependymal hemorrhage and intraventricular hemorrhage were seen. Cerebral angiography showed the angiographic pattern of moyamoya disease and the arterial circulation of the posterior territory was highly developed and thus supplemented the blood supply to the brain. In few of the rare occurrence of this disorder in our setting and as a cause of primary intraventricular hemorrhage, we reviewed certain neuroradiological peculiarities of interest, such as the evolution, diagnostic criteria, angiographic classification and differential diagnosis of the moyamoya syndrome in relation to our case."}
{"id": "10927905", "title": "Bilateral simultaneous thalamic hemorrhages--case report.", "content": "Bilateral simultaneous thalamic hemorrhages--case report. A 54-year-old male presented with bilateral simultaneous thalamic hemorrhages manifesting as semicoma, tetraplegia, and skew deviation. Magnetic resonance imaging and angiography demonstrated no lesions responsible for the bleeding. Coagulant factors were within normal ranges. The cause of these hemorrhages was considered to be hypertension. Conservative treatment was performed. He was discharged with serious neurological deficits."}
{"id": "10927903", "title": "Sigmoid sinus thrombosis after mild closed head injury in an infant: diagnosis by magnetic resonance imaging in the acute phase--case report.", "content": "Sigmoid sinus thrombosis after mild closed head injury in an infant: diagnosis by magnetic resonance imaging in the acute phase--case report. Intracranial sinus thrombosis following a mild closed head injury without a skull fracture or intracranial hematoma is extremely rare. A 23-month-old girl presented with vomiting and gait ataxia 1 day after occipital trauma. Computed tomography revealed a slightly increased density area in the region of the left sigmoid sinus. T1-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging demonstrated an isointense area in the left sigmoid sinus and T2-weighted imaging showed a hyperintense area reflecting the characteristics of oxyhemoglobin. MR angiography and cerebral angiography indicated occlusion of the left sigmoid sinus. After 4 days of conservative treatment, her symptoms subsided completely. Follow-up MR angiography and cerebral angiography showed recanalization of the sigmoid sinus. The MR images and MR angiograms were useful for both early diagnosis and follow-up. Treatment should reflect the severity of individual cases, and early diagnosis will help achieve a good outcome."}
{"id": "10891982", "title": "Usefulness of triphasic perfusion computed tomography for intravenous thrombolysis with tissue-type plasminogen activator in acute ischemic stroke.", "content": "Usefulness of triphasic perfusion computed tomography for intravenous thrombolysis with tissue-type plasminogen activator in acute ischemic stroke. Intravenous thrombolysis for acute ischemic stroke has been investigated in several clinical trials without enough information on collateral blood flow and perfusion deficit in the ischemic areas. The therapeutic time window varies from patient to patient depending on these factors. Triphasic perfusion computed tomography (TPCT) can provide this information as reliably as conventional angiography. To assess the safety and efficacy of thrombolysis within 3 or 7 hours of stroke onset according to the extent of perfusion deficit on TPCT. In 46 patients with acute middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory stroke, TPCT was performed with power injector-controlled, intravenous administration of contrast media after taking precontrast CT scans. Sequential scans of early, middle, and late phases were performed. The entire procedure took 5 minutes. Depending on collateral blood flow, the perfusion deficit on TPCT was graded as \"severe perfusion deficit\" or \"moderate perfusion deficit.\" Twenty-nine patients were excluded based on clinical, laboratory, and TPCT findings. Seventeen patients were treated with an intravenous recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator, 0.9 mg/kg. The 17 treated patients were divided into 2 groups: group 1 with small severe perfusion deficit (</=33% of the presumed MCA territory) and group 2 with medium-sized severe perfusion deficit (>33% but </=50% of the presumed MCA territory). The 13 patients in group 1 were treated within 7 hours of onset and the 4 patients in group 2 were treated within 3 hours. Initial mean National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score was 12.1 (range, 6.0-20.0) in group 1 and 19.0 (range, 18.0-21. 0) in group 2. The initial score correlated better with the total extent of moderate perfusion deficit and severe perfusion deficit than that of severe perfusion deficit alone. Mean time lapse to thrombolysis was 4.2 hours (range, 1.5-7.0 hours) in group 1 and 2.2 hours (range, 1.9-2.5 hours) in group 2. Eight patients (47%), 7 from group 1 and 1 from group 2, improved by 4 points or more from baseline Stroke Scale score within 24 hours of thrombolysis. Patients with moderate perfusion deficit of 50% or more of MCA territory (n = 4) had a better chance of early improvement than did those (n = 13) with moderate perfusion deficit of less than 50% (4 of 4 vs 4 of 13). No fatal hemorrhage occurred. Only 1 patient (6%) had symptomatic small basal ganglia hemorrhage after thrombolysis. Thrombolysis can be safely performed within 3 or 7 hours of stroke onset according to the extent of severe perfusion deficit on TPCT. A larger extent of moderate perfusion deficit on TPCT may predict early improvement after thrombolysis."}
{"id": "10891981", "title": "Triphasic perfusion computed tomography in acute middle cerebral artery stroke: a correlation with angiographic findings.", "content": "Triphasic perfusion computed tomography in acute middle cerebral artery stroke: a correlation with angiographic findings. To evaluate the usefulness of triphasic perfusion computed tomography (TPCT) in diagnosing middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion and in assessing the perfusion deficit and collateral circulation in patients with acute ischemic stroke. Conventional angiography is the criterion standard for the diagnosis of MCA occlusion and for the assessment of perfusion deficit and collateral blood supply. The risk of hemorrhagic transformation after recanalization of occluded arteries by thrombolytic therapy is considered high when pretherapeutic residual flow is markedly reduced. In 8 patients within 3 hours of onset of acute MCA stroke, precontrast computed tomographic scans were taken, and then TPCT was performed after power-injector controlled intravenous administration of contrast media. Sequential images of early, middle, and late phases were obtained. The whole procedure took 5 minutes. Perfusion deficit on TPCT was graded as \"severe\" or \"moderate,\" depending on the state of collateral flow. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) was performed in all patients within 6 hours of acute stroke. Direct intra-arterial urokinase infusion was begun immediately after the angiographic superselection of the MCA occlusion site in 6 of the 8 patients within 7 hours of onset (range, 4.3-6.2 hours). The DSA findings showed occlusion of the MCA stem (n = 1) and at the bifurcation (n = 4). The sites of proximal MCA occlusion could be identified on the early and middle images of TPCT in all 5 patients. On DSA findings, all 8 patients had a zone of perfusion deficit with markedly slow leptomeningeal collaterals and a zone of perfusion deficit with no collaterals. The zone of severe perfusion deficit on TPCT corresponded to the zone of perfusion deficit with no or few collaterals on angiography, and the zone of moderate perfusion deficit on TPCT corresponded to that of perfusion deficit with markedly slow leptomeningeal collaterals. Early parenchymal hypoattenuation on precontrast computed tomography was confined to the zone of severe perfusion deficit on TPCT. The initial National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score correlated better with the total extent of severe perfusion deficit and moderate perfusion deficit on TPCT than that of severe perfusion deficit alone. After direct intra-arterial thrombolysis within 7 hours of onset, symptomatic hemorrhagic transformation did not develop in 4 patients with small severe perfusion deficit (33% or less of the presumed MCA territory). However, the remaining 2 patients with large severe perfusion deficit (more than 50% of the presumed MCA territory) deteriorated to death with hemorrhagic transformation. Triphasic perfusion computed tomography is useful for diagnosing proximal MCA occlusion and assessing perfusion deficit and collateral circulation as reliably as DSA. The zone of severe perfusion deficit on TPCT may be presumed to be the ischemic core, and that of moderate perfusion deficit, the penumbra zone. Triphasic perfusion computed tomography may be used as a rapid and noninvasive tool to make thrombolysis safer."}
{"id": "10884463", "title": "Impact of cerebral microcirculatory changes on cerebral blood flow during cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Impact of cerebral microcirculatory changes on cerebral blood flow during cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral microcirculatory changes during cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) are still controversial and uncertain. The aim of this study was to investigate the changes of cerebral microcirculation during cerebral vasospasm and to clarify the roles of microcirculatory disturbances in cerebral ischemia by measuring cerebral circulation time (CCT) and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). In 24 cases with aneurysmal SAH, rCBF studies by single-photon emission CT and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) were performed on the same day between 5 and 7 days after SAH and/or within 4 hours after the onset of delayed ischemic neurological deficits. CCT was obtained by analyzing the time-density curve of the contrast media on DSA images and was divided into proximal CCT, which was the circulation time through the extraparenchymal large arteries, and peripheral CCT, which was the circulation time through the intraparenchymal small vessels. They were analyzed in association with rCBF and angiographic vasospasm. Severe angiographic vasospasm statistically decreased rCBF, and correlation between the degree of angiographic vasospasm and rCBF was seen (r=0.429, P=0.0006). Peripheral CCT showed strong inverse correlation with rCBF (r=-0.767, P<0.0001). Even in none/mild or moderate angiographic vasospasm, prolonged peripheral CCT was clearly associated with decreased rCBF. In addition to the marked luminal narrowing of large arteries detected as severe angiographic vasospasm, microcirculatory changes detected as prolonged peripheral CCT affected cerebral ischemia during cerebral vasospasm. These results suggested that impaired autoregulatory vasodilation or decreased luminal caliber in intraparenchymal vessels may take part in cerebral ischemia during cerebral vasospasm."}
{"id": "10883918", "title": "Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis following subarachnoid hemorrhage. Case report.", "content": "Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis following subarachnoid hemorrhage. Case report. The authors present a case of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HITT) that occurred after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), and they review the relevant literature. An immune-mediated syndrome, HITT is characterized by moderate thrombocytopenia and paradoxical vascular thromboses. Although it has been estimated in prospective studies that HITT occurs in between 1 and 3% of patients receiving heparin, it is underrecognized in the neurosurgical literature. In the present case, a 49-year-old woman underwent clipping of a right posterior communicating artery aneurysm after suffering a Hunt and Hess Grade III SAH. She had an uncomplicated postoperative course with good clip positioning and no vasospasm observed on a cerebral angiogram obtained on Day 7. On Day 23, the patient developed a right hemiparesis and experienced a grand mal seizure. A head computerized tomography scan revealed a hemorrhagic infarct in the left middle cerebral artery distribution. Repeated cerebral angiograms did not show vasospasm. She was thrombocytopenic (platelet count as low as 46 x 10(9)/L on Day 28 compared with 213 x 10(9)/L on Day 1) and had been receiving heparin flushes to maintain intravenous catheter patency. An assay for HITT-associated antibodies was positive. The heparin flushes were discontinued and the platelet count recovered (121 x 10(9)/L). She improved neurologically, but was left with a significant right hemiparesis at discharge. This patient had assay-proven heparin-induced thrombocytopenia despite minimal exposure to heparin. Because there was no evidence of vasospasm or other factors to account for her delayed hemorrhagic infarction, an HITT-related disorder seemed most likely. Despite a large body of literature describing HITT in nonneurosurgical patients, only three previous neurosurgical cases have been published. This case report may serve to heighten awareness of this disorder."}
{"id": "10875129", "title": "[A 59-year-old woman with recurrent convulsive seizures, cerebral infarctions, dementia, and intracranial calcifications].", "content": "[A 59-year-old woman with recurrent convulsive seizures, cerebral infarctions, dementia, and intracranial calcifications]. A 59-year-old woman with recurrent seizures and progressive dementia is reported. Her past history and familial history were unremarkable. She became short-tempered at 56 years old (Oct. 1991). She had the first seizure attack and was admitted to a hospital at March 4, 1993, with prolonged disturbance of consciousness and subsequent mental deterioration. Her brain CT showed multiple small calcifications in the subcortical white matter and pons. The laboratory data including blood count, serum chemistry, serological studies and CSF was normal. MRI and digital subtraction angiography of the cranial vessels were unremarkable. There was a decrease in accumulation in the right cerebral hemisphere on 123I IMP SPECT. Despite anti-convulsant therapy, she had recurrent seizures several times, with gradual worsening of her mental state. She had the latest seizure attack and was transferred to Matsusaka Chuo Hospital, on August 29, 1993. After the attack she had been in the apallic state, and died on Nov. 13, 1995. This case was discussed in a neurological CPC. The discussants suggested that the isolated angiitis of the central nervous system caused secondary seizures and cerebral infarctions. Post-mortem examination revealed the CNS findings of vasculitis at various stages, calcification or mineralization mainly in the subcortical white matter and pons, massive cerebral infarctions with massive exudate, fresh and old small bleedings and exudate around the inflamed or calcified vessels. The white matter degeneration resembled that of Binswanger leukoencephalopathy. The final pathological diagnosis was isolated angiitis of the central nervous system since there was no inflammatory changes or atherosclerotic change of the blood vessels in the extracranial organs."}
{"id": "10875112", "title": "[Agenesis of the right internal carotid artery associated with complicated anastomosis of middle cerebral artery: a case report].", "content": "[Agenesis of the right internal carotid artery associated with complicated anastomosis of middle cerebral artery: a case report]. A 57-year-old female was admitted to our hospital because of headache, nausea, and vomiting. Head CT scan demonstrated subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography showed the absence of the right internal carotid artery, and skull base CT of the bone window level revealed the absence of the right carotid canal. The right middle cerebral artery (MCA) and anterior cerebral artery (ACA) were opacified from the left internal carotid artery. The right A1 portion was hypoplastic and the distal portion of the right M1 portion was replaced by several minute complicated anastomotic vessels connected to the right M2 portion. The right MCA territory was mainly supplied by collateral flow from the right ACA and the right posterior cerebral artery via the leptomeningeal anastomosis. These was neither aneurysm nor arteriovenous malformation. The second angiography, 1 week after the initial angiography, showed the same hemodynamic pattern and aneurysms were not found. We diagnosed the patient as agenesis of the right internal carotid artery and the etiology of subarachnoid hemorrhage was suspected to be a rupture of the anastomotic vessels between the right M1 and M2. She was discharged on the 21st hospital day without any neurological deficit."}
{"id": "10871004", "title": "CT angiography for the detection of cerebral vasospasm in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "CT angiography for the detection of cerebral vasospasm in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is the standard of reference for detecting cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). CT angiography (CTA) is a relatively recent method for depicting the intracranial arterial vasculature. The purpose of this study was to compare CTA and DSA in the detection and quantification of cerebral vasospasm. Seventeen patients with SAH underwent initial CTA with or without DSA and follow-up CTA and DSA. The follow-up CTA and DSA studies were performed within 24 hours of each other and 5 to 10 days after SAH. Maximum intensity projection images were produced for each CTA. Six arterial locations were examined for spasm: the suprasellar internal carotid artery (ICA), the M1 and M2 segments of the middle cerebral artery, the A1 and A2 segments of the anterior cerebral artery, and the basilar artery. Vasospasm was categorized as none, mild (<30% luminal reduction), moderate (30% to 50% reduction), or severe (>50% reduction). The overall correlation between CTA and DSA was 0.757, but was better for proximal than distal locations (0.88-1.00 versus 0.152-0.446). Agreement between CTA and DSA was greater for no spasm (92%) and severe spasm (100%) than for mild (57%) or moderate (64%) spasm. CTA was highly accurate for no spasm or severe spasm in proximal locations (96%, and 100%, respectively); it was less accurate (90% and 95%, respectively) for mild or moderate spasm in these locations. For distal locations, the accuracy for absent, mild, moderate, or severe spasm was 78%, 81%, 94%, and 100%, respectively. CTA is highly sensitive, specific, and accurate in detecting no spasm or severe cerebral vasospasm in proximal arterial locations; it is less accurate for detecting mild and moderate spasm in distal locations."}
{"id": "10866072", "title": "Neurologic complications of cerebral angiography. A retrospective study of complication rate and patient risk factors.", "content": "Neurologic complications of cerebral angiography. A retrospective study of complication rate and patient risk factors. To evaluate the neurologic complication rate and individual patient risk factors in cerebral angiographies using the digital subtraction angiography (DSA) technique and non-ionic contrast media in a department with many radiologists in training. A retrospective study of 483 cerebral angiographic examinations in 454 patients was carried out. The following parameters were registered: sex and age of the patient, indication for the angiography, cerebral CT diagnosis, laboratory data, type of anesthesia, type of angiographic procedure, level of training of the angiographer, number of participating angiographers, type of catheters, number of vessels catheterized, number of exposures, use of compression series, total amount of contrast media, diagnosis of the angiogram, complications and duration of complications. The frequency of all neurologic complications was 2.3%, the frequency of persistent neurologic deficits was 0.4%. Non-neurologic complications were observed in 14.7% of the examinations. Of all the parameters studied, the only factor that significantly increased neurologic risk was a normal angiogram, a finding we are inclined to ascribe to chance. Performance of a compression series showed a trend towards increasing the neurologic risk. This study showed a complication rate of persistent neurologic deficits of 0.4% which is in accordance with other recent reports. A compression series should not be performed routinely, but only on special indication. This study confirms the low risk of cerebral angiography when performed in a neuroradiological department using the DSA technique and non-ionic contrast media."}
{"id": "10849036", "title": "Acute intracranial hemorrhage caused by acupuncture.", "content": "Acute intracranial hemorrhage caused by acupuncture. A 44-year-old Chinese man developed severe occipital headache, nausea, and vomiting during acupuncture treatment of the posterior neck for chronic neck pain. Computed tomography of the head showed hemorrhage in the fourth, third, and lateral ventricles. A lumbar puncture confirmed the presence of blood. Magnetic resonance angiography with gadolinium did not reveal any saccular aneurysms or arteriovenous malformations. The patient's headache resolved over a period of 28 days without any neurological deficits. Acupuncture of the posterior neck can cause acute intracranial hemorrhage."}
{"id": "10847654", "title": "HELLP syndrome with haemaglobin vasospasm.", "content": "HELLP syndrome with haemaglobin vasospasm. The syndrome of haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelets (HELLP syndrome) is a life threatening, severe complication of pre-eclampsia with typical laboratory findings. An unusual case of a 36-year-old woman with HELLP syndrome and the initial complication of intracerebral haemorrhage is presented. The diagnosis of HELLP syndrome was confirmed by elevated liver enzymes, low platelets, increased total bilirubin and increased lactate dehydrogenase. The intracranial haematoma was removed with good neurological recovery ensuing. However, this case was complicated by cerebral vasospasm on the eleventh day, confirmed by cerebral angiography and computer tomographic findings. The patient died from brain swelling. Possible vasospam should be considered during the treatment of patients with HELLP syndrome."}
{"id": "10830193", "title": "Nontraumatic brain hemorrhage in children: etiology and presentation.", "content": "Nontraumatic brain hemorrhage in children: etiology and presentation. The clinical and radiographic findings of 68 children and adolescents with nontraumatic intraparenchymal brain hemorrhage were analyzed retrospectively. There were 43 boys and 25 girls, and the average age was 7.1 years (range, 3 months to 18 years). The most common presenting symptom was a combination of headache or vomiting (40 cases, or 58.8%). Hemiparesis was the major presenting sign in 11 (16.2%) of the children, seizures occurred in 25 (36.8%) patients, and 6 (8.8%) children were irritable. Only 2 (2.9%) children were comatose at presentation. One or more risk factors for hemorrhage were found in 61 (89.7%) of 68 children. A third (23 cases, or 33.8%) had an arteriovenous malformation or fistula; altogether 29 (42.6%) children had some type of congenital vascular anomaly. Hematologic or coagulation disorders were present in 22 (32.4%) patients, and 9 (13.2%) patients had brain tumors. Hemorrhage could not be attributed to systemic hypertension in any child. The likelihood of establishing the cause of bleeding was greater when evaluation included cerebral angiography (97.3% versus 80.4% without angiography). Half (34 cases, or 50.0%) of the patients regained normal neurologic function. Six (8.8%) patients died, either directly or partly as a consequence of the hemorrhage. The remaining patients had various neurologic sequelae, including 17 (25.0%) with hemiparesis, 5 (7.4%) with aphasia, 7 (10.3%) with epileptic seizures, and 3 (4.4%) with hydrocephalus. More detailed follow-up studies are needed to obtain more information about the frequency of cognitive sequelae."}
{"id": "10819267", "title": "Cerebral aneurysm associated with an anomalous hyperplastic anterior choroidal artery.", "content": "Cerebral aneurysm associated with an anomalous hyperplastic anterior choroidal artery. An unruptured internal carotid artery (ICA) aneurysm arising at the origin of a hyperplastic anomalous AchoA was identified together with a second unruptured middle cerebral artery aneurysm during angiography performed to investigate a striatal and intraventricular haemorrhage in a 55-years-old woman. The anomalous hyperplastic AchoA supplied the left temporal and occipital lobes, and the aneurysm arose proximal to its origin. The patient underwent clipping of the aneurysms, and intra-operative observation revealed that several perforating branches arose directly from the ICA between the AchoA and the ICA bifurcation."}
{"id": "10810973", "title": "Ruptured cerebral aneurysm not detected by magnetic resonance angiography in juvenile autosomal dominant polycystic kidney.", "content": "Ruptured cerebral aneurysm not detected by magnetic resonance angiography in juvenile autosomal dominant polycystic kidney. Recently, it has been reported that magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is useful for screening and following up cerebral aneurysms in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). However, a patient was encountered with a ruptured cerebral aneurysm that was not detected by routine MRA. The patient, a 29-year-old man with ADPKD, was followed up at our hospital for more than 5 years. Ten months after an MRA examination, he suddenly developed severe headache. Brain computed tomography revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage. Digital subtraction angiography detected an aneurysm with a diameter of approximately 2 mm in the anterior communicating artery. Clipping of the aneurysm was immediately performed and he recovered without sequela after operation. Magnetic resonance angiography is useful to detect cerebral aneurysms, but it can not detect aneurysms measuring less than 4 mm."}
{"id": "10805325", "title": "New magnetic resonance imaging methods for cerebrovascular disease: emerging clinical applications.", "content": "New magnetic resonance imaging methods for cerebrovascular disease: emerging clinical applications. During the 1990s, novel magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques have emerged that allow the noninvasive and rapid assessment of normal brain functioning and cerebral pathophysiology. Some of these techniques, including diffusion-weighted imaging and perfusion-weighted imaging, have already been used extensively in specialized centers for the evaluation of patients with cerebrovascular disease. Evidence is now rapidly accumulating that both diffusion- and perfusion-weighted imaging, particularly when used in combination with high-speed MR angiography, will lead to improvements in the clinical management of acute stroke patients. Other novel MR techniques, such as spectroscopic imaging, diffusion tensor imaging, and blood oxygenation level-dependent functional MRI, have not yet assumed a definitive role in the diagnostic evaluation of cerebrovascular disease. However, they are promising research tools that provide noninvasive data about infarct evolution as well as mechanisms of stroke recovery. In this article, we review the basic principles underlying these novel MRI techniques and outline their current and anticipated future impact on the diagnosis and management of patients with cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "10804057", "title": "Ruptured intracranial mycotic aneurysm presenting as cerebral haemorrhage in an infant: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Ruptured intracranial mycotic aneurysm presenting as cerebral haemorrhage in an infant: case report and review of the literature. A 2-month-old male infant presented with intracranial haemorrhage caused by ruptured intracranial mycotic aneurysm. Computed tomography and cerebral selective angiography revealed a large haematoma in the left sylvian fissure and a mycotic aneurysm of a peripheral branch of the middle cerebral artery. Despite the successful surgical removal, the child did not recover from the initial brain injury and died 2 months later. There have been fewer than 10 reported cases of infantile mycotic aneurysms and its occurrence in the absence of infectious endocarditis is exceptionally rare."}
{"id": "10794291", "title": "Bleeding risk of cerebrovascular malformations in hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia.", "content": "Bleeding risk of cerebrovascular malformations in hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia. Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is a rare autosomal-dominant vascular dysplasia with a high prevalence of cerebrovascular malformations (CVMs), mostly manifested as arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). The natural history and bleeding risk of these CVMs is unknown. The authors investigated the risk of bleeding in conjunction with clinical and radiological features in patients with HHT and proven CVMs. Intravenous digital subtraction (DS) angiography was used to screen 196 patients with HHT for the presence of CVMs. Patients with abnormal results on DS angiography were asked to undergo a conventional cerebral angiographic study. All patients with a proven CVM were assessed by a neurologist. The bleeding risk was retrospectively and prospectively calculated for patients with AVMs only, as well as for the whole cohort of patients with CVMs. Twenty-four patients (12.2%; 16 female and eight male), aged 14 to 66 years (mean 35.4 years) with one or more CVMs were identified. Fifteen patients (62.5%) had a CVM and a pulmonary AVM. Eleven patients (45.8%) exhibited no neurological signs of their CVM; six (25%) had headache or migraine; four (16.7%) had seizures; and three (12.5%) had an intracranial hemorrhage. Twenty-two patients had at least one AVM (with a total of 28 AVMs), whereas two patients only had telangiectases. Twenty-seven AVMs were small (96%), 36% were located in eloquent areas of the brain, and 82% had superficial venous drainage. One third of the patients had multiple CVMs. The bleeding risk for patients with at least one AVM ranged from 0.41 to 0.72% per year, and for the whole cohort the range was 0.38 to 0.69% per year. Calculation of the bleeding risk as determined by lesion-years ranged from 0.36 to 0.56% per year for patients with AVMs and from 0.27 to 0.46% per year for all patients with CVMs. Patients with HHT have a high risk of harboring a CVM, especially in the presence of a pulmonary AVM. These CVMs are mostly low-grade AVMs (Spetzler-Martin Grade I or II), are frequently multiple, and have a lower risk of bleeding than that associated with sporadic AVMs. Female patients are more often affected than male patients. The inherent low sensitivity of DS angiography screening for CVMs may yield false negative results."}
{"id": "10774175", "title": "[Arteriovenous fistula associated with Staphylococcus aureus sepsis in a patient with Rendu-Osler-Weber syndrome].", "content": "[Arteriovenous fistula associated with Staphylococcus aureus sepsis in a patient with Rendu-Osler-Weber syndrome]. A 58-year-old man with a history of cerebral infarction and bleeding due to duodenal ulcer was admitted with fever and arthralgia. Methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) was isolated from his peripheral blood. Bacteremia with MSSA was diagnosed, and antibiotic therapy was started. However, chest X-ray films and computed tomographic scans disclosed mass shadows in both lungs accompanied by dilated vascular markings. Pulmonary arteriography and magnetic resonance angiography revealed the existence of arteriovenous fistulas in both lungs. Ga scintigraphy disclosed a hot spot in the left lower lobe, consistent with the location of one fistula. This indicated that the fistula might be the focus of MSSA sepsis. Because the patient also had telangiectasia in his gastric mucosa, oral cavity, and nasal cavity, he was given a diagnosis of Rendu-Osler-Weber syndrome."}
{"id": "10764255", "title": "False localization of rupture site in patients with multiple cerebral aneurysms and subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "False localization of rupture site in patients with multiple cerebral aneurysms and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and multiple intracranial aneurysms present a unique challenge to the neurosurgeon. Unless all aneurysms can be clipped through a single craniotomy, the surgeon must accurately determine which aneurysm has ruptured. Misjudgment may result in disastrous postoperative rebleeding from the untreated but true ruptured lesion. We assessed the risk of false localization of the rupture site and subsequent rebleeding and documented the problems in predicting the true rupture site when patients have multiple intracranial aneurysms. We reviewed the records of a consecutive series of 93 patients treated over a period of 12 years who presented with their first subarachnoid hemorrhage and who had multiple intracranial aneurysms. The rupture site was determined on the basis of computed tomographic and angiographic findings, and the supposed ruptured aneurysm was clipped within 2 days of hemorrhage in each patient. Additional aneurysms that could not be accessed in the same surgical session were operated on at a later stage. All patients' records were reviewed, and all computed tomographic scans and angiograms, including repeat studies performed in some patients, were retrospectively reevaluated by the authors, who had no knowledge of the patients' clinical information. The location of the aneurysm that ruptured was verified at the time of surgery or during the autopsy in 76 patients (82%). The aneurysm that ruptured was the one predicted as ruptured by the surgeon before surgery in 69 patients (91%) and in retrospect in 72 patients (95%). Five of the 6 patients in whom the ruptured aneurysm was not correctly identified were thought to have only a single aneurysm. Four patients rebled after surgery, and 2 patients died as a result of the rebleeding. In the reported series, the most common cause of rebleeding soon after aneurysm surgery was failure to obliterate the ruptured aneurysm, usually because it was missed on the initial angiogram. The results support not only meticulous radiological investigation of all intracranial arteries before surgery but also thorough surgical inspection of the target aneurysm in all cases of subarachnoid hemorrhage even after one candidate lesion has been discovered."}
{"id": "10746588", "title": "Cerebral sinus thrombosis diagnosed by MRI and MR venography in cancer patients.", "content": "Cerebral sinus thrombosis diagnosed by MRI and MR venography in cancer patients. To report the characteristics of cerebral sinus thrombosis (CST) in cancer patients diagnosed by MRI and MR venography (MRV). CST is a complication of cancer with multiple etiologies and variable symptoms at presentation. Most reports in cancer patients were before the use of MRI and MRV, which has simplified the diagnosis of CST. The neurology database at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center was used to identify cancer patients with a diagnosis of CST between January 1994 and April 1998. Twenty patients were identified. Nine had hematologic malignancies (HMs) and 11 had solid tumors (STs). The median interval from cancer diagnosis to presentation was 4 months for HMs and 20 months for STs. The most common symptom was headache. MRI and MRV correlated in all but three patients, and MRV was more sensitive in four patients. The most frequently involved cerebral sinus was the superior sagittal sinus. Multiple sinuses were affected in 8 of 19 patients. Five patients had a cerebral or subarachnoid hemorrhage and three had infarction. Disorders of coagulation were the most frequent etiology in patients with HM; compression or invasion of the cerebral sinus from dural/calvarial metastasis was the main cause in those with ST. Treatment was directed at the underlying cause. Ten of 20 patients improved clinically and 3 of 6 patients improved radiologically. MRI and MRV can diagnose CST accurately in cancer patients. Causes of CST depend on cancer type, and treatment varies with etiology. Most patients have a good outcome."}
{"id": "10745267", "title": "MR angiographic diagnosis of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.", "content": "MR angiographic diagnosis of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation is frequently associated with neurological complications, particularly intracerebral bleeds and infections. Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis has only rarely been reported following allogeneic transplants. We report three cases of cortical venous thrombosis following allografting for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Two patients received marrow from HLA-identical siblings and one from an unrelated donor. Two of the patients presented with grand mal seizures and one presented with a headache. No neurological abnormalities were found upon clinical examination and lumbar puncture was normal in all three cases. In two of the patients computed tomography (CT) of the brain was normal and in the third showed non-specific abnormalities. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with MR angiography (MRA) demonstrated cerebral venous sinus thrombosis in all three patients. In conclusion, cerebral venous sinus thrombosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis when neurological symptoms occur following allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. We therefore advocate the use of MRA for unexplained neurological symptoms post-allograft since without it cerebral venous sinus thrombosis may easily be missed."}
{"id": "10727486", "title": "Detection of intracranial aneurysms with unenhanced and echo contrast enhanced transcranial power Doppler.", "content": "Detection of intracranial aneurysms with unenhanced and echo contrast enhanced transcranial power Doppler. To assess transcranial power Doppler and the effect of an intravenous ultrasonic contrast agent for detecting intracranial aneurysms in patients admitted with a subarachnoid haemorrhage 203 patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage were examined with the operator blind to the results of the admission CT and subsequent digital subtraction angiogram (DSA). In 98 cases patients were imaged using unenhanced transcranial power Doppler, and in 105 cases, patients were imaged both using unenhanced and echo contrast enhanced (Levovist, Schering AG) transcranial power Doppler. DSA detected 168 intracranial aneurysms in 128 patients (24 patients had multiple lesions) and 75 patients had an aneurysm negative DSA. There was agreement between DSA and transcranial power Doppler in 87 intracranial aneurysms of which 20 were only detected after infusion of contrast agent. Without contrast infusion, transcranial power Doppler showed a sensitivity of 40% and specificity of 91%. A significant increase in detection was noted when using a contrast agent (chi(2) = 9.49, p<0.001). With a contrast study the sensitivity increase to 55% with a specificity of 83%. Intracranial aneurysm detection by transcranial power Doppler was significantly dependent on position using a contrast infusion (chi(2) = 15.87, p<0.05). A positive correlation was also found between the size of intracranial aneurysms measured by transcranial power Doppler and DSA (r = 0.55, p<0.05). The transcranial power Doppler sensitivity and specificity increased with larger aneurysms and reached 100% for intracranial aneurysms greater than 12 mm diameter. Detection by transcranial power Doppler was also dependent on morphology (chi(2) = 14.46, p<0.001). The detection of intracranial aneurysm by transcranial power Doppler is dependent on aneurysm location, size, and morphology and is enhanced with the use of an intravenous contrast agent."}
{"id": "10721523", "title": "[The three-dimensional CT angiography findings of ruptured aneurysms hardly detectable by repeated cerebral angiography].", "content": "[The three-dimensional CT angiography findings of ruptured aneurysms hardly detectable by repeated cerebral angiography]. We reported three cases of cerebral aneurysms hardly detectable by cerebral angiography, but easily detected by three-dimensional CT angiography (3D-CTA). These cases were ruptured aneurysms with subarachnoid hemorrhage. After detection of subarachnoid hemorrhage on CT scan, cerebral angiography was performed at first, but aneurysms were not detected. Subsequently 3D-CTA was carried out, and aneurysms were detected. In all cases, cerebral angiography was repeated, after the aneurysms had been found by 3D-CTA. This time aneurysms were all detected by cerebral angiography, but each case needed photographs from special direction. The aneurysms were small by usual cerebral angiography and they were almost invisible behind the artery near which they existed. 3D-CTA was very useful for detection of small aneurysms, but small perforating arteries around the aneurysms were invisible by 3D-CTA. To find these perforating arteries, cerebral angiography was needed."}
{"id": "10719870", "title": "Stereotactic radiosurgery for tentorial dural arteriovenous fistulae draining into the vein of Galen: report of two cases.", "content": "Stereotactic radiosurgery for tentorial dural arteriovenous fistulae draining into the vein of Galen: report of two cases. Treatment of tentorial dural arteriovenous fistulae (DAVFs) primarily draining into the vein of Galen remains a therapeutic challenge. We present two cases of ruptured galenic DAVFs that were successfully treated with gamma knife radiosurgery. Patient 1, a 66-year-old woman, experienced a sudden onset of headache and loss of consciousness. Neuroimaging studies revealed intraventricular hemorrhage and a DAVF with aneurysmal dilation of the vein of Galen. The DAVF was supplied by tentorial branches of the right meningohypophyseal artery and bilateral supracerebellar arteries, which drained directly into the vein of Galen. Patient 2, a 64-year-old woman, experienced subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography revealed a galenic DAVF at the falcotentorial junction, which was supplied by bilateral supracerebellar arteries. This patient had an aneurysm at the origin of the left supracerebellar artery. Both patients were treated with gamma knife radiosurgery. In each case, the fistula was exclusively targeted and a dose of more than 20 Gy was delivered. Complete obliteration of the fistula was confirmed 27 and 29 months after radiosurgery for Patients 1 and 2, respectively, whereas the normal venous structures of the galenic system were preserved. Gamma knife radiosurgery is an effective treatment modality for DAVFs primarily draining into the vein of Galen. Irradiation doses of more than 20 Gy, strictly limited to the fistulae, seem to be sufficient for successful obliteration of these high-risk vascular lesions, with minimal invasiveness."}
{"id": "10700512", "title": "Renal artery lesions in patients with moyamoya disease: angiographic findings.", "content": "Renal artery lesions in patients with moyamoya disease: angiographic findings. Renal artery lesions in moyamoya disease have been described sporadically in several case reports. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the angiographic findings of renal artery lesions in moyamoya disease and to determine the prevalence of renal artery lesions in patients with moyamoya disease. Eighty-six consecutive patients with idiopathic moyamoya disease were prospectively examined with both cerebral angiography and abdominal aortography. The findings of abdominal aortography were reviewed for the presence and appearance of renal artery lesions and compared with the clinical data and cerebral angiographic findings. Of 86 patients with idiopathic moyamoya disease, 7 patients (8%) were found to have renal artery lesions. Six patients (7%) had stenosis in the renal artery, and 1 patient (1%) had a small saccular aneurysm in the renal artery. Two patients (2%) with a marked renal artery stenosis presented with renovascular hypertension, which resulted in an intraventricular hemorrhage in 1 patient. Furthermore, the renal artery stenosis in the 2 patients with renovascular hypertension was successfully treated with percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. There was no significant correlation between the presence of renal artery lesions and cerebral angiographic findings. Seven (8%) of 86 patients with moyamoya disease showed renal artery lesions, including 6 stenoses (7%) and 1 aneurysm (1%). Renal artery lesions are a clinically relevant systemic manifestation in patients with moyamoya disease."}
{"id": "10697230", "title": "Risks of surgery for patients with unruptured intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Risks of surgery for patients with unruptured intracranial aneurysms. With the widespread use of less invasive imaging tools, such as magnetic resonance angiography and computed tomographic angiography, unruptured cerebral aneurysms are found much more often than in the past. This retrospective study was undertaken to determine the risk factors for surgical intervention in a patient with an unruptured intracranial aneurysm. Over a 5-year period, 1,558 patients with intracranial aneurysms underwent surgery at our center. Of these, 310 patients (20%) with unruptured aneurysms were included in this study. Out of 310 patients with unruptured aneurysms, 292 (95%) had a favorable outcome, and only one patient (0.3%) with a giant vertebral artery aneurysm died. Aneurysm size larger than 15 mm and location of the aneurysm in the posterior circulation were independent risk factors associated with less favorable outcomes. Patients with a single aneurysm had a better outcome than did patients with multiple aneurysms. Our results support the contention that surgical treatment of unruptured intracranial aneurysms carries a low risk of morbidity and mortality and may improve the outcome in patients harboring cerebral aneurysms by preventing the devastating effects of subarachnoid hemorrhage. Aneurysm size, location, and number were risk predictors for surgical morbidity in patients with unruptured aneurysms."}
{"id": "10690715", "title": "Microsurgical resection of brainstem, thalamic, and basal ganglia angiographically occult vascular malformations.", "content": "Microsurgical resection of brainstem, thalamic, and basal ganglia angiographically occult vascular malformations. To evaluate the clinical results for patients who underwent resection of angiographically occult vascular malformations (AOVMs) of the brainstem, thalamus, or basal ganglia, successfully resected after it exhibited rebleeding and presented to a pial surface. Between January 1990 and May 1998, 56 patients with 57 deep AOVMs underwent 63 operations, at Stanford University Medical Center, to treat AOVMs of the brainstem (42 AOVMs), thalamus (5 AOVMs), or basal ganglia (10 AOVMs). The surgical approach was suboccipital midline (27 operations), far lateral suboccipital (10 operations), transsylvian (9 operations), interhemispheric transcallosal or infracallosal (8 operations), infratentorial supracerebellar (6 operations), or subtemporal (3 operations). Four patients experienced recurrent bleeding from the same lesion after surgical resection, requiring a second operation. One patient required a planned second operation, using a different approach, to completely resect the lesion, and one patient underwent two surgical procedures to resect two separate brainstem AOVMs. One patient initially underwent exploration but not resection of her AOVM, because it did not present to a pial or ependymal surface. The AOVM was successfully resected after it exhibited rebleeding and presented to a pial surface. The immediate outcomes after surgery were unchanged for 31 patients (55%), worsened for 16 (29%), and improved for 9 (16%). The long-term outcomes were unchanged for 24 patients (43%), compared with their presenting grade, worse for 3 (5%), and improved for 29 (52%). Patients who had undergone previous radiotherapy or radiosurgery to treat these lesions experienced more difficult postoperative courses, and radiation necrosis was observed for two patients. AOVMs of the brainstem, thalamus, and basal ganglia can be safely removed, with a long-term neurological morbidity rate of only 5% and a complete lesion resection rate of 93% after the initial planned resection. The use of cranial base surgical approaches and intraoperative electrophysiological monitoring contributes to successful clinical outcomes."}
{"id": "10675652", "title": "Lesions visualized by contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging in transient ischemic attacks.", "content": "Lesions visualized by contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging in transient ischemic attacks. In patients with transient ischemic attacks (TIAs), contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is more sensitive to visualize the recent ischemic lesions than conventional MRI. We examined the clinical characteristics of TIA patients presenting with enhanced lesions visualized by contrast-enhanced MRI. We retrospectively evaluated 64 patients with carotid TIAs. We evaluated the frequency and topography of TIA associated infarcts on contrast-enhanced MRI and compared the clinical background of patients with and without such lesions. Twenty-three patients underwent plain MRI only, while the remaining 41 patients underwent contrast-enhanced MRI. Of the latter 41 patients, 16 had abnormal enhanced lesions (39%: group L), while 25 had no lesions (61%: group NL). In group L, all lesions were spotty, and they were located in the cerebral cortex in 13 patients (81%), the subcortex in two (12%), and the perforator territory in one (6%). Aphasia or confusional state, hypertension, and emboligenic cardiac or arterial disease (stenosis > or =50%) were more frequently observed in group L than in group NL (38 vs. 8%, 81 vs. 48%, and 93 vs. 60%, respectively, P<0. 05). The TIA patients with enhanced lesions on MRI may be associated with an emboligenic cardiac or arterial disease, severe neurologic symptom compared to those without them."}
{"id": "10674542", "title": "Unruptured cerebral aneurysm producing a thunderclap headache.", "content": "Unruptured cerebral aneurysm producing a thunderclap headache. A sudden and severe headache is the most common presentation of an acutely ruptured cerebral aneurysm. A similar headache in the absence of subarachnoid blood has rarely been ascribed to an unruptured cerebral aneurysm, but may result from acute aneurysm expansion and indicate a high risk of future rupture. We present a patient who developed a sudden, severe, \"thunderclap\" headache, with no associated neurological deficit. Computed tomogram and lumbar cerebral spinal fluid obtained 5.5 hours after headache onset were negative for subarachnoid hemorrhage. The patient underwent cerebral angiography which revealed a posterior communicating artery aneurysm with an associated daughter aneurysm. Craniotomy and clip obliteration of the aneurysm were performed. The aneurysm dome was very thin and there was no evidence of recent or old hemorrhage. A \"thunderclap\" headache without subarachnoid hemorrhage may be an important harbinger of a cerebral aneurysm with the potential for future rupture. Early recognition and neurovascular imaging of aneurysms presenting in this rare fashion are warranted."}
{"id": "10665861", "title": "MRA in patients with cerebrovascular disease. Considerations of clinical effectiveness.", "content": "MRA in patients with cerebrovascular disease. Considerations of clinical effectiveness. To establish in which clinical contexts cerebral MR angiography (MRA) is routinely carried out in a neurological university department and to describe its clinical impact. Medical records, reports of findings and documentation of imaging examinations carried out in all 69 patients referred to the Department of Radiology from the Department of Neurology between 1995 and 1998 for cerebral MRA were evaluated. The clinical impact of all imaging findings was assessed on the basis of the medical records. Circulatory disturbances in the vertebrobasilar arteries (n = 34) were the most frequent indication for investigation. MRA followed CT or duplex sonography in 66 of the 69 patients with a mean delay of 8 days. MRA was considered diagnostically inferior to conventional MR in 11 cases, comparable in 30 and superior in 25. Comparing MRA and duplex sonography, the corresponding figures were 12, 29 and 23. In retrospect, 56 MRAs were judged unnecessary. Controlled clinical studies on optimal use of MRA are needed to avoid wasting resources and to exploit the method's full diagnostic potential in appropriate cases."}
{"id": "10659015", "title": "Use of spiral computerized tomography angiography in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage in whom subtraction angiography did not reveal cerebral aneurysms.", "content": "Use of spiral computerized tomography angiography in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage in whom subtraction angiography did not reveal cerebral aneurysms. Patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in whom angiography does not demonstrate diagnostic findings sometimes suffer recurrent disease and actually harbor undetected cerebral aneurysms. The management strategy for such cases remains controversial, but technological advances in spiral computerized tomography (CT) angiography are changing the picture. The purpose of this prospective study was to examine how spiral CT angiography can contribute to the detection of cerebral aneurysms that cannot be visualized on angiography. In 134 consecutive patients with SAH, a prospective search for the source of bleeding was performed using digital subtraction (DS) and spiral CT angiography. In 21 patients in whom initial DS angiography yielded no diagnostic findings, spiral CT angiography was performed within 3 days. Patients in whom CT angiography provided no diagnostic results underwent second and third DS angiography sessions after approximately 2 weeks and 6 months, respectively. Six patients with perimesencephalic SAH were included in the 21 cases. Six of the other 15 patients had small cerebral aneurysms detectable by spiral CT angiography, five involving the anterior communicating artery and one the middle cerebral artery. Two patients in whom initial angiograms did not demonstrate diagnostic findings proved to have a ruptured dissecting aneurysm of the vertebral artery; in one case this was revealed at autopsy and in the other during the second DS angiography session. A third DS angiography session revealed no diagnostic results in 13 patients. Spiral CT angiography was useful in the detection of cerebral aneurysms in patients with SAH in whom angiography revealed no diagnostic findings. Anterior communicating artery aneurysms are generally well hidden in these types of SAH cases. A repeated angiography session was warranted in patients with nonperimesencephalic SAH and in whom initial angiography revealed no diagnostic findings, although a third session was thought to be superfluous."}
{"id": "10642999", "title": "[Clipping of an aneurysm of the posterior cerebral artery via the transcortical transchoroidal-fissure approach: a case report].", "content": "[Clipping of an aneurysm of the posterior cerebral artery via the transcortical transchoroidal-fissure approach: a case report]. A 65-year-old woman suddenly developed severe headache with nausea. Computed tomographic scans revealed a diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage with thick hematoma of the left ambient cistern. Cerebral angiogram did not show any aneurysm. On the 7th day after admission, 3D-CT angiogram showed an aneurysm of the left posterior cerebral artery. On the 14th day, axial and coronal magnetic resonance images showed the aneurysm, surrounding structures and the choroidal fissure. On the 26th day after admission, successful neck clipping was performed through the temporal horn via the inferior temporal gyrus. The postoperative course was uneventful except for transient aphasia. This approach may be preferable in such cases, because it protects the brain from the detrimental effects of strong temporal retraction and provides a wider working space. In our case, thin slice MRI and MRA showing the aneurysm in the ambient cistern and the choroidal fissure were useful for deciding the appropriate approach."}
{"id": "10642989", "title": "[Detection of the venous system of the skull base using three-dimensional CT angiography (3D-CTA): utility of the subtemporal approach].", "content": "[Detection of the venous system of the skull base using three-dimensional CT angiography (3D-CTA): utility of the subtemporal approach]. Three-dimensional computed tomography angiography (3D-CTA) was compared with digital subtraction angiography (DSA) for the delineation of the skull base venous system in presurgical planning of the subtemporal approach in 201 sides of 109 patients. The axial stereoscopic images and multi-projection images were used in 3D-CTA, and the anteroposterior views and lateral views were used in DSA. DSA showed that the vein of Labbe (VL) was the most common venous flow on the lateral or basal surface of the temporal lobe, whereas 3D-CTA demonstrated that the involvement of the temporo-basal vein (TBV) was equal to that of VL in frequency. 3D-CTA showed that the VL flowed into the transverse sinus (TS) on 132 sides, the sigmoid sinus-TS junction on 29 sides, and the lateral tentorial sinus (LTS) on 40 sides. DSA showed that the VL flowed into the TS on 157 sides and into the LTS only on 5 sides. DSA showed that the TBV flowed into the TS on 37 sides but axial 3D-CTA showed that the TBV flowed into the LTS on 48 sides. This inconsistency reflects the difficulty in confirming and identifying these veins on the anteroposterior view of DSA, due to the overlapping of veins and poor delineation. Axial stereo and multi-projection images of 3D-CTA provided practical images of the deep veins of the skull base venous system and showed the relative anatomical relationships of the arteries and bony structures. This information can specify the venous inflow point, and help to determine the direction of approach and working space, and also help to identify intraoperative landmarks for the subtemporal approach. Presurgical examination of the deep venous system with 3D-CTA may help to minimize unexpected injury to veins and venous infarction."}
{"id": "10565875", "title": "Treatment of dural arteriovenous malformations and fistulas.", "content": "Treatment of dural arteriovenous malformations and fistulas. Dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) or malformations consist of pathological vascular channels located within the substance of the dura mater and usually involve the walls of a dural sinus or adjacent cortical vein. DAVFs can affect a variety of cerebral venous structures and can present at various clinical stages. Although some fistulas can spontaneously thrombose, the clinical course usually involves progression from venous sinus pressurization to occlusion and retrograde cortical venous drainage. The spectrum of clinical presentation ranges from an irritating pulse-synchronous bruit to a disabling neurologic ischemic deficit or life-threatening intracranial hemorrhage from venous hypertension. The authors present their clinical experience in the radiographic diagnosis and endovascular treatment of these potentially dangerous lesions."}
{"id": "11951264", "title": "Delayed rupture of traumatic intracranial pseudoaneurysm in a child following gunshot wound to the head.", "content": "Delayed rupture of traumatic intracranial pseudoaneurysm in a child following gunshot wound to the head. Traumatic intracranial aneurysms (TICAs) are highly unstable lesions that may rupture within minutes after formation or remain quiescent for several weeks and manifest with delayed hemorrhage and neurologic deterioration. Mortality following a rupture may be 30% to 40%. Among all cerebral aneurysms, the incidence of TICAs is less than 1%; 20% to 30% of TICAs occur in children. A child with a low-caliber craniocerebral gunshot wound deteriorated neurologically 12 days after the initial injury and emergency evacuation of an intracranial hematoma. A new massive left frontal hematoma was discovered, caused by the rupture of an unsuspected left pericallosal artery pseudoaneurysm. The new hematoma was evacuated, and the aneurysm was trapped using microsurgical techniques. A high index of suspicion should be maintained for delayed pseudoaneurysm genesis and rupture. A cerebral arteriogram should be obtained when significant subarachnoid hemorrhage or intraparenchymal hematomas are present, when missiles traverse major arteries, or when the pterional or cranioorbitofacial regions are violated. Treatment should be prompt."}
{"id": "11829833", "title": "[Microsurgical treatment for meningioma of falco-tentorial junction].", "content": "[Microsurgical treatment for meningioma of falco-tentorial junction]. To study the clinical characteristics, neuroimaging presentations, operative warming events and the results of surgical treatment of meningioma of the falco-tentorial junction. The clinical data of 14 patients with meningioma of the falco-tentorial junction were retrospectively analysed. Preoperative examinations included head CT in all patients, DSA in 10, MRI in 6, and MRA in 2. 10 patients was operated on via suboccipital transtentorial approach, of which, operated-side-up position in 7 patients, three-quarter prone operated-side-down position in 3. Three 3 patients was operated on via trans-infratentorial-supracerebellar approach. One via trans-lateral-ventricle trigone approach. Of 14 patients, 12 received total removal of meningioma and 2, subtotal resection. Intracerebral hematoma occurred postoperatively in 2 patients and, intratumoral-residual-cavity hematoma in 1. Two patients' hematomas were eliminated, and another patient's hematoma was conservatively treated. Average follow-up period was 4.5 years. All patients resumed their normal work and study. One patient had permanent homonymous hemianopsia, and one had trochlear paralysis. Meningiomas of the falco-tentorial junction were operable. With some acceptable morbidity, perfect surgical results can be obtained."}
{"id": "10783554", "title": "[Capillary telangiectasis, angiographically occult vascular malformations. MRI symptomatology apropos of 7 cases].", "content": "[Capillary telangiectasis, angiographically occult vascular malformations. MRI symptomatology apropos of 7 cases]. Describe the MRI findings in capillary telangiectasias. Between 1996 and 1999, we observed 9 cases of capillary telangiectasia in 7 patients explored 5 times for posterior fossa symptoms. In two cases capillary telangiectasia was a fortuitous discovery. All patients were explored by MRI with T1 sequences with and without gadolinium injections, turbo spin echo T2 coupled in 5 cases with a double echo gradient echo T2 sequence (TR: 970 ms, TE: 15 and 35 ms). Two patients also underwent vertebral angiography. The telangiectasia gave a low intensity signal on T1 sequences in 2 of the 9 cases and a discretely high intensity signal on T2 sequences in all cases. After gadolinium injection, 9 telangiectasias showed homogeneous or speckled enhancement. The echo-gradient T2 images showed a very low intensity signal in 7 out of 7 cases on the second echo. At the first echo, 4 capillary telangiectasias were undetectable. The two vertebral angiographies were normal and the follow-up MRI in 5 patients showed lesion stability. Pontile lesions with no mass effect showing enhancement after gadolinium injection and with or without a discrete T2 high intensity signal but with a frank echo-gradient T2 signal strongly suggest capillary telangiectasia."}
{"id": "10681705", "title": "A case of very large cyst formation with Gamma Knife radiosurgery for an arteriovenous malformation.", "content": "A case of very large cyst formation with Gamma Knife radiosurgery for an arteriovenous malformation. A 17-year-old male patient underwent Gamma Knife radiosurgery (GKRS) for a left parietal arteriovenous malformation (AVM), which presented with hemorrhage. The 15.0 cm3 nidus was covered with the 50% isodose. The maximum dose was 50 Gy and the margin dose was 25 Gy. Eleven months later he developed a right hemiparesis and MRI showed a large cyst. Cerebral angiography showed partial obliteration of the AVM nidus. Stereotactic removal of cyst fluid (about 70 cm3) was performed, and an Ommaya reservoir was inserted. Cyst formation after GKRS for cerebral arteriovenous malformation is a is side effect of radiosurgery about which we need to learn more."}
{"id": "10660031", "title": "Cerebral aneurysm rupture after r-TPA thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction.", "content": "Cerebral aneurysm rupture after r-TPA thrombolysis for acute myocardial infarction. Intracranial hemorrhage is the most dreaded risk of thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction because of the high mortality and disability rates associated with this complication. Brain structural lesions may predispose a patient to bleeding. To date, aneurysm rupture has not been described as a complication of such therapy. A 66-year-old hypertensive woman was admitted because of chest pain. Myocardial infarction was diagnosed and fibrinolytic therapy with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (r-TPA) was initiated. Eight hours after admission she became unconscious. Brain computed tomography scan showed subarachnoid hemorrhage, and a cerebral arteriography showed an anterior communicating artery aneurysm. Because of her poor clinical condition treatment was postponed. Death occurred 7 days later because of multiorgan failure. Cerebral aneurysms should be considered as a possible contributing factor to intracranial bleeding after thrombolytic therapy."}
{"id": "10652762", "title": "[Non-invasive evaluation of extracranial and intracranial vascular disease].", "content": "[Non-invasive evaluation of extracranial and intracranial vascular disease]. Over the last 10 years the diagnosis of chronic and acute cerebrovascular disorders has been greatly improved. We have available now not only better anatomical imaging methods that allow a more precise localization and subtyping of the problem, but also physiological methods that look at the function and interaction between the brain's parenchyma and its perfusion. In this article the utility and clinical indications of ultrasonography (duplex and Transcranial Doppler) including the modern techniques of embolus detection are described. Also discussed are Magnetic resonance angiography, perfusion-diffusion magnetic resonance, computed tomographic angiography (angio-CT), single photon emission tomography (SPECT). Clinical examples of real cases exemplify the use of these techniques."}
{"id": "10628232", "title": "[Value of MRA and CTA in the evaluation of arterial and venous intracranial vessels].", "content": "[Value of MRA and CTA in the evaluation of arterial and venous intracranial vessels]."}
{"id": "10602974", "title": "Dynamic contrast-enhanced subtraction MR angiography in intracranial vascular abnormalities.", "content": "Dynamic contrast-enhanced subtraction MR angiography in intracranial vascular abnormalities. We present our clinical experience with dynamic contrast-enhanced MR angiography (MRA) with subtraction for assessing intracranial vascular abnormalities. Ten patients with various cerebrovascular disorders underwent dynamic contrast-enhanced MRA on a 1.0-T system. Thirty sections (2 mm) were acquired in 29-30 s. Maximum intensity projection images and subtracted source images were compared with those obtained by conventional angiography. In all cases, the presence or absence of abnormalities in the targeted vessels, as well as the morphology of the sagittal sinuses, was clearly visualized as in conventional angiography, without any obstructions such as hyperintense hematomas or thrombi, or intraluminal turbulence. Although the temporal and spatial resolutions with current hardware are insufficient, these preliminary results suggest that dynamic contrast-enhanced MRA with subtraction may be useful for assessing vascular lesions with hemorrhage or thrombus, and the dural sinuses."}
{"id": "10598838", "title": "Late primary unilateral thalamic hemorrhage in infancy: report of two cases.", "content": "Late primary unilateral thalamic hemorrhage in infancy: report of two cases. We report on two infants with primary unilateral thalamic hemorrhage which occurred at two months of age. Both infants were normal prior to the onset of hemorrhage. Both children presented with seizures and subsequently developed epilepsy. These cases suggest that primary unilateral thalamic hemorrhage can occur in seemingly well infants outside the neonatal period."}
{"id": "10587470", "title": "Evaluation of measures of technical image quality for intracranial magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Evaluation of measures of technical image quality for intracranial magnetic resonance angiography. We evaluate three measures of technical image quality for intracranial magnetic resonance angiography (MRA): (1) a two-alternative forced choice (2AFC) evaluation of vessel visibility, (2) vessel-to-background signal-difference-to-noise ratio (SDNR), and (3) observer ranking of the fidelity of vessel morphology compared to that in a gold standard image. The gold standard used for both the 2AFC and ranking measures is intraarterial catheter angiography. These measures are applied to healthy arterial segments. The 2AFC and SDNR measures directly evaluate the visibility of artery segments for which the existence is known from the gold standard images. We argue that (1) 2AFC evaluates the carrier signals on which any vascular disease process is modulated and provides an upper bound on the detectibility of vascular lesions, (2) SDNR is a predictor of 2AFC, and (3) ranking may be used to predict the relative performance of techniques in the detection of vascular lesions."}
{"id": "10563633", "title": "Making sense out of jargon: a neurolinguistic and computational account of jargon aphasia.", "content": "Making sense out of jargon: a neurolinguistic and computational account of jargon aphasia. To identify the cognitive and neuroanatomic bases of neologistic jargon aphasia with spared comprehension and production of written words. Detailed analysis of performance across experiments of naming, reading, writing, repetition, and word/picture matching by a 68-year-old woman (J.B.N.) served to identify which cognitive mechanisms underlying naming and word comprehension were impaired. J.B.N.'s impairments were then simulated by selectively \"lesioning\" a computer model of word production that has semantic, word form, and subword phonologic levels of representation (described by Dell in 1986). In comprehension experiments, J.B.N. made far more errors with spoken word input than with written word or picture input (chi-square = 40-59; df = 1; p < 0.0001) despite intact auditory discrimination. In naming experiments (with picture, definition, or tactile input), J.B.N. made far more errors in spoken output relative to written output (chi-square = 14-56; df = 1; p < 0.0001). These selective impairments of spoken word processing were simulated by reducing connection strength between word-level and subword-level phonologic units but maintaining full connection strength between word-level and semantic units in Dell's model. The simulation yielded a distribution of error types that was nearly identical to that of J.B.N., and her CT and MRI scans showed a small subarachnoid hemorrhage in the left sylvian fissure without infarct. Cerebral angiogram showed focal vasospasm in sylvian branches of the left middle cerebral artery. Focal left perisylvian dysfunction can result in a highly selective \"disconnection\" between word-level and subword-level phonologic representations manifest as neologistic jargon aphasia with intact understanding and production of written words."}
{"id": "10563118", "title": "Very late-onset symptomatic cerebral vasospasm caused by a large residual aneurysmal subarachnoid hematoma--case report.", "content": "Very late-onset symptomatic cerebral vasospasm caused by a large residual aneurysmal subarachnoid hematoma--case report. A 70-year-old female developed delayed ischemic neurological deficits at 35 days after subarachnoid hemorrhage (Hunt and Kosnik grade III, Fisher group 4) caused by a ruptured aneurysm of the left middle cerebral artery. Angiography indicated late-onset cerebral vasospasm probably due to the mass effect of a large hematoma remaining in the sylvian fissure and an intracerebral hematoma after surgery. Patients with a large subarachnoid hematoma after subarachnoid hemorrhage should receive therapy to prevent cerebral vasospasm until the mass effect of the hematoma has diminished."}
{"id": "10550384", "title": "[Comparison of computer tomography and magnetic resonance tomography in the diagnosis of acute intracerebral hemorrhage].", "content": "[Comparison of computer tomography and magnetic resonance tomography in the diagnosis of acute intracerebral hemorrhage]. Stroke symptoms are caused in 10 to 15% by intracerebral hemorrhage. From the clinical examination it is often impossible to differentiate intracerebral hemorrhage from cerebral ischemia. To exclude intracerebral hemorrhage as the cause of clinical symptoms a CT is usually performed. The aim of our study was a direct comparison of the sensitivity of Computed Tomography and MRI using different MR sequences for the detection of acute intracerebral hemorrhage. In 8 male Wistar rats intracerebral hemorrhage was induced by infusion of collagenase into the caudate nucleus. After 1hour the brains were subsequently imaged with CT and MRI using T2- and T1-weighted Spin Echo sequences, diffusion-weighted sequences, T2*-weighted gradient echo sequences and FLAIR-sequences. Visibility of the intracerebral hemorrhage was examined using a scoring system from 1 = not visible to 5 = excellent visible. Finally, the intracerebral hemorrhage was verified by histological staining. In all animals, intracerebral hemorrhage was visible in T2*-weighted gradient echo and diffusion weighted MR images 1 h after infusion of collagenase. T2- and PD-weighted SE images were positive in 7/8 rats. T1-weighted images revealed signal changes in 5/8 rats, and FLAIR sequence was positive in 8/8 rats. In CT intracerebral hemorrhage was only visible in 3/8 rats. When measuring the increase of Hounsfield units within the suspected hemisphere we saw a mean increase of 7% compared to the normal hemisphere in 3/8 rats. In this animal model, T2*-weighted magnetic resonance imaging proved to be the most sensitive imaging modality in the detection of acute intracerebral hemorrhage and is by far more sensitive than CT."}
{"id": "10550382", "title": "[MRI characteristics of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage].", "content": "[MRI characteristics of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage]. We review the signal characteristics of intracerebral hematomas (ICH) on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), with special emphasis on the diagnosis of intracerebral hemorrhage within the first hours after stroke.The detection of peracute ICH was evaluated in 42 patients of a prospective, MR randomized stroke trial. These patients underwent a protocol of T1 and T2 weighted sequences, diffusion weighted sequences and MR - angiography within 6 hours after onset of acute hemiparesis. The signal behaviour of ICH in any stage after bleeding was additionally reviewed in a retrospective series of 63 patients, who were submitted for MRI over a 12 months period because of known ICH.MRI correctly identified 4 hyperacute ICH in the prospective group and 4 hyperacute ICH in the retrospective group. These ICHs had high signal on T2 weighted images, were isointense in T1 weighted images and had signal voids on the diffusion weighted sequences. The signal intensities of acute, subacute and chronic ICHs correlated to previous experiences as reported in the literature.In conclusion, MRI reliably identified all hematomas even in the hyperacute stage. Diffusion weighted images were most sensitive to the presence of deoxyhemoglobine and helpful for the differentiation and characterization of acute ischemia. Therefore, MRI at 1.5 T can be employed as an alternative to CT for the emergency diagnosis of acute stroke."}
{"id": "10548656", "title": "Clinical course, surgical management, and long-term outcome of moyamoya patients with rebleeding after an episode of intracerebral hemorrhage: An extensive follow-Up study.", "content": "Clinical course, surgical management, and long-term outcome of moyamoya patients with rebleeding after an episode of intracerebral hemorrhage: An extensive follow-Up study. Revascularization surgery for moyamoya patients is believed to prevent cerebral ischemic attacks by improving cerebral blood flow. However, measures preventing the occurrence of hemorrhagic moyamoya in patients have not yet been established in the literature due to the low rate of hemorrhage onset as well as the originally limited numbers of patients with moyamoya disease, poor understanding of the clinical course of rebleeding, correct surgical management, and long-term outcome. We present here the results of an overall survey of patients with hemorrhagic moyamoya disease in a district of Miyagi Prefecture in Japan and examine their clinical course, efficacy of revascularization surgery, and long-term outcome. This study included 28 moyamoya patients with episodes of intracranial hemorrhage between 1976 and 1988. The mean follow-up period was 14.2 years. There were 4 males and 24 females, aged 7 to 69 years (mean 39.2 years). Cerebral angiography and CT scans were performed for all patients. Surgical treatment was performed in 19 patients (67. 9%), and 10 patients (35.7%) underwent revascularization surgery. We observed the clinical course of all 28 patients. We also studied the relationship between the efficacy of surgical treatment and long-term outcome. Five of the 28 patients (17.9%) died of the initial intracranial hemorrhage, and 2 patients died of other causes. Rebleeding occurred in 6 of the remaining 21 patients (28. 6%). The interval to rebleeding ranged from 2 to 20 years (mean 7.3 years). Of these 6 patients, 4 died of rebleeding. Rebleeding was observed in 1 of 8 patients who underwent bypass surgery and in 5 of 13 patients who did not, which suggested that rebleeding was less likely to occur in patients who had undergone bypass surgery. However, there was no significant difference in rebleeding ratio or mortality between patients with and those without revascularization surgery (P>0.05). In this study, we compiled the results of meticulous follow-up conducted over the past 10 years for patients with hemorrhagic moyamoya disease. Because hemorrhagic moyamoya disease is known for its high rate of mortality at the time of rebleeding and often causes rebleeding long after the initial episode (as much as 20 years later), implementation of long-term preventive measures for rebleeding is necessary. This suggests that a long-term prospective study of a large number of patients with hemorrhagic moyamoya disease is required to determine whether bypass surgery prevents rebleeding of hemorrhagic moyamoya disease."}
{"id": "10548654", "title": "MRI features of intracerebral hemorrhage within 2 hours from symptom onset.", "content": "MRI features of intracerebral hemorrhage within 2 hours from symptom onset. MRI has been increasingly used in the evaluation of acute stroke patients. However, MRI must be able to detect early hemorrhage to be the only imaging screen used before treatment such as thrombolysis. Susceptibility-weighted imaging, an echo-planar T2* sequence, can show intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in patients imaged between 2.5 and 5 hours from symptom onset. It is unknown whether MRI can detect ICH earlier than 2.5 hours. We describe 5 patients with ICH who had MRI between 23 and 120 minutes from symptom onset and propose diagnostic patterns of evolution of hyperacute ICH on MRI. As part of our acute imaging protocol, all patients with acute stroke within 24 hours from symptom onset were imaged with a set of sequences that included susceptibility-weighted imaging, diffusion- and perfusion-weighted imaging, T1- and T2-weighted imaging, fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR), and MR angiography using echo-planar techniques. Five patients with ICH had MRI between 23 and 120 minutes from the onset of symptoms. ICH was identified in all patients. Distinctive patterns of hyperacute ICH and absence of signs of ischemic stroke were the hallmark features of this diagnosis. The hyperacute hematoma appears to be composed of 3 distinct areas: (1) center: isointense to hyperintense heterogeneous signal on susceptibility-weighted and T2-weighted imaging; (2) periphery: hypointense (susceptibility effect) on susceptibility-weighted and T2-weighted imaging; and (3) rim: hypointense on T1-weighted imaging and hyperintense on T2-weighted imaging, representing vasogenic edema encasing the hematoma. MRI is able to detect hyperacute ICH and show a pattern of evolution of the hematoma within 2 hours from the onset of symptoms."}
{"id": "10546742", "title": "Moyamoya disease presenting as cerebral infarction after cesarean.", "content": "Moyamoya disease presenting as cerebral infarction after cesarean. Moyamoya disease with pregnancy is rare and might present with cerebral hemorrhage. A 22-year-old primigravida suddenly developed muscular weakness in the right arm and facial discomfort 3 days after cesarean. Computed tomography and cerebrovascular angiography found cerebral infarction attributable to moyamoya disease. Bilateral anastomosis of superficial temporal and middle cerebral arteries was done. Moyamoya disease with pregnancy might present as cerebral infarction after cesarean."}
{"id": "10540722", "title": "[Cases of cavernous hemangioma discovered in patients with post traumatic intracerebral hematoma].", "content": "[Cases of cavernous hemangioma discovered in patients with post traumatic intracerebral hematoma]. Cavernous haemangioma has various forms. The cases with spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage are most common, but post-traumatic intracerebral haematoma was not reported. The aim of this report is to present cases of cavernous haemangioma with unusual clinical course. In seven patients with post-traumatic intracerebral haematoma, fragments of histologically confirmed cavernous haemangioma tissue situated in the place of haematoma were found. In one case, delayed intracerebral haematoma twenty four hours after trauma and initial CT-scan was observed. On the initial CT-scan in this patient only traumatic changes in the brain without haematoma or tumour were present. In our cases, cavernous haemangioma was situated most frequently in frontal and temporal region, shown as haematoma usually 24 hours after trauma, mainly in men in age range 30-44 years with disorders of consciousness (GCS 11). As the result of operation, the majority of patients (6 out of 7) were discharged as self-independent. The authors reviewed the literature for cavernous haemangioma. The tumour may be present in any region of the brain including infratentorial region. The lesion is disclosed most frequently in children as spontaneous brain haemorrhage and rarely as seizures or intracranial hypertension. Final diagnosis is based on cerebral angiography or MRI. CT-scans are not typical and before the appearance of haematoma do not suggest the presence of tumour. Surgical removal of haematoma with tumour fragments is the main method of therapy, but radiation is possible in order to diminish the mass. The authors conclude that in each patient with post-traumatic intracerebral haematoma, the presence of cavernous haemangioma is possible."}
{"id": "10535076", "title": "[A case with traumatic internal carotid artery dissection in which the extent of the pseudolumen was defined by MR angiography].", "content": "[A case with traumatic internal carotid artery dissection in which the extent of the pseudolumen was defined by MR angiography]. We report a 29-year-old male with traumatic internal carotid artery (ICA) dissection who presented with cerebral ischemia developed after removal of a left acute subdural hematoma and external decompression. CT scans 4 days after the operation showed infarctions of the distribution of the bilateral cerebral hemispheres. Cerebral angiography on the 11th hospital day demonstrated narrowing of the extracranial internal carotid artery at C1-C2 vertebral levels. Slight arterial dilatation and retention of the contrast medium were found just above the narrowing segment, which was suspected to be a pseudolumen. Three D time-of flight MRA showed an intramural hematoma corresponding to the narrowing on the angiography. Original axial MRA images showed that narrowing of the lumen was surrounded by a crescent hematoma and that two flow velocity areas were in the area distal to the narrowing. High flow seemed to be ordinary artery flow rate. The low flow area, including turbulent flow, led to the retention of contrast medium mimicking a pseudolumen. Precise MRA imaging will bring us an accurate diagnosis of extracranial carotid dissections."}
{"id": "10507890", "title": "Stroke vignette. Epidural hematoma and hemorrhagic infarction mimicking a left temporal meningioma.", "content": "Stroke vignette. Epidural hematoma and hemorrhagic infarction mimicking a left temporal meningioma."}
{"id": "10504850", "title": "[Dolichoectasia of the intracranial arteries and stroke].", "content": "[Dolichoectasia of the intracranial arteries and stroke]. Intracranial arterial dolichoectasia is a condition related to stroke. The prevalence in patients suffering from their first cerebral infarction is estimated to be 3%. Patients with dolichoectasia are more likely to have lacunar infarctions than those without. They have a higher survival rate and better functional prognosis after first cerebral infarction, but a higher rate of stroke recurrence. The aetiology and pathogenesis of the condition is unknown. Only 0.5% of patients suffering a first cerebral infarction have dolichoectasia of both the carotid and vertebrobasilar system. We describe a case of atypical dolichoectasia affecting both circulatory systems as well as the middle and anterior cerebral arteries, with intracerebral haemorrhage."}
{"id": "10493371", "title": "Intraoperative angiography of brain arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "Intraoperative angiography of brain arteriovenous malformations. The gold standard for documentation of surgical cure of a brain arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is a postoperative angiogram. Intraoperative angiography also has been used for assessing surgical obliteration of AVMs. The objective of this work is to determine the incidence of unexpected residual AVM in patients undergoing intraoperative angiography after brain AVM surgery, the incidence of false-negative intraoperative angiography, and whether there are any identifiable factors that would predict such an occurrence. Patient age and sex, AVM location and size, clinical presentation of the AVM, day of surgery after hemorrhage, whether embolization was performed preoperatively, presence of intraoperative brain swelling or substantial bleeding, and postoperative course were recorded prospectively on 34 consecutive patients who underwent surgery for brain AVMs. Intraoperative angiography was performed after the surgeon thought that the AVM was completely obliterated. The incidence of unexpected residual AVM and false-negative intraoperative angiography was determined. Factors predicting these findings were identified by multivariate analysis. Twenty-five of 34 patients underwent intraoperative angiography to assess the extent of resection, and two patients underwent the examination to localize the AVM. Postoperative angiograms were obtained for 26 patients. Intraoperative angiography showed unexpected residual AVM in 2 (8%) of 25 patients. In two patients, intraoperative angiography was useful to locate a small AVM in the wall of a hematoma cavity. Three patients (18%) whose intraoperative angiograms had not shown AVM had postoperative angiograms that showed residual or recurrent AVM. One (11%) of nine patients who had only postoperative angiography had an unexpected residual nidus; the patient underwent a reoperation and successful resection. There were no significant clinical or radiological features that predicted the intraoperative angiographic finding of residual AVM or of false-negative intraoperative angiogram. Intraoperative angiography is useful to demonstrate residual AVM in about 8% of patients undergoing AVM resection. It can be used to localize small AVMs, but other methods for localization may be as useful and may avoid the risks and cost of additional angiography. Intraoperative angiography does not replace postoperative angiography to confirm AVM removal because of false-negative findings, which occurred in 18% of patients in this series."}
{"id": "10478344", "title": "[Cigarette smoking increases the risk of developing a cerebral aneurysm and of subarachnoid hemorrhage].", "content": "[Cigarette smoking increases the risk of developing a cerebral aneurysm and of subarachnoid hemorrhage]. Despite recent advances in diagnostic and therapeutic techniques, subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is still a serious condition associated with high mortality and morbidity. There are no effective treatments other than surgical intervention. However, another option for decreasing the occurrence of SAH may be prevention of aneurysms formation and of their rupture by controlling risk factors. Cigarette smoking has been recently shown to be one of the major risk factors for SAH. We investigated whether cigarette smoking increased the risk of developing cerebral aneurysms and of SAH. Degree of smoking was investigated in 182 patients with SAH and in 123 patients with an unruptured cerebral aneurysm incidentally detected during investigation of other diseases. Sixty-nine patients with other diseases who were shown to be free of cerebral aneurysms through MR angiography served as controls. Smoking significantly increased the risk of both aneurysm formation and SAH; The odds ratio for SAH was 2.4, and for unruptured cerebral aneurysm 1.7. Smoking especially increased the occurrence of SAH in women and in youngsters. However, smoking did not influence the occurrence of cerebral vasospasm and multiplicity of aneurysms. These data suggest the importance of avoiding smoking to prevent the occurrence of cerebral aneurysms and of SAH."}
{"id": "10471517", "title": "Perimesencephalic hemorrhage.", "content": "Perimesencephalic hemorrhage."}
{"id": "10470834", "title": "Beating aneurysm sign: angiographic evidence of ruptured aneurysm tamponade by intracranial hemorrhage. Case illustration.", "content": "Beating aneurysm sign: angiographic evidence of ruptured aneurysm tamponade by intracranial hemorrhage. Case illustration."}
{"id": "10470817", "title": "Three-dimensional computerized tomography angiography in patients with hyperacute intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Three-dimensional computerized tomography angiography in patients with hyperacute intracerebral hemorrhage. The authors confirm the usefulness of extravasation detected on three-dimensional computerized tomography (3D-CT) angiography in the diagnosis of continued hemorrhage and establishment of its cause in patients with acute intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Thirty-one patients with acute ICH in whom noncontrast and 3D-CT angiography had been performed within 12 hours of the onset of hemorrhage and in whom conventional cerebral angiographic studies were obtained during the chronic stage were prospectively studied. Noncontrast CT scanning was repeated within 24 hours of the onset of ICH to evaluate hematoma enlargement. Findings indicating extravasation on 3D-CT angiography, including any abnormal area of high density on helical CT scanning, were observed in five patients; three of these demonstrated hematoma enlargement on follow-up CT studies. Thus, specificity was 60% (three correct predictions among five positives) and sensitivity was 100% (19 correct predictions among 19 negatives). Evidence of extravasation on 3D-CT angiography indicates that there is persistent hemorrhage and correlates with enlargement of the hematoma. Regarding the cause of hemorrhage, five cerebral aneurysms were visualized in four patients, and two diagnoses of moyamoya disease and one of unilateral moyamoya phenomenon were made with the aid of 3D-CT angiography. Emergency surgery was performed without conventional angiography in one patient who had an aneurysm, and it was clipped successfully. Overall, 3D-CT angiography was found to be valuable in the diagnosis of the cause of hemorrhage and in the detection of persistent hemorrhage in patients with acute ICH."}
{"id": "10470812", "title": "Family history of subarachnoid hemorrhage and the incidence of asymptomatic, unruptured cerebral aneurysms.", "content": "Family history of subarachnoid hemorrhage and the incidence of asymptomatic, unruptured cerebral aneurysms. Previously the authors reported a significant correlation between a family history of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and the discovery of an unruptured aneurysm in a group of healthy volunteers. This study corroborates and extends previous findings regarding the relationship between genetic and acquired factors in the formation of cerebral aneurysms. The incidence of asymptomatic, unruptured cerebral aneurysms was studied among patients with a family history of SAH within the second degree of consanguinity. Forty-one unruptured cerebral aneurysms were found in 34 (13.9%) of 244 patients. This incidence was significantly higher than that found in a control group of healthy volunteers (6%). Furthermore, patients who had a family history of SAH combined with multiple systemic risk factors were found to have the highest incidence of unruptured aneurysms (32%; odds ratio 3.49, 95% confidence interval 1.37-8.9). These findings suggest that patients with a family history of SAH with or without the presence of more than one systemic risk factor are at significantly higher risk of harboring cerebral aneurysms. This high-risk group should be periodically screened and treated with appropriate surgical or other forms of therapy when necessary."}
{"id": "10464498", "title": "[Magnetic resonance tomography in stroke--its methodological bases and clinical use].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance tomography in stroke--its methodological bases and clinical use]. Stroke is the third leading cause of death. Until recently, no diagnostic technique was available that could reliably depict ischemic tissue within a therapeutically promising time window. Since the beginning of this decade, a fundamental change has taken place: Perfusion- and diffusion-MRI have shown to be capable of depicting the ischemic injury immediately after vessel occlusion. While perfusion MRI is sensitive to abnormalities in cerebral capillary blood flow (micro-circulation), diffusion MRI indicates tissue damage on a cellular level. Combining perfusion- and diffusion-MRI with standard MR technique (T2-weighted sequences, MR angiography) results in an MR protocol that is complementary and gives insight into both structural and functional parameters."}
{"id": "10461508", "title": "Stroke: indications for emergent surgical intervention.", "content": "Stroke: indications for emergent surgical intervention. As the brain attack message is disseminated throughout our medical community and the awareness of the public increases, neurosurgeons will have the opportunity to treat patients with stroke at a much earlier time in the evolution of the process than we have been accustomed. Are the relatively unimpressive results of acute surgical intervention in patients operated on later in the course of the disease applicable to those who seek medical attention early, within the first few hours of ictus? There is little firm data. However, there is an overwhelming amount of anecdotal and experimental evidence supporting the potential for ultra-early intervention, which frequently should be surgical. New surgical techniques may improve safety and feasibility of emergent operations. In the coming years, diagnostic techniques such as perfusion/diffusion magnetic resonance imaging will allow the clinician to determine who may benefit from intervention. These determinations will be made on physiological data, addressing the issues of tissue viability and degree of compromise of the blood-brain barrier. In the future, the window of opportunity for intervention will not be solely a function of time from ictus or a qualitative impression based on collateral circulation as extrapolated from angiography, transcranial Doppler, or magnetic resonance angiography. These new magnetic resonance imaging techniques, which are beginning to be tested clinically or are still in the developmental stages, will provide the functional data now provided by positron emission tomography and xenon computed tomography, but with improved sensitivity, specificity, and logistical ease. Neurosurgeons have been leaders in stroke care and have provided some of the most important experimental rationale for the brain attack concept. These contributions include demonstration of the ischemic penumbra, the importance of time and potential collateral circulation as factors determining viability of ischemic tissue, and the value of early revascularization and many neuroprotective maneuvers in preserving brain tissue after arterial occlusion. There is every reason to preserve and to enhance the role of the neurosurgeon as a \"stroke expert\" and as a leading member of the brain attack team. Early access to patients with stroke will offer us the opportunity to test clinically, in a rigorous fashion, the value of surgical revascularization procedures (open or endovascular) and medical maneuvers that we have developed clinically and tested in the laboratory. We have shown, as we did with the bypass study, that neurosurgeons know how to perform these trials and abide by their results, even when they are not to our liking."}
{"id": "10440035", "title": "[Efficacy of three dimensional CT angiography (3D-CTA) for a first diagnosis of occlusive cerebrovascular disorders].", "content": "[Efficacy of three dimensional CT angiography (3D-CTA) for a first diagnosis of occlusive cerebrovascular disorders]. Patients with cerebrovascular disorders generally undergo computerized tomography (CT), even though magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is available. We investigated the efficacy of three dimensional CT angiography (3D-CTA) for a first diagnosis of occlusive cerebrovascular disorders. Sixty-two patients, who were suspected of occlusive cerebrovascular disorder on the basis of neurological findings or initial plain CT findings, were reviewed. 3D-CTA was performed at the first medical examination. As a result, two patients were diagnosed with ICA (internal carotid artery) occlusion, nine with MCA (middle cerebral artery) occlusion, and one with BA (basilar artery) occlusion. All twelve patients underwent cerebral angiography immediately after those 3D-CTA in every case. Angiographical findings were the same as 3D-CTA. Interventional superselective thrombolytic therapy was performed in ten of the twelve patients, and recanalization resulted in four of them. 3D-CTA may also be able to determine whether the occlusive vessel is the chief cerebral artery or the perforating artery."}
{"id": "10433293", "title": "Depiction of intracranial vessels with MRA: utility of magnetization transfer saturation and gadolinium.", "content": "Depiction of intracranial vessels with MRA: utility of magnetization transfer saturation and gadolinium. The purpose of this work was to quantitate the individual and combined effects of magnetization transfer (MT) saturation and gadolinium (Gd) on the visualization of intracranial vessels with MR angiography (MRA). Thirty-five subjects underwent two three-dimensional time-of-flight MRA sequences without and with MT and/or Gd. There were 14 MR angiograms without Gd or MT, 18 with MT only, 17 with Gd only, and 21 with both Gd and MT. On a projection image, a region of interest was drawn to delineate the arteries in the middle cerebral artery territory. The total area of blood vessels in the region of interest was calculated for each MR angiogram. Mean vessel areas for the four types of MRA were compared with analysis of variance. MRA with either MT or Gd alone showed significantly more vessel area than MRA without either (p < 0.05). MRA with MT alone and MRA with Gd alone were not different from each other (p = 0.29). The improvement in vessel area measured by using MT and Gd together was significantly more than expected from the cumulative improvement of adding each alone (p < 0.05). Combining MT and Gd synergistically improved the visualization of intracranial vessels on MRA."}
{"id": "10418588", "title": "Carotid endarterectomy without angiography: can clinical evaluation and duplex ultrasonographic scanning alone replace traditional arteriography for carotid surgery workup? A prospective study.", "content": "Carotid endarterectomy without angiography: can clinical evaluation and duplex ultrasonographic scanning alone replace traditional arteriography for carotid surgery workup? A prospective study. The aim of this study was to determine whether clinical evaluation and duplex ultrasonography (DUS) alone can replace contrast cerebral arteriography (CA) for the detection of patients suitable for surgery at our institution. During an 18-month period, 100 patients underwent DUS and CA during evaluation for carotid endarterectomy (CEA). All patients were studied prospectively; in each case an initial decision for or against CEA on the basis of DUS evaluation of the internal carotid arteries (ICAs) was subsequently compared with the surgeon's final management plan after CA. Of the 200 ICAs evaluated, 113 were considered for CEA but 14 were excluded from the study because the patient could not be evaluated before and after CA. This left 99 ICAs (86 patients) available for comparative analysis. The outcome of the 2 diagnostic modalities was perfectly consistent in 95.3% of the ICAs (kappa = 0.969). The clinical management decision was altered by the CA findings in only 2 cases (2%). Of the 99 ICAs considered suitable, 97 underwent CEA. No arteriographic complications occurred among the 100 patients undergoing CA. The perioperative stroke risk and mortality rates were 0%. Ninety-eight percent of the ICAs considered for surgery would have received appropriate clinical treatment on the strength of the patients' neurologic history and the outcome of DUS alone. Our results indicate that DUS is sufficient to establish the need for surgery in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients being considered for CEA and can replace CA in most clinical circumstances."}
{"id": "10417892", "title": "[Post-traumatic aneurysmal dissection of the extracranial internal carotid artery; helical computed tomographic and angiographic aspects: a case].", "content": "[Post-traumatic aneurysmal dissection of the extracranial internal carotid artery; helical computed tomographic and angiographic aspects: a case]. A 20-year-old man presented with mild intracranial bleeding, a Horner's syndrome, and left neck swelling following head injury. Following noncontrast CT of the brain, a contrast-enhanced helical CT was performed through the neck that showed a hematoma in the poststyloid space (carotid sheath) with irregular diameter of the ICA. Selective digital subtraction angiography confirmed the presence of left cervical ICA dissection with pseudoaneurysm formation. The aneurysm was resected and an end-to-end anastomosis was done using an inverted saphenous graft. Histology confirmed a diagnosis of traumatic ICA dissection with pseudoaneurysm formation and there was no evidence of pre-existing pathology. Helical CT is a simple, widely available, and relatively non-invasive imaging technique that correlates well with angiography. It should be considered in the evaluation of patients with suspected cervical ICA dissection."}
{"id": "10416234", "title": "[Intraventricular hemorrhage due to the rupture of atherosclerotic dissecting aneurysm of the middle cerebral artery].", "content": "[Intraventricular hemorrhage due to the rupture of atherosclerotic dissecting aneurysm of the middle cerebral artery]. We present a case of fusiform intracranial aneurysm where, apart from the unusual site, we draw attention to the form of clinical presentation, namely intraventricular haemorrhage. Clinical case. A 68 year-old-man with a history of smoking, hyperuricemia with seizures of gout treated with colchicine and allopurinol, and hypertension treated with captopril. Nine years previously he had a right capsulothalamic haematoma and presented (as a sequela of this) a left sensomotor deficit, with a good functional level. In December 1998 he was admitted for sudden onset of headache and deterioration of consciousness. He had right limb movements which were typical of decerebration and made intubation and mechanical ventilation necessary. Cerebral CT, with angiographic sequences, showed blood in the lateral ventricles and III ventricle, with ventricular dilation and a fusiform aneurysm of the left middle cerebral artery. In view of the neurological state of the patient, treatment of the aneurysm was postponed. After initial improvement, which permitted extubation, tetraparesia (predominantly right) and a pseudobulbar syndrome were seen. The patient had repeated respiratory infections and died from sepsis caused by Pseudomona aeruginosa (of respiratory origin) three months after admission. Fusiform intracranial aneurysms form 9% of all aneurysms. Localization to the middle cerebral artery is infrequent, the basilar trunk and internal carotid artery are commoner sites. In our case angio-CT was a useful non-invasive neuro-radiological technique."}
{"id": "10412198", "title": "[Neuroradiologic diagnosis in acute stroke].", "content": "[Neuroradiologic diagnosis in acute stroke]. Noninvasive diagnostic procedures as spiral-CT (CT-angiography and perfusion-CT) as well as MRI-techniques (diffusion-imaging, perfusion-imaging and MR-angiography) have enriched the diagnostic modalities in acute stroke. Angiography by MRI or CT has replaced digital subtraction angiography in most acute stroke cases. Despite of the advantages of MRI, CT still remains the procedure of choice in acute stroke. 1. Acute hematoma is easily detected by CT. 2. Occlusion of the main arterial stems are identified by CT-angiography. CT fulfills all the requirements for therapeutic decisions in acute stroke."}
{"id": "10407000", "title": "Clinical significance of intracranial developmental venous anomalies.", "content": "Clinical significance of intracranial developmental venous anomalies. Venous angiomas, or developmental venous anomalies (DVAs), represent the most often occurring cerebral vascular malformation. The clinical significance of a DVA is, however, at present unclear. A retrospective analysis was carried out on two series of consecutive cranial MRIs performed between January 1990 and August 1996 in a university department of neuroradiology and in a large radiological private practice. The medical records of all patients in whom a DVA was diagnosed were screened to identify the specific complaint which necessitated the imaging procedure. A total of 67 patients with DVA could be identified. In 12 patients an associated cavernoma was found. The main reason for performing the MRI was the evaluation of seizures or of headaches. In all patients with DVA in whom an intracerebral haemorrhage was diagnosed an associated cavernoma was present at the site of the haemorrhage. None of the 67 patients showed an association between the complaints that led to the MRI and the location of the DVA. DVAs do not seem to be associated with a specific clinical presentation. In a significant percentage of cases, however, coexisting cavernomas are found which have a defined bleeding potential and should be treated independently of the DVA. This study supports the hypothesis that DVAs are a congenital abnormality of venous drainage without clinical significance."}
{"id": "10402090", "title": "Asynchronous pentobarbital-induced burst suppression with corpus callosum hemorrhage.", "content": "Asynchronous pentobarbital-induced burst suppression with corpus callosum hemorrhage. We describe the electroencephalographic (EEG) findings in a 9-year-old girl, who presented with generalized tonic-clonic status epilepticus requiring pentobarbital anesthesia, and correlate these findings with clinicoradiologic evidence of a ruptured AVM with hemorrhage into the body of the corpus callosum. EEG analysis accompanied by clinical assessment, CT and MRI scans, and cerebral angiography were performed. With pentobarbital coma, the EEG showed burst suppression with prominent interhemispheric asynchrony. Suppression epochs >2 s in duration and with amplitude <20 microV in all channels were identified. In 12 min of the EEG analyzed, 6 unilateral and 20 bilateral epochs occurred. Of the 20 bilateral suppression epochs, interhemispheric asynchrony of >1 s was noted at onset for 5 epochs and at offset for one. Chi-square analysis revealed an equal tendency for unilateral suppressions to occur over either hemisphere, and for suppression in one hemisphere to begin before the other. We conclude that the corpus callosum plays a critical role in interhemispheric synchronization of cortical neuronal electrical activity and propose that: (1) normally, the corpus callosum modulates interhemispheric synchronization of cortical inhibition; and (2) with corpus callosal disruption, cortical areas are 'released' from such synchronization."}
{"id": "10399263", "title": "Clinical utility of magnetic resonance angiography in the evaluation of aneurysms from a neurosurgical point of view.", "content": "Clinical utility of magnetic resonance angiography in the evaluation of aneurysms from a neurosurgical point of view. The possibilities and limitations of MRA in the evaluation of intracranial aneurysms were investigated in this study. 54 patients, 30 with acute SAH were diagnosed using the three dimensional time-of-flight MRA in comparison with a conventional four vessel digital subtraction angiography prior to surgery. Furthermore, postoperative MRA was performed to assess clip placement and vessel patency and to search for innocent additional aneurysms in patients with emergency surgery due to intracerebral hemorrhage causing mass effect in whom preoperatively only the side of the lesion was investigated in DSA. 64 aneurysms in all vessel territories were detected. Three aneurysms were missed in MRA and there were three false positive results. Four baby-aneurysms were missed by both imaging modalities and were found during surgery. In all patients with CT scans suspicious of aneurysms MRA was able to detect or rule out the aneurysm. Postoperative MRA to demonstrate clip placement and vessel patency was not possible due to susceptibility artefacts. MRA should be the diagnostic procedure of first choice in CT findings suspicious of aneurysms. The follow-up of confirmed aneurysms is safely possible. MRA is very well applicable in the acute setting after SAH. The axial acquisition films and the rotatable maximum intensity projection reconstructions provide useful insights into the location of the aneurysm and its neighboring structures thus influencing the preoperative planning of surgical strategies. Keeping the limitations in mind it is a safe tool in the evaluation of aneurysms, especially with the rapidly improving postoprocessing possibilities."}
{"id": "10379591", "title": "Fast FLAIR sequence for detecting major vascular abnormalities during the hyperacute phase of stroke: a comparison with MR angiography.", "content": "Fast FLAIR sequence for detecting major vascular abnormalities during the hyperacute phase of stroke: a comparison with MR angiography. In the hyperacute phase of stroke, occluded vessels can be seen as high signal on fast-FLAIR images or as absence of flow-related enhancement in maximum-intensity projection (MIP) MR angiography (MRA). To compare these techniques, we examined 53 patients within 6 h of a stroke, using a standardised MRI protocol including fast-FLAIR and 3D time-of-flight TOF MR to detect vessel occlusion or reduced flow corresponding to the suspected ischaemic territory. Brain infarcts were confirmed on MRI after 1-5 days in 41 cases (77%). The overall accuracy of 3D-TOF MRA was 68% and sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values were 67%, 71%, 87%, and 43% respectively. Values for the fast-FLAIR sequence were: 65%, 85%, 93% and 44%, with an overall accuracy of 70%. The fast-FLAIR sequence was thus able to show occluded vessels or reduced flow with about the same accuracy as 3D-TOF MRA and enabled better prediction of the ischaemic area."}
{"id": "10377827", "title": "[Neuroimaging in patients with CVD].", "content": "[Neuroimaging in patients with CVD]. The development of the neuroimaging technique has revolutionized clinical neurology. This is also true in the field of stroke. Because of the easy accessibility and little time consuming, the computed tomography (CT) should be applied first to the stroke patient and other examinations should be prepared later to the patient due to the severity and the characteristic of the lesion. These are magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (including MR angiography. MR spectroscopy, diffusion MRI), cerebral angiography, neurosonography (carotid ultrasound, color flow imaging, transcranial Doppler), single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and positron emission tomography (PET), etc. It is a matter of common sense that CT and MRI are now particularly important among laboratory examinations for neurological diseases and these non-invasive techniques will become more important for the elderly stroke patients. Recent study cleared the combination of 3-dimensional computed angiography and neurosonography has an informative value and this is especially important for the elderly patients who are fragile and need rapid and accurate diagnosis."}
{"id": "10372333", "title": "[Neuroradiology].", "content": "[Neuroradiology]."}
{"id": "10369348", "title": "Intracranial stenoocclusive disease: double-detector helical CT angiography versus digital subtraction angiography.", "content": "Intracranial stenoocclusive disease: double-detector helical CT angiography versus digital subtraction angiography. To our knowledge, no large-scale studies comparing the accuracy of CT angiography (CTA) to intraarterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA) of intracranial stenosis have been reported. We attempted to determine the diagnostic value of intracranial CT angiography (CTA) of normal vasculature and variants as well as of stenoocclusive disease. One-hundred and twelve patients underwent CTA and intraarterial angiography, and 2205 vascular segments were examined to ascertain presence, visibility, and degree of arterial stenoses (n = 105) as well as anatomic variants. Source, maximum intensity projection (MIP), and MIP-generated multiplanar reformatted (MPR) images were evaluated. All 55 anatomic variants were identified correctly. Visibility of small-vessel segments was increased from 75% to 83% by using source images. MPR was helpful in differentiating distal vertebral hypoplasia from stenosis and in overcoming artifacts. All 43 occlusive segments were graded correctly (sensitivity = 100%, predictive value = 93.4%) as follows: severely stenotic ([n = 23], sensitivity = 78%, predictive value = 81.8%); moderately stenotic ([n = 36], sensitivity = 61%, predictive value = 84.6%); and mildly stenotic ([n = 3], sensitivity = 66%, predictive value = 28%). Normal segments (n = 2100) had a sensitivity of 99.5%, and CTA evinced a specificity of 99% for detecting stenoocclusive disease. Approximately one-third of wrong assessments were related to the petrous segment of the carotid artery. CTA with double-detector technology and advanced postprocessing algorithms, including MPR, is about as reliable as MRA in depicting the vasculature of the anterior and posterior circulation and in grading intracranial stenoocclusive lesions, with the exception of the petrous segment of the carotid artery. CTA might be superior to MRA in the evaluation of poststenotic low-flow segments."}
{"id": "10361416", "title": "[Evaluation of two-dimensional thick-slice MR DSA: preliminary study].", "content": "[Evaluation of two-dimensional thick-slice MR DSA: preliminary study]. We have used two-dimensional contrast-enhanced MR angiography for a single thick slice and called it MR DSA. This technique realizes nearly subsecond scanning per image and is therefore superior to other types of contrast-enhanced MR angiography in temporal resolution. To determine the optimal parameters of this technique, we calculated SSR (the signal of brain to the signal of contrast agent ratio) in various settings. We also obtained MR DSA images of 26 cases. We believe that MR DSA may play a supportive role in conventional MR imaging or angiography, since its high temporal resolution is of value in the evaluation of cerebrovascular diseases."}
{"id": "10360773", "title": "Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging: detection of ischemic injury 39 minutes after onset in a stroke patient.", "content": "Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging: detection of ischemic injury 39 minutes after onset in a stroke patient. A neurologist witnessed the in-hospital onset of an ischemic stroke in a 71-year-old right-handed male who suddenly developed global aphasia and right hemiplegia. Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) 39 minutes after the ictus demonstrated high signals in the left internal carotid artery territory. T1- and T2-weighted images failed to detect this change. Magnetic resonance angiography showed occlusions in branches of the left anterior and middle cerebral arteries and an atheromatous stenotic lesion in the ipsilateral proximal internal carotid artery. The patient was treated with intravenous heparin and low molecular dextran solution. Repeated magnetic resonance imagings identified an infarction slightly smaller than the abnormality demonstrated by the initial DWI. DWI detects hyperacute ischemic injury within 1 hour of symptom onset in human ischemic stroke."}
{"id": "10358986", "title": "Massive subependymal hemorrhage caused by an occult vascular malformation--two case reports.", "content": "Massive subependymal hemorrhage caused by an occult vascular malformation--two case reports. Two patients presented with massive subependymal hemorrhage caused by vascular anomalies occult to angiography, computed tomography (CT) scanning, and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. A 47-year-old male initially presented with a headache and became comatose 3 weeks later. CT and MR imaging demonstrated a massive hematoma in the right caudate head projecting into the lateral ventricle. A 60-year-old male sustained heaviness of his left extremities 8 days prior to admission and his condition gradually deteriorated. Neuroimaging revealed a right thalamic hematoma adjacent to the lateral ventricle. Cerebral angiography, CT, and MR imaging failed to detect any vascular anomaly. The hematomas increased in size gradually and were surgically explored. The histological diagnosis was arteriovenous malformation for the first case and cavernous angioma for the second case that had ruptured repeatedly. These cases were unique in the unusual location in the subependyma, and diagnostic neuroimaging modalities could not disclose the vascular anomalies, and the hematomas enlarged progressively to become critically symptomatic. Surgical intervention is mandatory for mass reduction and correct diagnosis of such lesions, with favorable outcome as long as the surgery is not delayed until too late."}
{"id": "10358983", "title": "Angiographically occult dural arteriovenous malformation in the anterior cranial fossa--case report.", "content": "Angiographically occult dural arteriovenous malformation in the anterior cranial fossa--case report. A 62-year-old male presented with a dural arteriovenous malformation located in anterior cranial fossa manifesting as acute right frontal intracerebral and subdural hematomas. Cerebral angiography showed only mass sign, but surgical exploration disclosed the dural arteriovenous malformation in the anterior cranial fossa. Anterior cranial fossa dural arteriovenous malformation should be considered if computed tomography reveals intracranial bleeding involving the frontal base, even if cerebral angiography does not demonstrate vascular anomalies."}
{"id": "10229751", "title": "Perimesencephalic hemorrhage. Exclusion of vertebrobasilar aneurysms with CT angiography.", "content": "Perimesencephalic hemorrhage. Exclusion of vertebrobasilar aneurysms with CT angiography. It is important to recognize a perimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), because in 95% of these patients the cause is nonaneurysmal and the prognosis is excellent. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether CT angiography can accurately exclude vertebrobasilar aneurysms in patients with perimesencephalic patterns of hemorrhage and therefore replace digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in this setting. In 40 patients with posterior fossa SAH as shown on unenhanced CT, 2 radiologists independently evaluated unenhanced CT for distinguishing between perimesencephalic and nonperimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage and assessed CT angiography for detection of aneurysms. All patients subsequently underwent DSA or autopsy. Observers agreed in 38 of 40 patients (95%) in differentiating perimesencephalic and nonperimesencephalic patterns of hemorrhage on unenhanced CT. On the CT angiograms, both observers detected a vertebrobasilar aneurysm in 16 patients and no aneurysm in 24 patients. These findings were confirmed by DSA or autopsy. No patients with a perimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage were found to have an aneurysm on either CT angiography or DSA. Good recognition of a perimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage is possible on unenhanced CT, and CT angiography accurately excludes and detects vertebrobasilar aneurysms. DSA can be withheld in patients with a perimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage and negative CT angiography."}
{"id": "10219398", "title": "The outcome of linear accelerator radiosurgery: is an early angiogram needed?", "content": "The outcome of linear accelerator radiosurgery: is an early angiogram needed?"}
{"id": "10214733", "title": "Contrast-enhanced transcranial color-coded duplex sonography: efficiency and validity.", "content": "Contrast-enhanced transcranial color-coded duplex sonography: efficiency and validity. To evaluate the diagnostic efficiency and accuracy of contrast-enhanced transcranial color-coded sonography (CE-TCCS). TCCS is hampered by insufficient ultrasonic penetration in 20% of cerebrovascular patients. In 47 patients whose basal arteries could not be assessed adequately, 59 TCCS examinations were performed before and after administration of the ultrasonic contrast agent (CA) Levovist. The assessability of different basal cerebral arteries after CA administration was evaluated off-line. Angiographic records were available from 11 patients. Satisfactory investigation of the middle cerebral artery, the anterior cerebral artery, the P1 and P2 segments of the posterior cerebral artery, and the supraclinoid portion of the internal carotid artery siphon was possible in 5.1%, 28.8%, 35.6%, 55.9%, and 47.5% of patients before, and in 84.7%, 91.5%, 93.2%, 94.5%, and 93.2% of patients after contrast enhancement. Stenoses or occlusions of basal cerebral arteries were registered in 28 patients (60%). CE-TCCS diagnosis was confirmed by digital subtraction angiography or magnetic resonance angiography in 10 of the 11 patients, leading to positive and negative predictive values of 0.86 and 1.00. Contrast enhancement improves the diagnostic potential of TCCS significantly in patients with temporal bone window failure, and proved to be a reliable method for detecting middle cerebral artery and siphon occlusion."}
{"id": "10214732", "title": "Absent middle cerebral artery flow predicts the presence and evolution of the ischemic penumbra.", "content": "Absent middle cerebral artery flow predicts the presence and evolution of the ischemic penumbra. In acute ischemic stroke the pattern of a perfusion-imaging (PI) lesion larger than the diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) lesion may be a marker of the ischemic penumbra. We hypothesized that acute middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion would predict the presence of presumed \"penumbral\" patterns (PI > DWI), ischemic core evolution, and stroke outcome. Echoplanar PI, DWI, and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) were performed in 26 patients with MCA territory stroke. Imaging and clinical studies (Canadian Neurological Scale, Barthel Index, and Rankin Scale) were performed within 24 hours of onset and repeated at days 4 and 90. MCA flow was absent in 9 of 26 patients. This was associated with larger acute PI and DWI lesions, greater PI/DWI mismatch, early DWI lesion expansion, larger final infarct size, worse clinical outcome (p < 0.01) and provided independent prognostic information (multiple linear regression analysis, p < 0.05). Acute penumbral patterns were present in 14 of 26 patients. Most of these patients (9 of 14) had no MCA flow, whereas all nonpenumbral patients (PI < or = DWI lesion) had MCA flow (p < 0.001). Penumbral-pattern patients with absent MCA flow had greater DWI lesion expansion (p < 0.05) and worse clinical outcome (Rankin Scale score, p < 0.05). Absent MCA flow on MRA predicts the presence of a presumed penumbral pattern on acute PI and DWI and worse stroke outcome. Combined MRA, PI, and DWI can identify individual patients at risk of ischemic core progression and the potential to respond to thrombolytic therapy beyond 3 hours."}
{"id": "10203099", "title": "Role of positron emission tomography in determining the extent of CNS ischemia in patients with sickle cell disease.", "content": "Role of positron emission tomography in determining the extent of CNS ischemia in patients with sickle cell disease. Nearly 25% of patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) experience central nervous system morbidity involving both large and small vessel disease. Optimal imaging methods for determining the extent of ischemia are not known. Positron emission tomography (PET) has the unique ability to show tissue function as well as structure. Reports concerning patients with non-SCD neurodegenerative disorders suggest PET may be useful in determining prognosis. We compared magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance angiography, and neuropsychological testing with PET prospectively. Six patients with SCD and a history of stroke, aged 10 to 28, were enrolled. PET studies were performed on an ECAT HR 47 scanner (Siemens/CTI, Knoxville, TN) using 18-F-fluorodeoxyglucose as a tracer. PET interpretations were conducted in blinded fashion. MRI studies found two patients with only small vessel disease and four with both large and small vessel disease. In two of four subjects with large vessel disease, PET showed a corresponding metabolic abnormality and also identified an area of hypometabolism extending beyond the anatomical lesion as shown by MRI. PET did not demonstrate an abnormality corresponding with small vessel disease. Detailed neuropsychological testing demonstrated cognitive dysfunction in all cases. For some patients, PET may add sensitivity in detecting impaired metabolism in the area surrounding a major vessel infarct. However, the technique does not appear to be generally useful in characterizing small watershed or deep white matter infarcts. Larger studies, to include control subjects and carefully selected untransfused SCD patients, are needed. A combination of conventional imaging and neuropsychological testing remains the preferred evaluation for most SCD patients with neurologic symptoms."}
{"id": "10191820", "title": "[Spectrum of neurological symptoms in dissections of brain-supplying arteries].", "content": "[Spectrum of neurological symptoms in dissections of brain-supplying arteries]. Dissection of extracranial arteries that supply the brain is a common cause of ischemic stroke in youngish persons. Yet this disease, with its warning and early symptoms, is inadequately known among the population as well as doctors. This study was undertaken to demonstrate the incidence, severity and sequelae of this condition, important in both routine general and hospital practice, with particular emphasis on early signs and diagnosis. The data from 33 patients (20 men, 13 women, average age 42 [21-72] years) who during one year had been treated in the authors' hospital for carotid (n = 23) or vertebral (n = 10) artery dissection were analysed. The admission diagnosis of dissection, based on the history and ultrasound findings was in almost all cases confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging (wall haematoma), magnetic resonance angiograhy, computed tomography-angiography or conventional angiography. Typical warning and early symptoms such as whiplash sensation unilateral pain in the throat, neck and head or Horner's syndrome were elicited in nearly 50% of patients, while known causes such as trauma or connective tissue disease were confirmed in only 27%. Neurological deficits of ischemic infarction, some of them severe, persisted in two-thirds of patients, brain death occurred in one. Dissection of carotid or vertebral arteries is a statistically and medically relevant cause of stroke in youngish persons that can be diagnosed by attention to typical warning and early symptoms and the performance of noninvasive tests. The often life-threatening sequelae of possible cerebral ischemia can be diagnosed and even averted by early recognition of the cause."}
{"id": "10189496", "title": "Bleeding risk in unruptured and residual cerebral aneurysms--angiographic annual growth rate in nineteen patients.", "content": "Bleeding risk in unruptured and residual cerebral aneurysms--angiographic annual growth rate in nineteen patients. Whether and when unruptured aneurysms or aneurysmal rests following incomplete surgery result in subsequent bleeding are major concerns for neurosurgeons. By calculating the annual growth rate of aneurysms in long-term follow-up angiography (partly supplemented with MR-imaging and/or MR-angiography), we attempted to determine the surgical indications for these aneurysms. Long-term follow-up angiography ranging from one to 20 years was carried out on five patients whose ruptured aneurysms had been incompletely occluded, six patients with multiple aneurysms, of which the ruptured ones had been completely obliterated at operation and the small unruptured aneurysms, missed or misdiagnosed, and eight patients with unruptured aneurysms which were asymptomatic or symptomatic. The correlation of annual aneurysm growth rate to subsequent bleeding was investigated. Four out of six fast-growing aneurysms with high annual growth rates (more than 8% increase per year) resulted in subsequent bleeding whereas none of the fourteen slow-growing aneurysms with low annual growth rates (less than 8% increase per year) led to bleeding (Fisher's exact test; p < 0.01). Hypertension, patient age and aneurysmal location showed no significant correlation to the annual growth rate (Fisher's exact test; p > 0.05). This study suggests that aneurysmal rests after incomplete surgery and missed or misdiagnosed multiple or incidental aneurysms which are fast growing have a high possibility of subsequent bleeding and should be operated on as soon as possible."}
{"id": "10189482", "title": "Carotid arteries: maximizing arterial to venous contrast in fluoroscopically triggered contrast-enhanced MR angiography with elliptic centric view ordering.", "content": "Carotid arteries: maximizing arterial to venous contrast in fluoroscopically triggered contrast-enhanced MR angiography with elliptic centric view ordering. To obtain high-spatial-resolution, venous-suppressed, contrast material-enhanced, three-dimensional (3D) magnetic resonance (MR) angiograms of the carotid arteries and aortic arch by using an elliptic centric view ordering with MR fluoroscopic triggering. Forty consecutive patients with cerebrovascular disease in the differential diagnosis were evaluated with fluoroscopically triggered 3D MR angiography (gadoteridol dose range, 0.1-0.3 mmol per kilogram of body weight; mean acquisition time, 40 second +/- 8 [SD]). The contrast-enhanced 3D MR angiograms were evaluated for overall quality, vascular signal intensity, venous suppression, and motion artifact. Twenty patients also underwent two-dimensional (2D) time-of-flight (TOF) MR angiography. The overall quality of the 2D TOF MR angiograms and comparative quality between the 2D TOF and contrast-enhanced 3D MR angiograms were determined. The contrast-enhanced 3D MR angiograms were of excellent or more than adequate quality for diagnosis in 36 of the 40 studies (90%). In 35 of the 38 contrast-enhanced 3D studies in which the contrast material bolus was detected fluoroscopically, the internal jugular vein signal intensity was either not detectable or barely visible. In 18 of the 20 patients who also underwent 2D TOF MR angiography, the quality of the contrast-enhanced 3D MR angiograms was graded as markedly superior or superior. Contrast-enhanced, elliptic centric 3D MR angiography with real-time MR fluoroscopic triggering offers high-spatial-resolution images of the carotid arteries and aortic arch with reliable venous suppression."}
{"id": "10187876", "title": "A standardized MRI stroke protocol: comparison with CT in hyperacute intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "A standardized MRI stroke protocol: comparison with CT in hyperacute intracerebral hemorrhage. Diagnostic imaging in hyperacute ischemic stroke has been revolutionized by the introduction of diffusion- and perfusion-weighted MRI (DWI and PWI). CT, however, is still needed to exclude intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The purpose of our study was to determine the diagnostic accuracy of a standardized, multimodal MRI (mMRI) stroke protocol in the qualitative and quantitative assessment of hyperacute ICH (<6 hours). We investigated 9 patients with hyperacute ICH with CT followed immediately by a standardized mMRI stroke protocol (DWI, PWI [T2*-WI], FLAIR, T2-WI, and MRA). The time interval between MRI and symptom onset ranged from 3 hours to 5 hours 45 minutes. We analyzed and compared the size of the hematoma on CT and all mMRI images by semiautomatic volumetry. ICH was unambiguously identified on the basis of all mMRI sequences. With increasing susceptibility effect (T2*-WI), the ICH, appearing as an area of hyperintensity with central signal loss, became qualitatively most evident. Regarding quantitation, T2*-WI overestimated (median and mean difference, 18.9%/17.8%; SD final sigma=24.4%) and DWI correlated best (median and mean difference, 3.97%/-4.36%; SD final sigma=37. 42%) with hematoma size on CT. Multimodal stroke MRI is as reliable as CT in the assessment of hyperacute ICH. Therefore, additional CT is no longer necessary to rule out ICH in hyperacute stroke. The use of mMRI alone in the diagnostic workup of a hyperacute stroke patient saves time and costs while rendering all the critical information needed to initiate an optimal treatment."}
{"id": "10102319", "title": "Emergency department presentations of cerebrovascular disease in children.", "content": "Emergency department presentations of cerebrovascular disease in children. Five cases of children with cerebrovascular disease presentations to the emergency department (ED) were selected as a series to illustrate the variety of presentation of cerebrovascular disease in children. This series shows that although cerebrovascular disease in children is uncommon, it is likely that cases will occasionally present acutely to an ED. The emergency physician's role in the management of suspected acute strokes in children is that of immediate stabilization, imaging to rule out hemorrhage, other studies to rule out emergent acute disease, and timely consultation for further management. Computed tomography (CT) is useful to detect an acute hemorrhage or old ischemic lesion. Magnetic resonance imaging has superior image resolution over CT, but CT may be more practical initially. Magnetic resonance angiography is a useful part of the stroke workup in children."}
{"id": "10096327", "title": "MR angiography of internal carotid arteries: breath-hold Gd-enhanced 3D fast imaging with steady-state precession versus unenhanced 2D and 3D time-of-flight techniques.", "content": "MR angiography of internal carotid arteries: breath-hold Gd-enhanced 3D fast imaging with steady-state precession versus unenhanced 2D and 3D time-of-flight techniques. The purpose of this work was to compare Gd-enhanced breath-hold fast imaging with steady-state precession (Gd-FISP) with unenhanced time-of-flight (TOF) sequences in evaluating internal carotid arteries (ICAs). Thirty patients underwent three unenhanced TOF sequences [2D traveling saturation (Travelsat); 3D tilted optimized nonsaturated excitation (TONE); TOF 3D Multislab] and two breath-hold 3D Gd-FISP sequences with automated intravenous contrast agent injection (axial and coronal). ICAs were classified as normal (no stenosis); with mild (<30%), moderate (30-70%), or severe stenosis; or occluded (100%). Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) with aortic arch injection was used as a reference technique. DSA revealed 20 normal ICAs; 11 mild, 9 moderate, and 14 severe stenoses; and 2 occlusions. DSA and all MR angiography (MRA) sequences diagnosed the occlusion of four common carotid arteries. The TOF 2D overestimated 10 stenoses, TOF 3D TONE 9, and TOF 3D Multislab 5; Gd-FISP 3D overestimated only 2 of them, reaching the highest sensitivity and specificity for severe stenoses. Significant differences were found between the overestimation of Gd-FISP and each of the three unenhanced sequences (0.0020 < p < 0.0313, Wilcoxon and McNemar tests). Severe artifacts were observed with TOF techniques only. Gd-FISP is an interesting, largely artifact-free improvement for MRA of ICAs."}
{"id": "10094357", "title": "In vitro models of intracranial arteriovenous fistulas for the evaluation of new endovascular treatment materials.", "content": "In vitro models of intracranial arteriovenous fistulas for the evaluation of new endovascular treatment materials. The purpose of this study was to create and test an in vitro model of intracranial arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs) that simulates the geometry of human vasculature and allows realistic testing of devices used in endovascular therapy. The models were derived from corrosion casts of the main cervicocranial arteries and veins obtained from two nonfixed human specimens. Wax copies of the casts were produced and combined to create complex models simulating various types of intracranial AVFs. Wax assemblies were embedded with liquid silicone solidified into transparent blocks containing, after wax evacuation, hollow reproductions of the original vascular trees. The models were connected to a pulsatile pump and their compatibility with various imaging techniques and endovascular treatment materials was evaluated. The models were compatible with digital subtraction angiography, CT, MR imaging, and transcranial Doppler sonography. They provided a realistic endovascular environment for the simulation of interventional neuroradiologic procedures. Anatomically accurate and reproducible in vitro models of intracranial AVFs provide a valuable method for evaluating new endovascular treatment materials and for teaching purposes."}
{"id": "10094346", "title": "Cerebral veins: comparative study of CT venography with intraarterial digital subtraction angiography.", "content": "Cerebral veins: comparative study of CT venography with intraarterial digital subtraction angiography. Our objective was to compare the reliability of CT venography with intraarterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in imaging cerebral venous anatomy and pathology. In 25 consecutive patients, 426 venous structures were determined as present, partially present, or absent by three observers evaluating CT multiplanar reformatted (MPR) and maximum intensity projection (MIP) images. These results were compared with the results from intraarterial DSA and, in a second step, with the results of an intraobserver consensus. In addition, pathologic conditions were described. Using DSA as the standard of reference, MPR images had an overall sensitivity of 95% (specificity, 19%) and MIP images a sensitivity of 80% (specificity, 44%) in depicting the cerebral venous anatomy. On the basis of an intraobserver consensus including DSA, MPR, and MIP images (415 vessels present), the sensitivity/specificity was 95%/91% for MPR, 90%/100% for DSA, and 79%/91% for MIP images. MPR images were superior to DSA images in showing the cavernous sinus, the inferior sagittal sinus, and the basal vein of Rosenthal. Venous occlusive diseases were correctly recognized on both MPR and MIP images. Only DSA images provided reliable information of invasion of a sinus by an adjacent meningioma. CT venography proved to be a reliable method to depict the cerebral venous structures. MPR images were superior to MIP images."}
{"id": "10086500", "title": "The simple indicator for revascularization of acute middle cerebral artery occlusion using angiogram and ultra-early embolectomy.", "content": "The simple indicator for revascularization of acute middle cerebral artery occlusion using angiogram and ultra-early embolectomy. The purpose of the study was: (1) to find a clinical indicator for revascularization of acute middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion using angiograms of 100 patients examined immediately after onset and treated medically and (2) to investigate 10 ultra-early MCA embolectomies. Quantity of collateral circulation, based on time required for conduction of contrast media to the insular portion of the MCA from the anterior cerebral artery, MCA conduction time (MCT) was graded as: Grade 1: In the arterial phase, there was conduction not only to the insular portion of the MCA but also to proximal M2; Grade 2: Conduction to the insular portion was present in late arterial phase; Grade 3: Conduction was present in capillary phase; Grade 4: Conduction was present in venous phase; Grade 5: No conduction was seen. The results of embolectomy are discussed. MCT can predict the extent of resultant low-density area on computed tomographic scan. For Grades 3, 4, or 5, embolectomy could be considered superior to medical treatment, if the low-density area was localized in the basal ganglia or centrum semiovale after surgery. Consequently, embolectomy was effective in four cases recanalized within 6 hours of onset. Except for one Grade 5 case, the remaining nine cases showed neither lethal hemorrhagic infarction nor brain edema. Overall outcome was significantly better than cases treated medically (p < 0.05), but some cases did not recover from hemiparesis due to infarcts in the area of the lenticulostriate arteries. MCT helps to predict the applicability of revascularization of acute MCA occlusion. Efficacy of embolectomy depends on revascularization within 6 hours of onset. Even after complete MCA flow restoration, infarcts in the area of the lenticulostriate arteries cannot always be prevented."}
{"id": "10081777", "title": "[Imaging of cerebrovascular disease in sickle cell anemia].", "content": "[Imaging of cerebrovascular disease in sickle cell anemia]. Cerebral vascular disease is a common and serious complication of sickle cell disease that mainly involves the large blood vessels of the skull base. Because recurrences are common and residual deficits severe, attention has turned to detection of preclinical cerebral involvement with the goal of preventing clinical damage. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), an extremely sensitive tool for detecting cerebral infarction/ischemia, has shown that 10% of asymptomatic patients exhibit white matter lesions that seem to be associated with impaired cognitive function and may be predictive of stroke; magnetic resonance angiography demonstrates occlusions of skull base arteries but is not reliable for the diagnosis of stenosis because of artifacts generated by rapid turbulent flow. Transcranial Doppler is sensitive and specific for the detection of arterial stenosis and occlusion, even in asymptomatic patients. Digitized cerebral angiography remains the gold standard investigation for pretreatment confirmation of lesions detected by Doppler and/or MRI."}
{"id": "10072055", "title": "Stroke-like episodes in autosomal recessive cytochrome oxidase deficiency.", "content": "Stroke-like episodes in autosomal recessive cytochrome oxidase deficiency. Stroke-like episodes, defined as periods of acute localized neurological dysfunction during which brain imagery suggests cerebral ischemia but vascular anatomy is normal, occurred in 3 patients with autosomal recessive Saguenay-Lac St-Jean (SLSJ) cytochrome oxidase (COX) deficiency. The patients developed focal neurological deterioration and frontal hypodensities on cerebral computerized tomography (CT). Arteriography, performed in 1 patient during an acute episode, showed normal vascular anatomy. Nevertheless, capillary shunting was evident both in regions that appeared abnormal on the initial cerebral CT study and in regions that appeared normal but subsequently developed Leigh disease. Stroke-like episodes did not exacerbate systemic acidosis, and acidotic decompensations occurred independently of stroke-like episodes. In conclusion, stroke-like episodes occur in autosomal recessively inherited congenital lactic acidoses as well as in those caused by mitochondrial DNA mutations. In some cases, acute localized neurovascular changes occur in regions that subsequently develop Leigh disease."}
{"id": "9974056", "title": "Diagnostic and therapeutic consequences of repeat brain imaging and follow-up vascular imaging in stroke patients.", "content": "Diagnostic and therapeutic consequences of repeat brain imaging and follow-up vascular imaging in stroke patients. Recently, the diagnostic and therapeutic importance of repeat radiologic imaging in stroke patients has been questioned. The aim of this study was to show the therapeutic and diagnostic consequences of both repeat brain imaging and follow-up vascular imaging in this group of patients. Neuroradiologic images and reports as well as clinical records of 317 patients (209 men and 108 women; mean age, 63 years) were reviewed retrospectively to determine the number of modifications made to the diagnosis and therapeutic regimen and to the classification of neuroradiologic findings. Two hundred thirty-eight repeat imaging procedures were performed in 171 patients. Of these, 76 were vascular imaging examinations (11 CT angiograms, 13 MR angiograms, 52 digital subtraction angiograms) and 162 were cross-sectional brain imaging studies (54 MR images, 108 CT scans). Forty of the 76 vascular imaging procedures and 77 of the 162 repeat cross-sectional brain imaging studies led to important diagnostic modifications with consequences for the patients' therapy and prognosis. Our study establishes that vascular imaging methods as well as cross-sectional brain imaging used as repeat imaging procedures in stroke patients can have important diagnostic and therapeutic consequences. We believe that repeat imaging in selected subgroups will be cost-effective."}
{"id": "9929551", "title": "Congenital absence of the internal carotid artery.", "content": "Congenital absence of the internal carotid artery. We report three cases of congenital absence of an internal carotid artery (ICA), diagnosed incidentally by digital subtraction angiography. The analysis of the cases is based on the classification of segmental ICA agenesis proposed by Lasjaunias and Berenstein. Usually the patients with this rare vascular anomaly are asymptomatic; some may have symptoms related to cerebrovascular insufficiency, compression by enlarged intracranial collateral vessels, or complications associated with cerebral aneurysms. Diagnosis of congenital absence of ICA is made by skull base computed tomography (CT) scan, CT and magnetic resonance angiography, and conventional or digital subtraction angiography."}
{"id": "9888768", "title": "Assessment of the value of MR imaging for examining patients with angiographically negative subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Assessment of the value of MR imaging for examining patients with angiographically negative subarachnoid hemorrhage. Our goal was to assess the value of MR imaging to patient care in the setting of angiographically negative subarachnoid hemorrhage and to evaluate the potential of MR imaging for revealing the mechanism for idiopathic perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage. We retrospectively reviewed 71 patients who presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage and in whom the results of a four-vessel cerebral arteriogram were negative, a CT scan showed no evidence of intraaxial hemorrhage, and MR imaging had been performed within 72 hr of presentation. MR imaging of the brain included sagittal spin-echo T1-weighted, turbo spin-echo proton density-weighted, T2-weighted, and axial T2-weighted gradient-echo sequences. MR imaging of the cervical spine, which was performed in 41 of the 71 patients, included sagittal spin-echo T1-weighted, turbo spin-echo proton density-weighted, T2-weighted, and axial T2-weighted gradient-echo sequences. Perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage was seen on CT in 25 patients; in four of these patients (16%), MR imaging revealed acute perforator territory infarction involving the caudate, putamen, or thalamus. In 26 other patients, nonperimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage was revealed on CT; in two of these patients (8%), MR imaging showed the cause of the subarachnoid hemorrhage. By contrast, 20 patients had negative findings on CT scans but xanthochromic CSF on lumbar puncture; in two of these patients (10%), MR findings were interpreted as responsible for subarachnoid hemorrhage. MR imaging showed diagnostic value in patients with angiographically negative subarachnoid hemorrhage, revealing abnormalities in 14% of the 71 patients, and resulted in a significant change in patient treatment in 6% of the patients. MR imaging also revealed an association between perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage and infarcts involving the territory of perforating arteries at the base of the brain. This finding may provide insight into the pathogenesis of perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "11013654", "title": "Very late cerebral metastasis from malignant melanoma.", "content": "Very late cerebral metastasis from malignant melanoma. The appearance of cerebral metastases of malignant melanoma (MM) more than 10 years after the primary diagnosis is extremely rare. We report the case of a patient with a solitary brain metastasis of MM who came to our observation 11 years after the treatment of the cutaneous lesion. This patient, who up until then had appeared disease free, presented with two episodes of intracranial haemorrhage in a 5-month period. Neuroradiological findings (CT, MRI, angiogram) did not suggest a brain metastasis. The correct diagnosis was reached only after histopathological examination of the surgically removed lesion. On the basis of this experience, we stress the importance of a long-term clinical and radiological follow-up of all patients with MM."}
{"id": "10235014", "title": "Surgery of angiomas in the brainstem with a stress on the presence of telangiectasia.", "content": "Surgery of angiomas in the brainstem with a stress on the presence of telangiectasia. This report deals with the surgery of angiomas other than arteriovenous malformation in the brainstem. The surgical cases were three cavernomas, two telangiectasias, and two venous malformations. We performed surgery when an angioma bled and the resulting hematoma was situated near the surface of the brainstem or the fourth ventricle. The cases were operated on at the subacute or chronic stages after hemorrhage. Although a magnetic resonance (MR) image showed a subacute or chronic localized hematoma with a low intensity rim, the case was not always a cavernoma, but a telangiectasia. Cavernomas could be totally removed, but telangiectasia could not. In the cases of medullary venous malformation the diagnosis was obtained radiologically, and when the hematoma was large, only hematoma evacuation was performed. In all cases the postoperative Karnofsky scores were improved or unchanged. Postoperative rebleeding in the hematoma cavity continued insidiously in a case of telangiectasia. The abnormal vessels of telangiectasia in the brainstem were preoperatively not visualized by cerebral angiography or MR imaging, but became visualized by enhanced MR imaging after evacuation of hematoma in two cases. It is stressed that an angioma with a hematoma intensity core surrounded by a low intensity rim on MR images is not always a cavernoma, but possibly is a telangiectasia."}
{"id": "10063389", "title": "[Chronic encapsulated intracerebral hematoma].", "content": "[Chronic encapsulated intracerebral hematoma]. Radiological-morphologic features of chronic intracerebral hematomas are observed by computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR), and in angiographic examination are particularly characterized by the absence of pathologic vascularization. The patient, aged 61, with confirmed diagnosis of encapsulated intracerebral hematoma, treated at the Clinic of Neurology and Clinic of Neurosurgery of the Military Medical Academy was presented. The patient was released after recovery, and was consequently followed up in an outpatient department by a neurosurgeon. Six-month follow-up demonstrated the regression of the clinical signs of the disease, as well as the alterations in CT and MR images in the same sense."}
{"id": "10037831", "title": "[Preoperative magnetic resonance angiography findings and postoperative neurological complications in 93 cases of CABG with cardiopulmonary bypass].", "content": "[Preoperative magnetic resonance angiography findings and postoperative neurological complications in 93 cases of CABG with cardiopulmonary bypass]. Between February 1994 and January 1997, 102 of the 146 patients treated by coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) had undergone magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of the brain and neck before the operation, and arterial stenosis or occlusion had been detected in 38 (36.9%) of them. Two of these patients had complicating severe calcification of the ascending aorta, and CABG was performed without cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Seven patients without stenotic lesions on MRA were also treated by CABG without CPB for other complications. In addition to the 102 patients one patient had been found to have occlusion of the left common carotid artery and poor enhancement of the distal portion, and as a result we switched from CABG to percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTCA). We enrolled 93 patients in this study excluding these 10 patients. The patients were distributed into the three groups according to the MRA findings. Group C = no stenotic lesions (58 patients). Group S = stenosis of < 70% (26 patients), Group SS = stenosis of > or = 70% (9 patients). Enhancement distal to the stenotic or occlusive lesions was good in all patients in group S and SS. We then examined them for the incidence of postoperative neurological complications. There were no significant differences among the three groups in regard to age, male/female ratio, or incidence of hypertension and hyperlipidemia. In Group S, the incidence of diabetes was significantly higher than in the other Groups. The incidence of prior stroke was significantly higher and the number of coronary arteries affected was significantly larger in group SS than the other groups. There were no significant differences among the three groups with regard to intraoperative variables. The lowest mean arterial pressure on CPB was 44.3 +/- 7.4 mmHg, 48.0 +/- 8.8 mmHg, 46.3 +/- 7.8 mmHg in Group C, S, and SS, respectively, In all groups the lowest mean arterial pressure on CPB was below 50 mmHg. There were no significant differences among the three groups with regard to time to awaken and time to extubation. Two patients experienced transient conciousness disturbance after CABG, one in Group C, the other in Group SS, but no new lesions were detected by brain CT. Only one patient, in Group C. suffered a stroke and had a new lesion on brain CT a month after the operation. No strokes occurred in the perioperative period. In nine patients with good enhancement distal to the severe stenotic or occlusive lesion on MRA of the brain and neck the lowest mean arterial pressure on CPB was below 50 mmHg, but there was no postoperative neurological complications due to the low perfusion pressure on CPB. The results of this study suggested that CABG with CPB can be performed safely in patients with good enhancement distal to the stenotic or occlusive lesions on MRA of the brain and neck."}
{"id": "9951019", "title": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage as a form of onset of systemic lupus erythematosus].", "content": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage as a form of onset of systemic lupus erythematosus]. The most frequent cause of spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is rupture of intracranial arterial aneurysms (> 70%). The remainder are due to many different aetiologies. Although SAH is a relatively common neuropathological finding in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), it is normally due to the extent of the intercerebral hemorrhage and not to its isolated presentation. We report the case of a 34 year old woman who presented with non-traumatic SAH at the onset of her lupus disorder. The patient was attended for SAH and at the same time a multisystemic disorder and severe thrombocytopenia were found, leading to a diagnosis of SLE. The neuroimaging techniques, selective cerebral arteriography, cerebral and spinal magnetic resonance, and magnetic resonance angiography did not show any vascular malformations. The patient was treated with immunosuppressive therapy, nimodipine, and following angiographic tests, with antiaggregants and anticoagulants. The greater frequency of SAH in patients with lupus, as compared to the general population, has been attributed to the presence of intracranial vasculitis. However, neuropathological studies have shown that true vasculitis is very infrequent in the central nervous system of SLE patients. In the case we describe, the first in which SAH appeared at the onset of the disease, we consider that the origin of the hemorrhage was her high arterial blood pressure and thrombopenia."}
{"id": "9951016", "title": "[Neuro-radiological findings in probable moyamoya disease].", "content": "[Neuro-radiological findings in probable moyamoya disease]. Unilateral moyamoya disease presents as unilateral stenosis or obstruction of the supraclinoid internal carotid artery, which causes cerebral hypoperfusion resulting in seizures or transitorial ischemic accidents (TIA). Atypical moyamoya disease was diagnosed as the cause of intraventricular hemorrhage in a 41 year-old-woman. The cerebral angiography, CT, MR and brain SPECT are reported. We discuss the clinic course and diagnostic techniques in this unilateral, atypical moyamoya disease and which steps are necessary toward an acceptable method for diagnosis and pursuit."}
{"id": "9883445", "title": "[Indications for surgery to determine the etiology of subcortical hemorrhage].", "content": "[Indications for surgery to determine the etiology of subcortical hemorrhage]. We studied the etiology of subcortical hemorrhage in 55 patients (30 males, 25 females), aged 19-83 years (mean 60 years). CT scan was made in all patients on admission, with the use of intravenous infusion of contrast agent in 35 patients. Cerebral angiography was performed in 37 patients and MRI was performed in 22 patients. Forty-one patients underwent surgery and the other fourteen patients were treated conservatively. The cause of bleeding had been discovered before surgery in 12 cases; 10 arteriovenous malformations and 2 brain tumors. They were discovered by meticulous neuroradiological investigations including cerebral angiography, MRI, dynamic MRI, MRA and enhancing CT. The cause of bleeding was newly discovered after surgery in 7 cases; all of amyloid angiopathy. It remained unknown in the other 22 surgical cases although hypertensive angiopathy was suspected in eleven of them. Among the 14 patients who received conservative therapy, hemorrhagic diathesis including the use of Warfarin and DIC was the cause of bleeding in four cases and the etiology remained unknown in other ten, although hypertensive angiopathy was suspected in eight of them. The 32 patients in whom the etiology remained unknown had been observed as long as 12-120 months (mean, 40 months) and although bleeding has occurred at different locations in two of these patients, there has been no recurrence of bleeding at the same location in any of them. In conclusion, surgery is not indicated to determine the etiology of subcortical hemorrhage when meticulous neuroradiological investigations fail to disclose any vascular or tumorous lesions."}
{"id": "9874591", "title": "Spontaneous decrease of MCA-stenosis due to cerebral thromboembolism.", "content": "Spontaneous decrease of MCA-stenosis due to cerebral thromboembolism."}
{"id": "9864721", "title": "[Spontaneous brain stem hemorrhage: analysis of cases].", "content": "[Spontaneous brain stem hemorrhage: analysis of cases]. Four cases of spontaneous haemorrhages to the brain stem were described. They concerned young patients (middle age was 34 years) without previous risk factors. The diagnosis was established on the ground of clinical examination, neuroimaging methods-CT, MR, cerebral angiography. We could not indicate the cause of haemorrhage (i.e. a blood vessel pathology, nor coagulation disturbances neither other pathological coincidence were found). All patients survived, but none of them is able to continue his professional work. Two patients demonstrate slight pyramidal signs, and slight hemihypaesthesia. One patient still presents profound brain stem symptoms, and in the last case tetraparesis remains."}
{"id": "9843273", "title": "MR arteriography of intracranial circulation.", "content": "MR arteriography of intracranial circulation."}
{"id": "9840033", "title": "Clinical follow-up of patients after a negative digital subtraction pulmonary arteriogram in the evaluation of pulmonary embolism.", "content": "Clinical follow-up of patients after a negative digital subtraction pulmonary arteriogram in the evaluation of pulmonary embolism. This study was designed to examine the clinical course of patients following digital subtraction pulmonary arteriography (DSPA) interpreted as negative for pulmonary emboli (PE). Sixty-three patients underwent DSPA interpreted as negative for PE over a 27-month period. Follow-up data were collected by means of medical and diagnostic radiology record review, interviews of referring physicians, and patient telephone interviews. Of 63 patients, two were excluded and seven were lost to follow-up, leaving a study population of 54 patients. Mean follow-up was 12.1 months (range, 0-28.5 months). Thirty-one reported no symptoms of PE. Of 13 patients reporting intermittent chest pain and/or dyspnea during their mean follow-up of 13.6 months, 10 had a history of cardiac, nonthrombotic pulmonary, or gastroesophageal reflux disease. There were no subsequent positive angiograms or ventilation/perfusion scans. Comorbid conditions in the 10 patients who died included cardiac events (n = 4), advanced cancer (n = 2), sepsis/pneumonia (n = 2), sarcoidosis (n = 1), and cerebrovascular accident (n = 1). No documented PE was identified. The technique of DSPA is sufficiently sensitive to exclude clinically significant PE. The advantages of image post-processing, in addition to the savings in cost, time, and contrast media, support its use in the angiographic diagnosis of PE."}
{"id": "9836780", "title": "Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging in a case of cerebral venous thrombosis.", "content": "Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging in a case of cerebral venous thrombosis. Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) is the most sensitive MR sequence in acute arterial ischemic stroke but has not yet been evaluated in venous cerebral ischemia. We describe a patient with DWI performed at the acute phase of a venous ischemic stroke. A rapid cerebral MRI including DWI and fast fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequences was performed at the acute phase of a venous stroke confirmed by conventional angiography. DWI showed a slight decrease in apparent diffusion coefficient values 3 hours after onset (0.53+/-0.07x10(-3) mm2/s) and was normal 48 hours later (0.064+/-0.15x10(-3) mm2/s). Fast FLAIR sequences showed large left frontoparietal hyperintensities. The lack of a clear decrease in apparent diffusion coefficient values associated with marked FLAIR abnormalities may suggest prominent or early associated vasogenic edema. Physiopathological differences between arterial and venous ischemia may explain the different type of DWI FLAIR abnormalities during the acute phase as well as the better recovery of neurological deficit in venous stroke than in arterial ischemic stroke. In the context of an acute stroke, the contrast between marked FLAIR and subtle DWI abnormalities on MRI may reflect the venous mechanism of cerebral ischemia."}
{"id": "9836762", "title": "Value of repeat angiography in patients with spontaneous subcortical hemorrhage.", "content": "Value of repeat angiography in patients with spontaneous subcortical hemorrhage. Neuroradiological investigations do not disclose a source of bleeding in some patients with spontaneous subcortical hemorrhage. These patients may harbor undetected vascular malformations and may be at risk of rebleeding in the future. We investigated patients with subcortical hemorrhage with use of repeat angiography and MRI to determine the incidence of occult vascular malformations and the risk of bleeding during follow-up. We reviewed a consecutive series of 137 patients with subcortical hemorrhage during a 10-year period (June 1987 through June 1997). If the patient was <65 years old and the first angiogram and/or MRI did not show a source of bleeding, repeat angiography was recommended. All angiographic and MRI studies were reviewed. The relationship between the identified bleeding source and clinical variables such as patient age, sex, and history of hypertension and the size and location of the hematoma were examined. One hundred seven patients (78%) underwent angiography on admission, 10 (7%) had immediate surgery for hematoma without angiography, and 20 (15%) had neither angiography nor surgery. Overall, an etiology for the hemorrhage was found in 55 cases (40%). Vascular malformations were common in young patients without preexisting hypertension. A second angiogram was obtained in 22 patients, and 4 arteriovenous malformations were demonstrated. Rebleeding at the site of the initial hemorrhage was not observed after a mean follow-up of 68 months. Angiography performed acutely after hemorrhage may not demonstrate vascular malformations. Consideration should be given to repeat angiography in patients who do not have a specific cause for hemorrhage."}
{"id": "9836754", "title": "Relation of plasma homocyst(e)ine to cerebral infarction and cerebral atherosclerosis.", "content": "Relation of plasma homocyst(e)ine to cerebral infarction and cerebral atherosclerosis. A number of investigations support the theory that the elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine is associated with occlusive vascular disease. The aim of this study is to examine whether moderate hyperhomocyst(e)inemia is an independent risk factor for cerebral infarction. In addition, we examined the association between plasma homocyst(e)ine and the severity of cerebral atherosclerosis. We conducted a hospital-based case-control study with 140 male controls and 78 male patients with nonfatal cerebral infarction, aged between 39 and 82 years. Plasma homocyst(e)ine levels were analyzed in 218 subjects. Fifty-five patients were evaluated for cerebral vascular stenosis by MR angiography. The mean plasma level of homocyst(e)ine was higher in cases than in controls (11.8+/-5.6 versus 9.6+/-4.1 micromol/L; P=0.002). The proportion of subjects with moderate hyperhomocyst(e)inemia was significantly higher in cases than in controls (16.7% versus 5.0%; P=0.004). Based on the logistic regression model, the odds ratio of the highest 5% of homocyst(e)ine levels in control group was 4.17 (95% confidence interval, 3.71 to 4. 71)(P=0.0001). After additional adjustment for total cholesterol, hypertension, smoking, diabetes, and age, the odds ratio was 1.70 (95% confidence interval, 1.48 to 1.95) (P=0.0001). The plasma homocyst(e)ine levels of patients having vessels with 3 or 2 stenosed sites were significantly higher than those of patients having vessels with 1 stenosed site or normal vessels (14.6+/-1.4, 11.0+/-1.4 versus 7.8+/-1.5, 8.9+/-1.4 micromol/L respectively; P<0. 02). Multiple logistic regression analysis revealed that moderate hyperhomocyst(e)ienemia was significantly associated with the number of stenosed vessels (P=0.001). These findings suggest that moderate hyperhomocyst(e)inemia is an independent risk factor for cerebral infarction and may predict the severity of cerebral atherosclerosis in patients with cerebral infarction."}
{"id": "9833891", "title": "Three-dimensional CT angiography of intracranial vasospasm following subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "Three-dimensional CT angiography of intracranial vasospasm following subarachnoid haemorrhage. We evaluated the usefulness of three-dimensional CT angiography (3D-CTA) in the diagnosis of intracranial vasospasm following subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) in 13 patients suspected of having vasospasm on clinical grounds. The intracranial vessels were clearly shown by 3D-CTA in 12 patients. 3D-CTA revealed spasm in the vessels of nine patients. Catheter angiography performed in seven of these patients immediately after 3D-CTA confirmed vasospasm. A low-attenuation area was seen on CT in the other two patients, representing an ischaemic lesion due to the spasm. In nine patients, a second 3D-CTA was performed using the same technique 1 week after the first, showing no vasospasm. Initial 3D-CTA revealed no vasospasm change in three patients. Following 3D-CTA, one of these had conventional angiography, which also demonstrated no spasm."}
{"id": "9830291", "title": "Comparative evaluation of computed tomography and cerebral angiography in the management of subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of computed tomography and cerebral angiography in the management of subarachnoid haemorrhage. Plain and contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan of brain and cerebral angiography were done in 20 subjects of subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH), diagnosed on the basis of clinical parameters and proved by cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination. Plain CT scan of brain confirmed the diagnosis of SAH in all the 20 (100%) cases, but was able to demonstrate the cause of SAH in 11(55%) cases only. Contrast CT scan provided additional information in 7 more cases. CT was also able to demonstrate the site and extent of bleeding, evidence of intraventricular bleeding and hydrocephalus. Cerebral angiography done in all the cases, confirmed the diagnosis in 14 (70%) cases diagnosed on CT and was able to give additional information in 4 more cases. It also showed excellent vascular details which were not possible with CT scan. It is concluded that enhanced CT scan should be done first in all the cases of SAH for preliminary scouting and angiography should be done where CT scan gives incomplete information or where surgical management is contemplated. Both the investigations were found to be complementary to each other."}
{"id": "9819505", "title": "Primary intraventricular hemorrhage in adult--an analysis of 24 cases.", "content": "Primary intraventricular hemorrhage in adult--an analysis of 24 cases. Primary intraventricular hemorrhage in adults is rare, comprising only about 3.1 % of all intracranial hemorrhage. One of the major management tasks is to find out whether the hemorrhage is secondary to underlying structural vascular abnormality, such as arteriovenous malformation (AVM) and aneurysm, so that appropriate treatment can be carried out to prevent rebleeding. We retrospectively analyzed 24 patients with computerized tomography findings of intraventricular hemorrhage in our hospital from 1991 to 1996. Cerebral angiography was performed in eighteen patients. Eight patients (57%) had positive angiographic findings (five were AVM and three were aneurysm). The angiographic yield was five of seven patients (72%) younger than 45 years of age and three of eleven (27%) older than 45 years of age. On the basis of our results, we suggest that cerebral angiography should be considered for all primary intraventricular hemorrhage patients who are younger than 45 years old."}
{"id": "9813400", "title": "Diagnosis of cerebral venous thrombosis with routine magnetic resonance: an update.", "content": "Diagnosis of cerebral venous thrombosis with routine magnetic resonance: an update. Magnetic resonance imaging and angiography is the technique of choice in the diagnosis and follow-up of cerebral venous thrombosis: Thrombosis appears as an absence of flow void on spin echo images and lack of signal in angiographic techniques. The thrombus signal intensity is different on T1 and T2 spin echo weighted images and evolves according to hemoglobin degradation. Recognition of pitfalls and artefacts related to the different magnetic resonance imaging techniques employed is essential to interpret dural venous sinus thrombosis. In this paper the imaging of 27 patients with cerebral venous thromboses is reviewed. We describe the type of signal abnormalities, the different types of clot- and flow-related artefacts, and the indirect signs of cerebral venous thrombosis."}
{"id": "9810935", "title": "Subependymal thalamic haemorrhage due to a thalamoperforating artery aneurysm.", "content": "Subependymal thalamic haemorrhage due to a thalamoperforating artery aneurysm."}
{"id": "9810821", "title": "[Arterial MRI in neuroradiology--current status].", "content": "[Arterial MRI in neuroradiology--current status]."}
{"id": "9809629", "title": "Echo contrast-enhanced three-dimensional power Doppler of intracranial arteries.", "content": "Echo contrast-enhanced three-dimensional power Doppler of intracranial arteries. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the potential of contrast-enhanced three-dimensional (3-D) power Doppler (CE3DPD) in the assessment of intracranial vascular structures, and to compare the results with unenhanced 3-D power Doppler (3DPD) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) findings. We insonated 25 patients without cerebrovascular diseases through the temporal bone window using 3DPD and CE3DPD; for comparison, 13 patients underwent MRA. Identification rates of vascular segments and of small branches of intracranial vessels were evaluated by two independent investigators blinded to MRA results. In 21 patients with adequate insonation conditions, CE3DPD significantly improved identification rates compared to 3DPD for the complete visualization of the P1 segment (80.9 vs. 19.0%, p < 0.005, P2 segment (80.9 vs. 42.8%, p < 0.05 and A1 segment (85.7 vs. 38.1%, p < 0.005). Furthermore, CE3DPD depicted, in significantly more examinations, branches of the middle (MCA) and posterior cerebral artery (PCA). Interobserver agreement was higher than 95% for the main intracranial segments and branches of the MCA, but relatively low (80.1-85.7%) for branches of the PCA. In comparison to CE3DPD, MRA identified only parieto-occipital branches of the PCA, temporal branches of the MCA, frontal branches of the anterior cerebral artery and the MCA bifurcation more frequently and accurately. In 4 patients with inadequate acoustic temporal bone windows, the application of a galactose-based microbubble suspension allowed clear 3-D visualization of almost all major intracranial vascular segments and some branches of the large arteries. In conclusion, CE3DPD is a more sensitive ultrasonic tool compared to unenhanced 3-D reconstructions. It makes 3-D ultrasound imaging of the basal cerebral circulation easier to perform and interpret, by providing an improved spatially oriented display of image position. As such, this method may increase operator diagnostic confidence level under pathologic conditions."}
{"id": "9808257", "title": "Ruptured fusiform cerebral aneurysm in a neonate.", "content": "Ruptured fusiform cerebral aneurysm in a neonate. An 11-day-old male infant presented with subarachnoid and intraventricular haemorrhage caused by a ruptured intracranial aneurysm. Magnetic resonance (MR) angiogram and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) revealed a fusiform aneurysm 10 mm in diameter supplied by the proximal segment of the anterior cerebral artery (A1), with both distal segments (A2) arising from the aneurysm. The right A1 was aplastic. There have been 13 previous case reports of neonatal cerebral artery aneurysms, but only 1 of these has been fusiform. None of the earlier reports has mentioned dysplastic segments or other anomalies of the circle of Willis."}
{"id": "9804630", "title": "Cerebrovascular ischemic events with high positive anticardiolipin antibodies.", "content": "Cerebrovascular ischemic events with high positive anticardiolipin antibodies. The aim of our study was to characterize the patient profile and prognostic value associated with high positive IgG (>100 GPL) anticardiolipin antibodies (aCL). We studied the clinical, laboratory, radiological, and prospective historical features of ischemic cerebrovascular disease in patients with >100 GPL titers. From our neurology department, 27 consecutive patients were prospectively identified and followed up (mean follow-up time, 34 months). The mean age of our cohort was 41 years. Lupuslike illness occurred in 3; 23 had primary antiphospholipid syndrome, including 3 who met criteria for Sneddon's syndrome; 1 patient had progressive systemic sclerosis. Cerebral infarcts occurred in 74% and were recurrent in 37%. Systemic ischemic events, most commonly deep vein thrombosis, occurred in 37%. Tobacco use was documented in 85%, hyperlipidemia in 74%, hypertension in 44%, and diabetes mellitus in 7% of patients. A prominent headache history was present in 67%. Lupus anticoagulant (LA) was present in 72%, approximately one half had positive antinuclear antibodies and thrombocytopenia, and one quarter had a false-positive VDRL. We compared mean GPL levels in patients testing positive for specific laboratory features of antiphospholipid syndrome with those testing negative for these parameters. Only the LA(+) group had a significantly higher mean GPL than the LA(-) group (P=0.006). Brain imaging showed nonlacunar infarcts in 73% and lacunes in 12%. Of 19 cerebral angiograms, 5 (26%) showed large-vessel occlusive disease and 6 (32%) branch obstruction. Echocardiograms were abnormal in 75%: thickened left-sided valves in 33% and vegetations in 12%. Recurrent cerebrovascular ischemic events were observed in 96%, with transient events (mean rate, 25%/y) occurring 5 times more frequently than strokes (mean rate, 5%/y). Using a standardized disability scale blinded to aCL titer, neurological impairment was severe in 7%, moderate in 30%, and mild or nonexistent in 63%, and unrelated to mean GPL value (P=0.567). Titers fluctuated greatly for individual patients, and most did not consistently test as highly positive. An analysis of fluctuation in symptom severity with concurrent GPL values did not show a statistically significant correlation. Compared with historical controls having a wide range of positive titers, the presence of high IgG aCL titers did not confer a worse prognosis for disability and recurrent ischemic events. Our data suggest that cerebrovascular events associated with high positive GPL are frequently multiple and minor (with no disability-titer correlation), present in relatively young patients, and often associated with tobacco abuse, hyperlipidemia, LA, systemic ischemic events, and occult cardiac disease."}
{"id": "9803955", "title": "Diagnosis as a guide to stroke therapy.", "content": "Diagnosis as a guide to stroke therapy."}
{"id": "9800815", "title": "Brain damage after aortic arch repair using selective cerebral perfusion.", "content": "Brain damage after aortic arch repair using selective cerebral perfusion. Selective cerebral perfusion is one of the most popular methods for cerebral protection during aortic arch repair. However, causes of postoperative brain damage are not fully understood. We analyzed brain damage after aortic arch repair using selective cerebral perfusion for true aortic arch aneurysm in regard to preoperative cerebral infarction and intracranial and extracranial occlusive arterial disease. Over a 9-year period, 60 patients with true aortic arch aneurysm underwent aortic arch repair using selective cerebral perfusion. Postoperative brain damage was evaluated in regard to preoperative cerebral infarction detected by computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, or both in 50 patients and intracranial and extracranial occlusive arterial disease detected by digital subtraction angiography, magnetic resonance angiography, or both in 35 patients. Seven (12%) of the 60 patients died within 30 days of operation. Postoperative brain damage occurred in 6 (10.5%) (3, coma, and 3, hemiplegia) of 57 patients; 3 patients who died without awakening were excluded. Preoperatively, old cerebral infarction was detected in 9 patients (18%), and silent cerebral infarction (lacunar infarction and leukoaraiosis) was diagnosed in 26 patients (52%). Postoperative brain damage occurred in 3 (33%) of the 9 patients with preoperative cerebral infarction and in 3 (23%) of 13 patients with negative preoperative brain findings; this excludes 2 patients who died without awakening. No patient with silent cerebral infarction had postoperative brain damage. Occlusive arterial disease was detected in 7 patients (20%). The incidence of brain damage in these patients was 71% (5/7), which was significantly greater than that of 4% (1/28) in patients without occlusive arterial disease (p < 0.001). Silent cerebral infarction may not be a risk factor for postoperative brain damage. Preoperative evaluation of intracranial and extracranial occlusive arterial disease provides important information as to whether a patient might sustain brain damage after aortic arch repair using selective cerebral perfusion."}
{"id": "9798246", "title": "Cerebrovascular events in pediatric patients.", "content": "Cerebrovascular events in pediatric patients."}
{"id": "9796005", "title": "[Intraparenchymal hematomas: specific features in children].", "content": "[Intraparenchymal hematomas: specific features in children]. Intraparenchymatous haemorrhages are rare in infancy, but their effects may be very harmful. The aetiology, clinical characteristics and prognosis regarding life and function are different from those in adults. We decided to analyze the characteristics of this pathology in children and compare them with those in adults. We reviewed the clinical histories of the patients under 13 years of age presenting with a spontaneous intraparenchymatous haemorrhage during a 10 year period. The study group was made up of 10 patients, 5 boys and 5 girls, aged between 23 days and 11 years. In 7 patients the aetiology was a burst arteriovenous malformation; in one a serious liver disorder due to alpha-l-antitrypsin deficiency; bleeding from an undiagnosed tumour caused another case and no aetiology was found in a further case. Two patients died, 6 patients had residual neurological defects and in the other two there were no sequelae. Intraparenchymatous haematomas in children have a high mortality (20%) and many sequelae. The figures are comparable with those for elderly persons aged over 70 and much greater than in the case of young adults. The commonest aetiology is an arteriovenous malformation, followed at a considerable distance by coagulopathies and tumours."}
{"id": "9786614", "title": "Spontaneous intracranial hematomas: role of dynamic CT and angiography.", "content": "Spontaneous intracranial hematomas: role of dynamic CT and angiography. Forty-five patients with spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) were studied prospectively by dynamic CT and cerebral angiography. The accuracy of dynamic CT in demonstrating the underlying vascular cause in ICH was evaluated. Dynamic CT correctly predicted 90% of aneurysms, 83% of AVMs and 100% of normal studies as compared to angiography. Cerebral angiography can be obviated in patients where dynamic CT does not show any obvious vascular anomaly."}
{"id": "9784953", "title": "Interactive image-guided surgical resection of intracranial arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "Interactive image-guided surgical resection of intracranial arteriovenous malformations. Surgical excision is the only treatment method that immediately prevents increased morbidity or mortality as a result of hemorrhage from arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). For those lesions located deep within the cerebral hemispheres or near eloquent areas, conventional surgical resection may be associated with an unacceptable degree of morbidity and mortality. Herein we report our experience in the resection of these lesions using interactive image guidance. There were five women and five men in the patient group. Their age ranged from 16 to 73 years (mean = 41). Clinical presentation included hemorrhage (n = 7), headaches (n = 2), and seizures (n = 1). All lesions were classified using the Spetzler-Martin grading system as follows: grade I (n = 4), grade II (n = 5), and grade III (n = 1). The locations of the lesions were supratentorial (9) and infratentorial (1). Surgical planning was carried out using the Neurological Surgery Planning System software developed at Wayne State University. An infrared-based system was used to locate and define the lesion intraoperatively. For those lesions located near or within eloquent areas, an awake craniotomy with functional mapping was carried out. Clinical follow-up ranged from 3 to 62 months (mean = 34). Complete surgical excision was achieved in all patients, which was demonstrated postoperatively by digital substraction angiography. The preoperative neurological status remained unchanged in seven patients and improved in three. There was no associated morbidity and mortality with this technique. Image-guided surgical resection of arteriovenous malformations represents a valuable technique, especially in small deep-seated lesions and in those near eloquent areas."}
{"id": "9781283", "title": "Intra-operative colour-duplex-sonography in the surgical management of cerebral AV-malformations.", "content": "Intra-operative colour-duplex-sonography in the surgical management of cerebral AV-malformations. In this prospective study the role of intra-operative Colour-Duplex-Sonography (= CDS) during surgery of arteriovenous malformations (= AVM) is evaluated. During the last three years 20 consecutive patients with supratentorial AVMs were examined by intra-operative CDS in order to evaluate the potential of CDS to 1) localize the AVM, 2) differentiate between embolized and perfused parts, 3) identify feeding and draining vessels and 4) control the complete excision of the AVM. All AVMs were localized supratentorially, 9 were grade I and II (according to Spetzler and Martin [31]), 8 grade III and 3 grade IV. 11 were partly embolized and 8 associated with an intracerebral bleeding. In all cases the nidus was correctly localized sonographically by its typical bidirectional flow pattern in Colour-mode. CDS guided the surgeon directly to all (11 cases) deep-seated AVMs (2 to 4 cm subcortically). The smallest nidus measured 10 mm. 28 of 34 angiographically defined main feeding and 18 of 23 draining vessels were identified. 14 patients were controlled sonographically at the end of the resection regarding the completeness of excision. In 11 patients CDS was negative and was confirmed by either postoperative angiography or MRI in 10 patients. In one case residual AVM tissue was missed by CDS. Positive CDS findings in 3 cases were all confirmed by microscopic re-inspection, angiography and CCT. Our results suggest that CDS is able to localize AVMs intra-operatively with minimal instrumentation. It allows safe navigation to deep-seated malformations with high accuracy. Feeding and draining vessels can be identified and completeness of resection can be controlled."}
{"id": "9774750", "title": "Heparin treatment in acute cerebral sinus venous thrombosis: a retrospective clinical and MR analysis of 42 cases.", "content": "Heparin treatment in acute cerebral sinus venous thrombosis: a retrospective clinical and MR analysis of 42 cases. The only randomized data on heparin treatment in acute cerebral sinus venous thrombosis (CSVT) are derived from a small number of patients. The rate of intracranial hemorrhages as a complication of high-dose heparin treatment is still unknown. This retrospective study evaluates the clinical features, neuroimaging monitoring and outcome of 42 patients with proven CSVT. Diagnosis was established by DSA, CT, MR tomography and MR angiography. All patients received heparin intravenously guided by doubling the aPTT value for 3 weeks, followed by oral anticoagulation. Partial or complete recanalization was found in 36 cases. 40 patients improved clinically, in 26 of them complete recovery was observed. One patient deteriorated and developed an apallic syndrome, one further patient died of septic multiorgan failure. Only in one patient was hemorrhagic transformation of infarcted brain tissue observed but without clinical deterioration."}
{"id": "9773641", "title": "[Reasons against lumbar puncture diagnosis with cerebrospinal fluid drainage in subarachnoid hemorrhage].", "content": "[Reasons against lumbar puncture diagnosis with cerebrospinal fluid drainage in subarachnoid hemorrhage]. The necessity of cerebral angiography or angio-MRI was assessed in patients with thunderclap headache in whom subarachnoid haemorrhage had been ruled out on CT findings. In this cases the cerebrospinal fluid examination could be dangerous because could reduce the intracranial pressure with consequent risk of aneurysm rupture. CSF drainage, although, improves the clinical conditions and the symptoms of the patients, seems to not reduce the incidence of permanent neurological deficits caused by vasospasm; on the contrary, it increases the incidence of hydrocephalus requiring shunt procedures. We conclude that routine ventriculostomy with external ventricular drainage should be considered for all patients with altered sensorium and acute hyrocephalus following subarachnoid haemorrhage, with improvement in outcome."}
{"id": "9766041", "title": "Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography of cerebral arteries. A review.", "content": "Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography of cerebral arteries. A review. The loss of blood vessel visibility due to the signal saturation of slow flow can be partially overcome by the T1 reduction that occurs with the use of contrast agents such as Gd-DTPA during magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) studies. Dynamic-imaging techniques that have been applied successfully in abdominal imaging may also be useful for intracranial applications. However, the time between arterial and venous enhancement is very short during intracranial circulation. This limits the spatial resolution that can be obtained between arterial and venous enhancement. Fortunately, the blood-brain barrier and the relatively long duration of significant decrease in blood T1 has led to the development of very high resolution intracranial MRA techniques. Knowledge of the contrast-agent dilution factors and the ultimate resulting relaxation rates can be used to optimize the imaging parameters to maximize vessel signal relative to the background signal (the signal-difference-to-noise ratio). The additional venous vascular detail in the contrast-enhanced study can be spatially resolved in the 3D image data and determined by incorporating information from both high-resolution precontrast and postcontrast studies. In this article, the history, development and application of contrast agents in MRA are presented."}
{"id": "9763011", "title": "MR imaging in a patient with homocystinuria.", "content": "MR imaging in a patient with homocystinuria."}
{"id": "9760560", "title": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage due to conus medullaris ependymoma].", "content": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage due to conus medullaris ependymoma]. A case of conus medullaris tumour (ependymoma) is reported in which the presenting symptom was subarachnoid haemorrhage, which has left bladder dysfunction. 70-year-old patient was admitted to the Department of Neurology due to symptoms of conus medullaris lesion with retention of urine and diminished pain sensitivity in perianal zona. He had been hospitalized 30 years ago due to vomiting, headache and pain in lumbar region. The cerebrospinal fluid examination confirmed the diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage. Cerebral angiography failed to show the source of bleeding. Myelography and spinal arteriography showed nor tumour neither vascular malformation. Only MRI examination performed after 30 years following the first symptoms of tumour made possible the correct diagnosis--tumour in vertebral canal at L1-L2 level compressing conus medullaris. Surgical procedure confirmed the diagnosis. Histopathological examination--ependymoma myxopapillare."}
{"id": "9757295", "title": "[Contribution of fast-sequence three-dimensional MRI angiography with Gadolinium injection in the evaluation of supra-aortic vessels].", "content": "[Contribution of fast-sequence three-dimensional MRI angiography with Gadolinium injection in the evaluation of supra-aortic vessels]. Sixty-nine patients with cervical atherosclerotic disease were evaluated by Magnetic Resonance (MR) angiography using a coronal 3D gradient echo gadolinium enhanced sequence. The image quality was evaluated for each artery and ostium on MIP reconstructions. A comparison with conventional angiography was achieved in 27 patients. All MR examinations were assessable; a second injection was performed in ten patients. All carotid bifurcations were visualized. The ostium of the common carotid artery was not assessable in 44% of cases due to the limited coverage. The evaluation of the posterior circulation was good in 90% of cases. The agreement between MR angiography and conventional angiography was good despite a tendency to overestimate moderate stenoses. Stenoses greater than 70%, carotid occlusions and vertebral stenoses greater than 50% were correctly detected."}
{"id": "9733323", "title": "Carotid artery balloon test occlusion: combined clinical evaluation and xenon-enhanced computed tomographic cerebral blood flow evaluation without patient transfer or balloon reinflation: technical note.", "content": "Carotid artery balloon test occlusion: combined clinical evaluation and xenon-enhanced computed tomographic cerebral blood flow evaluation without patient transfer or balloon reinflation: technical note. Clinical evaluation was combined with xenon-enhanced computed tomographic (CT) cerebral blood flow (CBF) evaluation during carotid artery balloon test occlusion (BTO), without patient transfer from the angiography suite to the CT scanner or balloon reinflation. Thirteen patients underwent carotid artery BTO. Placement of temporary occlusion balloons was performed with patients positioned on the CT scanner table. If neurological testing revealed no changes within 10 minutes after balloon inflation, patients were positioned within the CT scanner gantry for xenon-enhanced CT CBF evaluation. CBF evaluations were begun 12 to 15 minutes after balloon inflation and required 8 minutes for completion. After completion of CBF evaluation, neurological testing continued during 30 minutes of arterial occlusion. One patient did not tolerate BTO, with the development of reversible hemiparesis. Reliable CBF data were not obtained because of patient motion in one case. Eleven patients clinically tolerated BTO and completed CBF evaluation. For five patients, xenon-enhanced CT scanning revealed no regions with CBF of less than 30 ml/100 g/min. For four patients, xenon-enhanced CT scanning revealed small regions with CBF of less than 30 ml/100 g/min within the anterior frontal lobe on the occluded side. For two patients, ipsilateral CBF decreased dramatically during BTO, with CBF in many regions of less than 30 ml/100 g/min and in some of less than 20 ml/100 g/min. Xenon-enhanced CT CBF evaluation can be combined with clinical testing during BTO without patient transfer, balloon reinflation, or increases in the duration of the procedure. We recognize that the value of CBF evaluation during BTO remains to be proven; our technique does, however, eliminate abbreviated clinical neurological evaluation, patient transfer, and balloon reinflation, which were previously associated with the use of xenon-enhanced CT CBF evaluation during carotid artery BTO."}
{"id": "9731629", "title": "Recurrent intracranial hemorrhage due to postpartum cerebral angiopathy: implications for management.", "content": "Recurrent intracranial hemorrhage due to postpartum cerebral angiopathy: implications for management. Postpartum cerebral angiopathy as a cause of hemorrhagic stroke in young women is not well recognized. It is unknown whether this disorder represents a true inflammatory vasculitis or transient vasoconstriction related to the hormonal events of pregnancy and the postpartum period. A 39-year-old woman presented with postpartum intracranial hemorrhage and, 32 months later, with subarachnoid hemorrhage, following normal pregnancies. Cerebral angiography obtained after each stroke demonstrated diffuse irregularity of branches of the middle cerebral arteries consistent with a diffuse vasospastic process or classic vasculitis. Neurological deficits resolved and results of a transcranial Doppler study normalized after a short course of high-dose corticosteroids following the second stroke. Postpartum cerebral angiopathy should be considered in the differential diagnosis of recurrent intracranial hemorrhagic stroke in young women. Recognition of this condition may preclude treatment with potentially toxic therapies for vasculitis and will have important implications for counseling women on subsequent pregnancies."}
{"id": "9724421", "title": "Intracranial vascular involvement of brain pathologies and venous occlusions.", "content": "Intracranial vascular involvement of brain pathologies and venous occlusions. In this paper, the authors present the contribution of CT and MRI to the diagnosis of acute stroke caused by arterial or venous occlusion. The term \"early\" used in this context means within 6 h of the onset of symptoms. Signs of early ischemic edema are subtle and sometimes difficult to detect by CT or MRI. The purpose of this presentation is to familiarize the clinician and the radiologist with the subtle brain parenchymal changes seen within the first 6 h after onset of symptoms, in order to improve detection of early ischemic infarction and to improve patient care."}
{"id": "9724122", "title": "Late postirradiation occlusive vasculopathy in childhood medulloblastoma. Report of two cases.", "content": "Late postirradiation occlusive vasculopathy in childhood medulloblastoma. Report of two cases. The authors report two cases of ischemic stroke secondary to occlusive vasculopathy two decades after radiation therapy (RT) for medulloblastoma. Both patients underwent posterior fossa medulloblastoma partial resection, followed by craniospinal RT in which a cobalt 60 source was used; 40 Gy were given to the whole brain plus a 15-Gy boost to the posterior fossa. Both patients received multiagent chemotherapy, immediately following radiation therapy in the first case and after repeated craniotomy for recurrence 13 years after radiation in the second case. They experienced multiple sequelae from radiation and chemotherapy, including growth retardation and psychomotor delay. However, 20 years after treatment, they remained tumor free and able to work, until they presented with focal neurological deficits and seizures. Computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the brain in both cases showed no tumor recurrence, but did demonstrate ischemia in a posterior cerebral artery distribution. Cerebral angiography revealed multiple mid-sized arterial wall irregularities as well as focal stenoses consistent with a postirradiation vasculopathy. The pathophysiological mechanisms, radiological appearance, and incidence of this syndrome are reviewed from the literature."}
{"id": "9701117", "title": "The usefulness of magnetic resonance angiography in surgery for intracranial aneurysms that have bled.", "content": "The usefulness of magnetic resonance angiography in surgery for intracranial aneurysms that have bled. Once it was confirmed that magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) including angiography (MRA) could demonstrate intracranial aneurysms, a study was set up to establish whether satisfactory images could be obtained to plan and execute early surgery on ruptured intracranial aneurysms without recourse to intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography (IA.DSA) in the acute phase of the illness. All patients presenting with a subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) were considered for MR studies. The patient selection was based on whether they were considered fit enough to tolerate scanning and did not have a known contraindication. A standard protocol was used--a three-dimensional time-of-flight with T1 and T2-weighted sagittal and axial images. If an aneurysm was demonstrated and early surgery was undertaken they were entered into the study. Over a 25-month period, 122 patients were submitted for MR studies, these being selected from over 200 patients presenting with an SAH. Aneurysms were believed to be present in 55 patients who were clinically suitable for early surgery. There were 21 males and 34 females, with an age range of 23-79 years, a mean of 50.5 years. Sixty-three aneurysms in all were demonstrated and 55 of these were surgically dealt with. There were two false positives. MRI is the investigation of choice to plan surgery in those patients presenting with an SAH who, on clinical grounds, would be considered suitable for early surgery. The imaging is easily obtained, non-invasive, avoids radiation, and in view of the multiple images obtained is often superior to conventional DSA."}
{"id": "9696090", "title": "A dissecting aneurysm of the posteroinferior cerebellar artery: case report.", "content": "A dissecting aneurysm of the posteroinferior cerebellar artery: case report. We present a patient who experienced a subarachnoid hemorrhage secondary to a dissecting aneurysm of the right posteroinferior cerebellar artery (PICA). The use of an encircling clip in treating the aneurysm while preserving supply to brain stem perforators originating near the dissecting segment and the distal PICA territory was key in the operative management. A 48-year-old patient with a history of hypertension presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage confirmed by computed tomography of the brain. Successive cerebral angiography revealed a dynamic change in the configuration of the dissection, with expansion of the associated focal ectasia. At surgery, three brain stem perforators adjacent to the aneurysm were visualized. The dissecting segment was reconstructed with an encircling Sundt clip and muslin wrap, which preserved the flow through the PICA and brain stem perforators. A patient suffering from a dissecting PICA aneurysm and subarachnoid hemorrhage was successfully treated with direct surgical reconstruction of the parent artery, sparing the perforators to the medulla."}
{"id": "9684513", "title": "Acute subdural hematoma with subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by an intracranial aneurysm: a case report.", "content": "Acute subdural hematoma with subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by an intracranial aneurysm: a case report. The occurrence of a subdural hematoma caused by the rupture of an intracranial aneurysm is rare. In our case, the patient is a 43-year-old woman who suffered from sudden onset of severe headache. Computed tomographic (CT) scan disclosed a subdural hematoma associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage. CT angiography and digital subtraction angiography revealed an elongated aneurysm adhering to the dura in the left Sylvian fissure. The subdural hematoma was evacuated and the aneurysm clipped. The patient made a full recovery."}
{"id": "9674030", "title": "[Cerebral hemorrhage in Sneddon syndrome].", "content": "[Cerebral hemorrhage in Sneddon syndrome]. Sneddon syndrome is the association of livedo retricularis and cerebrovascular lesions. It is a vasculopathy of vessels of small and medium calibre which affects young people and is of unknown origin. It is often associated with arterial hypertension and repeated ischemic cerebrovascular accidents which lead to intellectual deterioration. We describe a 49 year old man who, from the age of 23, had had repeated transient or established episodes compatible with ischemic cerebrovascular accidents. These were followed by various neurological sequelae and by intellectual deterioration. Finally he died of a cerebral hemorrhage whilst on anticoagulant treatment with Synthron. We show the neuroimaging findings (CT, MR and angiography) and the neuropathological studies (cerebral hemorrhage, fibrosis of the intima of the vessels of the circle of Willis, absence of inflammation, bilateral unsymmetrical leukoencephalopathy of the cerebral hemispheres and multiple cortical infarcts). We wish to draw attention to the occurrence of this complication, its possible relationship to the vasculopathy mentioned, bursting of one of the arteries of the revascularization complex, arterial hypertension or anticoagulant treatment, and also to add one more case to the few described as having hemorrhage and neuropathology in Sneddon syndrome."}
{"id": "9673972", "title": "[Extravasation of contrast medium in local intra-arterial fibrinolysis of the carotid territory].", "content": "[Extravasation of contrast medium in local intra-arterial fibrinolysis of the carotid territory]. The safety of fibrinolytic therapy is determined with the incidence of intraparenchymatous hemorrhage. When interpreting CT studies after local intra-arterial fibrinolysis (LIF) in the carotid territory, one must consider that a hyperdense lesion may also be caused by extravasation of contrast material during angiography. In this study we retrospectively analyzed CT scans of 24 patients performed within 24 h after LIF and correlated the results with clinical and angiographic findings before and after therapy. Three of 24 patients (12.5%) showed striatocapsular parenchymal hematomas, 2 patients died and 1 showed marked clinical deterioration. Fifteen of 24 patients (62.5%) showed hyperdense lesions without space-occupying effect within striatocapsular infarctions. In 6 of these patients (25%) these lesions were attributable to an extravasation of contrast medium during angiography. This extravasation required at least partial recanalization of the middle cerebral artery and always occurred within a striatocapsular infarction. The pathogenesis of extravasation of contrast medium during local intra-arterial fibrinolysis is unknown. The identification of these lesions, however, is essential for the assessment of safety of local intra-arterial fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "9672028", "title": "Development of a cavernous malformation of the brain.", "content": "Development of a cavernous malformation of the brain. We report the appearance of a cavernous malformation associated with a developmental venous anomaly in a young boy 3 years after radiation therapy for a posterior fossa medulloblastoma. The presence of a stenosis of the venous drainage of the anomaly led us to postulate that venous restrictive disease, induced by radiation therapy, resulted in increased venous pressure and caused the formation of the cavernous malformation."}
{"id": "9668179", "title": "Imaging of intracranial aneurysms and subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Imaging of intracranial aneurysms and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Advances in CT, MR imaging, and catheter angiography provide the radiologist and neurosurgeon with a variety of imaging options for screening, diagnosis, presurgical evaluation, and postoperative monitoring of patients with intracranial aneurysms. Noninvasive imaging techniques have not replaced conventional angiography for the comprehensive evaluation o aneurysms but are effective in screening patients suspected to have an unruptured aneurysm or for preoperative planning in emergency situations that preclude catheter angiography. CT, CT angiography, MR imaging, and MR angiography can all complement the information obtained with catheter angiography in presurgical planning, and the choice of supplemental studies should be individualized. Rotational and intraoperative angiography are problem-solving options used for selected cases at our institution. Continuous improvements in techniques for CT and MR angiography may someday reach the point where surgery can be undertaken on the basis on noninvasive imaging alone, with catheter angiography reserved for endovascular therapy planning and guidance."}
{"id": "9664756", "title": "Multiple intracerebral hemorrhages and vasospasm following antimigrainous drug abuse.", "content": "Multiple intracerebral hemorrhages and vasospasm following antimigrainous drug abuse. The occurrence of intracerebral hemorrhage during an acute attack of migraine remains questionable. A normotensive migrainous woman experienced multiple intracerebral hemorrhages. No drug abuse was recorded, but bleeding occurred after the use of several antimigrainous drugs. Angiography revealed severe vasospasm of both anterior cerebral arteries. Subsequent brain MRI and MRI angiography failed to show any vascular abnormalities. Echocardiography and an exhaustive biological evaluation ruled out an alternative condition favoring intracerebral hemorrhage. Multiple intracerebral hemorrhages in migraine may exceptionally be related to vasospasm leading to arterial wall injury. Intracranial arterial vasospasm could be precipitated by excessive vasoactive therapy."}
{"id": "9638675", "title": "Cerebellar arteriovenous malformations in children.", "content": "Cerebellar arteriovenous malformations in children. We review the presentation, imaging findings and outcome in 18 children with cerebellar arteriovenous malformations (AVM). This group is of particular interest because of the reported poor outcome despite modern imaging and neurosurgical techniques. All children had CT and 15 underwent catheter angiography at presentation. Several of the children in the latter part of the study had MRI. Of the 18 children, 17 presented with a ruptured AVM producing intracranial haemorrhage. The remaining child presented with temporal lobe epilepsy and was shown to have temporal, vermian and cerebellar hemisphere AVM. This child had other stigmata of Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome. Three other children had pre-existing abnormalities of possible relevance. One had a vascular malformation of the cheek and mandible, one a documented chromosomal abnormality and another a midline cleft upper lip and palate. Six of the 17 children with a ruptured cerebellar AVM died within 7 days of the ictus. Vascular pathology other than an AVM was found in 10 of the 14 children with a ruptured cerebellar AVM who had angiography: 4 intranidal aneurysms, 5 venous aneurysms and 2 cases of venous outflow obstruction (one child having both an aneurysm and obstruction). The severity of clinical presentation was directly related to the size of the acute haematoma, which was a reasonable predictor of outcome."}
{"id": "9627654", "title": "Microangiopathy of the brain, retina, and cochlea (Susac syndrome). A report of five cases and a review of the literature.", "content": "Microangiopathy of the brain, retina, and cochlea (Susac syndrome). A report of five cases and a review of the literature. This study reports five new cases of microangiopathy of the brain, retina, and cochlea (Susac syndrome) and reviews the world's literature. Five cases were systematically studied by the authors. The cases in the literature were identified through Medline searches for Susac syndrome; microangiopathy of the brain, retina, or ear; and cross-referencing the indexes of each retrieved article. The number of new patients studied in this report was five. An additional 41 patients were culled from the literature. Patients were treated with corticosteroids, antineoplastic agents, and other methods in a noncontrolled, nonrandomized fashion. With respect to therapeutic intervention, the main clinical outcome measures were return of vision, improvement of neurologic and psychiatric manifestations, and recovery of auditory function. Alterations of abnormalities observed by cranial magnetic resonance imaging also were monitored. Of 46 identified patients, 39 were women. The mean age of the patients was 30 years. Forty-one patients (89%) had arterial occlusions, which were bilateral in 60%. Thirty-one patients (67%) reported hearing loss. Twenty patients (44%) had a global encephalopathy, but other neurologic manifestations were common. The mean duration of the illness was 46.7 months. This rare syndrome is more common than previously thought, has a strong female preponderance, and often can be identified at an early stage with a careful history and physical examination. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain often shows lesions suggestive of multiple sclerosis. Fluorescein angiography may show arteriolar wall hyperfluorescence. Early treatment with corticosteroids often is, although not invariably, associated with a good prognosis. The disease appears to be self-limited in most patients."}
{"id": "9626183", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of acute stroke.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of acute stroke. In the investigation of ischemic stroke, conventional structural magnetic resonance (MR) techniques (e.g., T1-weighted imaging, T2-weighted imaging, and proton density-weighted imaging) are valuable for the assessment of infarct extent and location beyond the first 12 to 24 hours after onset, and can be combined with MR angiography to noninvasively assess the intracranial and extracranial vasculature. However, during the critical first 6 to 12 hours, the probable period of greatest therapeutic opportunity, these methods do not adequately assess the extent and severity of ischemia. Recent developments in functional MR imaging are showing great promise for the detection of developing focal cerebral ischemic lesions within the first hours. These include (1) diffusion-weighted imaging, which provides physiologic information about the self-diffusion of water, thereby detecting one of the first elements in the pathophysiologic cascade leading to ischemic injury; and (2) perfusion imaging. The detection of acute intraparenchymal hemorrhagic stroke by susceptibility weighted MR has also been reported. In combination with MR angiography, these methods may allow the detection of the site, extent, mechanism, and tissue viability of acute stroke lesions in one imaging study. Imaging of cerebral metabolites with MR spectroscopy along with diffusion-weighted imaging and perfusion imaging may also provide new insights into ischemic stroke pathophysiology. In light of these advances in structural and functional MR, their potential uses in the study of the cerebral ischemic pathophysiology and in clinical practice are described, along with their advantages and limitations."}
{"id": "9613497", "title": "The predictive value of early CT and angiography for fatal hemispheric swelling in acute stroke.", "content": "The predictive value of early CT and angiography for fatal hemispheric swelling in acute stroke. Our goal was to analyze the predictive value of early CT and arteriographic morphologic criteria to achieve a more reliable prediction of fatal outcome in patients undergoing fibrinolytic stroke treatment. In 74 patients with acute carotid artery stroke, early signs of cerebral ischemia were determined by CT. The site of vascular occlusion was identified by digital subtraction angiography (DSA). The patients were subsequently treated by intraarterial (n = 68) or intravenous (n = 6) fibrinolysis by means of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA), urokinase, or rt-PA combined with lys-plasminogen and followed-up for a period of 3 months. CT and DSA data were compared with the clinical course, with special emphasis on signs of early fatal deterioration (ie, death by intracranial mass effect) as determined by corresponding CT and clinical observations, occurring within 7 days after stroke. Seventeen patients died, all of intracranial mass effect, and all within a week after stroke. In nine of these fatalities, DSA revealed carotid \"T\" occlusion (CTO), which affected 19 patients. In five of the fatalities, a major early sign of ischemia (MESI, referring to cortical hypodensity in more than a third of the territory of the middle cerebral artery, as seen in 14 patients) was recognizable on the initial CT scan. This led to a higher predictive value and sensitivity of CTO relative to MESI for estimating early fatality. CTO as determined by DSA is a substantially better predictor of fatal outcome in patients undergoing intraarterial thrombolytic therapy than is MESI as determined by CT."}
{"id": "9601957", "title": "Multifunctional magnetic resonance imaging of cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Multifunctional magnetic resonance imaging of cerebrovascular disease. Over the last few years magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has developed into a multipurpose imaging technique. In addition to anatomical information, data can be obtained on perfusion, metabolism and imaging of the vascular anatomy. Especially in the field of neuroradiology the possibilities for obtaining multifunctional information from combined MR examinations are promising. In particular, stroke or stroke-related research benefits from these developments. This article reviews the current status and the potential of newly developed MR techniques with regard to the intracranial hemodynamic changes in patients with severe stenosis or occlusion of the internal carotid artery. The combination of MR angiography, perfusion-weighted MRI and MR spectroscopic imaging seems especially useful in the management of the individual patient."}
{"id": "9601953", "title": "Intracranial vascular malformations.", "content": "Intracranial vascular malformations. Many efforts and much research have been dedicated to the field of non-invasive angiographic techniques in the past few years. Thanks first to magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and subsequently to computed tomographic angiography (CTA), very interesting results have been obtained in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular diseases. Neck vessels are most successfully evaluated by both MRA and CTA, and the need for digital subtraction angiography (DSA) examinations in patients at risk for vascular occlusions has significantly decreased. The role and the diagnostic accuracy of these non-invasive modalities in intracranial vascular pathology is still under investigation, and several studies have been and are being performed. Both techniques have a better spatial resolution and sensitivity in detecting cerebrovascular malformations than DSA. In the diagnosis of cerebral aneurysms, both MRA and CTA - due to their high sensitivity - have become screening techniques in the population at risk for subarachnoid hemorrhage, these techniques may become basic diagnostic modalities in treatment planning. The results are less satisfying in the evaluation of brain arteriovenous malformations and in the different steps of pre- and post-therapeutic evaluation."}
{"id": "9600195", "title": "Diagnosis of intracranial vasculitis: a multi-disciplinary approach.", "content": "Diagnosis of intracranial vasculitis: a multi-disciplinary approach. Intracranial vasculitis, or primary angiitis of the central nervous system (PACNS), is an uncommon, often fatal disorder that frequently responds to aggressive immunosuppressive therapy. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cerebral angiography, and brain biopsy are diagnostic modalities that vary in invasiveness and diagnostic accuracy. The purpose of this study was to determine whether certain clinical or radiologic features were predictive of a diagnostic biopsy. Thirty consecutive patients undergoing brain biopsy to \"rule out vasculitis\" were studied. Nine patients demonstrated granulomatous or lymphocytic vasculitis, 1 had lymphocytic vasculitis and encephalitis secondary to arbovirus infection, 5 had thickened vessels consistent with hypertensive changes, 5 had amyloid angiopathy and/or changes of Alzheimer disease, 5 demonstrated no pathologic abnormalities, and 1 each had acute infarct, vascular malformation, aneurysm, acellular fibrinoid necrosis, and demyelination. The spectrum of MRI and angiographic changes associated with PACNS were nonspecific, overlapping extensively with changes of chronic hypertension and amyloid deposition. The predictive values of brain biopsy (90-100%) were significantly higher than those of angiography (37-50%) or MRI (43-72%). In this study, morbidity associated with aggressive immunosuppression was significantly greater than that associated with cerebral angiography or brain biopsy. Thus, wedge biopsy of cortical and leptomeningeal tissues is central to the multi-disciplinary approach to a patient with clinical suspicion of PACNS."}
{"id": "9598677", "title": "Investigating individual subjects and screening populations for asymptomatic carotid stenosis can be harmful.", "content": "Investigating individual subjects and screening populations for asymptomatic carotid stenosis can be harmful. Trials suggesting that carotid endarterectomy in individual subjects with asymptomatic carotid stenosis reduces stroke risk have led to calls for screening. This study aimed to determine which groups might be harmed and which might benefit from a screening programme, and also to identify which individual subjects identified as positive for severe asymptomatic stenosis by carotid ultrasound are appropriate to put forward for further tests or procedures. A probability model was used to estimate the outcomes of three screening strategies: carotid ultrasound followed by catheter angiography, or by magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), or ultrasound alone, followed by carotid endarterectomy if severe stenosis is detected. Information from the current literature was used to estimate sensitivity and specificity of ultrasound and MRA, risks of angiography and endarterectomy, and risk reduction after surgery for severe stenosis. For each strategy over a range of possible prevalences of severe asymptomatic stenosis, overall benefit to harm ratio was calculated, and number of strokes or deaths prevented or caused per 10,000 subjects screened. At the prevalence of carotid stenosis found in the general population (<1%) screening will cause more strokes than it prevents, even using the most optimistic published figures. Only at prevalences of over 20% are significant benefits seen, and then only in centres with high test sensitivity and specificity and very low angiographic and surgical risk. Groups with such a high prevalence have not yet been reliably identified. Screening individual subjects from high prevalence groups would have limited public health impact, with at best about 100 strokes prevented for every 10,000 screened at 20% prevalence. Investigating asymptomatic individual subjects for carotid stenosis may be harmful except in high prevalence groups. There is insufficient information about which these groups are, and at present screening cannot be recommended. Acting on a positive carotid ultrasound test in individual subjects"}
{"id": "9596241", "title": "Potential and limitations of echocontrast-enhanced ultrasonography in acute stroke patients: a pilot study.", "content": "Potential and limitations of echocontrast-enhanced ultrasonography in acute stroke patients: a pilot study. Ultrasonography (US) is a well-established method used to assess the brain-supplying arteries in the acute stroke setting. However, several technical and anatomic limitations are known to reduce its diagnostic accuracy and confidence level. Echocontrast agents (ECA) are known to improve the signal-to-noise ratio by enhancing the intensity of the reflecting Doppler signal. We undertook this prospective study to evaluate the diagnostic value of ECA in a consecutive, nonselected cohort of acute stroke patients with insufficient native US investigations. During a 1-year period, 25 patients were examined within 48 hours of the onset of stroke. The need for ECA was due to an insufficient transtemporal (n=18), transforaminal (n=4), or extracranial (n=3) imaging of arteries potentially involved in the ischemic event. In 12 patients, a diagnostic suspicion could natively be raised, whereas in the other 13 patients, the strongly reduced image quality did not allow for any neurovascular conclusions. Four grams of Levovist was injected at a concentration of 200 mg/mL and 400 mg/mL for the extracranial and transcranial insonations, respectively. The effect of the echocontrast enhancement was assessed with respect to (1) signal enhancement, (2) image quality, (3) final diagnostic confidence, and (4) the need for additional neurovascular imaging methods. In all but one patient (96%), a strong signal enhancement was noted, leading to a moderate (n=11) or strong improvement (n=10) of the transcranial image quality. Thus in a total of 18 patients (72%), the echoenhancement provided a neurovascular diagnosis of sufficient confidence. This led to the confirmation of the previously suspected findings and disclosed three further occlusions and four stenoses of the intracranial arteries. In contrast, for the three extracranial examinations the image quality was not sufficiently improved because of persistent color artifacts derived from adjacent neck vessels. Besides the seven patients with inconclusive examinations, five patients with conclusive echoenhanced US studies (48% in total) demanded additive neurovascular imaging studies, based on the clinical decision of the attending physicians. This led to confirmation of all high-confident sonographic diagnoses. In summary, in approximately three fourths of our acute stroke patients with insufficient native US investigations, echocontrast enhancement enabled a reliable neurovascular diagnosis, allowing the cancellation of additive neurovascular imaging procedures in half of our cohort. Our preliminary results suggest that ECA can reasonably support the early cerebrovascular workup in the acute stroke setting."}
{"id": "9596238", "title": "Role of CT angiography in patient selection for thrombolytic therapy in acute hemispheric stroke.", "content": "Role of CT angiography in patient selection for thrombolytic therapy in acute hemispheric stroke. It has been shown that thrombolytic therapy can improve clinical outcome in a subgroup of patients with acute cerebral ischemia. This subgroup was characterized by certain clinical and imaging findings (eg, moderate to severe neurological deficit for less than 3 to 6 hours, occlusion of the middle cerebral artery, lack of extended infarct signs on CT, and efficient leptomeningeal collaterals). Although not part of published prospective randomized rtPA trials, information about the status of the brain vessels would be helpful in the selection of patients who may benefit the most. Our purpose was to determine the feasibility of CT angiography (CTA) in patients with acute hemispheric ischemia and to evaluate its relevance for thrombolytic therapy. CTA was performed in 40 consecutive patients (11 women and 29 men; age range, 19 to 80 years) with moderate or severe symptoms (National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score of > or =8) of acute hemispheric ischemia. CTA findings were compared with Doppler ultrasonography (US; n=22) and intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA; n=7). Twenty patients received thrombolytic therapy, the remaining patients received intravenous heparin. Images and 3-dimensional reconstructions of diagnostic quality could be obtained in all patients. Thirty-four patients had a vessel occlusion. The extent of leptomeningeal collaterals correlated significantly with the outcome after thrombolytic therapy (rs=0.46, P<0.05). The evaluation of diagnostic accuracy showed a high agreement with US (22 of 22) and DSA (6 of 7). CTA can provide important information for the initiation of therapy in patients with acute hemispheric ischemia. Identification of patients with autolyzed thrombi, occlusion of the internal carotid artery bifurcation, and poor leptomeningeal collaterals is feasible with the use of CTA. These patients may have little potential for benefit from thrombolytic therapy."}
{"id": "9592829", "title": "[Successive subcortical hemorrhages in the superior parietal lobule and postcentral gyrus in a 23-year-old female].", "content": "[Successive subcortical hemorrhages in the superior parietal lobule and postcentral gyrus in a 23-year-old female]. We report a non-hypertensive 23-year-old female with successive hemorrhages in parietal subcortical regions. She had first experienced a transient pain in the left upper extremity one month before admission. She noticed dysesthesia in the same limb and weakness on her left hand, and, five days after, visited our hospital because of suddenly developed convulsion in the limb and loss of consciousness for a few minutes. Neurological examination revealed distal dominant flaccid paresis, positive pathological reflex and touch and position sense disturbances in the affected limb. Brain CT detected two high-density areas in the parietal lobe. Brain MRI demonstrated an acute phase subcortical hematoma in the left postcentral gyrus and a subacute phase one in the left superior parietal lobule. SPECT indicated hypoperfusion in the left frontal and parietal cortex. Cerebral angiography showed no abnormal findings. Her symptoms gradually improved, but left ulnar-type pseudoradicular sensory impairment remained on discharge. We considered the hemorrhage in this patient have arisen from rupture of cavernous hemangioma, because she was relatively young, the hematomas were oval in shape and successively developed in the left parietal lobe. Our patient suggests that a subcortical hemorrhage in the post-central gyrus causes flaccid paresis and pyramidal tract involvement."}
{"id": "9592788", "title": "Analysis of cerebrovascular diseases by a new 3-dimensional computerised X-ray angiography system.", "content": "Analysis of cerebrovascular diseases by a new 3-dimensional computerised X-ray angiography system. We set out to validate the concept of three-dimensional (3D) angiography. We evaluated the sensitivity and the quality of morphological analysis mode possible by an experimental system for imaging cerebrovascular disease versus standard digital subtraction angiography (DSA). The system, the 3D Morphometer, is a computerised X-ray angiography unit capable of acquiring a set of two-dimensional (2D) projections during a rotation and then reconstructing a 3D volume from them. We studied 78 patients with suspected cerebrovascular disease. 3D and 2D images (standard 2D DSA performed during the same procedure), were reviewed blindly to assess detection and display of morphological characteristics of cerebrovascular diseases. We found 53 aneurysms, 22 arteriovenous malformations and two venous angiomas. On 3D angiography we detected two aneurysms we missed on 2D angiography. In 47 aneurysms on which further data were obtained during surgery or embolisation, the 3D angiography allowed more accurate analysis of the neck and surrounding vessels in cases in which the 2D angiographic findings were doubtful. Assessment of arteriovenous malformations was equivalent with both techniques. Under the conditions of our study, the technical constraints being the same for both methods, 3D angiography was superior to 2D angiography. Implementation on C-arm vascular systems is being evaluated."}
{"id": "9591571", "title": "SPECT imaging in cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "SPECT imaging in cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral vasospasm is a frequent complication after subarachnoid hemorrhage and contributes to overall morbidity and mortality. Arteriography is the standard test for determining the presence of vasospasm. A retrospective review of 16 patients with cerebral aneurysm was undertaken to assess the sensitivity and specificity of SPECT for diagnosis of vasospasm. Fourteen patients were hospitalized after subarachnoid hemorrhage and 2 patients were hospitalized for elective aneurysmal clipping. The patients' condition on discharge was correlated to clinical and SPECT evidence of vasospasm. Vasospasm was defined as the new onset of neurological signs and symptoms not explained by rebleed or hydrocephalus. A total of 20 SPECT studies were performed for 16 patients during their admission and 14 of 16 patients had a single angiographic study. Thirteen of 16 patients had 14 episodes of clinical evidence of vasospasm and 14 SPECT studies were performed in these 13 patients. The sensitivity and specificity of SPECT in this retrospective study were 89% (8/9) and 71% (5/7), respectively. Our small sample of arteriograms yielded in comparison a sensitivity of 67% (2/3) and specificity of 100% (9/9). The one false-negative SPECT study occurred in conjunction with the one false-negative arteriogram in the presence of clinical findings consistent with vasospasm. Three false-positive SPECT studies occurred in 2 patients who had perfusion abnormalities in areas of normal CT findings without clinical or arteriographic evidence of vasospasm. Five of 5 patients who died became unresponsive as a result of clinically presumed vasospasm and 4 of 5 of these patients had diffuse or hemispheric SPECT perfusion defects. Of the 11 patients who survived, none became unresponsive; 1 of 11 had positive diffuse or hemispheric perfusion defects. SPECT is a sensitive and fairly specific test for corroboration of clinical findings of vasospasm. A negative SPECT study may obviate the need for arteriography. Unresponsiveness is the best predictor of poor outcome; however, hemispheric SPECT perfusion deficits are also associated with poor outcome."}
{"id": "9589619", "title": "Familial intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Familial intracranial aneurysms. We describe a 53-year-old mother and a her 34-year-old son who suffered from spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and/or intracerebral hemorrhage due to a ruptured intracranial aneurysm. Diagnosis of the intracranial aneurysm was made by CT scan of the brain, and cerebral angiography. These two cases received surgical intervention and returned to their previous social activity after discharge, even though the mother had arrived in a comatose condition. The literature is reviewed and the characteristic expressions of familial intracranial aneurysms are described. The etiology of cerebral aneurysms is still uncertain but it is likely multifactorial. For the 176 patients with intracranial aneurysm(s) treated at Kaohsiung Medical College Hospital, the mean age at diagnosis was 51.9 years and these aneurysms were distributed mainly at the internal carotid artery (43.8%) and the anterior communicating artery (33.5%). The familial aneurysms tend to rupture at a younger age, occur less often at the anterior communicating artery and more often at the internal carotid artery and the middle cerebral artery as compared with that of non-familial aneurysms. In siblings, aneurysms occur at identical sites or at mirror sites and rupture within the same decade of life twice as frequently as expected in non-familial aneurysm cases. The familial aggregation of intracranial aneurysms and the above characteristic expressions suggest that heredity may play a role in some familial aneurysms. The pattern of inheritance, however, has not been established. Screening examinations and the treatment of unruptured intracranial aneurysms in asymptomatic relatives of the familial cases are also discussed."}
{"id": "9588851", "title": "Preliminary clinical-radiological assessment of a MR tissue signature model in human stroke.", "content": "Preliminary clinical-radiological assessment of a MR tissue signature model in human stroke. We evaluated the ability of an MR signature model (SM) of cerebral ischemic injury to stage the evolution of cellular damage in human stroke. In 19 patients with ischemic stroke of presumed embolic or non-embolic cause we carried out diffusion-weighted and T2-weighted MR imaging within 48 h of onset, and obtained apparent diffusion coefficient of water (ADCw), and T2 weighted images. We used the signatures obtained from these ADCw/T2 maps to formulate two patterns of damage signifying accelerated or non-accelerated progression of cellular death after stroke onset. Those patients with the accelerated pattern corresponded to those with the neuroradiological (NRC) and clinical diagnosis (TOAST.1 and TOAST.2) of presumed embolic stroke, with clinical diagnosis performed blinded both to NRC and to SM. Agreement between the SM and NRC was substantial (kappa=0.62), moderate (0.60<kappa<0.40) between the SM or NRC and TOAST.2, and fair (0.40<kappa<0.20) among the SM or NRC and TOAST.1. We believe these results constitute a preliminary validation of the MR tissue signature modeling in clinical stroke assessment."}
{"id": "9577714", "title": "Diagnosis of stroke.", "content": "Diagnosis of stroke. The determination that a patient has suffered a stroke is readily based on the clinical criteria along with the additional ancillary procedures discussed. The diagnosis is not complete, however, until the etiology has been found, for only then can rational therapy proceed."}
{"id": "9576671", "title": "Direct percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for acute middle cerebral artery occlusion.", "content": "Direct percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for acute middle cerebral artery occlusion. We review our initial experience with direct percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) as a reperfusion treatment for acute occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Ten patients in whom successful thrombolysis might not be expected because of the risk of hemorrhagic complications or reocclusion were treated with direct PTA. When early ischemic findings were present on the initial CT scans and/or when lenticulostriate arteries were involved, we performed direct PTA rather than thrombolytic therapy. Direct PTA was also performed when superselective local angiography via a Tracker catheter advanced just distal to the occlusion site showed the presence of a large embolus or high-grade stenosis suggestive of thrombosis. Angioplasty was performed with a Stealth balloon catheter with a maximum diameter of 2.0 to 2.5 mm. The balloon catheter was advanced into the site of occlusion and inflated to 2 atm initially, and subsequently up to 3 atm. Two to six inflations, each of 30 seconds' duration, were performed. Although the rate of initial recanalization was 100% (10 of 10), reocclusion occurred in two patients with atherothrombotic M2 occlusion. The final angiographic success rate of direct PTA was 80% (8 of 10). There were no hemorrhagic or technical complications, and five of 10 patients showed marked clinical improvement. In two of seven patients with cardioembolic M1 trunk occlusion, crushed fragments of the embolus obstructed M2 portions after direct PTA, necessitating local thrombolysis. Direct PTA may be performed safely as an alternative to thrombolytic therapy in patients with acute occlusion of the middle cerebral artery when early CT findings and/or lenticulostriate artery involvement are present or when superselective local angiography shows the presence of a large embolus or high-grade stenosis."}
{"id": "9576644", "title": "Antiphospholipid antibodies: findings at arteriography.", "content": "Antiphospholipid antibodies: findings at arteriography. The purpose of this study was to determine the frequency and types of abnormalities at arteriography in patients with antiphospholipid antibodies (APA) and ischemic cerebrovascular events. Twenty-three patients with APA and ischemic cerebrovascular events who underwent arteriography were identified. Patients over the age of 65 years were excluded. No patients met diagnostic criteria for systemic lupus erythematosus. All angiograms were reviewed by two neuroradiologists. Seventeen patients (74%) between the ages of 28 and 64 years (average age, 40 years) had abnormal angiograms. Sixteen patients had arterial abnormalities and one had dural sinus thrombosis. Ten had solely intracranial abnormalities (nine arterial and one venous), six had solely extracranial arterial abnormalities, and one had both intracranial and extracranial arterial abnormalities. Intracranial arterial abnormalities included stem or branch occlusions of the cerebral or basilar arteries, which were generally solitary (six patients), and findings suggestive of vasculitis (four patients). Four patients had stenoses of the origins of two or more great vessels. Two patients had extracranial internal carotid artery stenoses or occlusions that were not typical of atheromatous disease, considered to be embolic in one patient. In another patient, a stenosis of the origin of the internal carotid artery was present that appeared typical of atheromatous disease. Infarctions were seen on CT or MR studies in 13 of 17 patients with abnormal angiograms. In our group of patients, typical atheromatous lesions at the common carotid artery bifurcation were rare. Some lesions that are infrequent in the general stroke population (eg, vasculitis-like findings and stenoses at the origin of great vessels) were common. Patients with APA and cerebrovascular events appear to differ from the general stroke population with regard to types of arterial abnormalities seen at arteriography."}
{"id": "9576637", "title": "Dye dilution and oximetry for detection of patent foramen ovale.", "content": "Dye dilution and oximetry for detection of patent foramen ovale. Patent foramen ovale (PFO) is a risk factor for stroke of undetermined (cryptogenic) origin. Low cost and non-invasive bedside tests for detection of PFO are needed as alternatives to contrast transesophageal echocardiography. We investigated whether dye dilution curves and oximeter recordings are useful for detecting PFO and what is the prevalence of PFO in patients with cryptogenic stroke determined with these bedside methods. We also studied whether stroke risk factors, number of brain lesions, and stroke recurrence rates were different in patients with an unexplained stroke with and without PFO. Dye dilution curves and oximeter recordings with non-invasive earpiece apparatus were obtained in 59 patients aged under 50 years who had had a cryptogenic brain infarction. The number of ischemic lesions in the brain was counted by MRI. PFO was found in 24 (41%) of 59 patients. There was a 100% concordance in results obtained by dye dilution and by oximetry. Risk factors for stroke were similar in subjects with PFO and those without PFO. No significant association was found between PFO and Valsalva-like activity at stroke onset. Those with PFO did not have more ischemic lesions detected by MRI nor did they have more recurrent ischemic episodes. Dye dilution and oximetry are cheap and useful methods for detection of PFO and could be used for screening of the risk of paradoxical embolism. Because these 2 methods were not compared with the golden standard, transesophageal echocardiography, the specificity and sensitivity of the tests remain unsettled."}
{"id": "9570021", "title": "Diffusion and perfusion MRI, measurements of acute stroke events and outcome: present practice and future hope.", "content": "Diffusion and perfusion MRI, measurements of acute stroke events and outcome: present practice and future hope. The morphological, metabolic and functional changes of brain ischaemia can be studied using various MRI methods. These are readily available should the early visualisation of affected territories be needed. Morphological changes include the depiction of oedema on T1- and T2-weighted images, and metabolic changes are reflected on magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Functional changes reflect haemodynamic failure seen on diffusion- and perfusion-weighted imaging. Modelling of behaviour of T2 and diffusion changes could predict the histological outcome of affected tissue regarding cell recovery on necrosis. In addition, the combination of diffusion and perfusion MRI offers a potential prognostic value."}
{"id": "9567070", "title": "[Intracranial aneurysms in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease detected by MR angiography: screening and treatment].", "content": "[Intracranial aneurysms in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease detected by MR angiography: screening and treatment]. The association of intracranial aneurysm with ADPKD is well-known, and patients with ADPKD are at increased risk of subarachnoid hemorrhage from rupture of intracranial aneurysms. We prospectively performed three-dimensional time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) in 30 nonselective adult patients with ADPKD. Sixteen were women and 14 were men with a mean age of 51 yr (range 24 to 79 yr). The diagnosis of ADPKD was made on the basis of abdominal ultrasound or computed tomographic studies. Three patients were on maintenance hemodialysis, 8 patients were nondialysed patients with chronic renal failure (serum creatinine > or = mg/dl) and 25 patients had hypertension (BP > or = 140/90 mmHg). None of these patients have a previous diagnosis of intracranial aneurysm. Unruptured intracranial aneurysms were suspected in 5 patients by MRA, and 8 aneurysms were confirmed in 4 (13.3%) of 30 patients by conventional arteriography. These aneurysms were 3 approximately 10 mm in diameter and 3 aneurysms (3 approximately 4 mm in diameter) were newly detected by cerebral arteriography. After informed consent was obtained, neck clipping of the intracranial aneurysms were performed successfully in all the patients. These results suggest that the prevalence of intracranial aneurysms is about 13% in ADPKD, and that MRA is useful in screening for occult intracranial aneurysms in patients with ADPKD."}
{"id": "9566414", "title": "Postpartum cerebral angiopathy with intracerebral hemorrhage in a patient receiving lisuride.", "content": "Postpartum cerebral angiopathy with intracerebral hemorrhage in a patient receiving lisuride. Postpartum cerebral angiopathy is a recognized but infrequent complication of ergot alkaloid derivatives. We describe a patient who experienced reversible cerebral vasoconstriction with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) after ingesting lisuride in the postpartum period. Lisuride is likely to cause postpartum cerebral angiopathy, and ICH must now be considered a possible cerebrovascular complication of postpartum cerebral angiopathy. Our observation calls for further study to verify these findings."}
{"id": "9561529", "title": "Transcranial Doppler, MRA, and MRI as a screening examination for cerebrovascular disease in patients with sickle cell anemia: an 8-year study.", "content": "Transcranial Doppler, MRA, and MRI as a screening examination for cerebrovascular disease in patients with sickle cell anemia: an 8-year study. The authors previously reported five transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (TCD) findings as significant in detecting clinical cerebrovascular disease in a 4-year study in patients with sickle cell disease. This is a follow-up to evaluate the validity of the original findings over another 4-year period during which the study population doubled. A clinical follow-up of the original asymptomatic sickle cell patients with positive TCD, MRA, and MRI was also made. Over an 8-year period TCD, MRI, and MRA were prospectively performed in 90 sickle cell patients who were clinically asymptomatic for stroke and in 27 sickle cell patients with clinical stroke. Of the 4 out of original 46 control patients in 1992 who had positive MRA and TCD, 3 have subsequently had clinical stroke. None of the 9 original patients with positive TCD and positive MRI but negative MRA have developed stroke. All five original TCD indicators of disease were still significant (P < 0.05) for detecting clinical disease: maximum velocity in ophthalmic artery (OA) > 35 cm/s, mean velocity in middle cerebral artery (MCA) > 170 cm/s, resistive index (RI) in OA < 50, velocity in OA greater than in MCA, and velocity in posterior cerebral (PCA), vertebral, or basilar arteries greater than in MCA. An RI of < 60 in the DA was also now found to be significant [corrected]. Four additional factors were also significant: turbulence, PCA or ACA without MCA, RI < 30, and maximum velocity in MCA > 200 cm/s. Positive MRA with a positive TCD in an asymptomatic patient in long-term follow-up suggests a trend for developing clinical stroke. A 4- to 8-year follow-up of nine patients with positive TCD, positive MRI, but not positive MRA did not show development of clinical stroke. Nine Doppler findings are significant in screening for clinically symptomatic vascular disease in sickle cell patients. It is recommended that children with sickle cell disease be screened for cerebrovascular disease with TCD. If one or two indicators of abnormality are present, MRA is recommended. If the MRA is positive, the patient may be considered for transfusion therapy or other treatment for prevention of stroke."}
{"id": "9535306", "title": "Stroke and fibromuscular dysplasia: confirmation by renal magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Stroke and fibromuscular dysplasia: confirmation by renal magnetic resonance angiography. Childhood stroke is uncommon and may require extensive evaluation to elucidate an underlying cause. A 9-year-old boy had clinical and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) features of an ischemic event in the left middle cerebral artery territory. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) revealed beading of the left middle cerebral artery, consistent with irregular blood flow secondary to turbulence or luminal narrowing. Conventional angiography of the cerebral vessels confirmed the findings of cerebral MRA and raised further the suspicion of fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD). MRA of the renal vessels was subsequently performed, revealing beading of the left renal artery and confirming the diagnosis of FMD. MRA, a rapid and less invasive technique associated with far less morbidity and mortality as compared with conventional angiography, may prove to be as sensitive as conventional angiography in detecting the changes of FMD. MRA of the renal arteries should be performed with initial cranial MRI and MRA in children who present with cerebral infarction of possible vascular origin. This may obviate the need to perform further investigations and may make early diagnosis possible at the first MRI scan and under a single general anesthetic."}
{"id": "9525712", "title": "Computerized tomography angiography of ruptured cerebral aneurysms: factors affecting time to maximum contrast concentration.", "content": "Computerized tomography angiography of ruptured cerebral aneurysms: factors affecting time to maximum contrast concentration. This study was conducted to assess the diagnostic value of three-dimensional computerized tomography (3-D CT) angiography in demonstrating cerebral aneurysms in 42 consecutive patients presenting with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). To obtain the volume data for selective visualization of the cerebral arteries without enhancement of the venous system, the time delay was established between the injection of contrast medium and the start of scanning by using two different methods. The circulation time was calculated with Schad's formula in the first 13 cases, but the results were not satisfactory. In the 29 subsequent cases the time delay was established using a single-level dynamic CT prescan. The dynamic prescan demonstrated the statistical differences in peak time with regard to patient age, SAH grade, and the postresuscitation state after cardiopulmonary arrest. The 3-D CT angiograms were generated from the volume data by using a voxel transmission method. Computerized tomography angiography obtained after optimally adjusted time delay demonstrated the contour of the cerebral arteries in 97% of cases, and aneurysms were detected in 93%. Enhancement of the cavernous sinus and major cortical veins was avoided. Even in patients who suffered cardiopulmonary arrest, images of the major arteries were clearly demonstrated after resuscitation. In an emergency situation, CT angiography with a dynamic prescan may be an alternative to magnetic resonance angiography or digital subtraction angiography in the diagnosis of ruptured aneurysms. This modality would also be useful for the precise assessment of small aneurysms, blebs, and aneurysms adjacent to the cavernous sinus."}
{"id": "9525710", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging-documented extravasation as an indicator of acute hypertensive intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging-documented extravasation as an indicator of acute hypertensive intracerebral hemorrhage. The aim of this study was to determine the usefulness of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging-documented extravasation as an indicator of continued hemorrhage in patients with acute hypertensive intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). The authors studied 108 patients with acute hyperintensive ICH. Imaging modalities included noncontrast-enhanced computerized tomography (CT) scanning, gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging, and conventional cerebral angiography obtained within 6 hours after the onset of hemorrhage. A repeated CT scan was obtained within 48 hours to evaluate enlargement of the hematoma. Findings on MR imaging indicating extravasation, including any high-intensity signals on T1-weighted postcontrast images, were observed in 39 patients, and 17 of these also showed evidence of extravasation on cerebral angiography. The presence of extravasation on MR imaging was closely correlated with evidence of hematoma enlargement on follow-up CT scans (p < 0.001). Evidence of extravasation documented on MR imaging indicates persistent hemorrhage and correlates with enlargement of the hematoma."}
{"id": "9504473", "title": "Diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms: accuracy of MR angiography at 0.5 T.", "content": "Diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms: accuracy of MR angiography at 0.5 T. Our goal was to determine the accuracy of MR angiography at 0.5 T for the diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms. We retrospectively studied 140 patients, 70 with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage, who were either at high or low risk for intracranial aneurysm. Three-dimensional time-of-flight MR angiography was typically performed to cover the circle of Willis, with a volume thickness of 30 mm. Conventional spin-echo MR images and MR angiograms were reviewed together, and the results were compared with those obtained at intraarterial cerebral angiography to determine the sensitivity and specificity of MR angiography. Eighty-nine aneurysms (size range, 2 to 27 mm; 25 aneurysms < 5 mm) were identified at intraarterial cerebral angiography. Six aneurysms were missed by MR angiography and two were doubtful (sensitivity, 91% to 93%; specificity, 100%). Missed aneurysms were located outside the MR angiographic acquisition volume (n = 3) or on the carotid siphon (n = 3; size = 2, 3, and 5 mm). Even if MR angiography presents some restrictions in acquisition volume and spatial resolution, the detection rate of intracranial aneurysms is excellent at 0.5 T in both asymptomatic patients and in those with subarachnoid hemorrhage. A midfield system is not a restriction to the detection of intracranial aneurysms by MR examination."}
{"id": "9493181", "title": "Intracerebral haemorrhage from a venous angioma following thrombosis of a draining vein.", "content": "Intracerebral haemorrhage from a venous angioma following thrombosis of a draining vein. We report a case of putaminal haemorrhage from a venous cerebral angioma following thrombosis in a draining vein. The patient complained of numbness of the right side, followed by headache and aphasia. CT demonstrated an intracerebral haemorrhage due to thrombotic occlusion of a draining vein of the venous angioma. Carotid angiography showed the venous angioma. MRI studies confirmed the diagnosis and demonstrated recanalisation of the draining vein following therapy with phenprocoumon."}
{"id": "9459471", "title": "Cocaine-induced cerebral vasoconstriction detected in humans with magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Cocaine-induced cerebral vasoconstriction detected in humans with magnetic resonance angiography. Clinical observations and case reports suggest that there are important cerebrovascular complications of cocaine use, but no studies have documented a direct link. To determine whether low-dose cocaine administration induces cerebral vasoconstriction in healthy cocaine users. Randomized controlled trial. Twenty-four healthy and neurologically normal men (mean age, 29 years) reporting median cocaine use of 8 lifetime exposures (range, 3 to >40). Double-blind intravenous administration of cocaine (0.4 or 0.2 mg/kg) or placebo, with cerebral magnetic resonance angiography performed at baseline and 20 minutes following infusion. Cocaine-induced angiographic change indicative of vasoconstriction, as independently and concordantly rated by 2 reviewers blind to treatment condition. Cocaine-induced cerebral vasoconstriction in a dose-related fashion (P=.03), with angiograms indicative of vasoconstriction found in 5 of 8 and 3 of 9 subjects receiving 0.4- and 0.2-mg/kg cocaine, respectively, compared with 1 of 7 subjects administered placebo. Outcome stratification by frequency of self-reported lifetime cocaine use (3-10 times, 11-40 times, or >40 times) revealed a statistically stronger dose-related effect (P<.001), suggesting that greater lifetime cocaine use was associated with a greater likelihood of vasoconstriction. Cocaine administration induced dose-related cerebral vasoconstriction on magnetic resonance angiograms. These changes occurred at low cocaine doses and in the absence of other risk factors, including polydrug abuse, hypertension, or cerebrovascular disease. Outcome stratification by prior cocaine use statistically strengthened the relationship between cocaine administration and vasoconstriction, suggesting that cocaine may have a cumulative residual effect in promoting cerebrovascular dysfunction."}
{"id": "9445339", "title": "Frequency of cerebral arteritis in subarachnoid cysticercosis: an angiographic study.", "content": "Frequency of cerebral arteritis in subarachnoid cysticercosis: an angiographic study. Subarachnoid cysticercosis is a well-recognized cause of cerebral infarction. However, few patients with this infection develop cerebral infarction, and the reason for this is not known. The aim of this study was to determine the frequency of cerebral arteritis in these patients. Using cerebral arteriography, we studied 28 patients with subarachnoid cysticercosis admitted to our hospital from July 1993 to February 1996. All patients underwent MRI to detect the presence of basal arachnoiditis. We analyzed demographic data, time to cysticercosis since the first symptom onset, mode of onset, stroke syndromes, neuroimaging features of cysticercosis and cerebral infarction, and arteriographic findings for each patient. Of the 28 patients (mean age, 37 years), 15 patients had angiographic evidence of cerebral arteritis (53%); 12 of the 15 had a stroke syndrome (P=.02). Eight of the 15 patients (53%) with cerebral arteritis had evidence of cerebral infarction on MRI, whereas only one patient without cerebral arteritis had cerebral infarction (P=.05). The most commonly involved vessels were the middle cerebral artery and the posterior cerebral artery. The frequency of cerebral arteritis in subarachnoid cysticercosis is higher than previously reported, and middle-size vessel involvement is a common finding, even in those patients without clinical evidence of cerebral ischemia."}
{"id": "9445320", "title": "PROACT: a phase II randomized trial of recombinant pro-urokinase by direct arterial delivery in acute middle cerebral artery stroke. PROACT Investigators. Prolyse in Acute Cerebral Thromboembolism.", "content": "PROACT: a phase II randomized trial of recombinant pro-urokinase by direct arterial delivery in acute middle cerebral artery stroke. PROACT Investigators. Prolyse in Acute Cerebral Thromboembolism. To test the safety and recanalization efficacy of intra-arterial local delivery of plasminogen activators in acute ischemic stroke, a randomized trial of recombinant pro-urokinase (rpro-UK) versus placebo was undertaken in patients with angiographically documented proximal middle cerebral artery occlusion. After exclusion of intracranial hemorrhage by CT scan, patients with abrupt onset of symptoms of focal ischemia likely to receive treatment within 6 hours who satisfied all clinical eligibility criteria underwent carotid angiography. Patients displaying Thrombolysis in Acute Myocardial Infarction grade 0 or 1 occlusion of the M1 or M2 middle cerebral artery were randomized 2:1 to receive rpro-UK (6 mg) or placebo over 120 minutes into the proximal thrombus face. All patients received intravenous heparin. Recanalization efficacy was assessed at the end of the 2-hour infusion, and intracerebral hemorrhage causing neurological deterioration was assessed at 24 hours. Of 105 patients who underwent angiography, 59 were excluded from randomization. Among the 46 patients randomized, 40 were treated with rpro-UK (n=26) or placebo (n=14) a median of 5.5 hours from symptom onset. Recanalization was significantly associated with rpro-UK (2P=.017). Hemorrhagic transformation causing neurological deterioration within 24 hours of treatment occurred in 15.4% of the rpro-UK-treated patients and 7.1% of the placebo-treated patients (2P=.64). Both recanalization and hemorrhage frequencies were influenced by heparin dose. Intra-arterial local rpro-UK infusion was associated with superior recanalization in acute thrombotic/ thromboembolic stroke compared with placebo. In this regimen, heparin dose influenced hemorrhage frequency and recanalization. Although symptomatic hemorrhage remains a concern, this study suggests that recanalization is enhanced with rpro-UK and heparin."}
{"id": "9442523", "title": "Endovascular treatment of carotid artery occlusion in progressive stroke syndromes: technical note.", "content": "Endovascular treatment of carotid artery occlusion in progressive stroke syndromes: technical note. We describe two patients, with progressing neurological deficits, who showed improvement after revascularization of their carotid arteries using stents. One patient presented clinically with the symptoms of a middle cerebral artery territory stroke. Angiography demonstrated total occlusion of the right internal carotid artery (ICA), with evidence of clot from the origin of the ICA to the middle cerebral artery trifurcation. The second patient presented with bilateral ICA occlusions and evidence of a progressing left hemispheric deficit; she was receiving therapeutic levels of heparin at the time of deterioration of her condition. Thrombolysis and stenting successfully recanalized the occluded vessels, and the deficits of the first patient were reversed. With the second patient, a dissected carotid loop was encountered. Straightening of the loop with a wire and stenting of the carotid artery using two stents allowed revascularization of the left hemisphere and resolution of most of the deficits of this patient. This report demonstrates the technical feasibility of placing stents in high-risk patients with carotid artery occlusions from either dissection or atherosclerosis. Both patients sustained much smaller infarctions than would have been expected if the carotid artery territory had been infarcted. We report on the technical feasibility of reopening acutely closed ICAs by using endovascular methods."}
{"id": "9442518", "title": "Bilateral dissecting aneurysms of the vertebral arteries resulting in subarachnoid hemorrhage: case report.", "content": "Bilateral dissecting aneurysms of the vertebral arteries resulting in subarachnoid hemorrhage: case report. We present the case of a patient with bilateral dissecting aneurysms of the vertebral arteries resulting in subarachnoid hemorrhage. A 44-year-old man suffered a sudden onset of severe occipital headache and nausea and then dysphasia caused by subarachnoid hemorrhage. A computed tomographic scan demonstrated right side dominant subarachnoid hemorrhage mainly in the posterior fossa. Angiography revealed bilateral, vertebral dissecting aneurysms. The right aneurysm was larger and had a bleb-like protrusion, which strongly suggested a causative lesion of the subarachnoid hemorrhage. Six months later, the patient was referred to our hospital for further evaluation and treatment. The ruptured right aneurysm was trapped surgically through a lateral suboccipital approach. The patient's postoperative course was unremarkable, and he was discharged on the 14th day after surgery. However, postoperative angiography demonstrated slight enlargement of the left nonruptured aneurysm. Four months after surgery, the patient developed brain stem ischemic symptoms. The angiography conducted at that time showed further enlargement of the left aneurysm. Five months after surgery, fatal rupture of the left aneurysm occurred. These results indicate that sacrifice of the unilateral vertebral artery may result in an enlargement of the contralateral nonruptured aneurysm and may thus be dangerous in the case of a patient with bilateral dissecting aneurysms."}
{"id": "9405772", "title": "Neonatal central nervous system vascular disorders.", "content": "Neonatal central nervous system vascular disorders. Central nervous system vascular disorders in the neonate comprise structural anomalies or malformations of arteries and veins and physiologic alterations of cerebral blood flow, which can mimic structural vascular disease. Clinical , imaging, and transcatheter therapeutic aspects of neonatal cerebral vascular malformations are described. Symptomatic high-flow vascular malformations characteristically present with cardiac failure and associated systemic problems in the neonate, whereas infants typically present with macrocephaly and hydrocephalus and older children with hemorrhage, developmental delay, or focal deficits. Neonatal cerebral hemorrhage is typically primary or associated with immaturity, parturitional trauma, or coagulopathy. Likewise, cerebral ischemic lesions are more likely secondary to hypoxic, ischemic events than to thromboembolic or structural cerebrovascular occlusive disease. The role of the current noninvasive imaging modalities in each of these clinical problems is reviewed and illustrated."}
{"id": "9629406", "title": "[Basilar ectasia and stroke: imaging features in 21 cases].", "content": "[Basilar ectasia and stroke: imaging features in 21 cases]. Ectasia of the basilar artery (EB) may cause different clinical manifestations, and its analysis by imaging methods is fundamental. We tried to analyse radiological aspects in 21 patients with stroke and EB. In all of them, diagnosis could be done by computed tomography. However, magnetic resonance was the most complete diagnostic method for the evaluation of the relationship between EB an surrounding structures."}
{"id": "9511336", "title": "[Clinical aspects and diagnostic characteristics of nontraumatic intracerebral hemorrhage].", "content": "[Clinical aspects and diagnostic characteristics of nontraumatic intracerebral hemorrhage]. The results of treatment of 235 young and middle age patients with nontraumatic intracerebral haemorrhage were analyzed. Diagnosis was verified with the help of computer tomography, magnetic-resonance tomography, angiography and basing on operational and autopsy data as well. Three main symptoms, reflecting the dislocational changes dynamics, were assigned."}
{"id": "9499220", "title": "[Computer tomographic diagnosis of acute cerebral ischemmia].", "content": "[Computer tomographic diagnosis of acute cerebral ischemmia]. Computed tomography (CT) is the first step in the radiological diagnostics of brain emergencies. We intend to study which pathophysiological changes are detected by CT and how CT contributes to prognosis and patient management in acute cerebral ischemia. We review recent publications about the role of CT in acute cerebral ischemia. Ischemic brain edema is associated with a decreased X-ray attenuation. Computed tomography is thus highly sensitive in detecting irreversibly damaged ischemic brain tissue. Patients showing large volumes of ischemic edema, exceeding one third of the middle cerebral artery territory, do not benefit from thrombolysis and have an increased risk of brain hemorrhage. The brain territory at risk from ischemia can be detected by CT angiography. To combine CT with CT angiography is a pragmatic approach which enables carefully directed treatment in acute cerebral ischemia."}
{"id": "9495789", "title": "Cerebral black blood MR angiography with the interleaved multi-slab three-dimensional fast spin echo sequence.", "content": "Cerebral black blood MR angiography with the interleaved multi-slab three-dimensional fast spin echo sequence. To overcome the disadvantages of conventional three-dimensional time-of-flight MR angiography (3D-TOF), such as saturation or intravoxel dephasing, black blood MR angiography (BB-MRA) using an interleaved multi-slab 3D fast spin echo sequence was developed and evaluated clinically. In major branches, the contrast-to-noise ratio of the flow was not as good as 3D-TOF in BB-MRA. However, in-plane slow flow and large aneurysm were visualized better on BB-MRA than on 3D-TOF. Furthermore, BB-MRA could provide wider coverage than 3D-TOF. BB-MRA using interleaved multi-slab 3D fast spin echo is now feasible and complementary to 3D-TOF."}
{"id": "9475254", "title": "A benign form of isolated angiitis of the central nervous system in puerperium: an identical disorder to postpartum cerebral angiopathy?", "content": "A benign form of isolated angiitis of the central nervous system in puerperium: an identical disorder to postpartum cerebral angiopathy? A case of isolated angiitis of the central nervous system (IACNS) in puerperium with a clinical presentation of bilateral frontal lobe hemorrhage is described. Her symptoms and arteriographic abnormalities were resolved by institution of corticosteroid. After cessation of steroid treatment she showed no evidence of relapse. This case indicates that there appears to be a benign form of IACNS, although the etiology of postpartum IACNS is not known. The postpartum cerebral angiopathy described in the literature may be an identical disorder, since there are no clinical points of specific distinction between them."}
{"id": "9474281", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography demonstration of an angiographically occult anterior communicating artery aneurysm.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography demonstration of an angiographically occult anterior communicating artery aneurysm. In almost one in six patients with spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) no lesion responsible for the bleed will be found by cerebral angiography. Current management strategies include repeat cerebral angiography after a period of 1-8 weeks during which a number of these patients will rebleed with considerable morbidity and even mortality. We report the case of a young female patient with spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage. Brain computed tomography (CT) demonstrated blood mainly in the basal frontal interhemispheric fissure suggesting the presence of an anterior communicating artery (ACoA) aneurysm. Cerebral angiography was negative. Magnetic resonance (MR) angiography performed the same day showed a small aneurysm arising from the posterior wall of the ACoA. This was confirmed at surgery. It is suggested that MR angiography, guided by the CT findings, probably has a place in the management of patients with SAH of \"unknown aetiology\" before repeat catheter angiography is undertaken."}
{"id": "9465957", "title": "[CT angiography of cerebral venous circulation: anatomical visualization and diagnostic pitfalls in interpretation].", "content": "[CT angiography of cerebral venous circulation: anatomical visualization and diagnostic pitfalls in interpretation]. To show the frequency of visualisation of the dural sinuses and cerebral veins with CT-angiography (CTA) with special reference to anatomical variants. 34 CTA (1 mm slice thickness, 120 ml nonionic KM, 2 ml/s flow, 40 s prescanning delay) were performed in 30 patients to examine the cerebral venous system. In an anatomic study of cadavers (n = 10) without known disease of the cerebral veins the great sinuses were opened and examined. The superior sagittal, the transverse, the sigmoid and the straight sinus could be evaluated in all cases (100%). The cortical and deep cerebral veins as well as the small sinuses were visualised in 12-97% of the examinations. A sinovenous thrombosis was diagnosed in 4 of the 30 patients. Asymmetric superior sagittal sinus bifurcation (12/30), a hypoplastic sinus transversus (2/30) and a persistent sinus occipitalis (4/30) were found as anatomical variants. In 10 of the 30 patients we discovered 17 dural sinus filling defects produced by large arachnoid granulations. Similar findings could be demonstrated in the pathologico-anatomic examination series. CT angiography is suitable for detailed evaluation of the cerebral veins. Anatomic variants, arachnoid granulations, as well as fibrous bands and septa, which may lead to misinterpretation in conventional CT, can be clearly demonstrated. The sensitivity and specificity of CT in diagnosis of sinovenous thrombosis were increased thereby."}
{"id": "9449480", "title": "Stroke in children under 16 years of age. Clinical and etiological difference with adults.", "content": "Stroke in children under 16 years of age. Clinical and etiological difference with adults. The aim of this study was to re-evaluate the clinical features of stroke in children, their outcome and the place of the different mechanisms, in the light of CT-scan and magnetic resonance imaging. A 10-year review of the Dijon Childhood Neurology Clinic experience (1985-1995) identified 54 patients with arterial stroke. Diagnosis was established by CT-scan and angiography and by magnetic resonance imaging from 1987. When an hemorrhagic stroke was identified, a cerebral arteriogram and an investigation of the coagulation factors were performed. When an ischemic stroke was identified, the following tests were performed: an ultrasound examination of the cervical arteries, a cerebral arteriogram, a lumbar puncture, an investigation of the coagulation factors and lipid status, a measurement of homocystine in the plasma and the urine, an electrocardiogram, a Holter procedure and a cardiac echography. During the 11 full calendar years of this study, we observed 54 stroke patients. There were 31 cases of ischemic stroke, representing some 57% of the total, as well as 23 cases of hemorrhagic stroke, representing 43% of the total. Of the 31 cases with ischemic stroke, 4 had no known predisposing condition, 6 occurred in children with pre-existing heart disease, 2 had moya-moya disease, 2 had leukemia, 2 had a carotid dissection, 1 had an hemolytic-uremic syndrome, and 14 were observed in patients with other associated conditions, such as infections (7 cases) or slight cranial trauma (7 cases). On CT-scan, a basal ganglia infarction was identified in 14 cases. Among the 23 hemorrhagic strokes, 9 were due to arteriovenous malformations, 2 to arterial aneurysm and 5 to cavernomas. Two cases occurred in hemophilia, 2 in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, and 2 after throat infections. One case had no etiologic factor. Clinical course was marked by a low mortality rate even in hemorrhagic stroke, long-lasting seizures, and hemidystonia. This neuro-imaging survey focused on the real place of hemorrhage and basal ganglia infarctions in children under 16 years of age, compared to adulthood. Follow-up demonstrated good or complete resolution of neurological deficits despite the frequent late hemidystonia and late epilepsy."}
{"id": "9439774", "title": "Detection of subependymal veins using high-resolution magnetic resonance venography.", "content": "Detection of subependymal veins using high-resolution magnetic resonance venography. High-resolution magnetic resonance venography (HR-MRV) of intracranial subependymal veins using a two-dimensional Fourier-transform time-of-flight technique was performed on normal volunteers and clinical cases of cerebral disease. For the pulse sequence, fast-field-echo sequence was used with the following parameters: TR/TE/flip angle = 34 ms/12 ms/50 deg., 256 x 256 matrix, 1 mm effective slice thickness, 150 mm field of view, and one signal acquisition. Sequential vertical coronal sections were taken against the skull base. The anterior septal vein, the medial atrial vein, the anterior caudate vein and thalamostriate vein were detected in all subjects. In all clinical cases, HR-MRV was equal in diagnostic capability to conventional cerebral angiography."}
{"id": "9409437", "title": "Hemorrhagic type moyamoya disease.", "content": "Hemorrhagic type moyamoya disease. The clinical picture of hemorrhagic type Moyamoya disease was analyzed in 20 cases. Hematoma at the basal ganglia was noted in 40% of cases, intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) in 30%, thalamic hemorrhage with ventricular rupture in 15% and subcortical hemorrhage in 5%. The location was undetermined in two cases (10%) due to bleeding in the pre-computed tomography (CT) era. The frequencies shown above were correlated well to previous reports. In magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) performed 1 year or more after IVH, the primary bleeding site was demonstrated at the lateral wall of lateral ventricle, in portion density weighted and T2 weighted images. MRI can detect the site of old bleeding points and its chronological change if the study is repeated. In a follow-up period of 6.2 years, 35% of the cases had rebleeding once or twice. The second bleeding occurred seven times and the third twice. IVH occurred five times and the most common, basal ganglia hematoma three times while thalamic hemorrhage once. As a result, the rate of good outcome was 60% after the first bleeding and 40% after rebleeding. The mortality rate was 5% after the first 25% after rebleedings. Factors related to rebleedings and their poorer outcome are sex (with women being more susceptible), massive ICH and early recurrence. Rebleeding worsened the outcome. Therefore, prevention of rebleeding is important. From a therapeutic viewpoint, although a close relation between rebleeding and untreated hypertension could not be established, blood pressure control is critical at the both acute and chronic stages. Bypass surgery for bleeding type of Moyamoya disease seems to be less promising than ischemic type, even though a definite answer may not be obtained from our small number of cases."}
{"id": "9406201", "title": "False-negative angiograms in subarachnoid haemorrhage due to intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "False-negative angiograms in subarachnoid haemorrhage due to intracranial aneurysms. Of 440 patients with spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage in whom an aneurysm was suspected, 60 had a negative angiogram. A second angiogram performed 1-4 weeks later revealed an aneurysm in 5 of 40 cases. Of these patients, 3 had a second haemorrhage. In all cases, diffuse bleeding, with involvement of the anteroinferior interhemispheric fissure, was present on CT. There were three aneurysms of the anterior communicating artery and two of the carotid siphon. The reasons for the false-negative angiograms and the usefulness of repeated angiography are discussed."}
{"id": "9401651", "title": "Ruptured vertebrobasilar junction aneurysm associated with basilar artery fenestration.", "content": "Ruptured vertebrobasilar junction aneurysm associated with basilar artery fenestration. A case of a ruptured saccular aneurysm arising from the proximal portion of a partially duplicated basilar artery in a 36-year-old woman is reported. CT and lumbar puncture confirmed subarachnoid haemorrhage. Cerebral angiography detected a vertebrobasilar junction aneurysm associated with basilar artery fenestration. The patient underwent successful clipping and coating of the aneurysm by a right lateral suboccipital osteoclastic approach. Embryological development, pathogenesis, diagnostic and therapeutic difficulties of this vascular malformation are discussed in this report."}
{"id": "9394867", "title": "Magnetic resonance techniques in the evaluation of the newborn brain.", "content": "Magnetic resonance techniques in the evaluation of the newborn brain. MR imaging provides unequaled sensitivity as compared with US or CT scanning for evaluating developmental changes and pathologic processes in the newborn brain. Myelination can be assessed qualitatively and quantitatively using newer 3D-MR imaging methods. MR imaging provides a much clearer delineation of many developmental disorders, including anomalies of migration and organization, as well as a variety of metabolic disorders and congenital infections. Neonatal intracranial hemorrhage is detected in all its locations by MR imaging. The timing of the hemorrhage is a unique feature of MR imaging. Venous thrombosis also can be identified by MR imaging and confirmed with MR angiography. HIE is the major cause of potentially preventable or reversible brain injury that results in considerable long-term neurologic morbidity. Early detection is crucial for interventions aimed at preventing or reversing ongoing injury. DWI can show early changes at the cellular level that are not detectable by any other imaging modality. MR spectroscopy has further opened the possibility of studying the metabolic mechanisms that define the pathophysiologic events taking place in neonatal brain injury. Both 31P-MR spectroscopy, as a marker of the acute changes in energy metabolism, and 1H-MR spectroscopy, with the measurement of lactate and the excitotoxic aminoacids glutamate and glutamine, have enabled us to study the early and late effects of insults to the newborn brain in a noninvasive fashion. Studies performed to determine the predictive value of MR spectroscopy for later neurodevelopmental outcome after HIE have shown promising results but need further evaluation on larger patient samples. The potential use of these methods in the evaluation of early neuroprotective treatment regimens in the newborn remains to be determined."}
{"id": "9392361", "title": "Spontaneous dissection associated with proximal vertebral artery anomaly.", "content": "Spontaneous dissection associated with proximal vertebral artery anomaly. A 47-year-old man was admitted because of acute lateral medullary syndrome with severe posterior cervical pain. Cerebral angiography was performed three hours after the onset, which demonstrated that two arteries branched separately from the right subclavian artery, ran upward and formed a single right vertebral artery (VA). One of the two arteries showed both stenosis and luminal dilatation. We thought the structure of these arteries was proximal vertebral artery anomaly and diagnosed him as having dissection of the vertebral artery. We consider that the proximal vertebral anomaly may be a risk for spontaneous VA dissection."}
{"id": "9368566", "title": "Quantitative cerebral blood flow determinations in acute ischemic stroke. Relationship to computed tomography and angiography.", "content": "Quantitative cerebral blood flow determinations in acute ischemic stroke. Relationship to computed tomography and angiography. The advent of new modalities to treat acute ischemic stroke presents the need for accurate, early diagnosis. In acute ischemic stroke, CT scans are frequently normal or reveal only subtle hypodense changes. This study explored the utility and increased sensitivity of xenonenhanced CT (XeCT) in the diagnosis of acute cerebral ischemia and investigated the relationship between cerebral blood flow (CBF) measurements and early CT and angiographic findings in acute stroke. The CT scans, XeCT scans, and angiograms of 20 patients who presented within 6 hours of acute anterior circulation ischemic strokes were analyzed. CT scans were abnormal in 11 (55%) of 20 patients. XeCT scans were abnormal in all 20 (100%) patients, showing regions of interest with CBF < 20 (mL/100 g per minute) in the symptomatic middle cerebral artery (MCA) territories. The mean CBF in the symptomatic MCA territories was significantly lower than than of the asymptomatic MCA territories (P < .0005). In patients with basal ganglia hypodensities, the mean symptomatic MCA territory CBF was significantly lower than that of patients who did not exhibit these early CT findings (P < .05). The mean symptomatic MCA territory CBF in patients with angiographic M1 occlusions was significantly lower than that of patients whose infarcts were caused by MCA branch occlusions (P < .01). These results show that XeCT is more sensitive than CT in detecting acute strokes and that CBF measurements correlate with early CT and angiographic findings. XeCT may allow for the hyperacute identification of subsets of patients with acute ischemic events who are less likely to benefit and more likely to derive complications from aggressive stroke therapy."}
{"id": "9352812", "title": "Intracranial dissecting aneurysm causing subarachnoid hemorrhage: the role of computerized tomographic angiography and magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Intracranial dissecting aneurysm causing subarachnoid hemorrhage: the role of computerized tomographic angiography and magnetic resonance angiography. With increasing frequency, dissecting aneurysms of the intracranial arteries are recognized as a possible cause of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). In the presence of a dissecting aneurysm, angiographic changes may be subtle at presentation and correct diagnosis often requires serial angiograms. We report a patient with a dissecting aneurysm of the anterior cerebral artery (ACA) causing SAH, in whom less invasive diagnostic tools, such as high-resolution computerized tomographic angiography (CTA) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), were helpful in confirming the diagnosis and in following the evolution of the dissection. We present this 51-year old woman who experienced the sudden onset of severe headache without associated neurological deficits. Head CT showed SAH with blood in the interhemispheric fissure, suggesting a ruptured ACA aneurysm. Serial cerebral angiograms failed to demonstrate an aneurysmal sac, but showed evolving irregularities of the ACA consistent with a dissecting aneurysm. These findings were confirmed by CTA and MRA. The patient was treated conservatively and made an excellent recovery. A MRA obtained 2 months later showed slight improvement of the previously visualized ACA dilatation. Serial angiograms are often required to confirm the diagnosis and to follow the evolution of an intracranial dissection. With recent advances in neuroradiological techniques, however, critical information can be obtained by less invasive imaging studies, such as CTA and MRA."}
{"id": "9340684", "title": "[Indications for contrast medium administration in MR-angiography of cerebral blood vessels].", "content": "[Indications for contrast medium administration in MR-angiography of cerebral blood vessels]. Time-of-flight MR-angiography of large volumes is limited by the occurrence of saturation effects, which lead to low signal in both veins and arteries. Alternatively to a number of other MRA-techniques, intravenous application of paramagnetic contrast media in combination with 3D-pulse sequences with or without flow refocussing allows the depiction of slow vessels in large volumes without technical extra expenses. The main intracranial indication is anatomical 3D-imaging of normal and dysplastic cerebral veins with high spatial resolution, and the additional depiction of the venous drainage in AVMs, when unenhanced MRA shows only the arteriel supply and the nidus. In large cerebral aneurysms, bridging veins and venous sinuses, partial thromboses can easily be differentiated from slow flow. Contrast-enhancing tumors can be depicted together with normal or displaced vessels. Improvements of arterial signal due to contrast media with currently used routine MRA techniques are clinically not significant. Signal loss due to spin dephasing in vessels with complex flow is not influences by contrast media. Results of contrast-enhanced MRA are determined by the timing of injection. Since arteries and veins are both imaged with high signal intensity, improvements of postprocessing procedures for secondary vessel segmentation are necessary."}
{"id": "9332233", "title": "Angiography in non-traumatic brain haematoma. An analysis of 100 cases.", "content": "Angiography in non-traumatic brain haematoma. An analysis of 100 cases. The primary purpose of this project was to study the anatomical characteristics of intracerebral haematoma (ICH) in order to determine features that may negate the need for angiography in some patients. The study was prospective and designed to investigate the underlying cause of non-traumatic ICH in 100 cases assessed by conventional angiography. Patients were excluded if there was a history of trauma or known pre-existing brain abnormality. All patients were examined with CT and angiography within 4 days of the ictus. Ruptured aneurysms or arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) were diagnosed on the initial angiogram in 49% of cases: 27 AVMs and 22 aneurysms. One case of superior sagittal sinus thrombosis was also detected. Vascular abnormalities were found most frequently in the under-40 age group and in cases in which subarachnoid haemorrhage, intraventricular haemorrhage or extracerebral haematoma accompanied the ICH. The temporal lobe was the most frequent anatomical location (37%). When a temporal lobe haematoma extended into the Sylvian fissure from the inferior pole of the temporal lobe or when it was associated with subarachnoid haemorrhage, structural abnormalities were found in over 90% of cases. There are groups of patients with ICH in whom the CT features are highly suggestive of AVM or aneurysm rupture. If the initial angiography is negative in these cases, careful follow up by repeat angiography and/or MR imaging is essential. However, potentially treatable abnormalities cannot be excluded with certainty by the distribution of the haematoma on CT alone, even if there is a history of pre-existing hypertension."}
{"id": "9332232", "title": "Cerebral CT angiography in the diagnosis of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Cerebral CT angiography in the diagnosis of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. To evaluate the usefulness of CT angiography (CTA) in the detection of intracranial aneurysms in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). In 53 patients with nontraumatic SAH a helical contrast-enhanced CTA was performed. CTA data were reconstructed with maximum intensity projection (MIP). Each patient underwent selective arteriography of the cerebral vessels (as the gold standard). CTA (axial images and MIP reconstructions) and arteriography were evaluated separately and their diagnostic information was compared. In 14 of the 53 patients neither CTA nor angiography showed a vascular malformation. In the remaining 39 patients, angiography demonstrated a total of 51 aneurysms ranging in size from 3 mm to 16 mm. CTA missed one of these aneurysms, which was located at the internal carotid artery. 3-D CT reconstruction was slightly superior to arteriography in the demonstration of the neck, shape and direction of the aneurysms. Partial thrombosis of 3 aneurysms was demonstrated only by CTA. Although CTA cannot replace cerebral arteriography in the diagnostic work-up of acute SAH, it proved to be helpful in demonstrating the topographic anatomy of cerebral aneurysms and surrounding structures."}
{"id": "9322859", "title": "Arteriovenous malformations and magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Arteriovenous malformations and magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "9316064", "title": "P2 aneurysm approached via the temporal horn: technical case report.", "content": "P2 aneurysm approached via the temporal horn: technical case report. We report the use of a transcortical transventricular approach to a P2 aneurysm, which was located near the choroidal fissure, protruded into the temporal horn, and was considered to be too difficult to approach by the conventional subtemporal route. An 81-year-old woman suddenly developed severe headache with vomiting and subsequently lost consciousness. Computed tomographic scans revealed a diffuse intraventricular hemorrhage and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography disclosed a saccular aneurysm in the right P2 segment. On the 16th day after admission, successful neck clipping was easily performed through the temporal horn via the inferior temporal gyrus. The postoperative course was uneventful. This special approach may be preferable in such cases, because it protects the brain from the detrimental effects of strong temporal retraction and provides a wider working space."}
{"id": "9316057", "title": "Direct clip obliteration of a ruptured giant aneurysm of the posterior communicating artery: case report.", "content": "Direct clip obliteration of a ruptured giant aneurysm of the posterior communicating artery: case report. A review of the literature documents that giant posterior communicating artery (PCoA) aneurysms are rare. To our knowledge, this report is the first to describe a ruptured giant aneurysm arising from a PCoA that was successfully clipped. A 27-year-old man had a left oculomotor palsy and then suffered a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography and three-dimensional computed tomographic angiography revealed a giant fusiform aneurysm of the left PCoA. These imaging techniques documented the rapid growth of the aneurysm from a moderate to a giant size in fewer than 3 days. The patient underwent a left subtemporal craniotomy. The neck was constructed and was successfully clipped, and the PCoA was reconstructed with five sequentially placed fenestrated clips in a tandem fashion. The patient experienced a good recovery. This report describes the usefulness of three-dimensional computed tomographic angiography in planning the surgical approach to giant aneurysms originating from the PCoA and the use of fenestrated clips to obliterate giant fusiform aneurysms."}
{"id": "9314705", "title": "[Effectiveness of magnetic resonance angiography for mass screening of unruptured intracranial aneurysms].", "content": "[Effectiveness of magnetic resonance angiography for mass screening of unruptured intracranial aneurysms]. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is widely used in screening for unruptured intracranial aneurysm (UIA) in the prevention of onset of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in Japan. However, the clinical efficacy of mass screening of UIA using MRA has not been established. This study aims to establish the clinical efficacy of mass screening of UIA using MRA by decision-making. The decision tree is constructed simulating a flow of population (100,000 persons, aged 50-59) starting from the MRA screening until the final outcomes of quality adjusted life or death in ten years. In order to estimate the numerical values various parameters were used as follows, prevalence rate: 1%; sensitivity of MRA: 74%; specificity of MRA: 76%; death rate by intracranial angiography: 0.1%; rupture rate of UIA: 2%/year; death rate of SAH: 57%; and death rate for surgery for UIA: 0.0%. The following results were obtained: 1. The number of lives saved by the MRA screening was 760, while the number saved without MRA was 79. 2. The number of deaths in those receiving the MRA screening was 52, while the number of deaths without MRA was 104. 3. The level of quality adjusted life with the MRA screening was higher than that without MRA in all cases. In conclusion, mass screening of UIA using MRA appears to be effective."}
{"id": "9310967", "title": "Experience with computed tomographic angiography for the detection of intracranial aneurysms in the setting of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Experience with computed tomographic angiography for the detection of intracranial aneurysms in the setting of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. To objectively compare computed tomographic angiography (CTA) with selective digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in the detection and anatomic definition of intracranial aneurysms, particularly in the setting of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). In a blinded prospective study, 40 patients with known or suspected intracranial saccular aneurysms underwent both CTA and DSA, including 32 consecutive patients with SAH in whom CTA was performed after CT images were obtained diagnostic for SAH. The CT angiograms were interpreted for presence, location, and size of the aneurysms, and anatomic features, such as the number of aneurysms lobes, aneurysm neck size (< or = 4 mm), and the number of adjacent arterial branches were suggested. The images obtained with CTA were then compared with the images obtained with DSA, with the later images serving as controls. DSA revealed 43 aneurysms in 30 patients and ruled out intracranial aneurysms in the remaining 10 patients. For aneurysm presence alone, the sensitivity and specificity for CTA was 86 and 90%, respectively. For the presence of an aneurysms, six CT angiogram showed false negative results and one CT angiogram showed a false positive result. False negative results were usually caused by technical problems with the image, tiny aneurysm domes (< 3 mm), and unusual aneurysm locations (i.e., intracavernous carotid or posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysms). The results obtained with CTA were, compared with the results obtained with DSA, more than 95% accurate in determining dome and neck size of aneurysm, aneurysm lobularity, and the presence and number of adjacent arterial branches. In addition, CTA provided a three-dimensional representation of the aneurysmal lesion, which was considered useful for surgical planning. CTA is useful for rapid and relatively noninvasive detection of aneurysms in common locations, and the anatomic information provided in images showing positive results is at least equivalent to that provided by DSA. In cases of SAH in which the nonaugmented CT and CTA results indicate a clear source of bleeding and provide adequate anatomic detail, we think it is possible to forego DSA before urgent early aneurysm surgery. In all other cases, DSA is indicated."}
{"id": "9305319", "title": "Inaccuracy of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-9-CM) in identifying the diagnosis of ischemic cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Inaccuracy of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-9-CM) in identifying the diagnosis of ischemic cerebrovascular disease. In administrative databases the International Classification of Diseases, Version 9, Clinical Modification (ICD-9-CM) is often used to identify patients with specific diagnoses. However, certain conditions may not be accurately reflected by the ICD-9 codes. We assessed the accuracy of ICD-9 coding for cerebrovascular disease by comparing ICD-9 codes in an administrative database with clinical findings ascertained from medical record abstractions. We selected patients with ICD-9 diagnostic codes of 433 through 436 (in either the primary or secondary positions) from an administrative database of patients hospitalized in five academic medical centers in 1992. Medical records of the selected patients were reviewed by trained medical abstractors, and the patients' clinical conditions during the admission (stroke, TIA, asymptomatic) were recorded, as well as any history of cerebrovascular symptoms. Results of the medical record review were compared with the ICD-9 codes from the administrative database. More than 85% of those patients with the ICD-9 code 433 were asymptomatic for the index admission. More than one-third of these asymptomatic patients did not undergo either cerebral angiography or carotid endarterectomy. For ICD-9 code 434, 85% of patients were classified as having a stroke and for ICD-9 code 435, 77% had TIAs. For code 436, 77% of patients were classified as having strokes. Limiting the identifying ICD-9 code to the primary position increased the likelihood of agreement with the medical record review. The ICD-9 coding scheme may be inaccurate in the classification of patients with ischemic cerebrovascular disease. Its limitations must be recognized in the analyses of administrative databases selected by using ICD-9 codes 433 through 436."}
{"id": "9297930", "title": "Cerebral arteriovenous malformations in children: neuroimaging findings.", "content": "Cerebral arteriovenous malformations in children: neuroimaging findings. Cerebral arteriovenous malformations (CAVMs) are uncommon in children. CAVMs represent the most frequent intracranial vascular pathology at pediatric ages. This report concerns 13 children below the age of 16; all were identified between September 1995 and December 1996 with 14 CAVMs among them. All were proved by conventional cerebral angiography (CCA). Thirteen computed tomography (CT), 7 magnetic resonance images (MRI), 2 magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and 13 conventional cerebral angiography (CCA) were analyzed. Most CAVMs nidus were located in cerebral hemispheres. Four in the temporal lobe, two in the parietal lobe, three in the frontal lobe, two in the occipital lobe, and three in the corpus callosum. One of them was of a mixed type with two nidi. The major clinical features of CAVMs were intracranial hemorrhage and seizures. Experience here was that MRI is superior to CT in showing the exact anatomic relationships of the nidus and in demonstrating the extent of CAVMs nidus obliteration after treatment. MRA provided a noninvasive means of studying blood vessels and vascular pathology in relationship to the CAVMs nidus. Standard angiography is still necessary to characterize in-flow and out-flow of vessels in CAVMs when definitive treatment is considered."}
{"id": "9280765", "title": "[Significance and the current status of examinations of brain diseases (multiphasic screening of brain diseases)].", "content": "[Significance and the current status of examinations of brain diseases (multiphasic screening of brain diseases)]."}
{"id": "9280759", "title": "[Diagnosis of asymptomatic cerebrovascular lesions. 2. Non-invasive diagnosis of cerebrovascular lesions and cervical vessels].", "content": "[Diagnosis of asymptomatic cerebrovascular lesions. 2. Non-invasive diagnosis of cerebrovascular lesions and cervical vessels]."}
{"id": "9266566", "title": "[A case of spontaneous middle cerebral artery occlusion associated with a cerebral aneurysm angiographically disappearing after STA-MCA anastomosis].", "content": "[A case of spontaneous middle cerebral artery occlusion associated with a cerebral aneurysm angiographically disappearing after STA-MCA anastomosis]. We report a case of a rapidly growing cerebral aneurysm in the basal abnormal vascular network associated with spontaneous middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. The aneurysm disappeared spontaneously shortly after performing STA-MCA anastomosis. A 54-year-old female was admitted to our hospital because of repeated attacks of right hemisensory disturbance and dysarthria. CT scan and MRI images showed the infarcted focus in the left parieto-occipital lobe. Bilateral MCAs were undetectable on MRI images. Cerebral angiography revealed that the bilateral MCAs were occluded in their proximal origin with basal abnormal vascular networks. The distal MCA branches were perfused via the vascular networks. A small aneurysm was detected in the distal portion of the left Heubner's artery. There were no abnormalities in the bilateral internal carotid arteries, the anterior cerebral arteries, and the basilar artery. The follow-up angiography performed 29 days after admission revealed a growing aneurysm with a diameter of 3 mm in the distal enhanced lesion consistent with the aneurysm observed in the angiography. An STA-MCA anastomosis was performed for improvement of cerebral misery perfusion. Single photon emission tomography (SPECT) performed 9 days after the bypass operation revealed improvement of cerebral blood flow in the left parieto-occipital lobe, and her TIA attacks disappeared. The aneurysm was undetected in the cerebral angiography performed 24 days after the bypass operation. Spontaneous MCA occlusion is a rare condition of chronic cerebrovascular occlusive diseases. Diagnostic criteria of the disease includes the MCA occlusions or stenosis with basal abnormal vascular networks. Usually the phenomenon is seen unilaterally, which differs from moyamoya disease. Diagnosis must exclude diseases caused by the etiologies such as those of arteriosclerotic origin. There have been 24 reported cases of spontaneous MCA occlusion including our case. Among them, 9 cases presented cerebral aneurysm located in abnormal vascular networks, and all the reported cases presented cerebral hemorrhage at their onset. The abnormal basal vascular network may be developed as collateral vessels to supply blood to the ischemic regions in this disease. An increased hemodynamic stress in the abnormal basal vascular network may produce a true aneurysm in the distal portion of the perforating arteries. STA-MCA anastomosis reduced the TIA attacks, but also decreased the hemodynamic stress on the abnormal basal vascular network and resulted in reduction in size or thrombosis of the aneurysm. STA-MCA anastomosis can be considered effective to treat cerebral aneurysms located in vessels with increased hemodynamic stress."}
{"id": "9259756", "title": "Comparison of transcranial color-coded sonography and magnetic resonance angiography in acute stroke.", "content": "Comparison of transcranial color-coded sonography and magnetic resonance angiography in acute stroke. We sought to compare the ability of transcranial color-coded Doppler sonography (TCCS) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) to identify circulatory changes that occur after acute stroke. Forty-four patients with a clinical diagnosis of acute stroke were studied with both TCCS and MRA within 24 hours of stroke onset. The appearances of all vessels identified on MRA were divided into three categories: normal, attenuated, and absent vessels. The basal cerebral arteries were identified with the use of TCCS, and their velocities were measured with pulsed-wave Doppler. The side-to-side asymmetry was calculated and expressed as an asymmetry index. Five patients could not be studied with TCCS because of lack of a suitable acoustic window. An additional 4 patients were too restless to tolerate MRA scanning. Three patients had intracerebral hemorrhages, 2 patients had intracerebral gliomas, and the remaining 30 patients had cerebral infarctions. In the group of patients with acute cerebral infarction, TCCS identified 10 patients with normal asymmetry indices, 1 patient with an increased asymmetry index, 9 patients with decreased asymmetry indices, and 10 patients with occlusion of the symptomatic middle cerebral artery (MCA). MRA identified 8 normal angiograms, 6 patients had attenuated MCA branch vessels, 4 patients had MCA branch occlusions, 2 angiograms demonstrated MCA main stem attenuation, and 10 angiograms showed MCA occlusion. TCCS and MRA are both noninvasive techniques that can be used to study the acute stroke patient. They both yield information regarding the pathophysiology of acute stroke and may be useful techniques in deciding on therapeutic interventions. The findings agree closely with each other, and these techniques may be useful in the long-term follow-up of stroke patients."}
{"id": "9258920", "title": "2D time-of-flight MR angiography using concatenated saturation bands for determining direction of flow in the intracranial vessels.", "content": "2D time-of-flight MR angiography using concatenated saturation bands for determining direction of flow in the intracranial vessels. We prospectively studied 15 patients to assess 2D time-of-flight (TOF) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) with concatenated saturation bands for determining the direction of intracranial blood flow. This MRA sequence was compared to T2-weighted spin-echo MRI, 3D-TOF MRA, and intra-arterial angiography (IAA) as regards demonstration of vessels and determination of the direction of flow in the circle of Willis and its branches. The 2D-TOF MRA sequence demonstrated flow in 98.5% vessel segments identified on IAA, 3D-TOF demonstrating 92% and spin-echo images 77%. The direction of flow shown on the 2D-TOF sequence was correct in 94% when compared to conventional angiography, the remaining six segments not demonstrating flow. In ten patients, the flow abnormalities demonstrated by this MRA technique provided clinical information similar to that of conventional angiography in nine, but it was incomplete in three, and misleading in one. Slow retrograde flow in ophthalmic artery collaterals and differentiation of arteries and veins presented some problems. 2D-TOF MRA with concatenated saturation bands provides flow direction information using widely available, easily applicable TOF techniques, and can be a useful adjunct to MRI and MRA if information on flow direction is needed."}
{"id": "9228109", "title": "Developmental venous anomalies of the posterior fossa with transpontine drainage: report of 3 cases.", "content": "Developmental venous anomalies of the posterior fossa with transpontine drainage: report of 3 cases. Developmental venous anomalies (DVA) are considered as variant patterns of cerebral venous drainage. Although generally not rare in the cerebellum, DVA of the brain stem or of the cerebellum with drainage through the brain stem are exceptional findings. Because it is not clear whether DVA may sometimes be of clinical significance, we try to correlate the clinical findings of the patients with the course of the variant vessels. We reviewed the literature and report three additional cases. All patients were examined by MRI and digital subtraction angiography. In particular, we discuss the drainage route as compared with the established patterns of posterior fossa blood drainage, which is directed to the dural sinuses, the petrosal vein or the vein of Galen. In one of our patients suffering from trigeminal neuralgia, the close topical relation of the DVA and the trigeminal nucleus and trigeminal nerve entry zone suggests a causal relationship. In a second case the brain stem symptoms were due to haemorrhage of a concomitant cavernoma. It remains unclear if the occurrence of dysarthria and dysaesthesia in the third patient with brain stem DVA was purely coincidental. The only clinical symptom directly attributable to a DVA with transpontine drainage in our series was trigeminal neuralgia."}
{"id": "9227692", "title": "Spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage: which patients need diagnostic cerebral angiography? A prospective study of 206 cases and review of the literature.", "content": "Spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage: which patients need diagnostic cerebral angiography? A prospective study of 206 cases and review of the literature. In spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), the site, age of the patients, and preexisting hypertension are important factors in determining the possibility of finding an underlying vascular abnormality by cerebral angiography. To what extent these three factors affect the indication for angiography remains controversial. A prospective study was carried out to correlate the angiographic findings with these three factors. Two hundred six consecutive spontaneous ICH cases with an age range from 5 to 79 years (median, 45) were investigated with CT and cerebral angiography over a 3-year period (April 1993 through March 1996). Exclusion criteria were (1) poor surgical risk or severely neurologically disabled patients, (2) refusal of angiography, (3) patients in whom severe coagulopathy accounted for the hemorrhage, (4) bleeding into tumor, or (5) subarachnoid hemorrhage-predominant cases. Angiographic yield (the frequency of positive angiography in a defined patient group) was significantly higher in patients (1) at or below the median age of 45 than those above (53/105, 50%, versus 18/101, 18%; P < .001) and (2) without preexisting hypertension than those with (64/145, 44%, versus 5/58, 9%; P < .001). The correlation of age and preexisting hypertension to angiographic yield was independent (logistic regression coefficients -0.056 and -1.59 and SE 0.12 and 0.515, respectively, both P < .001). In patients of the younger age group without preexisting hypertension, angiographic yield was 48% in putaminal, thalamic, or posterior fossa ICH and 65% in lobar ICH. In the older hypertensive patients, the yields were 0% and 10%, respectively. However, in patients with isolated intraventricular hemorrhage, most were normotensive and the yield was high in both age groups (67% versus 63%). Diagnostic cerebral angiography should be considered for all spontaneous ICH patients except those over 45 years old with preexisting hypertension in thalamic, putaminal, or posterior fossa hemorrhage."}
{"id": "9227679", "title": "Assessment of the efficacy of noninvasive screening for patients with asymptomatic neck bruits.", "content": "Assessment of the efficacy of noninvasive screening for patients with asymptomatic neck bruits. Several recent clinical trials have shown that endarterectomy is efficacious in patients with asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of various test strategies for screening and diagnosing carotid artery disease. We constructed a model of the natural history of carotid artery disease using literature-based estimates of the prevalence and incidence of carotid artery stenosis and associated morbidity and mortality. Markov cohort simulation was used to estimate the mean quality-adjusted life years and monetary costs associated with various management strategies. Screening is cost-effective in the baseline model. Key parameters affecting the efficacy of screening are prevalence of operable lesions, benefit of surgery, surgical complication rates, quality of life with stroke, rate of stenosis progression, and excess morbidity and mortality. Asymptomatic patients with carotid bruits may benefit from screening if the prevalence rate is > or = 20%, the benefits and risks associated with surgery are similar to those observed in the Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study, and the quality of life with stroke is considerably lower than the quality of life without stroke. Ultrasound followed by three-dimensional time-of-flight MR angiography, if indicated, is a promising test strategy."}
{"id": "9218304", "title": "Three-dimensional computed tomographic angiography in detection of cerebral aneurysms in acute subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Three-dimensional computed tomographic angiography in detection of cerebral aneurysms in acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. Three-dimensional computed tomographic angiography (CTA) is a recently developed imaging modality. We demonstrate the value of this noninvasive method in replacing digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in the detection of aneurysms of the circle of Willis in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage admitted to our institution. A helical acquisition was performed for computed tomographic scans obtained for 120 patients with a 1 mm per second table speed and a 1-mm collimation, 1:1 pitch. Axial source images were transferred on a console Advantage Windows workstation (General Electric, Milwaukee, WI) and CTA was obtained using maximum intensity projection reconstruction. All patients had undergone DSA of the circle of Willis (80 patients preoperatively and 40 postoperatively). A total of 129 aneurysms were detected in 107 patients. Three-dimensional CTA disclosed nothing abnormal in 13 patients. Ninety-two patients sustained one aneurysm, 10 patients sustained two, 3 patients sustained three, and 2 patients sustained four. All results were confirmed by DSA. In two cases, aneurysms of the middle cerebral artery were defected by CTA but not by DSA. When using angiographic views, the aneurysm was always masked by a branch of the middle cerebral artery. The sensitivity of three-dimensional CTA is comparable with that of DSA, and its specificity is 100%. Because CTA is simple, quick, noninvasive, and reliable, we think that it can eventually replace DSA."}
{"id": "9206852", "title": "[Intracranial magnetic resonance diagnosis].", "content": "[Intracranial magnetic resonance diagnosis]."}
{"id": "9202770", "title": "Dural arteriovenous fistulas including the transverse and sigmoid sinuses: results of treatment in 30 cases.", "content": "Dural arteriovenous fistulas including the transverse and sigmoid sinuses: results of treatment in 30 cases. We report about the treatment and outcome of 30 patients with dural arteriovenous fistulas including the transverse and sigmoid sinuses treated between 1986 and 1995. All patients underwent panangiography for definitive diagnosis. The dAVF were supplied by the external carotid artery system alone (14 patients), both external and internal carotid systems (10 patients) or both anterior and posterior circulation (6 patients). Depending on the venous drainage the fistulas were classified following a modification of Djindjian's description with 18 patients revealing Type I (main sinus with antegrade flow), 5 Type II a (main sinus with reflux into the contralateral sinus). 5 Type II b (cortical veins), 1 Type II a+b (both) and 1 of Type III (direct cortical drainage). Bruit, pulsatile tinnitus and headaches were the most common symptoms. 6 patients presented with intracranial haemorrhage, 4 with progressive neurological deficit or seizures and 3 with dementia. Arterial embolization was performed in all cases except one, where a transvenous approach for balloon occlusion of the transverse sinus was performed. 21 patients were treated by single or repeated embolization alone. Only in 9/21 cases did arterial embolization result in complete occlusion of the fistula. In 12/21 patients incomplete occlusion was achieved. Following embolization 8 patients underwent additional surgery including coagulation of the feeding arteries and arterialized veins, sinus resection and reconstruction of the sinus. Overall, 18 patients were cured, 11 improved and 1 patient was unchanged. There was a total number of 5 complications including transient stroke, transient facial nerve palsy, and a small necrotic skin area following embolization. Venous infarction of the occipital lobe was induced by transvenous occlusion and surgical resection of the transverse sinus in one patient each, respectively. From our results we conclude that the endovascular therapy alone is the treatment of choice in case of Type I fistulas. In dAVF of Type II and III repeated endovascular treatment seems not to be sufficient and additional surgery is necessary."}
{"id": "9194542", "title": "Simultaneous multiple brain hemorrhage associated with migraine--a case report.", "content": "Simultaneous multiple brain hemorrhage associated with migraine--a case report. A fifty-five-year-old woman with a history of migraine suddenly developed an occipital headache and visual disturbance after a typical migrainous attack. On admission, she had a left homonymous hemianopsia, and computed tomography of the brain demonstrated intracranial hematomas in the occipital subcortices bilaterally. Cerebral arteriography revealed diffuse vasospasm of the intracranial arteries attributed to the migraine. The cystatin C concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid was low, which suggested the existence of cerebral amyloid angiopathy. According to the clinical course and angiographic findings, it is suggested that the vasospasm associated with migraine played an important role in developing multiple brain hemorrhage in this patient."}
{"id": "9194427", "title": "CT angiography in acute ischemic stroke: the right tool for the job?", "content": "CT angiography in acute ischemic stroke: the right tool for the job?"}
{"id": "9194426", "title": "CT angiography in the evaluation of acute stroke.", "content": "CT angiography in the evaluation of acute stroke. To determine the worth of CT angiography of the circle of Willis as a supplement to routine CT in the examination of patients with symptoms of acute stroke in terms of its depiction of the number and distribution of arterial stenoses or occlusions. We also sought to compare the accuracy of CT angiography with MR angiography and/or digital subtraction angiography (DSA). One hundred forty-five patients with symptoms of acute stroke were examined with routine head CT and CT angiography of the circle of Willis. MR angiography was also performed in 27 patients and DSA in 28 patients. CT and MR angiograms and DSAs were reviewed for stenoses or occlusions involving the vessels about the circle of Willis. MR and CT angiograms were also evaluated for image quality, and the corresponding routine CT and MR studies were evaluated for the presence of arterial infarction. CT angiograms were rated good or excellent in 89% of cases whereas MR angiograms were rated good or excellent in 92% of cases. Arterial stenoses or occlusions were present on 43% of CT angiograms, 48% of MR angiograms, and 21% of DSAs. Findings were in agreement in 98% of the vessels analyzed by CT angiography and MR angiography. Similarly, there was overall agreement of findings in 99% of vessels analyzed by CT angiography and DSA. None of the patients had any immediate adverse reactions after administration of intravenous nonionic iodinated contrast material. CT angiography is an accurate and safe method for evaluating arterial stenoses or occlusions in the vessels about the circle of Willis. CT angiography should be used in patients with symptoms of acute stroke for whom evaluation of the intracranial vasculature is desirable."}
{"id": "9194425", "title": "Potential of CT angiography in acute ischemic stroke.", "content": "Potential of CT angiography in acute ischemic stroke. To study the ability of CT angiography to show intracranial arterial occlusion and collateral blood flow in patients with acute stroke. Twenty-one patients with acute nonhemorrhagic stroke were studied prospectively with conventional CT, CT angiography, and digital subtraction angiography. On the basis of CT angiographic findings, two neuroradiologists independently assessed the site of arterial occlusion, the contrast enhancement in arterial branches beyond the occlusion as a measure of collateral blood supply, and the extent of diminished parenchymal enhancement; they then predicted the extent of ischemic infarction. Both raters correctly assessed all trunk occlusions of the basilar artery (n = 4), the internal carotid artery (n = 4), and the middle cerebral artery (n = 9). The chance adjusted interrater agreement was kappa = .78. The assessment of branch occlusions of the middle cerebral artery was less reliable. The agreement rate in judging the collateral state in 17 occlusions in the anterior cerebral circulation was 88%. The size of 21 (62%) of 34 hemispheric infarctions was predicted correctly. CT angiography quickly and reliably adds important information to conventional CT studies in cases of acute ischemic stroke. It shows the site of occlusion, the length of the occluded arterial segment, and the contrast-enhanced arteries beyond the occlusion as an estimate of collateral blood flow."}
{"id": "9186035", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography in children.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography in children. MRA in children utilizes the same pulse sequences used in adults, but for investigation of the differing forms of vascular pathology found in the pediatric population. Because of the extreme sensitivity of MRA to motion artifact, sedation is an important adjunct to the performance of diagnostic MRI and MRA in children. Because of the noninvasive nature of MRA, strictly diagnostic conventional angiography in children is uncommonly performed and frequently directed toward investigation and therapy of intracranial vascular malformations. Common indications for MRA in children include sickle cell vasculopathy, cerebral and posterior fossa infarction, tumors, vascular malformations, and follow-up of patients recently on extra corporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). Non-invasive follow-up subsequent to surgical or medical therapy of intra or extra cranial vascular pathology is another important use for MRA in children."}
{"id": "9186034", "title": "MRA of cranial tumors and vascular compressive lesions.", "content": "MRA of cranial tumors and vascular compressive lesions. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and venography (MRV) are useful tools in the diagnosis and analysis of both intracranial and head and neck tumors. These procedures illuminate the three-dimensional relationships of the tumors and the adjacent cerebral vasculature. Contrast administration allows further analysis of these lesions. Research continues to improve the spatial resolution that may preclude conventional angiography. For the first time, MRA allows non-invasive diagnosis of neurovascular conditions such as trigeminal neuralgia and pulsatile tinnitus. This accurate diagnosis revolutionizes therapy. Although MRA has certain limitations, its role continues to expand. The value of MRA for diagnosis and treatment planning is paramount."}
{"id": "9186030", "title": "MRA in cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "MRA in cerebrovascular disease. Stroke is a major cause of disability and death each year in the United States. Most cases result from atherosclerotic disease at the carotid bifurcations. The risk of such events can be reduced by carotid endarterectomy in both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with severe occlusive disease documented by imaging studies. A noninvasive means of determining the degree of stenosis is desirable due to morbidity, mortality, and cost associated with catheter angiography. At the present time the main role of MRA is as a screening test to determine who should undergo catheter angiography."}
{"id": "9183354", "title": "STAR MR angiography for rapid detection of vascular abnormalities in patients with acute cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "STAR MR angiography for rapid detection of vascular abnormalities in patients with acute cerebrovascular disease. We undertook to investigate the usefulness of signal targeting with alternating radiofrequency magnetic resonance angiography (STAR MRA) in the diagnosis of acute cerebrovascular disease. The potential advantage of the technique is that angiographic images can be acquired in less than 1 minute. We studied 19 patients (11 men and 8 women, ranging in age from 36 to 84 years [mean age, 66 years]) presenting with signs and symptoms of acute stroke. Patients underwent STAR MRA and three-dimensional fast imaging with steady-state precession (3D FISP) MRA. The MRAs were analyzed as to image quality and vascular abnormalities in the vascular territory of stroke as defined by diffusion-weighted imaging abnormalities and compared using a Wilcoxon signed-rank test. STAR MRAs had slightly inferior image quality compared with 3D FISP MRA (P < .05). STAR MRA and 3D FISP MRA agreed in 18 of 19 cases regarding vascular abnormalities in the territory of the infarct (occlusion, n = 8; stenosis, n = 4; no abnormality, n = 6). In one patient, the techniques disagreed, when 3D FISP MRA was normal and STAR MRA demonstrated a vessel occlusion in the vascular territory of a stroke as defined by diffusion-weighted imaging abnormalities (P > .05). Despite slightly inferior image quality compared with 3D FISP MRA, STAR MRA is comparable with 3D FISP MRA in depicting abnormalities in the proximal parts of the cerebral arteries corresponding to ischemic regions on diffusion-weighted imaging, in a strikingly shorter acquisition time. Further studies are necessary to confirm that the smaller branches are better shown by using longer inversion times."}
{"id": "9159379", "title": "Multiple cerebral aneurysms in identical twins.", "content": "Multiple cerebral aneurysms in identical twins. We report the finding of multiple cerebral aneurysms in a pair of identical twins. One twin had subarachnoid hemorrhage and intracerebral hematoma; her sister had subarachnoid hemorrhage and intraventricular bleeding. Angiography in both cases showed multiple cerebral aneurysms. It is appropriate to recommend a cerebral angiographic examination of an asymptomatic twin after the other twin has suffered an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "9157481", "title": "[CT subtraction angiography (CTSA). Results with an automated \"elastic\" subtraction algorithm].", "content": "[CT subtraction angiography (CTSA). Results with an automated \"elastic\" subtraction algorithm]. To develop and implement a method to obtain digital subtraction (DS) spiral computed tomography angiograms (SCTA) in order to avoid superimposition of bony structures and vascular calcifications on SCTA maximum intensity projections (MIPs) and shaded surface display (SSD). Two SCTA data sets, one before and one during the injection of a contrast agent bolus, were obtained with identical scan parameters. Since ordinary subtraction of the two data sets fails to reliably separate bones and calcifications from the vascular lumen because of motion, a so-called elastic subtraction procedure was designed to correct 3D misregistration between the two data sets. It automatically accommodates for local position changes between baseline and contrast images, including regionally inconsistent non-linear displacements and arbitrary rotations. This method was tested in seven patients and evaluated against ordinary DS in terms of image quality and artifacts. In all patients \"elastic\" CTSA proved superior to ordinary DS. It provides automated and reliable separation of vessels from bones and calcifications. This improves the delineation of vessels in the neck and the skull base and of intracranial vessels. DS-SCTA facilitates MIPs and SSD without artifacts introduced by thresholding. Elastic DS-SCTA is a robust method for automated unmasking of vessels from bones and warrants clinical trials and comparison with MR- and conventional angiography."}
{"id": "9148875", "title": "Three-dimensional magnetic resonance angiography in the planning of aneurysm surgery.", "content": "Three-dimensional magnetic resonance angiography in the planning of aneurysm surgery. Standard planning for intracranial aneurysm surgery relies on the surgeon's intellectual reconstruction of the three-dimensional (3D) surgical field on the basis of a two-dimensional (2D) imaging modality, biplanar cerebral angiography. This method is relatively imprecise, and it relies on previous experience for optimal results. We describe a stereotactic magnetic resonance angiographic (MRA)-guided method based on computer segmentation techniques for the planning of aneurysm surgery that has the potential of bringing a 3D perspective to the lesion. The method has been evaluated retrospectively on 20 surgical patients in whom the aneurysm orientation and relationship to parent vessels were shown to match presurgical 3D stereotactic display. When it is adapted to frameless interactive surgical navigation, this method may become a useful adjunct in the surgical obliteration of these life-threatening lesions."}
{"id": "9147739", "title": "[Primary intraventricular hemorrhage: an analysis of eight cases].", "content": "[Primary intraventricular hemorrhage: an analysis of eight cases]. Primary intraventricular haemorrhage (HIVP) is a rare condition, of diverse aetiology and variable course. We present a series of eight cases of HIVP diagnosed by CT and analyze the different aetiologies. A retrospective series of 8 cases diagnosed by CT, the risk factors, clinical behaviour, complications and prognosis are evaluated. Neuroimaging findings (CT, MR and/or DIVAS) are described. The most commonly associated factor is arterial hypertension (75%). Clinically, presentation was uniform as evidence of sudden intracranial hypertension with signs of meningeal irritation with little or no neurological focal signs. The commonest complication was hydrocephalus (25%) and the chances of survival in most cases were good. Three causes of bleeding were found: an arteriovenous malformation, an aneurysm and a blood coagulation disorder. Three hypertensive patients with no obvious cause of bleeding had periependimary laguna infarcts. HIVP is an unusual condition of diverse aetiology, uniform clinical presentation and has a good short term prognosis. We suggest that pathology of the small vessels, induced by hypertension, may play a part in the aetiology of a subgroup of patients with no obvious cause of bleeding."}
{"id": "9133064", "title": "[Magnetic resonance angiography: a new diagnostic technique for neurosurgical abnormality].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance angiography: a new diagnostic technique for neurosurgical abnormality]. The paper summarizes experience with magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) used in the diagnosis of neurosurgical diseases. The studies were performed on a Magnetom 42SP 1.0T tomograph (Siemens, Germany). The protocol included imaging in standard modes of T1-, T2- weighted images and different MRA techniques, depending on the nature of presumable changes. Based on 215 cases, the authors made a comparative analysis while using different MRA sequences in each type of abnormal changes. The potentialities and techniques in the detection of cerebrovascular diseases were defined. In addition to the efficiency of standard MRA techniques, that of paramagnetic contrasting used in the imaging of venous structures of the base of the skull was evaluated. The studies indicated that the technique was highly informative in detecting vascular diseases, such as arterial aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, venous thromboses and occlusions of the brain, as well as dislocation changes in the vessels adjacent to tumors."}
{"id": "9131032", "title": "De novo vertebral artery-posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm: a case report.", "content": "De novo vertebral artery-posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm: a case report. There have been few reports of de novo aneurysms in the posterior circulation since most de novo aneurysms occur in the anterior circulation. At the age of 46 years, the patient suffered a subarachnoid hemorrhage due to a ruptured right middle cerebral artery aneurysm, which was subsequently clipped. Eight years later, the patient experienced another subarachnoid hemorrhage of the posterior fossa predominance. A cerebral angiogram demonstrated a right vertebral artery-posterior inferior cerebellar artery (VA-PICA) aneurysm that had not been noted on the previous study. The first case of a subarachnoid hemorrhage from a right de novo VA-PICA aneurysm is presented. The characteristics of de novo aneurysms in the posterior circulation are discussed."}
{"id": "9122836", "title": "The neurovascular complications of cocaine.", "content": "The neurovascular complications of cocaine. Cocaine use has been temporally associated with neurovascular complications, including the rupture of intracerebral aneurysms. The purpose of the current study was to determine the type of neurovascular complications associated with cocaine use in our patient population, the temporal relationship between cocaine use and their onset, and whether cocaine users with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) presented with smaller aneurysms at an earlier age than a control group of noncocaine users with SAH. Thirty-three patients who presented to the Detroit Medical Center with neurovascular sequelae associated with cocaine use were identified. All patients were chronic cocaine users who related a history of recent use confirmed by a drug screen. Cocaine users with SAH were compared to a control group of 44 patients with SAH who presented without evidence of cocaine use. Sixteen patients presented with SAH. Twelve patients subsequently underwent four-vessel cerebral arteriogram revealing 14 aneurysms; six patients presented with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) and seven patients with evidence of ischemic stroke. Eighteen (54.5%) patients noted onset of their symptoms while using cocaine, 87.9% noted onset within 6 hours of use. Delayed presentation occurred predominantly in patients who suffered ischemic strokes. The average age of patients who used cocaine and presented with SAH secondary to a ruptured intracerebral aneurysm was 32.8 years with an average aneurysm diameter of 4.9 mm versus an average age of 52.2 years with an average aneurysm diameter of approximately 11.0 mm in noncocaine users. Population differences were statistically significant at the p < 0.05 level. Mortality was 27.3% for patients who presented with neurovascular sequelae of their cocaine use, with 77.8% of deaths occurring in patients who presented with SAH. Chronic cocaine use appears to predispose patients who harbor incidental neurovascular anomalies to present at an earlier point in their natural history than similar non-cocaine users."}
{"id": "9117934", "title": "The neuroimaging features of the cardiolipin antibody syndrome.", "content": "The neuroimaging features of the cardiolipin antibody syndrome. The purpose of our study was to define the neuroimaging features of the cardiolipin antibody syndrome. Thirty-eight patients with elevated anticardiolipin antibody titers were studied with magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography or both. Two patients underwent cerebral angiography. All patients had recurrent transient ischemic attacks, amaurosis, or strokes. One patient had normal imaging findings. The remaining patients had a combination of infarction and atrophy. Focal infarcts, the most common finding, were seen in 32 patients. Cerebral atrophy was seen in 26 patients and was the only radiographic finding in 5. Angiography demonstrated dramatic abnormalities in the distal portions of the anterior and posterior circulations, with multiple stenosis and occlusions and extensive pial and transdural collateral networks. The cardiolipin antibody syndrome should be suspected in young patients with transient ischemic attacks or strokes in the absence of the usual risk factors for cerebrovascular disease. The presence of raised anticardiolipin antibody titers or the cardiolipin antibody syndrome in patients with lupus, in those with other connective tissue diseases, and in patients without overt manifestations of an autoimmune disorder should be viewed as a risk factor for future ischemic cerebrovascular events. Further understanding of the precise role of these antibodies in the pathogenesis of vascular thrombosis may lead to a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying certain forms of stroke."}
{"id": "9099190", "title": "Primary care physician-reported secondary and tertiary stroke prevention practices. A comparison between the United States and the United Kingdom.", "content": "Primary care physician-reported secondary and tertiary stroke prevention practices. A comparison between the United States and the United Kingdom. Stroke is a major healthcare problem in both the United States (US) and the United Kingdom (UK). Little comparative data are available concerning how generalist physicians in the two countries approach the management of patients at high risk of stroke. Contemporaneous surveys of random samples of primary care physician-reported stroke prevention practices were performed in the US and UK from 1993 to 1994. The US National Survey of Physician Practices for the Secondary and Tertiary Prevention of Ischemic Stroke included 254 noninternist primary care physicians. The UK Survey of the Care of Patients With Stroke in General Practice obtained responses from 661 general practitioners. The two surveys used many of the same questions, allowing for direct comparisons of reported stroke prevention practices between American and British physicians. More than 80% of American physicians reported a variety of services (24-hour electrocardiography, echocardiography, brain CT scan, brain MR scan, carotid ultrasonography, cerebral angiography) as readily available. These same services were readily available to less than 10% of physicians in the UK (P < .001 for each comparison). Although physicians in the UK reported prescribing lower doses of aspirin for stroke prevention than physicians in the US, the proportions of physicians using aspirin were not different. In contrast, almost 70% of physicians in the US responded that they always or often anticoagulate patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation compared with 7% of British physicians (P < .001). Whereas 70% of American versus 14% of British physicians reported obtaining carotid ultrasound studies in patients with asymptomatic bruits (P < .001), physicians in the UK more commonly reported referring this type of patient to neurologists (46% versus 21%, P < .001). For patients with recent carotid-distribution transient ischemic attack or minor stroke, physicians in the US more commonly reported referral to neurologists (55% versus 45%, P = .022), referral to surgeons (39% versus 19%, P < .001), the performance of carotid ultrasonography (80% versus 11%, P < .001), echocardiography (45% versus 5%, P < .001), 24-hour electrocardiography (49% versus 4%, P < .001), brain CT scan (72% versus 3%, P < .001), and the prescription of anticoagulants (53% versus 4%, P < .001). These data show significant differences in stroke prevention practices as reported by primary care physicians practicing in the US and UK. Some of these differences may be related to the relative availability of specific services in the two countries, potentially leading to overutilization in the US and underutilization in the UK in certain circumstances."}
{"id": "9097617", "title": "[Dynamics of cerebral blood flow using MR angiography].", "content": "[Dynamics of cerebral blood flow using MR angiography]."}
{"id": "9059045", "title": "Vertebral artery dissection not detected by initial angiography--case report.", "content": "Vertebral artery dissection not detected by initial angiography--case report. A 57-year-old male presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by vertebral artery dissection. The first cerebral angiogram on the day of ictus found minimal caliber change with lower contrast density at the V4 segment, but repeat angiography showed typical segmental narrowing of the artery on the 14th day. Repeat angiography with magnetic resonance imaging in the subacute stage would be useful to identify the cause of \"angiogram-negative\" subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "9051036", "title": "Nontraumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage: value of repeat angiography.", "content": "Nontraumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage: value of repeat angiography. To evaluate the benefits and risks of repeat cerebral angiography in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage of unknown cause. Findings from 391 angiographic examinations (323 initial, 68 repeat) were retrospectively reviewed in 323 patients with nontraumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage to determine the cause of bleeding and the frequency of complications with neurologic deficit. At the initial angiographic examination, aneurysms were found in 195 patients (60.4%), and arteriovenous malformations were found in 11 patients (3.4%). Sixty-six patients with negative findings at initial examination underwent repeat cerebral angiography. Three additional aneurysms were detected, all of which could be seen retrospectively on the initial angiogram. In 63 patients, the cause of bleeding remained unexplained. Complications of the 391 angiographic examinations were definitive neurologic deficits in one patient (0.2%) and transient deficits in seven patients (1.8%). Repeat angiography is not necessary in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage if technically good, carefully evaluated digital subtraction angiography was performed initially. Repeat angiography seems to be justified only when the initial examination is technically inadequate, when vasospasm is present, or if further bleeding occurs."}
{"id": "9045973", "title": "The role of duplex sonography and angiography in the investigation of carotid artery disease.", "content": "The role of duplex sonography and angiography in the investigation of carotid artery disease. Some patients with symptomatic carotid stenoses of greater than 70 % benefit from carotid endarterectomy. This study was designed to compare the accuracy of duplex ultrasound with angiography in assessing the degree of carotid stenosis in 73 patients with symptoms of recent carotid territory ischaemia. Ultrasound was found to be most accurate in the group of patients with normal vessels or mild stenoses (0-29 %) when there was 90 % concordance between ultrasound and angiography. Ultrasound was found to be least accurate in the group of patients with severe stenoses (70-99 %) in whom it was more likely to underestimate than to overestimate the degree of stenosis. Only one patient said to have < 30 % stenosis on ultrasonography had a > 70 % stenosis on IADSA. Our results indicate that patients with normal arteries or mild disease shown by ultrasound have a very small chance of having surgically amenable lesions in the neck. Ultrasound is reliable as an exclusory screening test. However, all other stenoses should also be investigated by catheter angiography if surgery is considered. Taking angiography as the reference, only 52 % of patients with severe stenoses, which might be taken as an indication for surgery, were correctly identified on ultrasonography. Ultrasound alone is a poor technique for identifying patients for surgery and a combination of ultrasound screening with angiography for > 30 % stenoses detected by ultrasound is recommended."}
{"id": "9039593", "title": "Contrast agents in functional MR imaging.", "content": "Contrast agents in functional MR imaging. Contrast agents have greatly expanded the role of MR imaging (MRI) to allow assessment of physiologic, or \"functional,\" parameters. Although activation mapping generally does not require contrast agents, other forms of functional MRI, including mapping of cerebral hemodynamics (eg, perfusion imaging), are best done with the use of contrast agents. Serial echo planar images are obtained after bolus injection of lanthanide chelates. Application of susceptibility contrast physics and standard tracer kinetic principles permits generation of relative cerebral blood volume maps. Deconvolution of cerebral blood flow and mean transit time parameters is also possible within technical limitations. By using diffusion and perfusion pulse sequences, an imaging correlate to the ischemic penumbra can be identified. Functional MRI perfusion imaging of intraaxial tumors is analogous to positron emission tomography for delineation of metabolic activity, yet may be even more sensitive to neovascularity and possesses improved image quality. Clinical applications include biopsy site selection and postirradiation follow-up. Further improvements in data analysis and map generation techniques may improve diagnostic accuracy and utility."}
{"id": "9007878", "title": "Ruptured distal accessory anterior cerebral artery aneurysm: case report.", "content": "Ruptured distal accessory anterior cerebral artery aneurysm: case report. Accessory anterior cerebral artery (ACA), which is a type of median artery of anomalous triplicate ACA, is not rare, but aneurysmal formation is extremely rare. We report a rare case with ruptured aneurysm arising from a distal accessory ACA. We discuss the characteristics and causes of this type of aneurysm and classification of this anomaly. A 63-year-old man suddenly developed severe headache and then loss of consciousness and paraplegia. Computed tomography disclosed thick and diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage and interhemispheric hematoma. Subsequent bleeding occurred 2 hours after the first hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography disclosed a saccular aneurysm arising from the distal accessory ACA. Neck clipping of the aneurysm was performed 22 hours after the second episode, using an interhemispheric approach. Although transient paraplegia occurred 8 days after onset, the patient recovered well after surgery without neurological deficit. The characteristics of the aneurysm arising from distal accessory ACA are considered similar to those of distal ACA aneurysm. There is, however, some confusion regarding the terminology of the anterior communicating artery complex anomalies, which we discuss."}
{"id": "8990474", "title": "[Saccular aneurysm-like bleb formation after rupture of the internal carotid-posterior communicating artery aneurysm: a case with interesting angiographic findings].", "content": "[Saccular aneurysm-like bleb formation after rupture of the internal carotid-posterior communicating artery aneurysm: a case with interesting angiographic findings]. A case of saccular aneurysm-like bleb formation after rupture of an aneurysm in the internal carotid-posterior communicating artery. In connection with this, an interesting angiographic finding was reported. A 65-year-old man suffered from sudden disturbance of consciousness and left hemiparesis. Computed tomography (CT) scan revealed typical subarachnoid hemorrhage localized in the right Sylvian fissure. Next day, a cerebral angiography was performed, but no aneurysm was detected. A second angiography was performed 21 days after the onset, and it revealed a saccular right internal carotid-posterior communicating artery (IC-PC) aneurysm. An operation for the IC-PC aneurysm was performed by conventional pterional approach. However, intraoperative findings were unexpected. The collapsed ruptured true IC-PC aneurysm was found at the orifice of the larger bleb, and the ruptured point was in the neck of the true aneurysm. Clipping of the aneurysm was performed successfully. The patient was discharged on foot. The aneurysm detected by the second angiography was not a true one but a bleb formation. Continuous hemodynamic stress on the rupture point may induce the formation of such an aneurysm-like bleb. It should be kept in mind that an aneurysm found in the chronic period might be an aneurysm-like bleb."}
{"id": "8985069", "title": "Sestamibi parathyroid scanning and preoperative localization studies for patients with recurrent/persistent hyperparathyroidism or significant comorbid conditions: development of an optimal localization strategy.", "content": "Sestamibi parathyroid scanning and preoperative localization studies for patients with recurrent/persistent hyperparathyroidism or significant comorbid conditions: development of an optimal localization strategy. For patients with previous thyroid or parathyroid surgery and for those with significant comorbid conditions, noninvasive and invasive modalities exist for the preoperative localization of pathologic parathyroid tissue. Formal localization at our institution involves obtaining two studies that are independently positive for the same location. The studies utilized have included ultrasound, CT scans, MRI, technetium-99m/thallium-201 (Tc-Tl) imaging, and more recently, (99m)Tc-sestamibi (20-25 mCi) (MIBI) scans. These were followed by arteriography and/or venous sampling if necessary. From January 1992 through October 1995, 25 patients underwent preoperative parathyroid localization (10 reoperation, 3 grave hypercalcemia, 2 concurrent goiter, 2 cerebral vascular accident, 1 bleeding disorder, and 1 malignant ventricular arrhythmia) and were evaluated prospectively during the changeover from Tc-Tl to MIBI scanning at our institution. A total of 92 studies were obtained. All 25 patients were operated on by a single surgeon, and in each case the parathyroid adenoma was successfully resected with minimal morbidity (1 permanent hypoparathyroid and 1 temporary recurrent laryngeal nerve injury). True positives interpreted preoperatively: MIBI, 14 of 19 (74%); CT scan, 13 of 19 (68%); Tc-Tl, 4 of 8 (50%), ultrasound, 9 of 20 (45%); MRI, 8 of 14 (57%); arteriography, 3 of 7 (43%); venous sampling, 3 of 4 (75%); and positron emission tomography, 0 of 1. There were no false-positive MIBI scans. These results suggest that when formal parathyroid localization is needed in reoperative/complicated patients, 1) MIBI appears to be the most sensitive and specific study, and 2) the MIBI scan should be the initial study in any situation in which preoperative localization is needed. Ultrasound can be useful for patients with significant comorbidities who have not been previously explored. CT or MRI should then be used if further evaluation is needed. If the use of these noninvasive modalities does not produce positive gland localization, selective venous sampling should be utilized as the definitive procedure."}
{"id": "8971842", "title": "Cerebral arterial ectasia and tuberous sclerosis: case report.", "content": "Cerebral arterial ectasia and tuberous sclerosis: case report. Tuberous sclerosis is associated with a wide variety of central nervous system abnormalities. Cerebrovascular anomalies are extremely rare, but a case of cerebral arterial ectasia and giant fusiform aneurysm formation in a young child is reported. A 5-month-old male patient with tuberous sclerosis presented with seizures, a subependymal tumor, and intraventricular hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography demonstrated a large fusiform aneurysm of the left cavernous internal carotid artery as well as arterial ectasia of the proximal left anterior cerebral and middle cerebral arteries. The patient developed hydrocephalus and died of infectious complications after repeated shunt procedures. Tuberous sclerosis is commonly associated with central nervous system lesions. Although rare, cerebrovascular anomalies and aneurysms should be considered in the differential diagnosis of mass lesions to avoid an ill-advised biopsy of a vascular lesion, which could have disastrous consequences."}
{"id": "9420435", "title": "Arteriovenous malformation presenting as hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage in an elderly patient--case report.", "content": "Arteriovenous malformation presenting as hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage in an elderly patient--case report. A hypertensive 72-year-old male presented with a ruptured arteriovenous malformation (AVM) manifesting as hematoma indistinguishable from common putaminal hemorrhage on precontrast computed tomography scan. The AVM was located in the proximal sylvian region fed by branches of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. The AVM was totally removed. Although bleeding from AVM in the elderly is uncommon, the cause of even common hypertensive hemorrhage should be identified by other imaging techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging and cerebral angiography to allow the optimum treatment."}
{"id": "9420433", "title": "Fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage from an inflammatory cavernous carotid artery aneurysm: failure of conservative treatment after early diagnosis--case report.", "content": "Fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage from an inflammatory cavernous carotid artery aneurysm: failure of conservative treatment after early diagnosis--case report. Inflammatory carotid artery aneurysm is a rare complication of acute paranasal sinusitis. A 50-year-old female presented with a ruptured giant carotid artery aneurysm secondary to infection of the sphenoid sinus and cavernous sinus. She had been healthy until 5 days before admission, when she developed orbital phlegmon and meningitis. She received antibiotic therapy for 10 days. Computed tomography (CT) of the brain 2 days after admission showed no abnormality. However, repeat CT on day 6 showed a round isodense mass in the suprasellar cistern suggesting a cerebral aneurysm. Twelve days after admission, she suffered a fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography revealed a giant left cavernous carotid artery aneurysm with a very irregular shape. Autopsy found sphenoid sinusitis and osteomyelitis extending into the cavernous sinuses. Diagnosis of bacterial inflammatory aneurysms before rupture is very important. Appropriate surgical intervention should be considered if there is enlargement of the original aneurysm or appearance of a new aneurysm indicating a potentially dangerous situation."}
{"id": "9402677", "title": "MR angiography of the head and neck.", "content": "MR angiography of the head and neck. A review of the basic physics and techniques for acquiring and evaluating magnetic resonance angiograms is provided, including time-of-flight and phase contrast techniques. Magnetic resonance (MR) angiography is becoming a routine method of evaluating carotid bifurcation atherosclerotic disease in both a screening and diagnostic capacity. The expanding clinical utility of MR angiography in the detection of intracranial aneurysms, characterization of arteriovenous malformations, and evaluation of intracranial atherosclerotic disease are also reviewed. Furthermore, MR angiography allows for the noninvasive diagnosis of arterial dissection. Magnetic resonance venography also allows the confirmation of the previously elusive and likely underdiagnosed entity of cerebral venous thrombosis."}
{"id": "9251456", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography. The field of MRA has progressed to a stage at which several clinical applications are of obvious value, including the diagnosis of cerebral aneurysms, venous disorders and disease of the carotid bifurcation. Additionally spin echo images are useful in studying the parenchyma and this together with MRA works to be an excellent diagnostic package in the presurgical workup of patients with cerebral vascular abnormalities. With further technical improvements, it seems likely that important applications of MRA will also be found in the diagnosis of peripheral artery disease, stenosis of the renal artery and ischemic heart disease. With the advent of fast imaging techniques like echoplanar imaging, the ability image the coronary and renal arteries accurately seems possible in the near future. At present, however the lack of optimal spatial resolution and the presence of flow artifacts precludes the use of this technique for imaging the vasculature with an accuracy comparable with conventional angiography. The advent for contrast 3-D CT angiography has resulted in a technique of studying the intracranial vessels immediately after assessing for the presence of subarachnoid hemorrhage. It is superior to MRA in demonstrating the actively filling and thrombused portions of giant, partially thrombused aneurysms and in planning the surgical approach in relation to bony landmarks. Though there are daunting obstacles, with continuous ongoing clinical research and the added inputs from a dramatically changing computer technology, MRA is all set to be an imaging study of great promise that may eventually replace diagnostic catheter angiography in most clinical situations."}
{"id": "9118149", "title": "Atypical course of carotid cavernous sinus fistula in a six-year-old child.", "content": "Atypical course of carotid cavernous sinus fistula in a six-year-old child. A case of post-traumatic carotid cavernous sinus fistula complicated by coma-producing intraventricular tamponade in a 6-year-old boy is reported. Urgent surgical treatment included external ventricular draining, trapping and muscle embolization by the Jaeger-Hamby procedure. Follow-up cerebral angiography showed complete obliteration of the fistula. The child made an excellent recovery and now leads a normal life."}
{"id": "9117074", "title": "Severe stroke.", "content": "Severe stroke. Severe stroke is an emergency and requires rapid neurological assessment and diagnosis. CT scan is the first diagnostic step with the aim of finding out the extent, localization and possible pathophysiology of ischaemia in order to direct specific diagnostic and therapeutic options. An intracranial haemorrhage must be excluded. Early CT signs, including the size of the hypodensity and brain swelling, are important prognostic markers. Extracranial and transcranial Doppler sonography are valid for primary assessment of vascular pathophysiology and haemodynamics in most cases. Cerebral angiography should be performed if acute occlusion of the basilar artery or middle cerebral artery trunk is suspected and intra-arterial thrombolysis is a potential therapy. Intravenous thrombolyis has been proven to be effective in improving outcome in severe stroke; it is safe if the exclusion criteria are strictly applied. Prevention of secondary complications of stroke include general medical treatment with control of blood pressure, infections and cardiac and respiratory function, anti-coagulation. anti-oedematous treatment and surgical decompressive therapy for cerebellar and MCA space-occupying infarcts. Monitoring in the ICU is recommended. The medical therapy of intracerebral haemorrhage consists of control of ventilation and blood pressure, seizure prevention and anti-oedema treatment. Treatment of secondary ICH due to anti-coagulation or thrombolysis consists of administration of specific antidotes and the correction of the coagulopathy. Ventricular drainage should be performed when there is marked ventricular dilatation due to obstruction or blood in the ventricles. Most patients with cerebellar haemorrhage of more than 3 cm in diameter should undergo surgery to avoid brain-stem compression and hydrocephalus. In younger patients, non-dominant hemisphere putaminal and lobar haemorrhages with lateral displacement of midline structures and extensive oedema should be evacuated if the patient's level of consciousness deteriorates rapidly, or if the elevation of ICP cannot be controlled pharmacologically, and herniation is incipient. New techniques such as stereotactic and endoscopic evacuation still need to be tested prospectively. Patient selection for surgery should be cautious considering age, clinical status and possible contraindications such as cerebral amyloid angiopathy and coagulation disorders. Stroke therapy is rapidly becoming a focus of research and major changes in diagnostic and therapeutic options can therefore be expected."}
{"id": "9045063", "title": "[Significance of CT in the assessment of risk due to cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage].", "content": "[Significance of CT in the assessment of risk due to cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage]. The relationship between the amount and localization of blood in the subarachnoid space and the occurrence of vasospasms was studied in 100 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage with cerebral vasospasm as complication. In the control group comprised 100 patients in whom angiography revealed no vasospasm. Within one week of subarachnoid haemorrhage all patients underwent computerized tomography of the head. The examination was initially conducted without and subsequently with the administration of contrast medium in a 2 mm thick layer. The amount and distribution of blood were evaluated according to Fisher scale. Follow-up cerebral angiography was performed in most cases in the second week after haemorrhage. In the studied group the occurrence of blood in the subarachnoid space was disclosed in 71 (71%) of the patients. In most cases it was present as clots in basal cisterns. In the control group the presence of blood was found in 32 (32%) of patients, this being usually diffused in subarachnoid space. The results obtained, as well as those quoted from other works, confirm the usefulness of computerized tomography in prognosing the risk of cerebral vasospasms following subarachnoid haemorrhage. However, the method is not to be overestimated."}
{"id": "9035944", "title": "[Routine diagnosis and targeted diagnosis of craniocerebral trauma].", "content": "[Routine diagnosis and targeted diagnosis of craniocerebral trauma]. The basis for aggressive treatment of patients with severe head injuries is swift and efficient diagnostic management of trauma victims. The best imaging modality for the detection of relevant intracranial injuries is cranial computed tomography. The use of CT is also justified from an economic point of view. CT is supported by plain X-ray and for special purposes by Doppler sonography, digital subtraction angiography and magnetic resonance imaging. Further indications of imaging procedures are the evaluation of the time course of intracranial injuries, treatment monitoring and the detection of secondary complications."}
{"id": "8980743", "title": "Chronic encapsulated intracerebral haematoma.", "content": "Chronic encapsulated intracerebral haematoma."}
{"id": "8975512", "title": "[The procedure for the surgical treatment of intracranial arterial aneurysms in cerebral vascular spasm and ischemia].", "content": "[The procedure for the surgical treatment of intracranial arterial aneurysms in cerebral vascular spasm and ischemia]. Analysis of the data of clinical neurological examinations, cerebral angiography, computed tomography, and electroencephalography in 77 patients with early cerebral aneurysmal rupture made it possible to identify three clinical types of vascular spasm-induced cerebral ischemia: compensated, subcompensated, and decompensated. specific characteristics of each type of cerebral ischemia are given. It is shown that early surgical treatment policy for aneurysms in vascular spasm must be determined by the clinical type of cerebral ischemia."}
{"id": "8969807", "title": "Variability of magnetic resonance angiography and computed tomography angiography in grading middle cerebral artery stenosis using the unweighted kappa statistic.", "content": "Variability of magnetic resonance angiography and computed tomography angiography in grading middle cerebral artery stenosis using the unweighted kappa statistic."}
{"id": "8929507", "title": "Hereditary neurocutaneous angiomatosis. Report of four cases.", "content": "Hereditary neurocutaneous angiomatosis. Report of four cases. The authors report the coexistence of vascular nevi (hemangiomas and arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) of the skin) with AVMs and venous malformations of the brain in male siblings from two related but nonconsanguineous families of three generations. The proband, his siblings, parents, aunts, uncles, and cousins were examined, underwent magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and MR angiography, and when appropriate, cerebral angiography. A father had vascular nevi and a mother, his sister, had an azygos anterior cerebral artery. No other cutaneous or cerebrovascular malformations were present in the parents. Each of the two families had two boys and one girl, 9 to 18 years of age. All the children had vascular nevi and all of the boys had coexisting cerebrovascular malformations: AVMs in three, and a venous malformation in another. One boy had three cerebral AVMs. Two boys had a cerebral hemorrhage, and one also had focal motor seizures. The skin lesions were not those of the Sturge-Weber-Dimitri, Rendu-Osler-Weber, or Wybum-Mason syndromes. The association of cutaneous and cerebrovascular malformations was seen only in males in these families. but females have also been reported in the literature. The results obtained in these families and three other families reported from Western and Central Europe indicate that the association of cerebral and cutaneous vascular hamartomas constitutes a distinct, hereditary clinicopathological entity with autosomal dominant inheritance and variable penetrance. The clinical manifestations of this syndrome are visible, painful vascular nevi, epilepsy, cerebral hemorrhage, and focal neurological deficits. The preponderance of male patients with the full expression of the syndrome suggests a possible hormonal influence on the expression of the gene."}
{"id": "8928427", "title": "[Imaging methods in the diagnosis of acute cerebrovascular stroke].", "content": "[Imaging methods in the diagnosis of acute cerebrovascular stroke]. The authors emphasize the possibilities of some new imaging methods in the diagnosis of acute cerebrovascular attacks, i.e. methods used under local conditions: differentiation of intracranial haemorrhage in case of a haematoma in the area of a ruptured aneurysm, blood in the subarachnoidal space in subarachnoid haemorrhage. To differentiate a tumour decompensated by the vascular route. It is known that imaging by computed tomography. Imaging on the basis of magnetic resonance in the diagnosis of acute, subacute and chronic infarction has some specific features. It was revealed that also magnetic resonance angiography can be an asset, in particular when major vessels are affected. Classical intervention angiography still is useful in acute cerebrovascular attacks as well as in the diagnosis of cerebral death."}
{"id": "8926843", "title": "[The potentials of current methods for the radiodiagnosis of cerebral arteriovenous malformations].", "content": "[The potentials of current methods for the radiodiagnosis of cerebral arteriovenous malformations]. The potentialities of current Neuroimaging methods were established to allow one to make an early minimally invasive diagnosis of arteriovenous [correction of arterioventricular] malformations. The most promising method is a combined use of X-ray computer and magnetic resonance tomography with transcranial Doppler echography, which is in conformity with the unity principle of morphological and functional non-invasive diagnostic methods. At present, cerebral angiography should be used only in combination with preoperative examination of these patients."}
{"id": "8915761", "title": "Vasospasm following tumor removal: report of 5 cases.", "content": "Vasospasm following tumor removal: report of 5 cases. Cerebral vasospasm is a clinical/angiographical condition frequently observed after a subarachnoid hemorrhage due to the rupture of an intracranial aneurysm. Twenty cases of vasospasm observed after the removal of cerebral tumors have been reported in the literature; we here report on a further five. The time of onset of symptomatic vasospasm was 3-7 days after surgery; three of the patients died of an ischemic event induced by the vasospasm and two survive. Although no angiographic confirmation was obtained in our cases, serial transcranial Doppler (TCD) flow velocities were always high. It is suggested that the TCD-revealed accumulation of blood in the basal cisterns observed in all cases may have been responsible for this unusual condition, and it is therefore important to consider vasospasm as a probable etiological cause of clinical deterioration in patients undergoing the surgical removal of a cerebral tumor. For this reason, whenever any neurological deterioration occurs in such patients, it is advisable to perform TCD in order to verify the presence of any vasospasm and promptly commence suitable treatment."}
{"id": "8913083", "title": "Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis associated with systemic multiple hemangiomas manifesting as chronic subdural hematoma--case report.", "content": "Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis associated with systemic multiple hemangiomas manifesting as chronic subdural hematoma--case report. A 35-year-old male was admitted with headache, nausea, and vomiting persisting for 2 days. Computed tomography (CT) revealed a left chronic subdural hematoma. Cerebral angiography demonstrated cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST). He had presented with a subcutaneous mass involving the neck at age 2 years, which was shown to be a cavernous angioma, and thereafter shown signs of consumptive coagulopathy with systemic multiple hemangiomas. Burr hole aspiration of the hematoma was performed. Seventy-two-hours later, he developed clouding of consciousness and right hemiparesis. CT revealed a fresh hematoma in the operated subdural cavity and hemorrhagic diathesis manifested. A frontotemporoparietal large craniotomy was performed to remove the hematoma. Extensive electrocauterization was required. He had a satisfactory postoperative course. Collateral venous pathways, resulting from the CVST due to systemic multiple hemangiomas, may have caused hemodynamic stress in the bridging veins which subsequently induced chronic subdural hematoma."}
{"id": "8905762", "title": "Endovascular treatment of a dissecting posteroinferior cerebellar artery aneurysm: case report.", "content": "Endovascular treatment of a dissecting posteroinferior cerebellar artery aneurysm: case report. To demonstrate the usefulness of endovascular techniques in the treatment of fusiform, dissecting aneurysms. A 45-year-old woman presented with the acute onset of left-sided neck pain and headaches. Computed axial tomography demonstrated subarachnoid and intraventricular hemorrhage as well as a left posterior cerebellar infarct. Conventional cerebral and magnetic resonance angiography demonstrated a dissecting fusiform aneurysm at the origin of the left posteroinferior cerebellar artery. A balloon occlusion of the left vertebral artery at the posteroinferior cerebellar artery origin was tolerated without complication, and the patient underwent successful occlusion of the left posteroinferior cerebellar artery, with platinum microembolization coils. In patients who tolerate temporary balloon occlusion, endovascular treatment of dissecting fusiform aneurysms with platinum microembolization coils is safe and effective therapy."}
{"id": "8883655", "title": "Intracranial dural arteriovenous fistulas with spinal venous drainage: relation between clinical presentation and angiographic findings.", "content": "Intracranial dural arteriovenous fistulas with spinal venous drainage: relation between clinical presentation and angiographic findings. To investigate why some patients with an intracranial dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) with spinal venous drainage have myelopathy and others do not. We reviewed the clinical and radiologic data for 12 patients who had a DAVF with spinal venous drainage diagnosed at our institutions from 1982 to 1995. Six patients had progressive spinal cord indications of disease (patients with myelopathy) and six others (patients without myelopathy) had cerebral indications (five had intracranial hemorrhage and one had a seizure). Cerebral angiography showed a posterior fossa DAVF with spinal venous drainage in all cases. The clinical presentation of DAVFs with spinal venous drainage was compared with the extent of the drainage. In patients without myelopathy, the spinal venous drainage exited the intradural canal via the cervical medullary-radicular veins and was therefore limited to the cervical perimedullary veins. In patients with myelopathy, no medullary-radicular vein was seen, and the venous drainage descended along the perimedullary veins of the entire spinal cord toward the conus medullaris. We found an exact relation between clinical presentation and venous drainage of DAVFs with spinal venous drainage. Patients had no myelopathy when the venous drainage was limited to the cervical cord; myelopathy was present when the venous drainage descended toward the conus medullaris."}
{"id": "8877166", "title": "Cerebral venous angiomas associated with hemorrhagic lesions. Their MRI manifestations.", "content": "Cerebral venous angiomas associated with hemorrhagic lesions. Their MRI manifestations. Using two 1.5-T magnetic resonance (MR) scanners, 82 venous angiomas (VAs) were imaged. There were 13 (16%) VAs associated with hemorrhagic lesions. Ten of the 13 hemorrhagic lesions were considered hematomas in the subacute or chronic stage, caused by VAs or coexisting cavernous hemangiomas. Two of the 13 were subacute intracerebral hematomas; the remaining one was a sequela of a hemorrhagic venous infarct. After analysis of our data, it was concluded that infratentorial VAs and deeply draining supratentorial VAs in relatively young adults, especially females, are relatively frequently associated with intracerebral hemorrhagic lesions. MR imaging proved useful for diagnosing VAs and associated hemorrhagic lesions."}
{"id": "8873104", "title": "The role of magnetic resonance angiography in the assessment of intracranial vascular disease.", "content": "The role of magnetic resonance angiography in the assessment of intracranial vascular disease. Magnetic resonance techniques have a significant role in the evaluation of intracranial vascular diseases; however, to achieve an appropriate diagnosis, a combination of both magnetic resonance imaging and angiography are needed. It is extremely important for the interpreting physician to be aware of the potential limitations of the techniques being used. With this knowledge, magnetic resonance techniques can eliminate the need for more invasive procedures. An overview of the current methods and their applications and limitations is provided."}
{"id": "8873103", "title": "The role of computed tomographic angiography in the assessment of intracranial vascular disease.", "content": "The role of computed tomographic angiography in the assessment of intracranial vascular disease. Both technical and clinical implications of three-dimensional computed tomographic angiography in the evaluation of intracranial circulation, and in particular cerebral aneurysms, are presented. Three-dimensional computed tomographic angiography allows excellent visualization of the aneurysm, its neck, and its relationship with the parent artery and important adjacent bony structures. This technique has a major role in the evaluation of difficult aneurysms. In addition, advantages and disadvantages are discussed in comparison with more conventional techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance angiography, and digital subtraction angiography. Three-dimensional computed tomographic angiography will continue to develop with the advent of more rapid computed tomography scanners, playing a key role in the investigation and screening of patients with a family history of cerebral aneurysms."}
{"id": "8867427", "title": "[Perfusion studies with paramagnetic contrast media and rapid pulse sequences in cerebrovascular diseases and brain tumors].", "content": "[Perfusion studies with paramagnetic contrast media and rapid pulse sequences in cerebrovascular diseases and brain tumors]. The combination of fast MR sequences and rapid i.v. injection of paramagnetic contrast media provides information on cerebral perfusion. MR-perfusion imaging primarily depicts the relative cerebral blood volume. The aim of this study was to test whether MR-perfusion imaging with a clinical MR scanner using a standard 2D-FLASH sequence provides clinically relevant information on patients with cerebrovascular diseases and brain tumors. Brain infarctions, lesions in cerebral microangiopathy and occlusions of the carotid artery with very poor collateralization showed definite differences in perfusion imaging compared with normal controls. However, our results show that acceleration of the imaging sequence and optimization of the contrast bolus and data processing are prerequisites for the clinical use of this method, which in principle may provide information on the absolute cerebral blood volume and even blood flow."}
{"id": "8866075", "title": "Non-invasive testing for cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Non-invasive testing for cerebrovascular disease. Selecting the appropriate investigation for diagnosing occlusive cerebrovascular disease depends on the availability, cost, accuracy, invasiveness and the purpose of the test. Intraarterial digital subtraction angiography remains the gold standard, but for accuracy the stenosis should be measured rather than estimated. Duplex ultrasonography is almost as accurate and can additionally analyse plaque morphology. Of 2651 duplex tests carried out in our laboratory, 12.2% were for reversible ischaemic attacks, 2.7% for amaurosis, 12.1% for cervical bruit and 4.3% for vertebrobasilar ischaemia. Duplex within 30 days of operation was carried out on 607 patients (22.9%) and surveillance on 1000 others (37.7%). Asymptomatic carotid stenosis > 60% should be confirmed by intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography, magnetic resonance angiography or spiral computed tomography angiography. For typical transient ischaemic attacks, duplex or angiography alone is adequate but when the clinical presentation is atypical, a confirming test is required. Routine preoperative brain computed tomography is not cost-effective, being equivalent to US$ 4300-11840 per perioperative stroke in our institution. Postoperative surveillance is justified, costing only US$ 505 per patient over 4 years."}
{"id": "8857753", "title": "Anterior choroidal artery aneurysm and stroke.", "content": "Anterior choroidal artery aneurysm and stroke. We report the unique combination of a mid anterior choroidal artery (AChA) aneurysm and ischemic stroke presenting as a movement disorder in a young man. The mechanism for stroke in the AChA territory may either reflect a cause or an effect of aneurysm formation. We provide evidence for both arguments and speculate on the anatomic basis for the initial presentation of hemibody spasm."}
{"id": "8851433", "title": "Quantitative MR imaging of children with sickle cell disease: striking T1 elevation in the thalamus.", "content": "Quantitative MR imaging of children with sickle cell disease: striking T1 elevation in the thalamus. Nineteen patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) were examined with conventional MR imaging (cMRI), including T1- and T2-weighted sequences and MR angiography (MRA). qMRI mapping of T1 was also done using a precise and accurate inversion-recovery (PAIR) technique optimized and validated previously. In addition, 21 healthy African-American control subjects had the qMRI examination. Nonparametric Kruskal-Wallis analysis of variance of control subjects, of SCD patients without stroke, and of SCD patients with stroke showed that T1 increased with disease severity in the thalamus, frontal white matter, genu, and occipital white matter. T1 was significantly longer in SCD patients without stroke (n = 13) than in control subjects (n = 21) in the thalamus and frontal white matter. In addition, T1 values were significantly longer in SCD patients with stroke than in patients without stroke in the genu and frontal white matter. Abnormality of the thalamus was identified by qMRI in a substantial fraction of patients read as normal by both cMRI and MRA, suggesting that it may be possible to use T1 elevation to identify a subset of patients with SCD who are at elevated risk for stroke."}
{"id": "8848684", "title": "[Current aspects in cerebrovascular neuroradiology].", "content": "[Current aspects in cerebrovascular neuroradiology]."}
{"id": "8837803", "title": "Patients with polycystic kidney disease would benefit from routine magnetic resonance angiographic screening for intracerebral aneurysms: a decision analysis.", "content": "Patients with polycystic kidney disease would benefit from routine magnetic resonance angiographic screening for intracerebral aneurysms: a decision analysis. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is associated with increased prevalence of cerebral aneurysms and increased risk of subarachnoid hemorrhage. A decision analysis by Levey et al. in 1983 demonstrated that patients with ADPKD would not significantly benefit from routine arteriographic screening for cerebral aneurysms. We reexamined this conclusion in light of new clinical data and the introduction of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as a screening method. We compared an MRI screening strategy with a nonscreening strategy. The screening strategy specified MRI screening and then neurosurgical management of detected aneurysms. The nonscreening strategy specified cerebrovascular care only in the event of subarachnoid hemorrhage. The decision tree incorporated estimates derived from the clinical literature for the prevalence of asymptomatic aneurysms in patients with ADPKD (15%), the annual incidence of aneurysmal rupture (1.6%), the morbidity and mortality rates associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage (70 and 56%, respectively), the risk of transfemoral arteriography (0.2%), the sensitivity and specificity of MRI, the morbidity and mortality rates associated with surgical treatment of an unruptured aneurysm (4.1 and 1.0%, respectively), and the life expectancy of patients with ADPKD. The model predicted that the screening strategy would provide 1.0 additional year of life without neurological disability to a 20-year-old patient with ADPKD. A sensitivity analysis showed that the model was most sensitive to estimates of the prevalence of aneurysms in ADPKD, the annual incidence of rupture, and the morbidity and mortality rates associated with rupture. A financial analysis showed that a screening strategy is likely to cost less than a nonscreening strategy. The model predicts that an MRI screening strategy would increase the life expectancy of young patients with ADPKD and reduce the financial impact on society of ADPKD."}
{"id": "8837799", "title": "The role of computed tomographic angiography in the diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms and emergent aneurysm clipping.", "content": "The role of computed tomographic angiography in the diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms and emergent aneurysm clipping. Conventional cerebral angiography has always been regarded as the gold standard for intracranial aneurysm detection. However, conventional angiography has the disadvantages of being invasive and time consuming. We present here 30 patients who underwent computed tomographic angiography (CTA) with three-dimensional reconstruction for the detection of intracranial aneurysms. All of these patients had subarachnoid hemorrhage or suspected intracranial aneurysms. CTA was performed in all patients with the use of a General Electric Hispeed Advantage helical scanner. Iohexol, 135 ml, was used as the contrast agent. Twenty-five patients also underwent conventional angiography for comparison. The five patients who underwent CTA only did not have conventional angiography because of poor clinical condition, and four of them subsequently died. Five patients had subarachnoid hemorrhage, but the results of both CTA and conventional angiography were negative for aneurysms. One patient had an incidental finding of a 3-mm left posterior communicating artery aneurysm on CTA, which was confirmed by conventional angiography. In the remaining 19 patients, 19 saccular aneurysms and 1 fusiform aneurysm were detected by CTA. Locations and sizes were confirmed by conventional angiography in all except two. The first exception was a patient who had a 2.5-mm anterior communicating artery aneurysm detected by CTA but not by conventional angiography. Surgical exploration confirmed the CTA diagnosis. The other exception was a patient in whom a 2-mm right posterior communicating artery aneurysm was detected by CTA but in whom conventional angiography showed a 2-mm left posterior communicating artery aneurysm. Unfortunately, there was no surgical confirmation in this case because the family of the patient refused surgery. Our results have demonstrated that CTA is a quick, reliable, and relatively simple diagnostic tool for intracranial aneurysms. In an emergent situation, such as a deteriorating patient with a hematoma, it is superior to either empiric exploration or infusion computed tomographic scans because it delineates the orientation and configuration of the aneurysm and its associated vascular anatomy."}
{"id": "8837081", "title": "Comparison of magnetic resonance angiography and conventional angiography in sickle cell disease: clinical significance and reliability.", "content": "Comparison of magnetic resonance angiography and conventional angiography in sickle cell disease: clinical significance and reliability. We retrospectively reviewed the medical records and conventional angiograms of 21 patients with known sickle cell disease, who underwent a total of 50 magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) studies. MRA and conventional angiography were assessed separately for evidence of stenosis or occlusion. Follow up MRI/MRA studies were also assessed for evidence of progression, regression or stability of the disease in these patients. In the carotid circulation, MRA made the correct diagnosis in 85% of the vessels evaluated with a sensitivity of 80.5% and a specificity of 94%. MRA was also found to show evidence of disease progression, more often than did MRI or the clinical condition of the patients."}
{"id": "8832680", "title": "Distal basilar perforator artery aneurysm: case report.", "content": "Distal basilar perforator artery aneurysm: case report. Distal basilar artery aneurysms represent 5 to 8% of intracranial aneurysms. It is crucial to preserve all of the basilar apex perforating vessels when dissecting in this region. This report is the first to describe a rostral basilar perforating artery that was the anatomic origin of a cerebral aneurysm. A 56-year-old woman presenting with subarachnoid hemorrhage underwent initial four-vessel cerebral angiography that did not demonstrate the source of her hemorrhage. A follow-up cerebral angio-gram 9 days later suggested a small aneurysm in the region of the left superior cerebellar artery. A left pterional craniotomy was performed. An aneurysm arising from the origin of a distal basilar perforating artery was identified and obliterated with a small vascular clip. Flow was preserved in the perforating vessel, and the patient had an excellent outcome. The findings in the report illustrate the novel anatomic principle that a distal basilar perforating vessel can serve as the anatomic origin of a cerebral aneurysm. Knowledge of this entity would be helpful in avoiding complications at surgery, including perforator injury or aneurysmal rupture in such cases."}
{"id": "8827812", "title": "Use of MR angiography in a pregnant patient with thalamic AVM.", "content": "Use of MR angiography in a pregnant patient with thalamic AVM. A 32-year-old pregnant woman at 29 gestational weeks suffered from the acute onset of severe headache. Brain CT, MRI, and MR angiography (MRA) showed intraventricular and thalamic hemorrhage, ruptured from a thalamic AVM. Based on these findings, conservative treatment was continued until delivery. After cesarean delivery at 34 gestational weeks, conventional cerebral angiography was performed, followed later by gamma-knife therapy. In pregnant patients with suspected cerebrovascular disorders, MRI and MRA should be the first of choice method to evaluate information on the diseased vessels and associated lesions since there is no radiation risk or side effects of contrast medium."}
{"id": "8808967", "title": "Can the NASCET technique for measuring carotid stenosis be reliably applied outside the trial?", "content": "Can the NASCET technique for measuring carotid stenosis be reliably applied outside the trial? The North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) and the Asymptomatic Carotid Artery Study (ACAS) both confirmed the effectiveness of carotid endarterectomy for preventing stroke in patients who have significant carotid stenosis. A uniform technique for measuring carotid stenosis from an arteriogram (% stenosis = [1 - minimum residual lumen/normal distal cervical internal carotid artery diameter] x 100) was used in both trials, with reproducibility internally validated. The reliability of this measurement when used outside the trials for defining carotid stenosis has not been validated. Imprecise calculation of carotid stenosis can result in a 50% overestimation of significant carotid disease and potential overuse of carotid surgery. This is a prospective study of the reliability of carotid stenosis measurements performed by practicing physicians of different specialties and different levels of clinical experience. Two vascular surgeons and two interventional radiologists (one resident and one staff member per specialty), blinded to results, calculated the percent stenosis from 219 consecutive arteriograms performed to evaluate extracranial carotid artery occlusive disease; 72 random films were reread by each individual. The interpretations were grouped as < 60% or > or = 60% stenosis (ACAS) and as < 30%, 30% to 69%, and > or = 70% stenosis (NASCET). Interobserver and intraobserver agreement were analyzed with the kappa statistic and Pearson correlation coefficients. Interobserver reliability in categorizing carotid stenosis revealed excellent agreement for both ACAS (kappa = 0.825 to 0.903) and NASCET groups (kappa = 0.729 to 0.793). Interobserver correlation coefficients ranged from 0.91 to 0.95. Intraobserver agreement was also highly reproducible for both the ACAS (kappa = 0.732 to 0.970) and NASCET categories (kappa = 0.634 to 0.805). Intraobserver correlation coefficients ranged from 0.89 to 0.95. The NASCET technique for quantification of carotid stenosis can be easily learned by physicians and reliably implemented for appropriate identification of candidates for carotid endarterectomy."}
{"id": "8800349", "title": "Value of repeat-angiography in cases of unexplained subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH).", "content": "Value of repeat-angiography in cases of unexplained subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). To investigate the rate of false negative initial cerebral angiography in spontaneous SAH and to ascertain why aneurysms remain undetected. Furthermore to validate CCT in predicting the presence and site of an angiographically missed aneurysm. Forty-two patients with spontaneous SAH were investigated, in whom initial cerebral angiography did not reveal any bleeding cause. Repeat-angiography was performed in all patients 5 to 55 days (mean 15 days) after the bleeding event. All patients underwent CCT scans within 48h after the ictus. In 8 of 42 patients (19%) repeat-angiography revealed an aneurysm missed on initial angiography. The aneurysms were located on the AcomA (n = 2), the MCA (n = 2), the ACA (n = 1), the PICA (n = 2) and the junction of ICA and PcomA (n = 1). Presumable reasons for missing an aneurysm were spasms detected in four of eight cases on initial angiography and thrombosis of the aneurysm found in two cases at surgery. In two cases, multiple additional views just revealed the aneurysm appearing different in size and shape on repeat-angiography. CCT blood distribution pattern in four cases indicated presence and site of an aneurysm, while blood distribution was non-specific in the other four cases. Repeat-angiography plays an important role in defining the site of an initially occult aneurysm and should be performed in all cases of unexplained SAH. It is of particular importance if vasospasm has compromised the initial angiogram or if one part of the vascular tree is not optimally seen."}
{"id": "8797947", "title": "Regional association of developmental venous anomalies with angiographically occult vascular malformations.", "content": "Regional association of developmental venous anomalies with angiographically occult vascular malformations. This study reviews the neuroradiological findings of 43 patients with a developmental venous anomaly in order to discuss the clinical significance of this entity. All patients underwent unenhanced and contrast-enhanced computer tomography and magnetic resonance tomography, as well as selective angiography, and were followed for at least 2 years. In 40% (17 of 43) of patients a cryptic vascular malformation was found in the proximity to the developmental venous anomaly. Neurological symptoms were present in 8 of 17 patients (47%) in this group. Patients with an isolated developmental venous anomaly had symptoms in 19% (5 of 26), but none of them had experienced a hemorrhage. Magnetic resonance was the most sensitive method for the diagnosis of both types of lesions and alterations of the adjacent parenchyma. These results further support that developmental venous anomalies represent a clinically benign entity. However, patients with an association of a developmental venous anomaly and a cryptic vascular malformation are at risk for hemorrhage from their angiographically occult vascular malformation. Magnetic resonance proved to be the imaging modality of choice for both entities and is appropriate for diagnosis and follow-up."}
{"id": "8784148", "title": "Infarction of superior cerebellar artery presenting as cerebellar symptoms.", "content": "Infarction of superior cerebellar artery presenting as cerebellar symptoms. MRI of the brain has facilitated the diagnosis of cerebellar infarction in the territory of the superior cerebellar artery (SCA). We analyzed the data on patients with SCA infarction who presented with only cerebellar symptoms in an attempt to define its underlying pathophysiology. Ten patients with SCA infarction who presented with cerebellar symptoms were studied by brain MRI, angiography, and underlying pathology. Brain MRI demonstrated an infarct in the SCA territory in the anterior rostral cerebellum of all patients. None had abnormalities in the brain stem. In four patients, a hemorrhagic infarct was present in the same region. Cerebral angiography revealed no obvious SCA occlusion or atherosclerotic vascular disease in any patient. Eight of the 10 patients had heart disease, such as atrial fibrillation or old myocardial infarction. The presumed diagnosis was occlusion of the SCA in its periphery due to cardiogenic embolism. When a patient presents with only cerebellar symptoms and has cerebellar infarction demonstrated by brain MRI, the SCA branch is probably occluded by cardiogenic embolism."}
{"id": "8784127", "title": "Microemboli during carotid angiography. Association with stroke risk factors or subsequent magnetic resonance imaging changes?", "content": "Microemboli during carotid angiography. Association with stroke risk factors or subsequent magnetic resonance imaging changes? Carotid angiography is associated with a 1% risk of major stroke. Recently, transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (TCD) has shown cerebral microemboli during carotid angiography. To determine their significance, we correlated the number of microemboli during angiography with clinical characteristics, angiography findings, and preangiography and postangiography cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). One middle cerebral artery was monitored with TCD in 24 patients during angiography for carotid territory ischemia. The number of microemboli was correlated with angiographic and clinical characteristics. T2-weighted cerebral MRI was performed before and < or = 48 hours after angiography, and the number of new ischemic lesions was determined in a blinded review. Microemboli were seen in all patients, with an average of 51 per procedure (range, 12 to 154). The majority of microemboli had signal characteristics typical of air. Sixteen of the 24 patients had both preangiography and postangiography MRI. One of 24 patients had an angiographic stroke, with a single new thalamic lesion on MRI. No other patient had a new lesion. The microembolus count correlated with the angiographic contrast volume (P < .001) but not with any other radiological or clinical characteristic. This study confirmed the presence of numerous cerebral microemboli during carotid angiography. The microembolic signal characteristics and the correlation with contrast volume indicate that introduced air is the cause. These microemboli are usually clinically silent and do not lead to new changes on cerebral MRI."}
{"id": "8773268", "title": "The negative angiogram in subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "The negative angiogram in subarachnoid haemorrhage. Our purpose was to review the incidence of negative cerebral panangiography in acute nontraumatic subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH); to document the amount and distribution of subarachnoid blood on CT and determine its relationship to findings on repeat angiography; and to study the outcome of these patients from the time of presentation to hospital discharge. From 1983 to 1992, 295 patients underwent cerebral angiography for acute SAH at our institution. The CT, angiographic and MRI findings and clinical course of patients with initially negative angiograms were reviewed retrospectively. The overall incidence of negative cerebral panangiography was 31% (92/295). An aneurysm was disclosed on a second angiogram in 4 cases, and on a third angiogram in 1, giving a total false negative rate of 5%. In 55% of cases, only a small amount of SAH was present on CT. The distribution of the subarachnoid blood was nonspecific and resembled the pattern seen in aneurysmal SAH. Ninety-four percent of the patients presented in Hunt-Hess grades I and II. The complications of conservative treatment were few: a rebleed rate of 4%, delayed cerebral ischemia in 4%, cerebral infarcts in 8% and hydrocephalus requiring shunting in 3%. On discharge, 93% of patients had recovered completely and the others were left with moderate disability. There were two deaths related to massive rebleeding. Patients with perimesencephalic SAH (35%) fared particularly well; none developed complications during their hospital stay and repeat angiograms never revealed an underlying aneurysm. In such cases, further angiographic investigations do not seem warranted."}
{"id": "8770255", "title": "Spiral CT angiography and selective digital subtraction angiography of internal carotid artery stenosis.", "content": "Spiral CT angiography and selective digital subtraction angiography of internal carotid artery stenosis. To determine whether spiral CT angiography allows accurate, quantitative evaluation of anatomic abnormalities, including detection of additional lesions, delineation of plaque morphology, and estimation of degree of internal carotid artery stenosis. Spiral CT angiography with a maximum intensity projection technique was compared with selective digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in 92 carotid arteries. The category of stenosis was determined according to the North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial: mild (0% to 29%), moderate (30% to 69%), severe (70% to 99%), and occlusion (100%). In 78 (85%) of the 92 cases, spiral CT angiography and selective DSA demonstrated the same degree of stenosis. All occlusions (n = 19) were diagnosed correctly with spiral CT angiography. Spiral CT angiography agreed with selective DSA in the classification of stenosis in 59% of the group with mild stenosis, in 82% of the group with moderate stenosis, and in 90% of the group with severe stenosis. In the groups with mild (n = 13), moderate (n = 9), and severe (n = 27) stenosis, correlation of spiral CT angiography with selective DSA was significant. Calcified plaques were readily diagnosed with the use of spiral CT angiography but delineation of ulcers was poor. Tandem lesions were not visible owing to the limited coverage. Spiral CT angiography is useful for the detection of proximal internal carotid stenoses that are greater than 30%. Depiction of mild stenoses appears to be limited. CT is superior for the detection of calcified plaques but it is not useful for the detection of ulcers."}
{"id": "8770253", "title": "Prognostic value of the hyperdense middle cerebral artery sign and stroke scale score before ultraearly thrombolytic therapy.", "content": "Prognostic value of the hyperdense middle cerebral artery sign and stroke scale score before ultraearly thrombolytic therapy. To determine the relationship between the hyperdense middle cerebral artery sign (HMCAS) and neurologic deficit, as evidenced by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) stroke scale score, and to determine the relationship of the HMCAS and the NIH stroke scale score to arteriographic findings after thrombolytic therapy. Fifty-five patients with acute ischemic stroke were rated on the NIH stroke scale, were examined with CT, and were treated with intravenous alteplase within 90 minutes of symptom onset. Presence of the HMCAS was determined on the baseline CT scan by a neuroradiologist blinded to the patient's neurologic deficit. Patients with the HMCAS were compared with those without HMCAS with regard to baseline NIH stroke scale score, 2-hour NIH stroke scale score, findings at posttreatment arteriography, 3-month residual neurologic deficit, and 3-month ischemia volumes as evidenced on CT scans. Eighteen patients (33%) had the HMCAS. These patients had a median baseline NIH stroke scale score of 19.5 compared with a median score of 10 for the patients lacking the HMCAS sign. At 3 months, one (6%) of the HMCAS-positive patients was completely improved neurologically compared with 17 (47%) of the HMCAS-negative patients. Restricting analysis to those patients with a stroke scale score of 10 or greater (n = 37), 18 HMCAS-positive patients showed less early neurologic improvement, were less likely to be completely improved at 3 months, and had larger infarcts compared with the 19 HMCAS-negative patients. Compared with the HMCAS-positive and HMCAS-negative patients with a stroke scale score of 10 or greater, patients with a stroke scale score of less than 10 had fewer occlusive changes of the internal carotid and middle cerebral arteries on posttreatment arteriograms and had a better neurologic recovery at 3 months. The presence of the HMCAS on CT scans obtained within 90 minutes of stroke onset is associated with a major neurologic deficit, and in this study it predicted a poor clinical and radiologic outcome after intravenous thrombolytic therapy. However, a major neurologic deficit, defined as a stroke scale score of 10 or more, was better than a positive HMCAS as a predictor of poor neurologic outcome after thrombolytic therapy. Patients with a low stroke scale score (< 10) may benefit from ultraearly intravenous alteplase therapy."}
{"id": "8766945", "title": "Pituitary insufficiency and regression of acromegaly caused by pituitary apoplexy following cerebral angiography.", "content": "Pituitary insufficiency and regression of acromegaly caused by pituitary apoplexy following cerebral angiography. Pituitary apoplexy as a complication of cerebral angiography has been described in only a few case reports. Some studies have reported the clinical resolution of active acromegaly after pituitary apoplexy. We present a patient with active acromegaly due to a growth hormone (GH)-secreting pituitary macroadenoma, who developed anterior and posterior pituitary insufficiency following cerebral angiography. Furthermore, a significant reduction in tumour size was accompanied by normalization of mean 24 h in GH insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) and IGF binding protein 3 levels."}
{"id": "8757151", "title": "Ischaemic stroke and combined oral contraceptives: results of an international, multicentre, case-control study. WHO Collaborative Study of Cardiovascular Disease and Steroid Hormone Contraception.", "content": "Ischaemic stroke and combined oral contraceptives: results of an international, multicentre, case-control study. WHO Collaborative Study of Cardiovascular Disease and Steroid Hormone Contraception. The association between use of oral contraceptives (OCs) and cerebral infarction was established in studies from northern Europe and the USA during the 1960s and 1970s. Since then, the constituents of hormonal OCs have changed and now contain lower doses of oestrogen and progestagen. Current recommendations restrict OC use to younger women who do not have other risk factors for cardiovascular disease. In this international study we assessed the risk of OC-associated first stroke in women from Europe and other countries throughout the world. In this hospital-based, case-control study, we assessed the risk of ischaemic stroke in association with current use of combined OCs in 697 cases, aged 20-44 years, and 1962 age-matched hospital controls in 21 centres in Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. The diagnosis of ischaemic stroke was almost exclusively based on computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or cerebral angiography carried out within 3 weeks of the clinical event. All cases and controls were interviewed while in hospital with the same questionnaire, which included information on medical and personal history, details of lifetime contraceptive use, and blood-pressure measurements before the most recent episode of OC use. The overall odds ratio of ischaemic stroke was 2.99 (95% CI 1.65-5.40) in Europe and 2.93 (2.15-4.00) in the non-European (developing) countries. Odds ratios were lower in younger women and those who did not smoke, and less than 2 in women who did not have hypertension and who reported that their blood pressure had been checked before the current episode of OC use. By contrast, among current OC users with a history of hypertension, the odds ratio was 10.7 (2.04-56.6) in Europe and 14.5 (5.36-39.0) in the developing countries. In Europe, the odds ratio associated with current use of low-dose OCs (< 50 micrograms oestrogen) was 1.53 (0.71-3.31), whereas for higher-dose preparations it was 5.30 (2.56-11.0). In the developing countries, there was no significant difference between overall estimates of risk associated with use of low-dose or higher-dose OCs (3.26 [2.19-4.86] vs 2.71 [1.75-4.19]). This differential effect of dose in Europe and the developing countries is likely to be due to different levels of other risk factors among users of low-dose and higher-dose OCs in the two groups of countries. There was no significant increase in odds ratios with increasing duration of OC use among current users; odds ratios were not significantly increased after cessation of OC use. The incidence of ischaemic stroke is low in women of reproductive age and any risk attributable to OC use is small. The risk can be further reduced if users are younger than 35 years, do not smoke, do not have a history of hypertension, and have blood pressure measured before the start of OC use. In such women OC preparations with low oestrogen doses may be associated with even lower risk."}
{"id": "8751488", "title": "Surgical prophylaxis of recurrent stroke in patients with patent foramen ovale: a pilot study.", "content": "Surgical prophylaxis of recurrent stroke in patients with patent foramen ovale: a pilot study. Prevention of recurrent stroke in adults with patent foramen ovale represents a therapeutic challenge. Antiplatelet or anticoagulant treatment is widely introduced, but its exact indication is not known. In this pilot study, eight men and three women with previous ischemic cerebral events underwent direct surgical closure of the patent foramen ovale. Mean age was 39.4 (from 30 to 58) years. No coexisting cause of stroke was found after extensive investigations, including blood and coagulation tests, echocardiography, 24-hour three-lead electrocardiographic monitoring, extracranial and transcranial Doppler ultrasonography, and cerebral angiography. Criteria for operation also included at least two of the following: atrial septal aneurysm, multiple cerebral infarcts, a history of multiple cerebral events, and Valsalva strain before stroke. Before operation, one patient had two shunts (1 patent foramen ovale, 1 intrapulmonary shunt). No intraoperative or postoperative complications occurred, but a few hours after operation transient arrhythmias developed in two patients without atrial fibrillation, hemodynamic instability, or embolism. During a median follow-up of 12.2 months, no patient had recurrent stroke. All patients prospectively underwent brain magnetic resonance imaging and contrast echocardiography with simultaneous transcranial Doppler ultrasonography. A residual right-to-left interatrial shunt, smaller than the preoperative one, was observed in only one patient, whereas no lesion was seen on magnetic resonance imaging. Our study suggests that surgical closure of patent foramen ovale in patients with presumed paradoxic embolism is safe, with no recurrent stroke in the first year of follow-up. Further studies are needed to evaluate the long-term prognosis of patients with versus without operation and to define the role of operation as an alternative to prolonged antithrombotic treatment."}
{"id": "8738083", "title": "How should we estimate carotid stenosis using magnetic resonance angiography?", "content": "How should we estimate carotid stenosis using magnetic resonance angiography? Our purpose was to assess the reproducibility of and differences between the most commonly used methods for assessing carotid artery stenosis using magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). We studied 55 patients who underwent axial three-dimensional time-of-flight MRA (1.5 T). Quantitative caliper measurements were performed from maximum intensity projection (MIP) and multiple planar reconstruction (MPR) images, according to the criteria of the North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) and European Carotid Surgery Trial (ECST). The measurements were compared to each other and to visual interpretation, using conventional angiography as the reference. The measured percentage stenoses were higher on MRA than on digital subtraction angiography (DSA) using both NASCET (mean difference 1.9-3.0%) and ECST (6.3-6.7%) criteria. The kappa coefficients for the agreement between DSA and MRA were higher using the NASCET (0.61-0.76) than the ECST criteria (0.52-0.65). No statistically significant differences were found between measurements from MIP and MPR images. The ECST measurement criteria gave significantly higher percentage stenoses than the NASCET criteria (P < 0.001), this difference being more prominent on MRA (mean difference in diameter stenosis percentage 14.3-16.4%) than on DSA (7.6-11.2%) and most important with mild stenoses. The difference between visual interpretation and quantitative measurements on MRA was significant (P = 0.01-0.001). There were no statistically significant interobserver differences in the MRA film readings, either in visually estimated degrees of stenosis or stenosis measurements. Thus, the different criteria of the two multicentre trials led to significantly different results, especially in the assessment of mild stenosis, and these differences are more important with MRA than with DSA. Differences between the imaging modalities or the reconstruction programs seem less important."}
{"id": "8733963", "title": "Vascular MR contrast enhancement in cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Vascular MR contrast enhancement in cerebrovascular disease. To determine the significance of vascular enhancement in stroke patients with and without permanent neurologic deficit. We prospectively studied two groups of patients with spin-echo MR imaging before and after injection of gadopentetate dimeglumine. In the patients in group 1 (12 women, 22 men; age range, 32 to 76 years), who had permanent neurologic deficit caused by recent ischemic brain infarction, we obtained 3 to 13 serial MR images during follow-up examination. Group 2 consisted of 26 patients (14 women, 12 men; age range, 54 to 81 years) with transient neurologic deficit caused by angiographically proved high-grade stenosis or occlusion of the internal carotid artery. Vascular enhancement was present in 59% of patients in group 1 and in 65% of patients of group 2. In group 1, the frequency of vascular enhancement declined steadily over several weeks, but it was still present in single cases even after 3 months. Vascular enhancement correlated positively with the extent of brain infarction in group 1 and with the degree of carotid stenosis in group 2. Vascular enhancement as shown by MR imaging may herald ischemic brain infarction and could persist over several weeks in areas that show collateral flow after infarction has occurred."}
{"id": "8733962", "title": "Proton MR spectroscopy in acute middle cerebral artery stroke.", "content": "Proton MR spectroscopy in acute middle cerebral artery stroke. To investigate the feasibility of performing multisection proton MR spectroscopy in patients with acute stroke, and to determine whether this imaging technique can depict ischemic or infarcted brain regions. Multisection proton MR spectroscopy, MR imaging, and MR angiography were performed within 24 hours of stroke onset (mean, 12 hours) in 12 patients who had had a stroke of the middle cerebral artery. Spectra were analyzed from brain regions containing T2 hyperintensity abnormalities on MR images, from regions immediately adjacent to these abnormalities, and from anatomically similar contralateral regions. Areas of brain containing lactate were compared with areas of T2 hyperintensities on MR images. One data set was discarded because of excessive artifacts from patient motion. Regions of T2 hyperintensities on MR images were found to contain elevated lactate (all 11 cases) and reduced N-acetyl-aspartate (10 of 11 cases) relative to contralateral measurements. Lactate levels in regions adjacent to T2 hyperintensities were not significantly different from those of infarcted brain. On the other hand, N-acetyl-aspartate was significantly lower in regions of infarction compared with periinfarct tissue. Areas of brain containing elevated lactate significantly exceeded those of T2 abnormality. Proton MR spectroscopy is feasible for imaging patients with acute stroke. In the early stages of stroke, tissue containing elevated lactate but no other spectroscopic or MR imaging abnormality can be identified. Such regions may represent an ischemic zone at risk of infarction."}
{"id": "8714485", "title": "[Cerebral hemorrhage and migraine].", "content": "[Cerebral hemorrhage and migraine]. The connection between migraine and brain haemorrhage is controversial. We present the case of eight nonhypertense patients all aged under 57 with migraine antecedents who suffered brain haemorrhage during an attack. All underwent analytical study, chest X-ray, electrocardiography, computerized tomography scan and brain panangiography. The study was completed in six cases with an immunological analysis and in a further five with brain magnetic resonance. Seven patients habitually took vasoactive drugs to relieve migraine. The results do not show any other cause of brain haemorrhage. It is possible haemorrhage may be related to vascular lesion brought about by ischaemia secondary to vasospasms."}
{"id": "8711628", "title": "[Neuroradiological studies and findings in stroke].", "content": "[Neuroradiological studies and findings in stroke]. This overview is about today's radiologic diagnostic possibilities in acute stroke. Despite many improvements in MR technology, CT is still the method of choice for most of these patients. Contrary to a long existing opinion, CT is a good diagnostic instrument even in the early phase of acute ischemic stroke. In combination with the new helical CT technique [CT angiography] all important questions regarding early therapeutic decisions can be answered. New MR perfusion techniques are just on the way to clinical application. Invasive angiography is only rarely indicated in acute ischemic stroke. The diagnosis of intracerebral hemorrhage is also mainly CT-based. MR and DSA are mandatory for further evaluation of the etiology of the hemorrhage. Nowadays, DSA is not longer mandatory for the diagnosis of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis. In some patients CT is already diagnostic; the combination of different MR and MRA techniques nearly always allows a definite diagnosis or exclusion of a venous thrombosis."}
{"id": "8692408", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiographic screening for asymptomatic intracranial aneurysms: the problem of false negatives: technical case report.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiographic screening for asymptomatic intracranial aneurysms: the problem of false negatives: technical case report. To emphasize the limitations of magnetic resonance angiographic screening for intracranial aneurysms, we present the case of a patient with a false-negative screening result, unfortunately advancing to rupture of the aneurysm. An asymptomatic woman underwent magnetic resonance angiographic screening in an investigational setting. Three years later, she had an onset of sudden headache, after which her condition rapidly deteriorated. Severe subarachnoid hemorrhage and an intracerebral hematoma were diagnosed. Conventional angiography detected a small ruptured middle cerebral artery trifurcation aneurysm and two very small aneurysms. There are still limitations in the ability of magnetic resonance angiography to detect small or very small aneurysms. Even small-probability findings should always be confirmed or excluded by conventional angiography."}
{"id": "8678339", "title": "Unusual appearance of intracranial fibromuscular dysplasia. A case report.", "content": "Unusual appearance of intracranial fibromuscular dysplasia. A case report. Fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) of intracranial arteries is seen rarely and usually limited to the intrapetrosal internal carotid artery or carotid siphon. The authors report a case with recurrent subarachnoid hemorrhage diagnosed angiographically as FMD with extensive involvement of intracranial arteries. Angiography showed large fusiform dilatations and multiple aneurysms along the left intracranial internal carotid artery into its major branches, middle cerebral and posterior communicating arteries, and tip of the basilar and posterior cerebral arteries. Such an angiographic appearance has not been previously reported. Radiologic findings are demonstrated and possible pathophysiologic mechanisms are discussed."}
{"id": "8677008", "title": "[Bilateral chronic subdural hematomas presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage: report of two cases].", "content": "[Bilateral chronic subdural hematomas presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage: report of two cases]. Computed tomography (CT) findings of chronic subdural hematomas are usually diagnostic, unless hematomas are isodense and bilateral. The authors report two cases of bilateral chronic subdural hematomas, in which CT scans on admission were both misdiagnosed as delayed subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The first case was a 43-year-old woman who suffered from a sudden onset of headache and nausea. She had no past history of head injury. CT scans on admission did not clearly reveal the Sylvian fissures and the mesencephalic cistern, without any mass effects. A lumbar puncture demonstrated xanthochromic cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), which was considered to be responsible for her headache. Cerebral angiography performed on day 4 failed to demonstrate any cerebral vascular disorders. Follow-up CT scans on day 7 demonstrated a high density lesion in the left subdural space. Magnetic resonance images (MRIs) confirmed a diagnosis of bilateral chronic subdural hematomas. Removal of the hematomas cleared all signs and symptoms smoothly. The second case was a 44-year-old man who was referred from another hospital because of xanthochromic CSF found by lumbar puncture. He began to suffer headache and be subject to vomiting 6 weeks earlier and these symptoms were still present on the day of admission. CT scans did not clearly show the cerebral cisterns without mass effects. Because the second lumbar puncture showed xanthochromic CSF again, SAH from aneurysm was suspected. However, emergency cerebral angiography failed to demonstrate cerebral aneurysms. MRI performed two days later demonstrated bilateral chronic subdural hematomas. Following surgery, the patient improved immediately and was discharged from hospital without any complications. In both cases, a retrospective study of the angiograms revealed the evidence of bilateral avascular areas over the convexities in the venous phase. The reason why these subdural hematomas were missed at the time of angiography was due to too much attention being paid to the arterial phase in an effort aimed only at identifying cerebral aneurysms. There are no reports of chronic subdural hematoma which demonstrated sudden onset of headache associated with xanthochromic CSF."}
{"id": "8676838", "title": "Diagnostic testing for the evaluation of headaches.", "content": "Diagnostic testing for the evaluation of headaches. Headaches are one of the most common symptoms that neurologists evaluate. Although most are caused by primary disorders, the list differential diagnoses is one of the longest in all of medicine, with over 300 different types and causes. The cause or type of most headaches can be determined by a careful history supplemented by a general and neurologic examination. Reasons for obtaining neuroimaging include medical indications as well as anxiety of patients and families and medico-legal concerns. In the era of managed care, concerns over deselection and negative capitation may dissuade the physician from ordering even a medically indicated scan. The yield of neuroimaging in the evaluation of patients with headache and a normal neurologic examination is quite low. Combining the results of multiple studies performed since 1977 for a total of 3026 scans reveals the overall percentages of various pathologies as: brain tumors, 0.8%; arteriovenous malformations, 0.2%; hydrocephalus, 0.3%; aneurysm, 0.1%; subdural hematoma, 0.2%; and strokes, including chronic ischemic processes, 1.2%. EEG is not useful in the routine evaluation of patients with headache. Similarly, the yield of neuroimaging in the evaluation of migraine is quite low. Combining the results of multiple studies performed since 1976 for a total of 1440 scans of patients with various types of migraine, the overall percentages of various pathologies are: brain tumor, 0.3%; arteriovenous malformation, 0.07%; and saccular aneurysm, 0.07%. WMA have been reported on MRI studies of patients with all types of migraine, with a range from 12% to 46%. The cause of WMA in migraine is not certain. Cerebral atrophy has been variable reported as more frequent and no more frequent in migraineurs compared with controls. The \"first or worst\" headache has a long list of possible causes and always includes the possibility of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. Headaches--especially the sentinel type caused by SAH--often are misdiagnosed. The probability of detecting an aneurysmal hemorrhage of CT scans performed at various intervals after the ictus is: day 0.95%; day 3, 74%; 1 week, 50%; 2 weeks, 30%; and 3 weeks, almost nil. The location of a ruptured saccular aneurysm often is suggested by the predominant site of the SAH. The probability of detecting xanthochromia with spectrophotometry in the CSF at various times after a subarachnoid hemorrhage is: 12 hours, 100%; 1 week, 100%; 2 weeks, 100%; 3 weeks, more than 70%; and 4 weeks, more than 40%. The management of thunderclap headaches with normal CT scan and CSF examinations is controversial. Most patients have a benign course but an unruptured saccular aneurysm occasionally may be responsible for the headache. MR angiography may be a reasonable test to obtain instead of a cerebral arteriogram in many of these cases. About 30% to 90% of patients have headaches of various types and causes after mild head injury. Although most headaches are relatively benign, perhaps 1% to 3% of these patients have life-threatening pathology, including subdural and epidural hematomas, that are detected on CT and MRI scans. Headaches caused by subdural hematomas can be nonspecific. When new-onset headaches begin in patients over the age of 50 years, the physician always should consider whether it may be a secondary headache disorder requiring specific diagnostic testing and treatment. Up to 15% of patients 65 years and over who present to neurologists with new-onset headaches may have serious pathology such as stroke, TA, neoplasm, and subdural hematoma. Headaches are the most common symptom of TA, reported by 60% to 90%. The only over the temple. The diagnosis of TA is based on a high index of clinical suspicion that usually but not always is confirmed by laboratory testing. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate can be normal in 10% to 36% of patients with TA. A superficial temporal artery biopsy can give a false-negative result in 5% to 44% of patients."}
{"id": "8672775", "title": "[MRI tomographic blood volume measurements in the diagnosis of a stroke: the results of a clinical pilot study].", "content": "[MRI tomographic blood volume measurements in the diagnosis of a stroke: the results of a clinical pilot study]. In this study the sensitivity of proving a stroke using regional cerebral blood volume (rCBV) maps were investigated. Another aim was to evaluate the strength of the ischaemia. Seven patients were examined during the acute phase of a stroke, eight during the subacute or chronically stage. To calculate rCBV-maps of one slice low dosed Gd-DTPA was injected as a bolus. Using the relaxation-effect the obtained signal intensity-time curves were converted pixel-wise to rCBV images. For the region of the infarction rCBV ratios were calculated relative to the corresponding area in the contralateral hemisphere. Only 63% of the investigations carried out during the acute phase were utilizable. In all those cases a decrease of rCBV was found. The infarct area could only visually recognized if the rCBV ratio was lower than 0.7. The ratios of completely and partial necrotic areas of the infarctions were 0.481 and 1.028 respectively. With a p = 0.0015 these values are even statistically different. During the acute stage the sensitivity of the rCBV measurement was not as high as that of morphological MR imaging. However, rCBV maps make it possible to estimate the strength of the ischaemia even during the first hours."}
{"id": "8651876", "title": "Cerebrovascular complications of neurocysticercosis. Clinical and neuroimaging spectrum.", "content": "Cerebrovascular complications of neurocysticercosis. Clinical and neuroimaging spectrum. To describe the clinical and neuroimaging spectrum of cerebral Cysticercus arteritis to clarify the mechanisms of a stroke that is associated with neurocysticercosis. Case series. Tertiary care center. Sixty-five patients with strokes that were associated with neurocysticercosis. Based on the extension of cysticercosis, the study group was divided into patients with focal or diffuse cysticercal disease. Patients with focal affection were subdivided into those with small- and large-vessel angiitis. For each group. stroke syndromes, mode of onset, associated neurologic syndromes, neuroimaging features of cysticercosis and cerebral infarcts, angiographic and cerebrospinal fluid findings, and outcome were analyzed. Thirty-five patients had focal cysticercosis (13 with small-and 22 with large-vessel angiitis), and 30 had diffuse disease with either small-or large-vessel involvement. A high frequency of subarachnoidal cysts was found, neighboring the ischemic area. Patients with focal cysticercosis has a vascular onset in 80% compared with 20% in those with diffuse cysticercosis (P<.001). Distinctive findings in diffuse cysticercosis were hydrocephalus (80%), multiple cerebral infarcts (64%), and mental disorders (43%) (P<.001). There was a close parallelism between the type of cysticercosis and the degree of cerebrospinal fluid inflammatory changes, reflecting in the outcome. Death or incapacitating sequelae were associated with diffuse cysticercosis, and total recovery was common in patients with focal disease and small-vessel angiitis, whereas intermediate morbimortality occurred with focal cysticercosis and large-vessel vasculitis. Based on the distribution of cysticercal disease and the severity of concomitant chronic arachnoiditis, it is possible to identify a wide spectrum of cerebrovascular involvement caused by neurocysticercosis."}
{"id": "8650720", "title": "Performance of carotid ultrasound in evaluating candidates for carotid endarterectomy is optimized by an approach based on clinical outcome rather than accuracy.", "content": "Performance of carotid ultrasound in evaluating candidates for carotid endarterectomy is optimized by an approach based on clinical outcome rather than accuracy. The best method of selecting endarterectomy candidates for cerebral angiography is controversial. Carotid duplex ultrasound (CDUS) is widely used, but its performance varies across institutions. The clinical utility of CDUS could be improved with test criteria based on patient outcome rather than test accuracy. In 155 carotid bifurcations studied by CDUS and cerebral angiography, the degree of angiographic stenosis was measured by a reader, blinded to CDUS, using the North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) method. We calculated accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity for predicting > or = 70% angiographic carotid stenosis of different peak systolic frequencies (PSF) measured by CDUS and generated a receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve. We used NASCET outcome data and published data on angiographic complications to define relative \"costs\" of false-positive and false-negative CDUS, and we determined the point on the ROC curve representing the CDUS criterion with the highest clinical utility. We compared projected morbidity and mortality rates for 1000 hypothetical endarterectomy candidates resulting from the use of the most accurate CDUS criterion versus the CDUS criterion with the highest clinical utility by ROC analysis. While PSF > or = 8 kHz had the highest CDUS accuracy (93%), its projected stroke and death rate due to CDUS error was 10.4/1000. On the other hand, PSF > or = 7 kHz, defined by ROC analysis to have the highest clinical utility, had a lower morbidity and mortality rate of 6.8/1000. The use of ROC analysis and available outcome data can improve the performance of CDUS in selecting endarterectomy candidates for cerebral angiography."}
{"id": "8650719", "title": "Assessment of regional cerebral blood volume in acute human stroke by use of single-slice dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Assessment of regional cerebral blood volume in acute human stroke by use of single-slice dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical usefulness of dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced MRI (DSC-MRI) in acute cerebral ischemia. During bolus injection of gadolinium-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid, a series of rapid T2*-weighted images was recorded from one slice. Concentration-time curves and images of regional cerebral blood volume (rCBV) were calculated from this data set. DSC-MRI, MR angiography, conventional spin-echo MRI (SE-MRI), and CT were performed in 11 patients within 6 hours after stroke onset and before thrombolytic or anticoagulant treatment was begun. A follow-up MRI examination was performed 24 to 48 hours after stroke onset. In 7 of 11 patients (group 1) with territorial infarcts of the middle (n = 6) or posterior cerebral artery (n = 1), DSC-MRI showed reduced rCBV in the affected territory before conventional SE-MRI displayed ischemic lesions. DSC-MRI was helpful to differentiate severely ischemic tissue from peri-infarct parenchyma. Partial reperfusion (n = 3), unchanged reduction of rCBV (n = 2), and progressive reduction of rCBV (n = 2) were observed in the follow-up study. Normal DSC-MRI findings were present in 4 of 11 patients (group 2) with lacunar infarcts. DSC-MRI accomplished the detection of the ischemic territory in the very early stage (< 6 hours) before SE-MRI delivered unequivocal results. DSC-MRI might be helpful to discriminate completely ischemic tissue from potentially salvageable ischemic parenchyma at risk and may play an important role in stroke therapy and evaluation."}
{"id": "8650718", "title": "Variability of magnetic resonance angiography and computed tomography angiography in grading middle cerebral artery stenosis.", "content": "Variability of magnetic resonance angiography and computed tomography angiography in grading middle cerebral artery stenosis. Magnetic resonance angiography and computed tomography angiography are new, noninvasive methods to provide images of the cerebral vasculature. The reliability of magnetic resonance angiography and computed tomography angiography when used to grade middle cerebral artery stenosis remains to be established. We sought to study the interobserver and intraobserver variabilities of magnetic resonance angiography and computed tomography angiography in grading middle cerebral artery stenosis. A total of 50 middle cerebral arteries in 25 patients were studied with magnetic resonance angiography and computed tomography angiography. All patients had a history of ischemic stroke. The films were read independently by two observers on separate occasions. Films were shown again to the same observer 4 weeks after the first reading. The degree of middle cerebral artery stenosis was categorized into four grades: normal/mild, moderate, severe, and occluded. The interobserver and intraobserver variabilities were calculated by the kappa statistic method. Interobserver variability for grading middle cerebral artery stenosis was good (kappa = 0.78) for magnetic resonance angiography and moderate (kappa = 0.51) for computed tomography angiography. There was perfect agreement between two observers in 86% of the vessels shown in magnetic resonance angiography and in 76% of the vessels shown in computed tomography angiography. Intraobserver variability for both imaging methods was good, with the kappa value in the range of 0.70 to 0.76. Our results suggest that according to our protocol, magnetic resonance angiography is more reliable than computed tomography angiography in grading middle cerebral artery stenosis."}
{"id": "8644951", "title": "Stenotic origin of an aberrant left subclavian artery from a right-sided aortic arch. A case report.", "content": "Stenotic origin of an aberrant left subclavian artery from a right-sided aortic arch. A case report. A patient with a right-sided aortic arch giving origin to an aberrant left subclavian artery with circumferential ostial stenosis is reported. This asymptomatic anomaly was discovered serendipitously during cerebral arteriography for subarachnoid hemorrhage. The embryologic origin of this anatomic variant is discussed, as are some practical implications relating to the angiographic technique of selective catheterization of branches of the aortic arch."}
{"id": "8641094", "title": "Comparison of magnetic resonance angiography with conventional angiography in the detection of intracranial aneurysms in patients presenting with subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "Comparison of magnetic resonance angiography with conventional angiography in the detection of intracranial aneurysms in patients presenting with subarachnoid haemorrhage. Thirty-nine patients admitted with proven subarachnoid haemorrhage were imaged both with 3-D time of flight (TOF) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and conventional angiography. As the definitive examination, catheter angiography demonstrated 37 aneurysms; ten patients had no aneurysm, the remaining 29 patients had 37 aneurysms. We found the sensitivity of 3-D TOF MRA for the detection of aneurysms to be 81% and specificity to be 100% when the reporting radiologist inspects not only the MIP reconstructions but also the MRA source data and the axial spin-echo images. The investigation is less accurate if all the available imaging data is not considered."}
{"id": "8634493", "title": "Detection of vasospasm by transcranial Doppler sonography. The challenges of the anterior and posterior cerebral arteries.", "content": "Detection of vasospasm by transcranial Doppler sonography. The challenges of the anterior and posterior cerebral arteries. Little information exists on the utility of transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) in detecting anterior (ACA) and posterior cerebral artery (PCA) vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage. During the period at risk for vasospasm, 53 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage who had technically adequate TCD performed within 24 hours of cerebral angiography, allowing evaluation of 87 ACAs and 84 PCAs, were studied. ACA and PCA vasospasm were defined by mean blood flow velocities of at least 120 cm/sec and at least 90 cm/sec, respectively. For detection of ACA vasospasm, sensitivity was 18% and specificity was 65%. For PCA vasospasm, sensitivity was 48% and specificity was 69%. False-positive findings for occlusion accounted for 12 (92%) of 13 ACA of false-positive results and 7 (37%) of 19 PCA false-positive results, and were most often due to anatomical factors and operator error or inexperience. After exclusion of both true-positive and false-positive findings for occlusion and changes in the diagnostic criterion to at least 130 cm/sec for ACA vasospasm and at least 110 cm/sec for PCA vasospasm, specificity improved for both types of vasospasms (100 and 93%, respectively). However, the sensitivity of TCD to detect ACA and PCA vasospasm is limited by a variety of anatomical, technical, and other factors. It is concluded that TCD is highly specific in detecting both ACA and PCA vasospasm on arteries that can be insonated."}
{"id": "8623965", "title": "Brain tissue oxygen, carbon dioxide, and pH in neurosurgical patients at risk for ischemia.", "content": "Brain tissue oxygen, carbon dioxide, and pH in neurosurgical patients at risk for ischemia. A sensor that measures oxygen pressure (PO2), carbon dioxide pressure (PCO2), and pH was evaluated in brain tissue of patients at risk for ischemia. The sensor is 0.5 mm in diameter and was inserted into cortex tissue in 14 patients undergoing craniotomy for cerebrovascular surgery. A compromised cerebral circulation was identified in 8 of 14 patients by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scan, cerebral angiography, and transient ischemic episodes before surgery. Under baseline conditions with isoflurane anesthesia and normal blood gases, tissue P02 was lower in the eight compromised compared to six noncompromised patients (noncompromised 37 +/- 12 mm Hg, compromised 10 +/- 5 mm Hg; P < 0.05), PCO2 was increased (noncompromised 49 +/- 5 mm Hg, compromised 72 +/- 23 mm Hg; P < 0.05), and pH was decreased (noncompromised 7.16 +/- 0.08, compromised 6.82 +/- 0.21; P < 0.05). Critical tissue values for the identification of ischemia were a P02 of 20 mm Hg, PCO2 of 60 mm Hg, and a pH of 7.0. These results suggest that brain tissue measures of P02, PCO2, and pH provide information on the adequacy of cerebral perfusion in neurosurgical patients."}
{"id": "8613833", "title": "Ultra-early rebleeding in spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Ultra-early rebleeding in spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage. To determine the incidence of, and risk factors for, the occurrence of rebleeding between admission and early operation (ultra-early rebleeding) in patients with spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), the authors reviewed the cases of 179 patients admitted within 24 hours after their last attack of SAH. Thirty-one (17.3%) of these patients had ultra-early rebleeding despite scheduling of early operation (within 24 hours after admission). The incidence of rebleeding significantly decreased as the time interval between the last attack and admission increased. Patients with rebleeding before admission, high systolic blood pressure, intracerebral or intraventricular hematoma, those in poor neurological condition on admission, and those who underwent angiography within 6 hours of the last SAH were significantly more likely to have ultra-early rebleeding than those without these factors. The incidence of rebleeding also significantly increased as levels of enhancement of platelet sensitivity and thrombin-antithrombin complex increased. Multivariate analysis revealed that the following three factors were independently associated with ultra-early rebleeding: the level of enhancement of platelet sensitivity; the time interval between the last attack and admission; and the level of thrombin-antithrombin complex. On the basis of these findings, the authors suggest that many of the risk factors for ultra-early rebleeding are interrelated. A particularly high risk of ultra-early rebleeding was observed in those patients 1) who had platelet hypoaggregability; 2) who were admitted shortly after their last SAH; and 3) whose thrombin-antithrombin complex levels were extremely high and were thus in severe clinical condition."}
{"id": "8609558", "title": "Color transcranial \"power\" Doppler ultrasound of intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Color transcranial \"power\" Doppler ultrasound of intracranial aneurysms. \"Color Doppler energy\" (or \"power Doppler\"), a new color Doppler ultrasound technique that is independent of flow direction and very sensitive to movement, was assessed for its use in the identification of intracranial aneurysms in patients with recent subarachnoid hemorrhage immediately prior to using cerebral angiography. Features that identified aneurysms using this technique included the appearance of abnormal color where no normal artery was expected, abnormal bulging of an artery, and greater \"expansibility\" of the aneurysm in comparison to an adjacent normal vessel. In this exploratory study, 30 of 33 aneurysms were correctly identified in 35 patients with a good bone window. Color Doppler energy is considerably more sensitive to intracranial blood flow than conventional color Doppler imaging. Color Doppler energy is a useful research tool; if these preliminary results are verified in larger series, in addition to examination for vasospasm, the technique could be used for identification and follow up of aneurysms."}
{"id": "8607669", "title": "Valve replacement in patients with endocarditis and acute neurologic deficit.", "content": "Valve replacement in patients with endocarditis and acute neurologic deficit. Acute neurologic deficits occur in up to 40% of patients with left heart endocarditis. Appropriate evaluation and management of patients with acute neurologic dysfunction who require valve operations for endocarditis remain controversial. This retrospective review was undertaken to develop recommendations for the evaluation and treatment of these challenging patients. From 1983 to 1995, 247 patients underwent operations for left heart native valve endocarditis at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. From a review of medical and pathology records, 34 patients (14%) with preoperative neurologic deficits were identified. Data on these 34 patients were recorded and analyzed. Causes of neurologic dysfunction included embolic cerebrovascular accident (n = 23, 68%), embolic cerebrovascular accident with hemorrhage (n = 4, 12%), ruptured mycotic aneurysm (n = 3, 9%), transient ischemic attack (n = 2, 6%), and meningitis (n = 2, 6%). Preoperative diagnostic studies included computed tomography (32 patients), magnetic resonance imaging (11 patients), cerebral angiogram (14 patients), and lumbar puncture (2 patients). Computed tomography demonstrated structural lesions in 29 of 32 patients; in only 1 patient did magnetic resonance imaging reveal a lesion not already seen on computed tomography. Of 14 patients having cerebral angiograms, 7 had a mycotic aneurysm. Three mycotic aneurysms had ruptured, and these were clipped before cardiac operations. The mean interval from onset of neurologic deficit to cardiac operation was 22.2 +/- 2.8 days for all patients and 22.1 +/- 3.0 days for those with embolic cerebrovascular accident. The hospital mortality rate was 6%. New or worse neurologic deficits occurred in 2 patients (6%). Neurologic deficits are common in patients with endocarditis referred for cardiac operations. Despite substantial preoperative morbidity, most of these patients do well if the operation can be delayed for 2 to 3 weeks. Computed tomography scan is the preoperative imaging technique of choice, as routine magnetic resonance imaging and cerebral angiogram are unrewarding. Cerebral angiogram is indicated only if computed tomography reveals hemorrhage."}
{"id": "8602745", "title": "Imaging stroke in progress.", "content": "Imaging stroke in progress."}
{"id": "8596897", "title": "[Functional imaging of the brain].", "content": "[Functional imaging of the brain]."}
{"id": "8565799", "title": "[Beh\u00e7et disease with primary involvement of the cerebral vessels].", "content": "[Beh\u00e7et disease with primary involvement of the cerebral vessels]. Two months after the onset of mainly frontal headaches a 25-year-old man of Turkish descent additionally developed double vision. Fundoscopy revealed bilateral choked discs and right trochlear paralysis. Computed tomography and digital subtraction angiography demonstrated thrombosis of the superior sagittal sinus. On admission to hospital the patient was fully conscious but had marked meningism, bilaterally positive Las\u00e8gue's sign (painful straight leg raising) at a 50 degree angle, and multiple oral aphthous ulcers. The sinus thrombosis suggested a chronic inflammatory process, while the oral ulcers pointed to Beh\u00e7et's syndrome. Inflammatory parameters (erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein and white blood cell count) were increased and the HLA-B27 test was positive. Other laboratory tests, cerebrospinal fluid, chest radiogram and ECG were unremarkable. Despite intravenous administration of heparin nad cefuroxim for one week the sagittal sinus thrombosis spread to the straight sinus. In the third week scrotal ulcerations were noted and taken to confirm Beh\u00e7et's syndrome. Immunosuppressive treatment with methylprednisolone (initially 80 mg daily) and 2 weeks later together with chlorambucil (0.1 mg/kg daily) was started. Four weeks later the patient was free of symptoms and discharged. Neurological signs are not adequately stressed by the International Study Group for Beh\u00e7et's Disease among its listed diagnostic criteria."}
{"id": "8553412", "title": "Cerebrovascular disease assessed by color-flow and power Doppler ultrasonography. Comparison with digital subtraction angiography in internal carotid artery stenosis.", "content": "Cerebrovascular disease assessed by color-flow and power Doppler ultrasonography. Comparison with digital subtraction angiography in internal carotid artery stenosis. An understanding of carotid atherosclerosis is important to further our knowledge regarding the etiology of cerebral ischemia, and therefore it is necessary to accurately visualize carotid stenosis. The purpose of the present study was to compare different imaging techniques to determine their advantages and disadvantages in the diagnosis and quantification of middle- and high-grade internal carotid artery stenosis. In particular, we were interested in evaluating the effectiveness of the new ultrasound technique power Doppler. Fifty-four patients with greater than 50% extracranial internal carotid artery stenosis, as determined by continuous-wave Doppler, were recruited prospectively to serve as subjects. All subjects were examined with color-flow Doppler, power Doppler, and digital subtraction angiography to enable visualization of carotid stenosis and plaque surface morphology. Thirty-four middle-grade stenoses (50% to 69%), 32 high-grade stenoses (70% to 99%), and 7 complete occlusions of the internal carotid artery were diagnosed with the use of digital subtraction angiography. Power Doppler visualized stenosis significantly more frequently and accurately than color-flow Doppler. Color-flow Doppler tended to overestimate and underestimate in patients with both middle- and high-grade stenosis. Power Doppler was superior to both color-flow Doppler and angiography with regard to differentiation of plaque surface morphology. This study demonstrates that power Doppler is an important, noninvasive imaging technique that has several advantages over color-flow Doppler in diagnosing carotid artery stenosis and visualizing plaque surface. Power Doppler, used in concert with other ultrasound techniques, should enable a more accurate detection and treatment of cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "8553400", "title": "Role of insulin resistance associated with compensatory hyperinsulinemia in ischemic stroke.", "content": "Role of insulin resistance associated with compensatory hyperinsulinemia in ischemic stroke. Although insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, little is known about their roles in ischemic stroke. The purpose of this study was to clarify whether insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia are causative factors in the pathogenesis of ischemic stroke. Thirty-four consecutive patients with ischemic stroke, who were normotensive, nondiabetic, and not obese, were classified into three groups--atherothrombotic infarction (n = 16), lacunar infarction (n = 10), and cardioembolic infarction (n = 8)--based on clinical findings, brain imaging, and cerebral angiography. Both oral glucose tolerance tests and lipid analyses were performed. Insulin sensitivity was determined by the steady state plasma glucose method with the use of octreotide acetate. Data were compared with those of healthy control subjects (n = 15). Steady state plasma glucose levels were significantly higher in the atherothrombotic infarction group compared with control subjects and the other two stroke groups, indicating the presence of insulin resistance in patients with atherothrombotic infarction. In the atherothrombotic infarction group, the 2-hour insulin area (area under the plasma insulin concentration curve) during a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test was significantly increased and dyslipidemic changes (increased triglyceride and apolipoprotein B, decreased high-density lipoprotein) were observed, whereas these changes were not found in the lacunar infarction and cardioembolic stroke groups. Insulin resistance in association with compensatory hyperinsulinemia and dyslipidemia may be an important pathogenetic factor underlying the development of atherothrombotic infarction."}
{"id": "10159845", "title": "MRA depicts vascular lesions in head and neck.", "content": "MRA depicts vascular lesions in head and neck."}
{"id": "9027064", "title": "[The diagnosis of arteriovenous malformations of the brain by transcranial dopplerography (the potentials of complex noninvasive neurosonoradiological diagnosis)].", "content": "[The diagnosis of arteriovenous malformations of the brain by transcranial dopplerography (the potentials of complex noninvasive neurosonoradiological diagnosis)]. Under analysis were results of diagnostics in 89 patients with suspected arteriovenous malformations (AVM) obtained by the method of ROC-analysis. The examination included computed tomography (CT) and transcranial dopplerography (TCDG) performed by the standard method. The total sensitivity of TCDG in diagnosing AVMs as a nosological form was 89.5% which is considerably higher than the possibilities of CT. Malformation having a torpid course were diagnosed correctly reliably more often (100%) than those with hemorrhagic debut (78.6%). Most perspective is the principle of unity of \"morphological\" and functional methods of noninvasive diagnostics. Sensitivity of the complex diagnostics of AVMs was 92.9%, diagnostics of malformations with a torpid course being without errors."}
{"id": "8965272", "title": "Limitations of invasive modalities in the diagnosis of primary angiitis of the central nervous system.", "content": "Limitations of invasive modalities in the diagnosis of primary angiitis of the central nervous system."}
{"id": "8839004", "title": "Ischaemic stroke from cerebral embolism in cephalic fibromuscular dysplasia.", "content": "Ischaemic stroke from cerebral embolism in cephalic fibromuscular dysplasia. Fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) of the internal carotid arteries and its relationship with focal cerebral ischaemia is unproven. This vasculopathy is often detected incidentally during a cerebral angiogram for non-ischaemic cerebral events. FMD affects the proximal one-third of the internal carotid artery in almost all cases and is bilateral in 60% to 85%, with middle-aged women affected in 85% of the cases. Ischaemic stroke has been postulated to result from severe stenosis or thrombotic occlusion at the FMD site. Cerebral embolism from FMD has rarely been reported. We report 3 young patients with acute ischaemic stroke who had FMD on cerebral angiography. They presented with a focal hemispheric stroke where the probable pathophysiology is embolism to the distal internal carotid artery from thrombus formed at the proximal FMD site. The patients were all males, with unilateral proximal internal carotid artery FMD lesions and occlusion of the internal carotid artery distally on the same side. All were extensively investigated and no other causes for stroke were found."}
{"id": "8796973", "title": "Abnormal venous drainage in periventricular leukomalacia.", "content": "Abnormal venous drainage in periventricular leukomalacia. Age-matched six control subjects and 14 selected paediatric patients with periventricular leukomalacia were prospectively studied by MR imaging, and MR angiography. MR angiograms were acquired utilizing either the three-dimensional phase-contrast (3D-PC) or the two-dimensional time-of-flight (2D-TOF) techniques, or both, in an axial slab centred to the centrum semiovale. Abnormal draining veins (slightly enlarged and long vessels with abnormal courses) were found in eight of 14 patients (57%). In five of these eight patients (62.5%) abnormal vessels were identified on conventional MR imaging (spin-echo, T2-weighted and flow sensitive images), while the 3D-PC or 2D-TOF angiograms demonstrated the abnormal vessels in all the patients (100%). Usually there was single abnormal vessel at the region of interest. These vessels should not be misinterpreted as arteriovenous malformations or venous malformations."}
{"id": "8771168", "title": "Antiphospholipid antibody syndrome in childhood strokes.", "content": "Antiphospholipid antibody syndrome in childhood strokes. The significance of antiphospholipid antibodies was examined in patients with childhood strokes. Eight patients, aged 2-13 years, who presented with acute hemiplegia were studied. On the basis of magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance angiography, single photon emission computed tomography, and cerebral angiographic findings, 3 children were diagnosed as having infarctions due to moyamoya disease, and the others as having idiopathic infarctions. Serologic studies revealed elevated anticardiolipin antibody (ACA) IgG in 3 of the 5 patients with idiopathic infarction; no such elevation was revealed in patients with moyamoya disease. Values for all other tests, including ACA IgM and lupus anticoagulant, were within normal limits or negative in all patients. ACA IgG, therefore, may be a more important causative agent of childhood strokes than was previously considered."}
{"id": "8752466", "title": "[The current role of cerebral angiography in diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease].", "content": "[The current role of cerebral angiography in diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease]. The role of cerebral angiography in diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease has changed considerably because of the increasing availability of neuroimaging (CT, MRI), especially MR angiography (MRA). MRA has almost entirely taken the place of cerebral angiography as a screening procedure in evaluation of the cervical carotid arteries and main trunks of intracranial arteries. However, detection of accurate morphological changes of arterial walls requires cerebral angiography, especially in cases of arteritis, arterial dissection and aneurysm of smaller than 3 mm in diameter. Cerebral angiography is still needed in order to obtain a more precise three dimensional concept of the vascular lesion, esp. in vascular malformations, their detailed blood supply, venous drainage and even for a mere (but definitive) diagnosis in some cases. Angiography is essential in preoperative surgical planning, for evaluation of residual AVM after surgery, etc. Technically, intraarterial stereoscopic DSA and serial cerebral angiography in stereoscopic magnification are most useful for angiographic diagnosis. Intravenous DSA has no advantage over MRA and is therefore no longer a useful diagnostic procedure. Cerebral angiography is also useful for evaluation of cerebral circulation which is most useful in conjunction with SPECT study. Although interventional neuroradiology has made a significant stride in the past, it requires further technical improvements and more skillful performance in the future."}
{"id": "8752465", "title": "[MRA].", "content": "[MRA]. With the recent development of MR techniques, it has become possible to obtain angiographic images (MRA) of relatively good quality with use of MR. The major indications of MRA have been to elucidate the MR findings on spin echo images when vascular lesions are suspected and to use MRA for conventional angiography when the latter is contra-indicated or additional information is needed. Follow-up studies of vascular diseases can be easily performed with MRA. The sensitivity of this technique for cerebral aneurysms is 73.6%, whereas specificity is 76.2%. The sensitivity and specificity for cerebrovascular diseases are 88.7% and 97.4% for stenoses of more than 50.0%. Because of rather limited diagnostic accuracy, this technique cannot be applied freely for screening of cerebral diseases, especially in mass survey for unruptured cerebral aneurysms. There have been many new techniques proposed for improvement of spatial resolution of MRA, including magnitisation transfer contrast (MTC), tilted optimized non-satulation excitation (TONE) and high resolution images. With full development of these new techniques, MRA will be used more freely in the diagnosis of vascular diseases."}
{"id": "8695535", "title": "Arterio-venous malformations (AVM) hemorrhage in children: the importance of nursing neurological assessment during the acute phase and early recovery.", "content": "Arterio-venous malformations (AVM) hemorrhage in children: the importance of nursing neurological assessment during the acute phase and early recovery. Arterio-venous malformation (AVM) is a rare phenomenon in children. However, when this event does occur, the outcome can be devastating. This paper outlines the underlying pathogenesis of AVM and the early clinical features associated with an AVM bleed. Clinical manifestations include hemorrhage, seizures, headaches, bruit and congestive heart failure in neonates. Common diagnostic studies include cranial ultrasound, cerebral angiography, CT scan, MRI, brain scan, EEG, skull films, lumber puncture and blood flow studies. Treatment for AVM bleeds includes conservative management, surgical intervention, flow-directed embolization and laser beam/proton beam radiation. The components of a nursing neurological assessment are illustrated best in a case study. Steps in the press include: pre-bleed/pre-operature control, fluid and electrolytes, nutrition, musculoskeletal and emotional support."}
{"id": "8657884", "title": "[Magnetic resonance angiography of intracranial aneurysms after subarachnoid hemorrhage].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance angiography of intracranial aneurysms after subarachnoid hemorrhage]. Magnetic resonance angiography is now commercially available for a variety of scanners and is being increasingly applied in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disorders. Considering the clinical consequences, especially in intracranial aneurysms, studies to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the method are essential. Here we report our experience with a 3D-FISH time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography protocol in 52 patients who have suffered an acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. In 26 of the 52 patients, conventional angiography identified 31 aneurysms (3-20 mm) that were confirmed during surgery or autopsy. Magnetic resonance angiography correctly identified 28 of the 31 aneurysms (sensitivity 90.3%) and missed one ruptured (3 mm) and two incidental aneurysms (3 mm) in patients with multiple aneurysms. The sensitivity for a ruptured aneurysm was 96%. The 26 patients who suffered subarachnoid hemorrhage without evidence of an intracranial aneurysm on repeated angiography served as a control group. Magnetic resonance angiography revealed no false-positive findings, resulting in a specificity of 100%. In correlation with the literature, we conclude that magnetic resonance angiography is not sensitive enough for the management of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. However, the method provides important complementary information for definition of the bleeding site in patients with multiple aneurysms. In addition, the calculation of projections not possible with conventional angiography can aid surgical planning. Since only very small aneurysms were missed by magnetic resonance angiography, the sensitivity seems appropriate to screen asymptomatic patients who are at risk for intracranial aneurysms."}
{"id": "8657880", "title": "[Noninvasive quantification of cerebral blood volume and blood flow with dynamic MR tomography. Studies of probands and patients with cerebrovascular insufficiency].", "content": "[Noninvasive quantification of cerebral blood volume and blood flow with dynamic MR tomography. Studies of probands and patients with cerebrovascular insufficiency]. A non-invasive MR-method for the quantification of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and blood volume (rCBV) is used to examine healthy volunteers and patients with cerebrovascular disorders. 20 healthy volunteers and 10 patients with severe cerebrovascular disorders were examined. MR imaging was performed on a 1.5 T imaging system. Before, during and following brief antecubital vein bolus injection of Gd-DTPA, a series of 32 rapid T2*-weighted gradient echo images of two different slices ere simultaneously acquired in order to measure th concentration-time-curves in the brain tissue and the arterial input function in the brain feeding arteries. From these series of images the concentration-time-curves were computed. Principles of indicator dilution analysis were applied to compute rCBF and rCBV. The volunteers underwent one examination each. All patients underwent two examinations, one before and the second after azetazolamide stimulation. In volunteers the measured rCBF and rCBV values are in good agreement with data from positron emission tomography studies. In patients with cerebrovascular disorders in the asymptomatic hemisphere a mean increase of rCBF of 43,45 +/- 18.04% was observed after azetazolamide stimulation. In the affected areas of the symptomatic hemisphere in 8 from 10 patients the acetazolamide test reveals a significantly reduced response to azetazolamide stimulation, indicating an exhausted cerebrovascular reserve capacity. Dynamic MR-Imaging can provide quantitative information about rCBF and rCBV. In patients with cerebrovascular disorders, this method can be applied to estimate the cerebrovascular reserve capacity."}
{"id": "8652145", "title": "Acute neuroradiology: methods, indications and timing.", "content": "Acute neuroradiology: methods, indications and timing. The rapid development of radiological examination methods, technical innovations and creative and critical radiological research have dramatically changed the diagnostic approach with new indications and changed timing in the examination of patients with acute neurological lesions. The role of CT as the primary radiological examination method in these patients is well established, and is routinely used before the start of suitable treatment to detect or exclude intracranial haemorrhage, either traumatic or nontraumatic, or to detect other causes of acute onset of neurological disease, such as intracerebral tumours or subdural haematoma. The role of MRI still needs further confirmation. The sensitivity of MRI is superior to that of CT, especially in examination of the spinal cord. The main drawbacks of MRI are the problems in monitoring acutely ill patients, the unfamiliarity with the method, and capacity problems. Today, MRI is mainly used as a complement to CT, with the exception of spine injuries where MRI is the method of first choice. Also, the role of digital subtraction angiography is changing from diagnostic examinations towards endovascular therapeutic procedures. An experienced neuroradiologist has the key position in choosing and performing the most suitable examination method for each specific indication."}
{"id": "8650587", "title": "Cocaine-associated cerebral vasculitis.", "content": "Cocaine-associated cerebral vasculitis. Cocaine use is associated with a variety of serious neurological complications, including cerebral infarction, intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage, transient ischemic attacks, migraines, and seizures. We report two cases of intracerebral hemorrhage with biopsy-proven cerebral vasculitis associated with the use of cocaine. The first case involved a 32-year-old man who presented with headache, left-sided hemiparesis, and severe hypertension and who was found to have a large right putaminal hemorrhage on cranial tomographic (CT) scan. Cerebral angiography did not show vasculitic changes, but brain tissue obtained during hematoma evacuation revealed a nonnecrotizing leukocytoclastic angiitis of the small vessels. The second case involved a 20-year-old man who presented with headache, agitation, and speech difficulty that progressed to disorientation and dysphasia. He had a large left temporoparietal hematoma seen on CT scan. Cerebral angiography was consistent with vasculitis, and brain tissue obtained during hematoma evacuation revealed a small vessel vasculitis. In both cases, thorough clinical and laboratory investigations found no evidence of systemic vasculitis or an etiologic agent other than cocaine. We also critically reviewed the previously reported cases of cocaine-associated cerebral vasculitis and the relevant medical literature to discuss the \"cocaine-associated vasculitis syndrome\" in the context of more established vasculitidies, including hypersensitivity vasculitis. In addition, we outline a diagnostic and therapeutic approach to patients with possible cocaine-associated vasculitis."}
{"id": "8636803", "title": "[The evaluation of 3DFT time-of-flight MR-angiography versus angiography in the study of carotid atheromatous lesions with a review of the literature].", "content": "[The evaluation of 3DFT time-of-flight MR-angiography versus angiography in the study of carotid atheromatous lesions with a review of the literature]. In 37 patients suspected of having a stroke 71 carotid bifurcations were explored by MR-angiography and by digital angiography the reference technique. A 3D sequence was acquired with the time-of-flight technique, using a transmitter-receiver cranial coil, followed by a strictly receiver Helmoltz coil on a 1 Tesla magnet. Two examiners evaluated the carotid bifurcations and measured the degree of stenosis in terms of diameters, according to the north american symptomatic carotid endarterectomy trial (NASCET). Five classes were established: class 1: normal; class 2: 1 to 29%; class 3: 30 to 69%; class 4: 70 to 99% and class 5: thrombosis. The results obtained in the determination of classes were identical with both coils: the coefficient of correlation with straight angiography were 0.973 with the cranial coil and 0.966 with the Helmoltz coil. Five stenoses were overestimated and classified as Class 3 instead of Class 2. The five stenoses greater than 70% (Class 4) showed a signal-void area at their level, due to severe dephasing induced by turbulences. Finally, there was a false-negative image of occlusion: the high-intensity signal of the thrombus was mistaken for one of flow. The data of our study were in accordance with the excellent results obtained by several authors in the literature, which makes it possible for us to propose this type of examination as a novel mean of investigating bifurcations of carotid arteries. Provided a strict technique is applied, and in addition to carotid bifurcation the Willis' circle and the cerebral parenchyma are explored, MR-angiography can complete the results of Doppler-echo. Standard arteriography could then be reserved to surgical patients and to those with discordant results of MR-arteriography and Doppler echo systems."}
{"id": "8599895", "title": "Caudate hemorrhage: clinical features, neuropsychological assessments and radiological findings.", "content": "Caudate hemorrhage: clinical features, neuropsychological assessments and radiological findings. The nucleus caudatus is not a common location of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. Twelve patients (8 men and 4 women) aged 38-76 years who had caudate hemorrhage between November 1, 1992 and March 31, 1994 were evaluated. These cases represented 2.1% of intracerebral hemorrhage cases at Neurological Institute, Veterans General Hospital-Taipei, Taiwan. Cerebral angiography was performed on eight patients. Six patients were evaluated by an extensive neuropsychological battery. The most frequent symptoms of caudate hemorrhage were headache and/or vomiting, and decreased consciousness. Clinical features were similar to those of subarachnoid hemorrhage. Angiography showed characteristic moyamoya disease in one patient but did not show an aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation in any patient. The etiology in most patients was hypertension. Neuropsychological assessments showed significant impairment in tasks of short-term and long-term memory and in verbal fluency as well as trends of impairment of orientation rather than of controls. Neurobehavioral symptoms probably resulted from interruption of the cortical-subcortical loops between the caudate nucleus and prefrontal cortex."}
{"id": "8591577", "title": "Effectiveness of preventive surgery for asymptomatic unruptured intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Effectiveness of preventive surgery for asymptomatic unruptured intracranial aneurysms. Recently in Japan, physicians used MRI angiography (MRA) for the detection of asymptomatic intracranial diseases. Asymptomatic unruptured intracranial aneurysms (UIAs) are one of the most common abnormalities; usually the patients are advised to undergo preventive surgery. We evaluated the effectiveness of preventive surgery for asymptomatic UIAs, using published data in the literature with decision analysis on a Markov model. The baseline analysis showed that preventive surgery is superior to follow-up in a wide range of patient ages, but only by small QALY margin. Sensitivity analyses showed that the rate of rupture and the clinical outcome of surgery will influence the choice."}
{"id": "8584083", "title": "Surgical removal of giant basal ganglia arteriovenous malformations through the extended transsylvian approach following preoperative embolization--two case reports.", "content": "Surgical removal of giant basal ganglia arteriovenous malformations through the extended transsylvian approach following preoperative embolization--two case reports. A 12-year-old boy and a 22-year-old male presented with sudden onset of consciousness disturbance with right-sided hemiparesis and aphasia due to massive intracerebral hemorrhage from giant striocapsular arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). Angiography revealed giant AVMs located at the left basal ganglia in both patients. Large frontotemporal craniotomies were performed following staged embolization of the feeding arteries. Through an extended transsylvian approach, the lesions were totally excised with confirmation using intraoperative digital subtraction angiography. The patients showed a transient postoperative worsening of symptoms, but recovered to their preoperative status at discharge. Motor functions of the right upper and lower extremities were graded 4/5 in both patients. These cases demonstrate that combined use of preoperative embolization and intraoperative angiography allows some giant deep AVMs to be resected with encouraging results."}
{"id": "8577507", "title": "Detection of cerebrovascular disease in patients with sickle cell disease using transcranial Doppler sonography: correlation with MRI, MRA and conventional angiography.", "content": "Detection of cerebrovascular disease in patients with sickle cell disease using transcranial Doppler sonography: correlation with MRI, MRA and conventional angiography. A prospective study of 58 patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) by transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) included both MRI and MRA in patients over 7 years of age and those with abnormal TCD. Arteriography was performed in cases where a stenosis was suspected on TCD. Middle cerebral artery (MCA) and basilar artery (BA) velocities were significantly higher in the sickle cell hemoglobin SS group than in the hemoglobin SC group. Patients with a MCA mean velocity of over 1.90 m/s had stenoses found by arteriography. Patients with unilaterally undetectable MCA flow had experienced a stroke and MCA thrombosis was confirmed at MRA and arteriography. We concluded that TCD is valuable in detecting arterial stenosis in SCD and will lead to consideration of these patients for intensive therapy, such as bone marrow transplantation (BMT) or transfusion regimes."}
{"id": "8571529", "title": "[Radiodiagnosis of volumetric pathological formations of the brain stem].", "content": "[Radiodiagnosis of volumetric pathological formations of the brain stem]. Fifteen patients with volumetric abnormal formations of the brain stew were studied. All the patients underwent craniography and computed tomography (CT); magnetic resonance tomography (MRT) and cerebral angiography were conducted in 6 and 8 patients, respectively. The studies provided a full-value differential diagnosis and revealed the following abnormal changes: brain stem tumors in 8 patients, intratruncal hematomas in 6, and arteriovenous malformations in. 1. MRT was ascertained to be the most informative technique in the diagnoses of volumetric abnormal formations. The advantage of MRT over CT is not only to obtain three-dimensional tomograms, but to use various pulse sequences, allowing for a valid differential diagnosis of tumors and intratruncal hematomas. MR angiography is a promising trend in the diagnosis of tumors and vascular malformations."}
{"id": "8556608", "title": "[Cerebrovascular accidents in childhood].", "content": "[Cerebrovascular accidents in childhood]. A retrospective study of acute stroke diagnosed in the last ten years (20 cases: 12 girls and 8 boys) with an incidence rate of 1.26 cases per year per 100,000 inhabitants under 15 years of age) in our health area. Average age; 7.83 years (range: 2 months to 15 years). Confirming diagnosis was performed by computerised tomography (CT) scan, magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, echography and/or cerebral arteriography. Ten cases of ischaemic stroke and ten of haemorrhagic stroke were catalogued. Average follow-up was 5.45 years (range: 9 months to 10.8 years). Fibromuscular dysplasia, arthritis and meningitis are predominant in ischaemic stroke etiology, there also being one case of Moya-Moya. Haemorrhagic strokes are mostly produced by arteriovenous malformation. The predominant presenting form of ischaemic stroke was hemiplegia and of haemorrhagic strokes it was intracranial hypertension. There were no deaths as a result of ischaemic accidents but three in the cerebral haemorrhage group. Treatment was surgical in two cases, embolisation in two others and medical support in the remaining sixteen. There were no cases of relapse, except in the Moya-Moya case. Clinical position and the ability to carry on day to day life were most affected in the cerebral attack cases, which would indicate ischaemic stroke recuperation is worse than that for haemorrhagic strokes."}
{"id": "8545781", "title": "Subarachnoid and intraventricular hemorrhage caused by hypernephroma metastasis, accompanied by innocent bilateral posterior communicating artery aneurysms.", "content": "Subarachnoid and intraventricular hemorrhage caused by hypernephroma metastasis, accompanied by innocent bilateral posterior communicating artery aneurysms. We present a case of subarachnoid and intraventricular hemorrhage due to an infratentorial metastasis of a renal cell carcinoma. The lesion was not apparent on initial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or in a follow-up examination (MRI and angiography) 6 weeks after the bleeding. The innocent bilateral posterior communicating artery aneurysms detected by cerebral angiography were treated surgically. The origin of the hemorrhage, however, remained unclear. Five months later, a surgically proven metastasis in the fourth ventricle subsequently gave the explanation for the bleeding."}
{"id": "8545780", "title": "Anticoagulation for prevention of cerebral infarcts following subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Anticoagulation for prevention of cerebral infarcts following subarachnoid hemorrhage. Late neurologic deterioration following subarachnoid hemorrhage is often due to vasospasm and rebleeding. Although the sudden onset of a focal neurologic deficit can actually be the result of thromboembolism, anticoagulation has rarely been used in such cases. We report a case of a 55-year-old woman who developed recurrent transient focal neurologic deficits 13 days after having a subarachnoid hemorrhage, with multiple cerebral infarcts by CT. Two cerebral angiograms showed no aneurysm. Her symptoms and clinical temporal profile were consistent with thromboembolic phenomenon. We elected to treat her with systemic anticoagulation. The patient had no recurrent events after systemic anticoagulation, but had episodic sensory changes and a new infarct on MRI once the anticoagulation was discontinued. Anticoagulant was safely administered after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in this patient and may have been effective in preventing further cerebral ischemic infarction following her SAH. Our patient's clinical profile of sudden (rather than gradual) onset of a transient focal neurologic deficit and resolution of blood on CT indicates one setting in which the use of heparin may be considered."}
{"id": "8543270", "title": "[MR angiography: a methods with a future].", "content": "[MR angiography: a methods with a future]."}
{"id": "8539440", "title": "Postcontrast 3D-TOF-MR angiography of intracranial venous angiomas.", "content": "Postcontrast 3D-TOF-MR angiography of intracranial venous angiomas. The clinical value of three-dimensional time-of-flight magnetic resonance angiography (3D-TOF-MRA) was assessed in 15 patients with intracranial venous angiomas (VAs), by comparing results thereof with those of postcontrast T1-weighted MR images (MRIs). All 15 VAs were identified both on the postcontrast MRIs and MRAs. The MRAs surpassed the MRIs in imaging entire structures, including the draining veins of the supratentorial VAs. For the infratentorial VAs, the MRAs and the MRIs were of equal value. Although the addition of MRA to the MRI procedure incurs more time and expense, the complete structure of the VA can thereby be identified three-dimensionally on MRA. Conventional angiography is apparently not required for the confirmation of a VA. Thus, it is concluded that MRA is very useful for diagnosing VAs."}
{"id": "8523605", "title": "Carotid endarterectomy in asymptomatic patients--is contrast angiography necessary? A morbidity analysis.", "content": "Carotid endarterectomy in asymptomatic patients--is contrast angiography necessary? A morbidity analysis. Findings from the Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study (ACAS) indicate that carotid endarterectomy can be beneficial in symptom-free patients with 60% to 99% carotid artery stenosis. However, patients in ACAS who underwent contrast angiography (CA) before carotid endarterectomy were exposed to an additional 1.2% risk of stroke. We used the methods of decision analysis to assess whether the overall 5-year stroke risk in symptom-free patients with suspected carotid artery disease can be reduced by preoperative imaging with magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) or duplex ultrasonography (DU). We compared four strategies for the preoperative evaluation of carotid artery stenosis in symptom-free patients: 1) CA alone, 2) MRA alone, 3) DU alone, and 4) MRA and DU with CA when the results of these tests disagree. Accuracies of MRA and DU were estimated from 81 patients exposed to all three procedures; stroke risks for patients with 60% to 99% carotid artery stenosis were obtained from ACAS. For predicting 60% to 99% carotid stenoses, sensitivity and specificity for noninvasive tests, optimized to reduce morbidity, were as follows: DU (0.96, 0.66), MRA (1.00, 0.76), DU/MRA (1.00, 0.86; 26% would require CA). The 5-year stroke risk of these four strategies in order of decreasing benefit was MRA, 6.17%; MRA/DU, 6.34%; DU, 6.35%; and CA, 7.12%. In sensitivity analyses, noninvasive tests were advantageous even if the stroke rate with CA diminished to 0.4%, or if the sensitivity and specificity of noninvasive tests fell to 70%. The preoperative use of noninvasive tests resulted in a lower 5-year stroke risk compared with CA in symptom-free patients with suspected carotid artery stenosis."}
{"id": "8519603", "title": "Diffusion and perfusion MR imaging of cerebral ischemia.", "content": "Diffusion and perfusion MR imaging of cerebral ischemia. Over the last few years, diffusion and perfusion magnetic resonance (MR) imaging methods have found increasing user for monitoring the effects of cerebral ischemia under clinical and experimental conditions. Blood perfusion can be visualized by studying the patency of the cerebrovascular bed (MR angiography), by recording exchange of diffusible tracers between blood and brain ([2H]water or [19F]trifluoromethane clearance), or by measuring the volume and transit time of the circulating blood (bolus track or spin-tagging imaging). In addition, changes in blood oxygenation level can be visualized by taking advantage of the susceptibility changes of the magnetic field homogeneity (functional or blood-oxygenation-level-dependent imaging). Diffusion imaging is based on the modulation of signal intensity by brain water diffusion. Recording a series of diffusion-weighted images allows calculation of the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and the reconstruction of quantitative ADC images. Brain ADC changes are a function of intra-extracellular water homeostasis and therefore are a sensitive marker of ionic equilibrium. Since disturbances of ion and water homeostasis are among the first pathological alterations induced by brain ischemia, diffusion imaging is able to detect the incipient injury within minutes. Conversely, the reversal of these alterations is able to detect the incipient injury within minutes. Conversely, the reversal of these alterations is an early and reliable predictor of postischemic recovery. Applications of perfusion and diffusion imaging are reviewed in relation to the pathophysiology, the pathobiochemistry, and the therapy of evolving brain infarct after focal ischemia and the manifestation and reversal of ischemic injury during and after global ischemia."}
{"id": "7886720", "title": "Spontaneous middle cerebral artery reperfusion in ischemic stroke. A follow-up study with transcranial Doppler.", "content": "Spontaneous middle cerebral artery reperfusion in ischemic stroke. A follow-up study with transcranial Doppler. The aim of this study was to investigate by means of transcranial Doppler (TCD) ultrasonography how many spontaneous reperfusions of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) occurred during the first week after onset of acute ischemic stroke in the carotid territory. TCD examination, computed tomographic scan, and arterial digital angiography were performed in 56 patients with acute ischemic stroke within 6 hours of the onset of symptoms. The TCD examination was repeated within 24 hours, 48 hours, and 7 days after stroke; a further TCD examination was performed within 3 to 9 months in 27 patients. At 6 hours, 33 patients presented abnormal TCD findings in the symptomatic MCA (16 \"no flows\" and 17 asymmetries). Of these, 4 patients (3 no flows and 1 asymmetry) died before the 7-day follow-up was completed, whereas of the 29 remaining patients undergoing all the TCD control examinations, only 14 presented permanently abnormal TCD findings (7 asymmetries and 7 no flows). These data are consistent with an MCA reperfusion occurring at any level of the MCA, although most frequently in the distal part, and in the majority of cases during the first 48 hours. One patient who showed MCA asymmetrical flow velocity at the day-7 TCD examination was normal at the TCD follow-up at 3 to 9 months. TCD examination offers an easy and reliable way of monitoring MCA reopening and might be useful to identify subgroups of patients who may benefit most from pharmacological reperfusion."}
{"id": "7886718", "title": "Stroke patterns in unilateral atherothrombotic occlusion of the internal carotid artery.", "content": "Stroke patterns in unilateral atherothrombotic occlusion of the internal carotid artery. Stroke patterns in patients with occlusion of the internal carotid artery (ICA) and no potential cardiac cause of stroke remain unknown. The aim of our study was to determine the pattern of stroke in patients with an occlusion of the ICA of presumed atherosclerotic origin. Of 873 consecutive patients admitted for an acute ischemic event during a 49-month period, 40 (29 men and 11 women; mean age, 63 years) had a unilateral occlusion of the ICA of presumed atherosclerotic origin and no other potential cause of stroke. They underwent two computed tomographic scans, Doppler ultrasonography, and B-mode echotomography of the cervical arteries or angiography and echocardiography. We compared stroke patterns between both hemispheres. We found ipsilateral infarcts in 32 patients (80%; 99% confidence interval [CI], 64% to 96%) and contralateral infarcts in 12 patients (30%; 99% CI, 11% to 49%). Infarcts ipsilateral to the ICA occlusion were more likely to be cortical (odds ratio, 9.33; 99% CI, 2.4 to 36.35) or subcortical infarcts 15 mm or greater (odds ratio, 16.71; 99% CI, 1.05 to 267.3). The prevalence of subcortical infarcts less than 15 mm did not differ between hemispheres. Symptomatic infarcts related to an ICA occlusion are more likely to be cortical or large subcortical infarcts. Small subcortical infarcts have the same prevalence in both hemispheres and therefore may be coincidental."}
{"id": "7885013", "title": "[Neurological complications in infectious endocarditis].", "content": "[Neurological complications in infectious endocarditis]. Despite considerable progress in both diagnostic studies and therapeutic management serious complications of infectious endocarditis have become rather more common. Next to intracardiac complications arterial embolization to the central nervous system is the second most common life-threatening event, which might lead to infarction, hemorrhage, mycotic aneurysm and/or metastatic infection with a wide spectrum of neurological symptoms and an overall very poor prognosis. The most effective prevention of neurological complications is the early diagnosis of infectious endocarditis with isolation of the infecting agent and adequate antimicrobial chemotherapy in combination with well-timed cardiosurgical measures. Computed tomography and cerebral angiography is mandatory in any patient with neurological symptoms to check the need for a neurosurgical intervention as well as in patients assigned for anticoagulation for cardiac reasons."}
{"id": "7868330", "title": "Postangiography headache.", "content": "Postangiography headache. In order to study the frequency and characteristics of post-angiography headache, we interviewed 45 consecutive patients (mean age +/- SD = 57 +/- 15 years; M/F = 15/30) who underwent transfemoral cerebral angiography for: ischemic cerebrovascular disease (n = 33); suspected arteriovenous malformations (n = 4; one confirmed); suspected cerebral aneurysm (n = 5; two confirmed); and arterial dissection (n = 3; one confirmed and one was a follow-up study of a previously demonstrated dissection). Postangiography headache developed in 15 (33%) patients, 125 +/- 99 min after the completion of the study. It was unilateral in nine (60%) patients, homolateral to the usual side of migraine headache in two or three migraineurs, and pulsating in six (40%). Nausea, vomiting, photophobia, and phonophobia accompanied postangiography headache in 20%, 7%, 33%, and 20% respectively. Postangiography headache fulfilled the International Headache Society criteria for migraine without aura (except for the number of attacks) in 27% of patients. Patients with and those without postangiography headache were comparable in mean age, sex, and indication for angiography. Fifty-three percent (8/15) of patients with postangiography headache and 23% (7/30) of the non postangiography headache group reported prior recurrent headaches (P = 0.047, likelihood ratio chi-square). Postangiography headache has the characteristics of delayed arterial pain which may be related to a catheter-induced or contrast dye-induced release of vasoactive substances, notably nitric oxide and serotonin."}
{"id": "7815871", "title": "Measurement of posterior fossa neurovascular anomalies in essential hypertension.", "content": "Measurement of posterior fossa neurovascular anomalies in essential hypertension."}
{"id": "7792014", "title": "[Complementary echo flow imaging and digital angiography in the supra-aortic area for indication and intervention of carotid revascularization in 1587 subjects in the OPI (Stroke Prevention) program].", "content": "[Complementary echo flow imaging and digital angiography in the supra-aortic area for indication and intervention of carotid revascularization in 1587 subjects in the OPI (Stroke Prevention) program]. The availability of non invasive carotid ultrasound imaging techniques actually allows planning and carrying on of large screening programs for detection of atherosclerotic carotid occlusive disease. The aim of non invasive ultrasound patient selection is to limit the practice of invasive carotid angiography only to patients for whom carotid endarterectomy is likely to be a therapeutic choice. PURPOSE. Testing the efficacy of sequential use of color coded echo flow imaging (echo color Doppler: ECD) and arterial digital angiography (ADA) respectively in the second and third phases of a screening program for detection and treatment of carotid occlusive disease in a resident population (OPI program). METHODS. From January 29th 1990 through March 31st 1992, 1,587 subjects underwent ECD out of 16,379 subjects that participated in the first level investigations. 404 of these (25.5%) were affected with carotid occlusive disease, 271 (17%) had inframural non stenosing carotid lesions and 228 (14.3%) carotid kinkings. At ECD, 71 showed lesions as severe as to be susceptible of surgical operation and underwent ADA. The percentage of carotid stenosis was calculated on the ADA imagins, applying the method suggested by the North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial. RESULTS. Overall sensitivity and specificity of ECD versus ADA were 94% and 95.2% respectively. Cases in which ECD overestimated the lesion as compared to ADA results were recorded as false positive, while cases in which ECD underestimated the lesion were recorded as false negative. CONCLUSIONS. Both ultrasound imaging and ADA are useful in screening programs for carotid occlusive disease: informations different and complementary to the definition of the lesions can be obtained from each procedures in subsequent phases. Morphologic findings of carotid ECD are essentially consistent with ADA, thus allowing to carry on safely non invasive long-term follow-up programs for operated subjects as well as for people bearing carotid lesions originally not susceptible of surgical treatment."}
{"id": "7791948", "title": "Moyamoya disease in three siblings--follow-up study with magnetic resonance angiography (MRA).", "content": "Moyamoya disease in three siblings--follow-up study with magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). Three siblings with moyamoya disease including identical twins are reported. Although the younger of identical twins had no neurological problems, CT and MRI detected cerebral infarctions and cerebral angiography showed the typical features of moyamoya disease. All three cases underwent encephalo-duro-arterio-synangiosis (EDAS), and serial magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) showed that the distal portions of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) were well perfused through surgically created anastomoses. There were no findings of disease progression. MRA might play an important role in follow-up studies of moyamoya disease."}
{"id": "7779217", "title": "Vertebral artery compression due to head rotation in thalamic stroke.", "content": "Vertebral artery compression due to head rotation in thalamic stroke. Vertebral artery compression from head turning has been described in adults, especially in those who have spondylosis of the spine and osteophytes. There are no reports that demonstrate vertebral artery compression due to head turning in children without vertebral abnormalities. A child is reported with thalamic stroke in whom cerebral arteriography revealed vertebral artery compression on head turning. Blood flow in the vertebral artery, however, could be demonstrated by Doppler ultrasonography with the head in the midline. It is concluded that the vertebral artery is vulnerable to mechanical compression in the neck even in the absence of bony abnormalities."}
{"id": "7779212", "title": "Stroke in purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency.", "content": "Stroke in purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency. The first documented case of cerebrovascular disease occurring in a 13-year-old girl with purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency is reported. This patient, the oldest known survivor with purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency, had previously experienced multiple sequential neurologic problems. She presented with episodes of transient left hemiparesis, followed shortly thereafter by dense left hemiplegia. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a right internal capsule infarct; cerebral angiography revealed vasculopathy of the proximal vessels. Proposed mechanisms for neurologic dysfunction and cerebrovascular disease in purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency are discussed."}
{"id": "7754850", "title": "Perimesencephalic and nonperimesencephalic subarachnoid haemorrhages with negative angiograms.", "content": "Perimesencephalic and nonperimesencephalic subarachnoid haemorrhages with negative angiograms. van Gijn and co-workers identified \"Perimesencephalic haemorrhage\" (PM) as distinct, benign, non-aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. However, there is only one retrospective series of this entity outside the Netherlands. to confirm (or not) the benign nature of perimesencephalic subarachnoid haemorrhage by evaluating its clinical course and long-term follow-up in a consecutive series of patients admitted to a University Hospital. Patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage and negative cerebral angiography admitted between January 1985 and April 1992 were classified according to the distribution of blood on a CT scan performed within 72 hours after onset, in perimesencephalic and non-perimesencephalic haemorrhages. Demographic and clinical data (collected consecutively), complications and long-term follow-up (obtained by chart review and follow-up by mail) were compared in the two groups. Seventy one cases, 36 perimesencephalic and 35 nonperimesencephalic were included. Sex and age distribution were similar in the two groups. A normal examination on admission was the rule in the perimesencephalic group. Only one patient with perimesencephalic haemorrhage had a complication--transient neurological signs during angiography--and there were no deaths or morbidity during follow-up. In the non-perimesencephalic group three patients rebleed, four developed hydrocephalus and two had delayed cerebral ischaemia. Mean duration of follow-up was 27.6 months for the perimesencephalic and 30.8 months for the non-perimesencephalic group. After discharge there was a fatal rebleed in the latter group. Fifteen percent of the subjects (11% of the perimesencephalic group and 20% of the non-perimesencephalic group) retired from work during the follow-up period. Headaches and depression were found in similar percentages (22-25%) in both groups. This study confirms that perimesencephalic haemorrhage is a distinct entity within the larger group of subarachnoid haemorrhage with negative angiograms, with a good short term and long-term prognosis, and no need for repeated angiographic investigation."}
{"id": "7754116", "title": "[Magnetic resonance angiography of the intracranial circle using magnetization transfer contrast (MTC)].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance angiography of the intracranial circle using magnetization transfer contrast (MTC)]. Magnetic Resonance Angiography (MRA) is becoming an accurate technique to study vascular conditions, especially when the intracranial circulation is involved. Nevertheless, the contrast-to-noise (C/N) ratio in MRA images is often inadequate to obtain diagnostic images. C/N ratio can be increased by using magnetization transfer contrast (MTC), the technique which allows to reduce the signal from the stationary tissues surrounding vascular structures. To demonstrate the value of MTC, 10 healthy volunteers and 10 patients with different cerebral vascular conditions were examined. All exams were performed using 3D MOTSA (Multiple Overlapping Thin Slab Acquisition) Time of Flight sequences, with and without MTC. A quantitative analysis was carried out in the images with and without MTC, measuring the signal intensity value in the regions of interest at the vascular and stationary structures. A qualitative analysis was also carried out with a double blind study by two independent radiologists. Our results showed that MTC allows to reduce stationary tissues signal intensity, without affecting flowing blood signal intensity. Therefore, the C/N ratio is increased, thus allowing better depiction of smaller peripheral branches. In conclusion, MTC applied to intracranial MRA allows image quality to be markedly improved, with an overall increase in the diagnostic accuracy of this technique."}
{"id": "7749081", "title": "[Perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage: clinical and computer tomography aspects].", "content": "[Perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage: clinical and computer tomography aspects]. The blood distribution on CCT and the prognosis of patients with nonaneurysmal subarachnoidal haemorrhage were retrospectively studied and compared to a patient group with aneurysmal haemorrhage. The blood distribution on CCT (72 h after bleeding episode) of 26 patients with nonaneurysmal subarachnoidal haemorrhage confirmed by two normal cerebral angiograms was compared to the blood distribution of 76 patients with aneurysmal haemorrhage. The clinical condition of these patients was further analysed, 4-60 months after the bleeding episode. In 62% of patients with nonaneurysmal haemorrhage the blood distribution was perimesencephalic. The aneurysmal blood distribution pattern was more extended and only one patient showed a perimesencephalic pattern. 80% of the patients without aneurysms in angiography had no limitations in daily functional capacity. The perimesencephalic pattern is frequently found in patients with nonaneurysmal subarachnoidal haemorrhage, the prognosis of these patients is excellent. Rarely is the perimesencephalic haemorrhage caused by a ruptured aneurysm. It needs thorough angiographic evaluation."}
{"id": "7748357", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography in 140 neuropediatric patients.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography in 140 neuropediatric patients. Three-dimensional magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is a noninvasive technique that images the intracranial arterial vasculature without contrast agents. The suitability of MRA was evaluated for routine use and all children were prospectively studied with conventional MR imaging and time off flight MRA (FISP3D). All MR studies were performed on a 1.5 T-MRA system using a circularly polarized head coil. The study comprised 140 children, ages 3 weeks to 18 years, with different neuropediatric diseases. Major cervical and intracranial arteries were visualized in all age groups. Smaller branches of the supratentorial arteries were identified inconstantly and the number of arteries visualized increased up to the age of 6 years. Sixty-seven children (47%) had normal intracranial vasculature. MRA demonstrated anatomic variations in 21 patients (15%). Twenty-two of 32 children with congenital malformations demonstrated abnormalities of the intracranial vasculature. The diagnostic value of MRA was confirmed in 11 of 12 patients after neonatal stroke and in 3 of 10 children after stroke at older ages. Seven of 18 children with acute hemorrhage demonstrated arteriovenous malformations or an aneurysm on MRA. The correlation with digital subtraction angiographic findings was established in 13 patients. In 9 of 13 children with brain tumor, MRA proved to be diagnostically valuable. MRA proved to be of particular value in the evaluation of the carotid artery following extracorporeal membrane oxygenation therapy. MRA can be used in children of all age groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7740585", "title": "Acute lacunar stroke in association with angiogram-negative subarachnoid hemorrhage. Mechanistic implications of two cases.", "content": "Acute lacunar stroke in association with angiogram-negative subarachnoid hemorrhage. Mechanistic implications of two cases. Although there is much speculation regarding the source of bleeding in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage when no angiographic abnormality is found, little direct evidence has been obtained to document a cause. We report two cases of stroke in the distribution of a perforating or lenticulostriate artery occurring at the time of angiogram-negative subarachnoid hemorrhage. A 68- and a 60-year-old man each presented with acute onset of headache and meningismus. Computed tomography (CT) revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage in a perimesencephalic pattern and in the left sylvian fissure, respectively. In both instances, immediate CT revealed evidence of an early infarction in the distribution of a perforating artery originating at the site of the subarachnoid blood. Both of these strokes were demonstrated to be acute by evolution on serial imaging studies. No source for the subarachnoid blood could be found in either patient in cerebral angiograms repeated at 2 weeks. These observations suggest that in some cases of angiogram-negative subarachnoid hemorrhage the source of blood may be a small artery that is obliterated at the time of hemorrhage. This observation provides an explanation for the low rate of rehemorrhage among patients with angiogram-negative subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "7731504", "title": "Dissecting aneurysms of the basilar artery.", "content": "Dissecting aneurysms of the basilar artery. Ten patients (six men and four women; mean age, 40 yr) with spontaneous dissection of the basilar artery are reported. Clinically, six were admitted with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and four were admitted with brain stem ischemia. Angiography demonstrated string sign in four patients, pearl reaction in four, double lumen in one, and arterial ectasia with mural retention of contrast medium in one. Magnetic resonance imaging was performed in two patients. Follow-up angiograms or magnetic resonance angiography in six patients showed spontaneous healing in two patients, improvement in two, progression in one, and no change in one. Nine patients were treated medically, and one underwent selective intravascular occlusion of the dissecting aneurysm. One patient died after further SAH, two remain severely disabled, three have residual neurological deficit, and four are in good clinical condition. The most interesting observations in this series include a relatively good course in a substantial number of patients and low further bleeding potential after SAH, the late \"globular\" evolution, which may be favorable for reconstructive treatment, and the diagnostic value of associated computed tomographic/angiographic findings. Surgical options in basilar dissection are very poor; in some reported cases, wrapping has been tried with disappointing results. In light of the possibility of spontaneous healing or improvement, wrapping should be reserved for only those patients with recurrent SAH or angiographic progression of the dissection."}
{"id": "7724764", "title": "Circle of Willis: evaluation with spiral CT angiography, MR angiography, and conventional angiography.", "content": "Circle of Willis: evaluation with spiral CT angiography, MR angiography, and conventional angiography. To evaluate the use of spiral computed tomographic (CT) angiography in the analysis of the arteries of the circle of Willis and compare these results with magnetic resonance (MR) angiography and conventional angiography. The results in 17 patients who underwent examination were prospectively studied in a blinded fashion. The presence or absence of the arteries of the circle of Willis was determined by using maximum intensity projection reconstructions from CT angiography and MR angiography. These results were compared with results from conventional angiography. Similar sensitivities were determined for CT angiography (88.5%) and MR angiography (85.5%); however, MR angiography was found to differ significantly (P = .005) from conventional angiography. No significant differences (P > .05) were found between the two modalities and conventional angiography in the detection of the anterior, middle, or posterior cerebral arteries or the anterior communicating artery. Spiral CT angiography is highly sensitive in the detection of arterial anatomy in the circle of Willis and is a reliable alternative to MR angiography."}
{"id": "7717375", "title": "Bone marrow transplantation in a young child with sickle cell anemia.", "content": "Bone marrow transplantation in a young child with sickle cell anemia. Bone marrow transplantation (BMT) is the only curative therapy available for hemoglobinopathies. BMT was performed on a young child with sickle cell anemia (SCA) after approximately 9 months of transfusion therapy following her initial stroke. The patient received a matched sibling donor (sickle trait) BMT. The conditioning regimen consisted of busulfan 4 mg/kg/day x 4, cyclophosphamide 50 mg/kg/day x 4. Graft vs. host disease prophylaxis was daily cyclosporine for 6 months. There were no significant complications during BMT. Engraftment occurred on day +17 and the patient was transfusion independent since day +45. Pre-BMT cerebral arteriography showed multiple stenotic cerebral vessels and a moya-moya pattern. Perfusion MRI demonstrated reduced capillary perfusion. Approximately 170 days after BMT the patient experienced episodes of transient left-sided weakness and speech problems. Neuroimaging revealed progression of large vessel pathology by angiography despite significant improvement in cortical perfusion (MR perfusion scan). Molecular analysis by PCR and DNA fingerprinting confirmed absence of mixed mosaicism. Rheologic evaluation showed normal corrected bulk viscosity. It is possible that progression of large vessel pathology and return of clinical symptoms in the face of normal rheologic parameters may be due to worsening of the already damaged cerebral vessels by the BMT conditioning regimen. Further evaluations of patients with SCA undergoing BMT after a stroke are needed to answer this question."}
{"id": "7716604", "title": "Cerebral vasculitis complicating rheumatoid arthritis.", "content": "Cerebral vasculitis complicating rheumatoid arthritis. Central nervous system vasculitis is a rarely described complication of rheumatoid arthritis. We report a case of cerebral vasculitis in a 55-year-old woman with a 7-year history of seropositive, nodular rheumatoid arthritis. Striking multifocal abnormalities of the white matter on magnetic resonance imaging led to a suspicion of vasculitis despite lack of clinical evidence of extracranial vasculitis and normal findings on cerebrospinal fluid studies and cerebral angiography. After institution of treatment with glucocorticoids and azathioprine, she survived in stable condition for 14 months from the onset of symptoms. Postmortem examination of the brain revealed vasculitis and chronic ischemic changes."}
{"id": "7713091", "title": "Non-selective digital subtraction angiography in comparison with selective conventional angiography in the diagnosis of carotid artery disease.", "content": "Non-selective digital subtraction angiography in comparison with selective conventional angiography in the diagnosis of carotid artery disease. In the recent past, non-selective arterial digital subtraction angiography (NSDSA) seemed a less invasive alternative to conventional filmscreen angiography (CFA) in the diagnosis of carotid artery disease. NSDSA obviated the need for selective catheterization with its associated risks but yet took advantage of the DSA method. However, this technique has not found general application although there are no reports that formally assess the (dis)advantages of NSDSA. The aim of our study was to compare the reliability of NSDSA with CFA in evaluation of carotid bifurcations in patients with transient ischemic attacks or partial stroke by reviewing prospectively collected data. Over a 2-year period, 40 patients (upper age limit 65 years) underwent both NSDSA and CFA. Bilateral NSDSA was performed in all 40 patients (80 bifurcations). Bilateral CFA was performed in 27 patients whereas unilateral CFA was carried out in 13 patients (67 bifurcations). Inter- and intra-observer variability for the degree of stenosis was determined by calculation of kappa-values for a 4-point and a 2-point scale. The proportion of interpretable studies was significantly lower in NSDSA. The inter- and intra-observer agreement was on average better in CFA examinations, though the difference was only statistically significant for the inter-observer agreement. The results of our study indicate that images obtained with NSDSA give less reliable information about carotid artery disease than images obtained with CFA. This is in accordance with the fact that NSDSA now seems an abandoned technique."}
{"id": "7707476", "title": "Doppler imaging of superior sagittal sinus thrombosis.", "content": "Doppler imaging of superior sagittal sinus thrombosis. Three cases of neonatal superior sagittal sinus thrombosis diagnosed by Doppler imaging and confirmed with either computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, or digital subtraction angiography are described. One infant died and the others had uneventful recovery. Young infants with superior sagittal sinus thrombosis rarely are seen for diagnostic imaging; the nonspecificity of the clinical presentation of this disorder and the difficulties with its investigation owing to the invasiveness of the radiologic procedures lead to its underdiagnosis. Magnetic resonance imaging is a sensitive, noninvasive diagnostic modality, but it is not always available and practical for the very sick infants in the critical care unit. In the cases described here, Doppler imaging proved to be diagnostic and useful in the management of superior sagittal sinus thrombosis and should be used in the initial assessment of the condition, as it is the most convenient and least traumatic diagnostic modality."}
{"id": "7699104", "title": "Transcranial color-coded duplex sonography, magnetic resonance angiography, and computed tomography angiography: methods, applications, advantages, and limitations.", "content": "Transcranial color-coded duplex sonography, magnetic resonance angiography, and computed tomography angiography: methods, applications, advantages, and limitations. Transcranial color-coded duplex sonography (TCCD), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), and computed tomography angiography (CTA) are novel noninvasive or minimally invasive techniques for the study of the intracranial circulation. TCCD is relatively inexpensive and permits bedside examination. It improves the accuracy and reliability of conventional transcranial Doppler studies. The main limitation of TCCD are the ultrasonic windows. They restrict the area of insonation to the major cerebral arteries and the proximal part of its branches, lower the spatial resolution, and may prevent transtemporal insonation. Using MRA, both large and small intracranial arteries and veins can be imaged by selecting the appropriate imaging parameters. MRA provides morphologic information about the cerebral vessels, relying on blood flow as the physical basis for generating contrast between stationary tissues and moving spins. MRA is highly sensitive for the detection of occlusive disease in large intracranial arteries. However, with bright blood techniques the degree of stenosis tends to be exaggerated. Flow direction, eg, in collaterals, can be determined by selective or phase-contrast MRA. Perfusion imaging techniques provide information about blood flow at the capillary level. Diffusion imaging depicts molecular motion. TCCD and MRA used in combination or alone may eliminate the need for intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in most patients studied for occlusive cerebrovascular disease. DSA may be reserved for those patients where there is disagreement among the noninvasive techniques, and for the diagnosis of cerebral aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations. CTA relies on spiral CT technology and intravenous contrast injection. To date, intracranial use has been predominantly for the diagnosis of aneurysms. The role of CTA for the detection of nonaneurysmal intracranial vascular disease has yet to be established."}
{"id": "7674503", "title": "Perioperative imaging strategies for carotid endarterectomy. An analysis of morbidity and cost-effectiveness in symptomatic patients.", "content": "Perioperative imaging strategies for carotid endarterectomy. An analysis of morbidity and cost-effectiveness in symptomatic patients. To assess the cost-effectiveness of four diagnostic strategies for the preoperative evaluation of symptomatic patients who are potential candidates for carotid endarterectomy (ie, 70% to 99% stenosis): (1) duplex sonography (DS), (2) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), (3) contrast angiography (CA), and (4) the combination of DS and MRA supplemented by CA for disparate results. Cost-effectiveness analysis based largely on published clinical trial data. Sensitivities and specificities of noninvasive tests were estimated from 81 patients undergoing prospective evaluation with DS, MRA, and CA. Incremental cost per quality-adjusted year of life gained. For a hypothetical cohort of symptomatic patients undergoing evaluation for carotid endarterectomy, the combination of tests resulted in the greatest quality-adjusted life expectancy of the four options considered. After incorporating the costs of testing, surgery, and stroke, we found that neither the MRA nor the CA strategy was cost-effective. The combination of tests was more effective but more costly than DS, resulting in an additional cost of $22,400 per quality-adjusted year of life gained. For centers that do not have adequate MRA, CA resulted in an additional cost of $99,200 per quality-adjusted year of life saved compared with DS. Our results suggest that for the preoperative detection of a 70% to 99% carotid stenosis, the combination of DS and MRA, supplemented by CA for disparate results, is associated with the lowest long-term morbidity and mortality and has a favorable cost-effectiveness ratio. The combination of tests, or DS alone when MRA is not available, could potentially replace the current practice of using CA alone in the preoperative evaluation of patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis."}
{"id": "7660407", "title": "US national survey of physician practices for the secondary and tertiary prevention of ischemic stroke. Design, service availability, and common practices.", "content": "US national survey of physician practices for the secondary and tertiary prevention of ischemic stroke. Design, service availability, and common practices. Stroke is largely a preventable disease. However, there are little data available concerning the use of stroke prevention diagnostic and treatment modalities by practicing physicians. These data are critical for the rational allocation of resources and targeting of educational efforts. The purposes of this national survey were to gather information about physicians' stroke prevention practice patterns and their attitudes and beliefs regarding secondary and tertiary stroke prevention strategies. We conducted a national survey of stroke prevention practices among a stratified random sample of 2000 physicians drawn from the American Medical Association's Physician Masterfile. The survey focused on the availability of services and the use of diagnostic and preventive strategies for patients at elevated risk of stroke. Sixty-seven percent (n = 1006) of eligible physicians completed the survey. Diagnostic studies considered readily available by at least 90% of physicians included carotid ultrasonography, transthoracic echocardiography, Holter monitoring, and brain CT and MRI scans. MR angiography was perceived as being readily available by 68% and transesophageal echocardiography by 74% of respondents. Twelve percent of physicians reported cerebral arteriography and 10% reported carotid endarterectomy as not being readily available. Multiple logistic regression analyses showed that the availability of services varied with physician specialty (noninternist primary care, internal medicine, neurology, surgery), practice setting (nonmetropolitan versus small metropolitan or large metropolitan areas), and for carotid endarterectomy, region of the country (South, Central, Northeast, and West). The odds of carotid endarterectomy being reported as readily available were approximately 2.5 to 3.5 times greater for physicians practicing in the central, northeastern, and western regions compared with those practicing in the South, independent of practice setting and specialty. With regard to stroke prevention practices, 61% of physicians reported prescribing 325 mg of aspirin for stroke prevention, while 33% recommend less than 325 mg and 4% use doses of 650 mg or more. Seventy-one percent of physicians using warfarin reported monitoring anticoagulation with international normalized ratios, and 78% reported monitoring anticoagulated patients at least once a month. Fewer than 20% of physicians reported knowing the perioperative carotid endarterectomy complication rates at the hospital where they perform the operation themselves or refer patients to have the procedure done. Although all routine and most specialized services for secondary and tertiary stroke prevention are readily available to most physicians, variation in availability exists. The use of international normalized ratios for monitoring warfarin therapy has not yet become universal. Physician knowledge of carotid endarterectomy complication rates is generally lacking. Depending on their causes, these problems may be addressed through targeted physician education efforts and systematic changes in the way in which services are provided."}
{"id": "7660393", "title": "Delayed posttraumatic hemorrhage. \"Sp\u00e4t-apoplexie\".", "content": "Delayed posttraumatic hemorrhage. \"Sp\u00e4t-apoplexie\". Delayed posttraumatic hemorrhage (DPTH) is one of the causes of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Most of the published series were reported before the advent of CT. Clinical characteristics and CT findings are described. Ten cases of CT-proven DPTH from a series of 216 patients (age range, 15 to 50 years) with ICH were evaluated. Previous CT scans performed in the first 6 hours after head injury were normal in all patients. Cerebral angiography showed no evidence of vascular disorders in any patient. DPTH was the fourth most common cause of ICH in our series. The symptom-free interval after head injury ranged from 1 to 15 days. Most hematomas were located deep in the hemisphere and were of small or medium size. Clinical course was good in the majority of cases; none of the patients died, and there was no recurrence. DPTH is a relatively frequent cause of ICH in young adults. There is no relationship with intensity of the previous head injury. The more frequent location deep in the hemisphere may be related to the younger age of our patients compared with those of other published series. The good outcome in our patients may be related to their youth and the absence of complications such as skull fracture, need for neurosurgery, or coagulation disorders."}
{"id": "7654410", "title": "CT and MRI diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease: going beyond the pixels.", "content": "CT and MRI diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease: going beyond the pixels. Cerebrovascular disease is one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the United States, with an incidence of approximately 500,000 cases of stroke per year. Tremendous strides in the diagnosis of stroke have been made in recent years, although the main diagnostic tools available remain CT, MRI, and MR angiography. Because new treatment options are being developed, it has become imperative to analyze these anatomic studies more intensively and critically, with an eye toward eliciting vital pathophysiological information. This article reviews various imaging findings in that light and offers a perspective on the radiologist's role in the management of patients with these conditions."}
{"id": "7639123", "title": "MR staging of acute dural sinus thrombosis: correlation with venous pressure measurements and implications for treatment and prognosis.", "content": "MR staging of acute dural sinus thrombosis: correlation with venous pressure measurements and implications for treatment and prognosis. To correlate parenchymal brain changes, venous sinus pressure measurements, and outcome in 29 patients with acute dural sinus thrombosis. A retrospective review of 29 patients with angiographically proved acute dural sinus thrombosis was made from January 1989 to December 1993. MR examinations were performed on either a 0.5- or 1.5-T superconductive scanner in multiple planes. Direct dural sinus venography, cerebral angiography, and MR venography were performed. Venous sinus pressure measurements were obtained in 11 of 29 patients. We identified five distinct stages of brain parenchymal changes; each stage correlated with increasing intradural sinus pressure. The pressures measured in this study ranged from 20 to 50 mm Hg. Brain parenchymal changes were reversible up to stage III if thrombolytic treatment was performed. Beyond stage III, there were some residual changes, even after thrombolysis. All stage V patients died. Acute dural sinus thrombosis leads to distinct stages of parenchymal changes, the severity of which depends on the degree of venous congestion, which, in turn, is closely related to intradural sinus pressure. As intradural sinus pressure increases, progression from mild parenchymal change to severe cerebral edema and/or hematoma may occur if thrombolysis is delayed."}
{"id": "7629567", "title": "Carotid bifurcation stenosis: a comparative study between MR angiography and duplex scanning with respect to digital subtraction angiography.", "content": "Carotid bifurcation stenosis: a comparative study between MR angiography and duplex scanning with respect to digital subtraction angiography. This study compared sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic accuracy of Echoduplex and Magnetic Resonance Angiography (MRA) in the evaluation of carotid bifurcation stenosis. Twenty-five patients with clinical signs suggestive for cerebrovascular insufficiency (CVI) were studied with Duplex scan, MRA and Digital Subtraction angiography (DSA). Gold standard was the angiographic examination. on equal value of sensitivity (80.5%), MRA showed 96% specificity versus 81% of Duplex scan, 89.4% diagnostic accuracy versus 80.9% for Duplex scan. As for stenosis over 31%, the value of sensitivity did not change i.e., 80.5%; MRA showed 100% specificity versus 97.1% for Duplex, 91.2% diagnostic accuracy versus 89.1% respectively. These values compared by the test for categorial analysis and correspondence analysis (p < 0.05) did not indicate any statistically significant difference. on the basis of our experience and as shown by current literature [2, 12] we can state that both MR-angiography and Duplex scan fail in quantifying correctly carotid stenosis with consequent over- and underestimation [3, 4]. However, they can be considered effective diagnostic procedures in a screening program [12, 16]; they are accurate, safe and accepted by the population. on the basis of the cost in planning the screening of a population at risk for CVI, Duplex scanning is still to be considered the elective procedure."}
{"id": "7618571", "title": "Detection of circle of Willis aneurysms in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage: a comparison of CT angiography and digital subtraction angiography.", "content": "Detection of circle of Willis aneurysms in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage: a comparison of CT angiography and digital subtraction angiography. The purpose of this study was to compare CT angiography with digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in the detection and measurement of intracranial aneurysms in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. Thirty consecutive patients with recent subarachnoid hemorrhage shown by unenhanced CT scanning or lumbar puncture were studied with CT angiography and DSA. Using a shaded surface display format and source images, two reviewers working independently blindly interpreted CT angiograms for presence and size of aneurysms. Sensitivity and specificity for aneurysm detection were calculated for each reviewer. Aneurysm size measurements were compared between reviewers and between the two imaging techniques. Thirty aneurysms were found in 22 patients with DSA; eight patients had no aneurysms. The sensitivity and specificity of CT angiography for reviewer A were 0.97 and 1.0, respectively. For reviewer B, the sensitivity and specificity were 0.77 and 0.87, respectively. All cases with single aneurysms on DSA (18 patients) had surgical confirmation of aneurysm location and rupture. In each case with multiple aneurysms (four patients), the aneurysm thought responsible for the hemorrhage was surgically confirmed. In those cases with no aneurysms found on DSA, follow-up DSA studies did not reveal additional findings. Differences between reviewers in aneurysm size measurements made with CT angiography were not significant (p = .10). Mean aneurysm measurements for reviewer A, reviewer B, and DSA were 6.6 mm, 7.0 mm, and 6.9 mm, respectively. CT angiography shows potential in the detection and measurement of aneurysms in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage when compared with DSA."}
{"id": "7611032", "title": "Endocarditis-related cerebral aneurysms: radiologic changes with treatment.", "content": "Endocarditis-related cerebral aneurysms: radiologic changes with treatment. To document the response of mycotic aneurysms to antibiotic therapy and correlate these findings with patient outcome. Clinical findings, CT studies, and serial cerebral angiograms of patients with endocarditis related aneurysms seen over 10 years were retrospectively reviewed. In 14 patients infective endocarditis was diagnosed. The patients presented with subarachnoid haemorrhage (4 patients), stroke (9 patients), and seizure (1 patient). CT findings were intracerebral hematoma (5 patients), infarcts (4 patients), subarachnoid hemorrhage (4 patients), and aneurysms (2 patients). On angiography, 10 (71%) patients had single aneurysms, and 4 (29%) patients had multiple aneurysms. Eighteen aneurysms were detected, of which 6 (33%) were centrally located, and 12 (66%) were located peripherally. The most common site was the peripheral middle cerebral artery (56%). Serial angiography during antibiotic treatment demonstrated complete resolution of 6 aneurysms (33%), with 12 aneurysms remaining after 6 weeks of treatment. Of the latter, there was no change in size in 6 aneurysms (33%), a decrease in size in 3 aneurysms (17%) and an increase in size in 3 aneurysms (17%). No new aneurysms appeared. Surgery was performed on 10 patients with residual aneurysms, 11 aneurysms being excised or clipped. After 6 weeks' treatment, there was complete recovery in 7 (50%) patients, permanent neurologic deficits in 6 patients, and death from aneurysm rebleed in 1 patient. Follow-up angiography is recommended in all patients with mycotic aneurysms to assess response to antibiotic therapy, to detect new aneurysms, and to identify those aneurysms with no response or with enlargement."}
{"id": "7604412", "title": "Cerebral venous thrombosis in adults. A study of 40 cases from Saudi Arabia.", "content": "Cerebral venous thrombosis in adults. A study of 40 cases from Saudi Arabia. We undertook this study to determine the frequency, clinical patterns, and etiologies of cerebral venous thrombosis in a Middle Eastern country. Records of all adults patients admitted with an angiographically documented diagnosis of cerebral venous thrombosis from 1985 through 1994 in two major hospitals of Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, were reviewed. Forty patients (20 men, 20 women) aged 16 to 40 years were identified. Hospital frequency was 7 per 100,000 patients, and the relative frequency against arterial strokes was 1:62.5. Nineteen cases (47%) had a clinical picture of pseudotumor cerebri. Beh\u00e7et's disease was the cause in 10 cases (25%). Other causes included antiphospholipid antibodies in 4, protein S deficiency in 3, intracranial tumors in 3, systemic lupus erythematosus in 3, infections in 3, antithrombin III deficiency in 2, postpartum in 1, and oral contraceptives in 1. Cerebral venous thrombosis in adults is not uncommon in Saudi Arabia. Beh\u00e7et's disease is the single most common etiology. Infection is no longer an important cause, whereas \"new\" coagulation disorders are common. Patients with a pseudotumor cerebri syndrome should undergo angiography or brain MRI before being labeled idiopathic."}
{"id": "7584255", "title": "Stroke and ischemia.", "content": "Stroke and ischemia. With the introduction of diffusion imaging the diagnosis and acute stroke can be made within minutes of clinical onset. In combination with perfusion imaging, tissue viability can be assessed. The etiology of ischemia can in most cases be investigated by MR angiography. The current applications of these techniques are reviewed, and pitfalls as well as problems in the diagnosis of acute stroke are discussed. With the availability of these techniques, patients can almost instantaneously be approved for pharmacotherapy and monitored and thus clinical outcome potentially can be improved tremendously."}
{"id": "7584251", "title": "Intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Intracranial aneurysms. MR angiography provides a rapid, accurate, and extremely flexible noninvasive evaluation of intracranial aneurysms without the cost and risk of conventional angiography. TOF and phase contrast techniques each have specific advantages and disadvantages that can be selectively exploited to optimize aneurysm evaluation. Present indications for MR angiography in aneurysm evaluation include: (1) the presence of incidental findings on a CT or MR examination that suggest the possibility of aneurysm (Figs. 7 and 8), (2) when angiography is contraindicated or when the risk is too high, (3) non-invasive follow-up of patients with known aneurysms, (4) patient refusal of contrast angiography, and (5) evaluation of patients with specific clinical symptoms (i.e., third cranial nerve palsy) or patients with non-specific subacute symptoms in whom an aneurysm might explain the clinical presentation. Although MR angiography certainly can detect aneurysms with a high rate of sensitivity and specificity, detailed decision analyses generally have not supported the overall benefit of this type of screening. Future technical advances as well as advances in the overall understanding of aneurysms may one day prove unequivocally the benefit of MR angiography in screening high-risk patient groups. MR angiography has not yet been clinically evaluated as a tool in the evaluation of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage. Potential obstacles to such an evaluation include the clinical instability of SAH patients, limited spatial resolution of the MR angiography acquisitions, the potential for subarachnoid blood or focal intraparenchymal hematomas to obscure or mimic small aneurysms, and the unreliability of MR angiography in demonstrating vasospasm. Currently these factors continue to provide an integral role for contrast angiography in aneurysm evaluation."}
{"id": "7575212", "title": "[Vascular stroke of the brain stem. Study of 21 cases].", "content": "[Vascular stroke of the brain stem. Study of 21 cases]. A prospective study was designed to follow patients with syndromes of brain stem during 12 months (in 1991-1992). The aim was to correlate clinical and radiologic findings and comparing them with the classical descriptions of brain stem syndromes. Twenty one consecutive patients were admitted at the Hospital de Base do Distrito Federal. The diagnosis and the follow up were carried out by neurological examination and neuroradiologic images: CT (100%), angiography (24%, 5) and MRI (5%, 1). Hypertension and old age were the most important risk factors and hemorrhage at pons with extension to midbrain was the most frequent finding. Coma at admission was associated to a poor outcome. The outcome was defined by the Glasgow Outcome Scale: 28% rated 5, 24% rated 4, 5% rated 3, 28% rated 2 and 14% rated 1. Our results show that the clinical presentation of ischemic strokes and hemorrhages of the brain stem very frequently follow a mixed pattern, which do not conciliate with the classical of these syndromes."}
{"id": "7572513", "title": "Contrast-enhanced MR angiography for the diagnosis of intracranial vascular disease: optimal dose of gadopentetate dimeglumine.", "content": "Contrast-enhanced MR angiography for the diagnosis of intracranial vascular disease: optimal dose of gadopentetate dimeglumine. Although contrast-enhanced MR angiography has been shown useful in evaluating intracranial vascular lesions, particularly those with slow flow, the optimal dose of contrast material has not been found. Accordingly, we performed a study to determine the optimal dose of gadopentetate dimeglumine for contrast-enhanced MR angiography of intracranial vascular diseases. In this prospective study, 152 consecutive adult patients suspected of having intracranial vascular diseases had cerebral MR angiograms. Images were obtained with a three-dimensional time-of-flight sequence with magnetization transfer saturation on a 1.5-T unit. Imaging parameters (43/8 [TR/TE], 20 degrees flip angle, 64 1-mm-thick sections) were identical in each MR angiogram. One hundred twenty-two of 152 patients were randomly assigned to receive one of four doses (0, 5, 10, or 20 ml) of gadopentetate dimeglumine for MR angiography (36, 37, 38, and 11 patients, respectively). In patients who had normal major cerebral arteries on MR angiograms, degree and extent of visualization of the cerebral veins and small intracranial arteries were rated blindly on a three-point scale, and the results were compared among the four groups given different doses of contrast material. In another 30 patients who had unenhanced and enhanced MR angiograms, the presence or absence of artifactual narrowing of the internal carotid artery or major cerebral arteries (caused by signal loss due to slow or turbulent flow seen only on unenhanced images) and the visibility of arteriovenous malformation were determined. In nearly all patients, regardless of the dose of contrast material, the cerebral veins were well visualized on MR images. Degree and extent of visualization of the cerebral veins appeared to depend on the dose of contrast material. In the 20-ml injection group, venous overlap limited interpretation of the small and large arteries, whereas in the 5- and 10-ml groups, the signal intensity of the veins was much less intense, causing no difficulty in interpretation. However, no significant differences in visibility of the small arteries were apparent between the unenhanced and enhanced MR angiograms, even though the small vessels were better visualized in some patients who received either 5 or 10 ml of contrast material. In six of the 30 patients who had both unenhanced and enhanced MR angiograms, the unenhanced images showed artifactual narrowing of the internal carotid or middle cerebral arteries, which proved to be normal on contrast-enhanced MR angiograms. Venous sinuses or draining veins were better delineated on contrast-enhanced MR angiograms in all six patients with arteriovenous malformation. Five to 10 milliliters of gadopentetate dimeglumine appears to be an optimal dose range for contrast-enhanced cerebral MR angiography. Use of this dose can help in differentiating true stenosis of large arteries from artifactual narrowing and in depicting small arteriovenous malformation with slow flow."}
{"id": "7570753", "title": "Spontaneous thrombosis of an unruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysm. An unusual cause of ischemic stroke.", "content": "Spontaneous thrombosis of an unruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysm. An unusual cause of ischemic stroke. Stroke caused by spontaneous thrombosis of an unruptured intracranial aneurysm is a rare event. A 66-year-old woman experienced a transient ischemic attack and cerebral infarctions due to spontaneous thrombosis of an unruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysm. Extension of thrombus into both anterior cerebral arteries and the left middle cerebral artery, resulting in ischemic infarction in all three vascular territories, was diagnosed by CT scanning, MRI, and cerebral angiography and confirmed at autopsy. This case illustrates a rare complication of an unruptured saccular aneurysm with neuroimaging and pathological correlation. Morphological and hemodynamic factors that may have precipitated aneurysm thrombosis are discussed with reference to experimental models."}
{"id": "7570719", "title": "Accuracy and prognostic consequences of ultrasonography in identifying severe carotid artery stenosis. North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) Group.", "content": "Accuracy and prognostic consequences of ultrasonography in identifying severe carotid artery stenosis. North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) Group. The accuracy of routine ultrasonography in detecting severe carotid artery stenosis was evaluated in comparison with cerebral angiography. The precision of ultrasonographic criteria in predicting the risk of stroke was also assessed. A total of 1011 symptomatic carotid bifurcations were studied in patients from the North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET). Given that all patients were considered for entry into the trial, the chance of a verification bias affecting the analyses was minimized. The ultrasonographic data consisted of peak systolic velocities and frequency changes from both the internal and common carotid arteries. Angiographic stenosis was calculated as in NASCET. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were constructed from the ultrasonographic data for the detection of 70% or greater stenosis on the basis of an angiographic assessment. Kaplan-Meier stroke-free survival curves were used to predict the risk of stroke. The areas under the ROC curves ranged from 0.74 to 0.75 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.69 to 0.79). The sensitivities and specificities ranged from 0.65 to 0.71. The risk of stroke at 18 months declined sharply as the degree of angiographically defined stenosis declined from 99% to 70%. No pattern of decline was apparent on the basis of the ultrasonographic data. The results indicate that the accuracy of ultrasonography is moderate when flow parameters are used to assess the degree of stenosis. Ultrasonography should be used as a screening tool to exclude patients with no carotid artery disease from further testing. Conventional angiography remains an essential investigation before assigning the risk of stroke and deciding appropriate treatment for extracranial carotid artery disease."}
{"id": "7566424", "title": "[Usefulness of 3-dimensional image analysis of skull base lesions].", "content": "[Usefulness of 3-dimensional image analysis of skull base lesions]. We have evaluated three-dimensional (3D) images of the skull base lesions for planning cranial base surgery. Fifty 3D images were reconstructed from computed tomographies (CT), and/or magnetic resonance (MR) images or MR angiographic images of 30 patients with skull base lesions. These images have provided useful information for pre-operative evaluation. The 3D image reconstructed from CT provides clear information concerning the bone. Conversely, the 3D image from MR images demonstrates soft tissue very clearly, and that from MR angiography provides a detailed description of the vasculature. For skull base lesions, it is essential to evaluate 3D images from the different modalities, especially CT scan and MR image."}
{"id": "7565039", "title": "[Dolichoectatic intracranial arteries. Advances in images and therapeutics].", "content": "[Dolichoectatic intracranial arteries. Advances in images and therapeutics]. Dolichoectasia of intracranial arteries is an infrequent disease with an incidence less than 0.05% in general population. It represents 7% of all intracranial aneurysms. Commonly seen in middle age patients with severe atherosclerosis and hypertension, the affected arteries include the basilar artery, supraclinoid segment of the internal carotid artery, middle, anterior and posterior cerebral arteries; males are more frequently affected. The clinical features of these fusiform aneurysms are divided in three categories: ische-mic, cranial nerve compression and signs from mass effect. Hemorrhage may also occur. Nine patients with symptomatic cerebral blood vessel dolichoectasias are presented. Six of them were males with moderate or severe hypertension. Lesions were confined to the basilar artery in 3 cases, carotid arteries and the middle cerebral artery in 1 case, and both systems were affected in 4 patients. Middle cerebral arteries were affected in 5 cases and the anterior cerebral artery in one. An isolated fusiform aneurysm of the posterior cerebral artery is also presented (case 8) (Table 3). Motor or sensory deficits, ataxia, dementia, hemifacial spasm and parkinsonism were observed. One patient died from cerebro-meningeal hemorrhage (Table 2). All patients were studied with computerized axial tomography of the brain, 5 cases with four vessel cerebral angiography, 4 cases with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and case 5 with MRI angiography. Clinical symptoms depend on the affected vascular territory, size of the aneurysm and compression of adjacent structures. The histopathologic findings are atheromatous lesions, disruption of the internal elastic membrane and fibrosis of the muscular wall. The resultant is a diffuse deficiency of the muscular wall and the internal elastic membrane. Recent advances in neuroimaging such as better resolution of CT scan, magnetic resonance images (MRI) and MRI angiography increased the diagnosis of this pathology showing clearly the affected vessels. This avoids the use of conventional or digital subtraction angiography, reserved only for diagnosing suspected saccular aneurysm, evidence of subarachnoid hemorrhage or planning surgical treatment. The treatment of this entity may be medical or surgical. There is evidence suggesting a more favorable outcome with anticoagulation therapy, although antiaggregation is a reasonable alternative. In our experience no difference in clinical outcome was evident. Surgical treatment of this type of aneurysm includes intra- or extracranial occlusion of parent artery, clipping or aneurysm trapping, tourniquet occlusion, and circumferential wrapping with clip reinforcement. Endovascular occlusion has been accomplished with detachable balloon technique or coils. No surgical attempt was done in our cases. The prognosis is variable depending on the patients age, vessels involved and clinical complications.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7560313", "title": "High resolution, magnetization transfer saturation, variable flip angle, time-of-flight MRA in the detection of intracranial vascular stenoses.", "content": "High resolution, magnetization transfer saturation, variable flip angle, time-of-flight MRA in the detection of intracranial vascular stenoses. Factors that restrict 3D TOF MRA are limited resolution, saturation of flow, and degree of background suppression. We evaluated MRA for intracranial stenoses by using a 3D TOF technique that minimizes these factors. Twenty-nine patients underwent MRA and intraarterial digital subtraction angiography (DSA). The MRA studies were performed on a 1.5 T Siemens SP 4000 system. Integrated techniques applied to the conventional 3D TOF acquisition included the following: (a) 256 x 256 matrix with a 140 mm FOV and 0.9 mm slice thickness, yielding a 0.54 x 0.54 x 0.9 mm3 voxel; (b) tilted optimized nonsaturating excitation (TONE); and (c) magnetization transfer saturation (MTS). The intraarterial DSA was performed on a Siemens Angiostar system with a 1,024 x 1,024 noninterpolated matrix. The MRAs were reviewed by two neuroradiologists. Two hundred seventy-seven vessels were evaluated for a total of 806 segments. Vessel segments were evaluated with a 5 point scale. The estimated accuracy of MRA for detecting stenosis over all intracranial vessel segments was 0.88 +/- 0.03 and 0.89 +/- 0.02 for the two readers, respectively. The estimated accuracy ranged from 0.94 +/- 0.02 and 0.93 +/- 0.02 for detecting internal carotid artery stenosis by the two readers, respectively, to 0.65 +/- 0.17 and 0.71 +/- 0.15 for detecting distal vertebral artery stenosis. In vessels determined by catheter angiography to be stenosis-free, reader confidence at the proximal versus distal segments was similar for the internal carotid, basilar, and posterior cerebral arteries. However, for the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, one or both readers were more confident in diagnosing the proximal segment. High resolution MTS TONE 3D TOF MRA is an accurate technique for the screening of medium and large vessel intracranial stenoses."}
{"id": "7502958", "title": "Evaluation of the circle of Willis with three-dimensional CT angiography in patients with suspected intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Evaluation of the circle of Willis with three-dimensional CT angiography in patients with suspected intracranial aneurysms. To determine the usefulness of CT angiography in the setting of suspected acute subarachnoid hemorrhage or intracranial aneurysm. We prospectively studied 68 patients suspected of having subarachnoid hemorrhage or an intracranial aneurysm with noncontrast CT of the head followed immediately by contrast-enhanced helical CT of the circle of Willis with three-dimensional reconstruction. Twenty-seven patients with CT findings positive for subarachnoid hemorrhage or intracranial aneurysm were evaluated with digital subtraction angiography or MR angiography within 12 hours of CT angiography. Patients with negative CT/CT angiography findings were followed up with lumbar puncture. CT angiography showed 23 of 24 aneurysms and 2 of 2 arteriovenous malformations (sensitivity, 96%; specificity, 100%). Aneurysm size ranged from 2 to 40 mm (mean, 7.9 mm). Interobserver variability was 10%. In the 23 cases of subarachnoid hemorrhage, cisternal blood did not limit the three-dimensional reconstruction. Two patients with aneurysms on CT angiography had normal noncontrast scans. CT angiography of the circle of Willis is a useful technique for evaluation of suspected acute subarachnoid hemorrhage and intracranial aneurysm. It provides anatomic display of intracranial aneurysms, allowing for planning of conventional angiography and surgical approach. In selected cases, CT angiography may eliminate the need for preoperative conventional angiography."}
{"id": "7497303", "title": "[Cerebral magnetic resonance angiography].", "content": "[Cerebral magnetic resonance angiography]."}
{"id": "7491188", "title": "MR angiography in pediatric neurological disorders.", "content": "MR angiography in pediatric neurological disorders. MR angiography using 3D and 2D time-of-flight techniques were used to evaluate pediatric neurological disorders. MRA (arteriography) and MRV (venography) were abnormal in 63 and 45 cases, respectively. Conventional cerebral angiography was performed in 30 cases. These techniques were compared with MRI and conventional angiography. In addition, the value of MR angiography for surgical planning was subjectively evaluated. Our results showed that intracranial vessels were invariably better shown on MR angiography than on MRI. MRA and MRV were most useful in evaluating vascular distortions related to congenital brain malformations and intracranial tumors. MRA was valuable in detecting arterial narrowing but overestimated the degree of stenosis compared with conventional angiography. MRV was the technique of choice for evaluation of dural sinus and cerebral venous thrombosis and compression. MRA played little to no role in preoperative planning of vascular malformations and aneurysms. It did not appear to be accurate in assessing tumor vascularity or lesions in small arteries and arteritis."}
{"id": "7484596", "title": "Detection and assessment of intracranial aneurysms: value of CT angiography with shaded-surface display.", "content": "Detection and assessment of intracranial aneurysms: value of CT angiography with shaded-surface display. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of circle of Willis CT angiography with shaded-surface display in the detection and assessment of suspected intracranial aneurysms. Twenty-three patients who had clinical or radiologic suspicion of intracranial aneurysms were studied prospectively with CT angiography and conventional angiography. The images were obtained and interpreted in a double-blind fashion by different radiologists. Conventional angiography, which was the reference standard in this study, diagnosed 17 aneurysms in 15 patients. The usefulness of the two types of images for surgical planning was evaluated by two neurosurgeons. No aneurysms were detected with either technique in eight patients. Both techniques showed 15 aneurysms in 14 patients. The maximum dimensions were less than 3.0 mm in three cases, 3.0-5.0 mm in four cases, and greater than 5.0 mm in eight cases. With conventional angiography used as the reference standard, CT angiography has one false-positive and two false-negative findings, resulting in a sensitivity of 88% (15/17) and a specificity of 89% (8/9). For 12 of 15 aneurysms, CT angiography was rated equal or superior to conventional angiography in depicting all aspects (shape, orientation, neck, and parent vessel) of the aneurysms. We were able to detect aneurysms of the circle of Willis as small as 2 mm in size. Using conventional angiography as the reference standard, CT angiography has a sensitivity of 88% and a specificity of 89% for the detection of aneurysms in the circle of Willis. In almost all cases, CT angiography was equal or superior to conventional angiography in characterizing the aneurysms for surgical planning."}
{"id": "7477853", "title": "MRI in internal cerebral vein thrombosis: case note.", "content": "MRI in internal cerebral vein thrombosis: case note. A 40-year-old man developed general malaise, dizziness and progressive headache 1 week after acute haemorrhagic conjunctivitis. Bizarre behaviour, confusion and adversive seizures occurred later. MRI showed haemorrhagic infarct in the bilateral basal ganglia and thalamus and abnormal signal density in the internal cerebral veins. Bilateral carotid angiography showed no filling of superior sagittal sinus and internal cerebral veins. With MRI, cerebral venous thrombosis can be suspected and diagnosed earlier than before, obviating any invasive investigation."}
{"id": "7477690", "title": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage of unknown origin associated with Weber-Christian disease--case report.", "content": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage of unknown origin associated with Weber-Christian disease--case report. A 58-year-old female, who had suffered from Weber-Christian disease for 26 years, presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography showed dilatation of the basilar tip. An operation was performed in the chronic stage. The wall of dilated basilar artery was tough, but that of the right superior cerebellar artery was very thin and three small aneurysms were found on the right middle cerebral artery. Blood levels of fibrin degradation products, plasmin-alpha 2-plasmin inhibitor complex, and thrombin-antithrombin III complex were increased. The abnormality of the coagulation-fibrinolysis system and the fragility of the cerebral arteries related to Weber-Christian disease were probably the cause of the subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "8303765", "title": "Congenital deficiency of factor VII in subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Congenital deficiency of factor VII in subarachnoid hemorrhage. Factor VII is essential for coagulation activation by the extrinsic pathway. Hemorrhages of the central nervous system in patients with congenital factor VII deficiency seem to have a higher incidence compared with other congenital coagulopathies. The purpose of this paper is to report two rare cases of subarachnoid hemorrhage and factor VII deficiency. Two cases of women affected by a congenital deficiency of factor VII and subarachnoid hemorrhage are reported. Diagnosis was obtained by cerebral computer tomography; cerebral pan-angiography was normal. Complete coagulation studies were performed showing prothrombin time prolongation and factor VII deficiency. In one patient, family studies revealed the existence of a similar coagulation disorder. We suggest routine coagulation studies in all patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Determination of factor VII activity might be performed in patients with normal activated partial thromboplastin time and prolonged prothrombin time."}
{"id": "8273698", "title": "MR angiography of occlusive disease of the arteries in the head and neck: current concepts.", "content": "MR angiography of occlusive disease of the arteries in the head and neck: current concepts. MR angiography has many applications in the evaluation of cerebrovascular disease (aneurysm, vascular malformation, neoplasm, arterial and venous occlusive disease) [1]. Of these, the most common application may be in the assessment of arterial occlusive disease in patients at risk for stroke [2]. Consequently, the accuracy of MR angiography vs conventional angiography in this assessment will most likely determine the extent to which MR angiography is routinely used in clinical practice. In this paper, we review the results of clinical trials in which MR angiography has been used to evaluate arterial occlusive disease in the head and neck and describe those recent developments that promise improved visualization of the vasculature."}
{"id": "8271015", "title": "Near-infrared spectroscopy.", "content": "Near-infrared spectroscopy."}
{"id": "8208357", "title": "Antiphospholipid antibodies in cerebrovascular ischemia and stroke in childhood.", "content": "Antiphospholipid antibodies in cerebrovascular ischemia and stroke in childhood. We report on eight children who suffered from cerebrovascular ischemia or stroke at the age of 2 or up to 11 years. Antiphospholipid antibodies (APLA) were detected in two cases during the ischemic event and in six cases during follow-up examinations (after six weeks or within a span of six years). In two patients multiple stenoses of basal cerebral arteries were found; one of them suffered from moyamoya syndrome. The acute hemiplegia in one patient was linked to an asymptomatic mycoplasmal infection and APLA. In three cases, one of the parents was also APLA-positive. Seven patients were treated with acetylsalicylic acid, and in four cases immunoglobulin infusions were given. Transient ischemic attacks subsided after the child with the moyamoya syndrome received immunoglobulins. No effect of medication could be established in the other children. The concept of the antiphospholipid syndrome is still evolving. As none of the common risk factors pertaining to strokes in adults apply to children, pediatric research may offer a suitable platform for specific investigations on the causal, pathogenetic role of APLA. We propose that all children suffering from stroke or transient ischemic attacks should be tested for APLA."}
{"id": "8204251", "title": "[Subdural hemorrhage of aneurysmal origin].", "content": "[Subdural hemorrhage of aneurysmal origin]. Although most subdural hematomas are considered to be venous in origin, they may also be of arterial origin. When subdural bleeding is due to the rupture of an intracranial aneurysm, most commonly at the middle cerebral or internal carotid arteries, the amount of subdural blood is usually small and of no clinical importance. We describe two patients with subdural hematomas secondary to rupture of an intracranial aneurysm, who needed prompt surgical treatment. The first patient had a left internal carotid artery aneurysm at the origin of the ophthalmic artery. In the second patient the aneurysm was at the anterior communicating artery and rebled into the subdural space directly through a right intraparenchymatous frontobasal hematoma. The most probable mechanism of subdural bleeding in our two patients was the existence of adhesions between the aneurysm and the arachnoid due to previous minor hemorrhages. The indication of cerebral angiography in a patient with subdural hematoma is based mainly upon the existence of meningeal signs, the presence of blood in more than one intracranial compartment or the rapid progression of bleeding."}
{"id": "8200146", "title": "[A case of superficial hemosiderosis of the central nervous system with normal CSF findings and unknown source of bleeding].", "content": "[A case of superficial hemosiderosis of the central nervous system with normal CSF findings and unknown source of bleeding]. A 65-year-old woman had suffered from slowly progressive hearing loss for one year. She had neither repeated episodes of headache or vomiting nor a past history of neurosurgical operation. Neurologic examination revealed moderate diminution in hearing, pyramidal tract sign and cerebellar ataxia without dementia. CSF was under normal pressure, clear and colorless, with total protein 35 mg/dl, glucose 59 mg/dl and a cell count of 2 WBC/mm3. T2-weighted images (TR200/TE80) of high-field MRI demonstrated marginal hypointensity of the brainstem, the Sylvian fissures and the entire spinal cord. Angiography of the cerebral vessels failed to identify the source of bleeding. To our knowledge, this is the first report of superficial hemosiderosis of the central nervous system with normal CSF findings and an unknown source of bleeding confirmed by MRI."}
{"id": "8192080", "title": "Diagnosing intracranial vasculitis: the roles of MR and angiography.", "content": "Diagnosing intracranial vasculitis: the roles of MR and angiography. To describe our experience with MR and angiography in diagnosing intracranial vasculitis and to test the hypothesis that MR can be used to screen for patients unlikely to have vasculitis. Ninety-two patients who had angiography with \"exclude vasculitis\" as the indication or who had angiography and a clinical diagnosis of vasculitis were identified. Angiograms of all 92 patients and the MRs of the 70 patients who had both studies were reviewed. Eleven patients had intracranial vasculitis. Angiography showed characteristic changes in 8. MR, performed in 9 of 11 vasculitis cases, was significantly abnormal in all 9. Among 70 patients who had both studies, 19 had MR that was completely normal or showed only incidental findings. None of these 19 was diagnosed with vasculitis. The diagnostic yield of angiography performed to exclude vasculitis was only 6%. Evaluation for intracranial vasculitis should include MR. A negative MR excludes intracranial vasculitis more definitively than does a negative angiogram and makes the likelihood of finding vasculitis with angiography negligible."}
{"id": "8190927", "title": "[The torcular Herophili: the diagnostic pitfalls in TOF 3D magnetic resonance angiography].", "content": "[The torcular Herophili: the diagnostic pitfalls in TOF 3D magnetic resonance angiography]. The authors report on a diagnostic pitfall which is often observed in magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) of intracranial vessels (time-of-flight 3D)--i.e., the absence of one of the two transverse sinuses. Fifty patients underwent MRA of the intracranial vessels with the TOF 3D (FISP) and the TOF 2D (FISP) techniques. Five patients were affected with sinus stenosis. MRA was performed with a 1.5-T superconductive magnet and a circular head coil. All patients underwent Magnetic Resonance Angiography with FISP 2D sequences (FA 40 degrees, TR 40 ms, TE 12 ms) acquired on coronal plane as well as FISP 3D (FA 15 degrees, TR 30 ms, TE 7 ms) acquired on axial plane. In the patients in whom FISP 2D sequences correctly demonstrated the whole confluence of sinuses, FISP 3D sequences always depicted the upper sagittal sinus, while the right transverse sinus was seen in 84.4% (38/45) of cases and the left transverse sinus in 24.2% (11/45) of cases. In the patients with a stenosis in the confluence of sinuses, FISP 3D sequences demonstrated two false-positive cases with respect to FISP 2D. The statistical analysis (McNemar test) of the results demonstrated the difference between 2D and 3D sequences in the detection of the two transverse sinuses to be statistically significant: p < 0.01 for the right transverse sinus and p < 0.001 for the left transverse sinus. In the study of the intracranial vessels (TOF 3D technique) the absence of one of the two transverse sinuses is suggestive of a diagnostic pitfall; the combination of 3D and 2D sequences answers this diagnostic question."}
{"id": "8169611", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography compared with basic magnetic resonance in intracranial vascular diseases.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography compared with basic magnetic resonance in intracranial vascular diseases. The diagnostic value of magnetic resonance angiography (MR-Angio) in the study of intracranial vascular diseases was compared with that of basic magnetic resonance (MR) in 35 patients presenting with a total of 45 pathologies (13 vascular malformations, 17 aneurysms, 3 vascular stenoses, all also examined by standard angiography, and 12 cases of dolichobasilar artery). A joint reading of the results was carried out by two radiologists who evaluated the basic MR and MR-Angio separately and thereafter filled in a fixed-choice answer form. In the author's opinion, MR-Angio may be considered a complementary technique to basic MR, offering a greater capacity for identification and characterization of these intracranial lesions. In vascular malformations and aneurysms, MR-Angio may be performed as a preliminary to digital subtraction angiography."}
{"id": "8166011", "title": "Fibromuscular dysplasia of arteries of the head and neck: imaging findings.", "content": "Fibromuscular dysplasia of arteries of the head and neck: imaging findings. Cephalocervical fibromuscular dysplasia is an uncommon vascular disease that affects less than 1% of the population. Although often an incidental finding, patients may present with transient ischemic attacks, cerebral infarctions, or subarachnoid hemorrhage. Fibromuscular dysplasia is usually diagnosed in the fourth or fifth decade of life; it occurs in women more often than in men and in whites more frequently than in blacks. The purpose of this essay is to illustrate the broad spectrum of neuroimaging findings seen on CT scans, MR images, and angiograms of patients with cephalocervical fibromuscular dysplasia. The value of MR imaging in distinguishing tubular fibromuscular dysplasia from arterial dissection and arterial hypoplasia is demonstrated."}
{"id": "8166009", "title": "Dural sinus thrombosis: value of venous MR angiography for diagnosis and follow-up.", "content": "Dural sinus thrombosis: value of venous MR angiography for diagnosis and follow-up. The purpose of this study was to determine the value of venous MR angiography as the sole procedure for the diagnosis and follow-up of dural sinus thrombosis. Forty-two patients with clinical findings suggestive of dural sinus thrombosis were examined with venous MR angiography and spin-echo MR imaging. Maximum-intensity-projection reconstructions and individual sections of the MR angiograms were examined for direct and indirect signs of dural sinus thrombosis by assessing flow signal from the major sinuses, the jugular bulb, upper jugular veins, ascending cortical veins (occlusion or increased flow due to formation of collaterals), diploe (emissary) veins and extracranial veins, and the deep subcortical veins (Galen's and internal cerebral veins). Direct signs of dural sinus thrombosis on MR angiograms included lack of typical high flow signal from a sinus that did not appear aplastic or hypoplastic on single sections from MR angiography and the frayed appearance of the flow signal from a sinus after recanalization. Indirect signs of dural sinus thrombosis included evidence of formation of collaterals, unusually prominent flow signal from deeper medullary veins, cerebral hemorrhage, visualization of emissary veins, and signs of increased intracranial pressure. When available, conventional angiograms were evaluated by analogous criteria as appropriate. Digital subtraction or cut-film angiograms were available for correlation in nine patients. In nine patients, MR angiography was repeated up to eight times during the course of follow-up. The results of MR angiography for all patients were compared with results in 10 control subjects. Confirmation of the diagnosis of dural sinus thrombosis was based either on conventional angiographic findings or on the changes seen in follow-up examinations. Dural sinus thrombosis could be ruled out in 25 of the 42 patients on the basis of clinical and MR angiographic findings. In 17 patients with MR angiographic findings that indicated dural sinus thrombosis, conventional angiography confirmed the diagnosis in nine patients, and changes seen on repeat MR angiograms during follow-up confirmed the diagnosis in nine patients as well (one patient's diagnosis was confirmed by both techniques). Individual frames from two-dimensional fast low-angle shot sequences allowed direct visualization of thrombus. Limited spin-echo sequences as performed here provided inconsistent findings and were insufficient for diagnosis. In the 10 control subjects, attenuation of flow signal was seen in the torcular Herophili in all studies; one subject had a nonpathologic variant of the sinojugular system. MR angiography is the technique of choice for diagnostic evaluation and follow-up of dural sinus thrombosis, and it is reliable as the sole examination for this condition. When MR angiographic findings are unremarkable and other abnormalities must be ruled out, routine spin-echo MR imaging should be performed."}
{"id": "8161486", "title": "Selected indications for and applications of magnetic resonance angiography in children.", "content": "Selected indications for and applications of magnetic resonance angiography in children. The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy and practicality of magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) in evaluating pediatric cerebrovascular disorders. A retrospective evaluation was performed of MR angiograms in 20 pediatric patients with cerebrovascular pathology. When appropriate, comparisons were made with duplex ultrasonography or conventional catheter angiography. MRA accurately assessed the patency of carotid reanastomoses in 8 babies who had previously undergone extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). In 6 patients with moyamoya syndrome, MRA accurately evaluated stenotic intracranial carotid and circle of Willis arteries and progressive enlargement of the superficial temporal and middle cerebral arteries after revascularization procedures, and thus obviated the need for sequential angiograms. Thrombi and emboli were identified in 4 of 5 patients with symptoms and imaging evidence of an acute stroke. Two-dimensional time-of-flight MR venograms, acquired in both axial and coronal planes, were useful for preoperative venous mapping in a patient with an occipital encephalocele and detecting venoocclusive disease. MRA provided diagnostically useful information in a spectrum of pediatric cerebrovascular disorders. It can be used as the initial vascular imaging modality for patients with imaging evidence of acute cerebrovascular event, to evaluate progression of chronic vasoocclusive disease, to evaluate vessel patency following intracranial revascularization surgery, and for visualization of the venous circulation."}
{"id": "8160236", "title": "Middle cerebral artery occlusion due to hydatid cysts of myocardial and intraventricular cavity cardiac origin. Two cases.", "content": "Middle cerebral artery occlusion due to hydatid cysts of myocardial and intraventricular cavity cardiac origin. Two cases. Hemispheric strokes of hydatid origin are very rare. We describe two cases of middle cerebral artery occlusion by a cyst of cardiac origin. Cerebral angiography demonstrated occlusion of the initial segment of the middle cerebral artery. Myocardial and pericardial cysts were diagnosed by echography and pathological examination. Subsequent development of hydatid cysts within the necrotic area of the infarcted hemisphere suggests cerebral hydatid embolism of cardiac origin. In endemic areas, embolism of hydatid cysts should be considered in the diagnosis of stroke in young patients."}
{"id": "8140370", "title": "[Carotid pathology: diagnostic studies].", "content": "[Carotid pathology: diagnostic studies]."}
{"id": "8133666", "title": "Endovascular treatment of intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Endovascular treatment of intracranial aneurysms. To examine the techniques, reported experiences, and advantages and disadvantages associated with the endovascular treatment of intracranial aneurysms. We review the endovascular techniques used for the treatment of intracranial aneurysms and the sequelae of subarachnoid hemorrhage, which have evolved during the past 10 years. Two broad categories of endovascular therapy for intracranial aneurysms are described: occlusion of the parent artery and preservation of the parent artery by selective occlusion of the aneurysm with balloons or metallic coils. The Mayo protocol for testing tolerance of patients before permanent balloon occlusion of the parent artery is described, as are the types of aneurysms most amenable to this treatment. In addition, use of balloon angioplasty for cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage is reviewed. Recent improvements in microcatheter technology have facilitated the safe navigation of percutaneously introduced catheters in the intracranial circulation and selective catheterization of intracranial aneurysms. Surgically difficult aneurysms are now being treated with endovascular techniques more frequently than in the past. Early results from animal experiments and human trials have shown that selective occlusion of aneurysms with metallic coils may have a role in the treatment of intracranial aneurysms. Balloon angioplasty of symptomatic cerebral vasospasm has demonstrated improvement in neurologic function in approximately 70% of patients. As technology continues to improve and as greater experience is obtained, interventional neuroradiologists will continue to have an increasingly important role in the treatment of intracranial aneurysms."}
{"id": "8115646", "title": "Improved MR angiography: magnetization transfer suppression with variable flip angle excitation and increased resolution.", "content": "Improved MR angiography: magnetization transfer suppression with variable flip angle excitation and increased resolution. Results at conventional magnetic resonance (MR) angiography were compared with results at MR imaging with a sequence combining optimized magnetization transfer (MT) saturation and tilted optimized nonsaturating excitation (TONE). Forty images were obtained of five healthy volunteers and five patients with known intracranial vascular abnormalities (four men and six women, aged 22-72 years). Four blinded readers found improved vessel penetration, enhanced vessel-to-background contrast, the better vessel detail in the MT saturation-TONE images than in the conventional three-dimensional time-of-flight MR angiograms."}
{"id": "8092035", "title": "Intracranial MR angiography: comparison of single-volume three-dimensional time-of-flight and multiple overlapping thin slab acquisition techniques.", "content": "Intracranial MR angiography: comparison of single-volume three-dimensional time-of-flight and multiple overlapping thin slab acquisition techniques. Time-of-flight (TOF) MR angiography has continued to evolve during the past few years. Signal loss due to flow saturation is a major problem of single-volume (slab) three-dimensional (3D) TOF technique. A multislab 3D TOF method, multiple overlapping thin slab acquisition (MOTSA), shows decreased sensitivity to the effects of flow saturation and therefore should result in better images. To evaluate the difference between MOTSA and the traditional single-volume 3D TOF techniques, we performed sequential, location-matched studies in 17 prospectively chosen patients with intracranial vascular abnormalities. All MOTSA and 3D TOF images were obtained after cut-film or 1024 digital angiography. According to specific criteria, abnormalities were better visualized with the MOTSA technique than with the single-volume 3D TOF technique. The difference was most marked in patients with more complex vascular abnormalities. We conclude that MOTSA is better than single-volume 3D TOF for showing intracranial abnormalities. The major advantage of MOTSA is decreased sensitivity to flow saturation."}
{"id": "8092031", "title": "Delayed intracranial hemorrhage in children after suboccipital craniectomy.", "content": "Delayed intracranial hemorrhage in children after suboccipital craniectomy. The purpose of this study was to report the clinical and imaging findings of seven children who developed extraaxial, intracranial hemorrhage 3-12 years after suboccipital craniectomy for neoplasia. We attempt to explain the hemorrhages based on a previously reported hypothesis of neomembrane formation associated with dural substitutes used to repair large dural defects. Clinical charts (seven patients), surgical and pathologic findings (four patients), and imaging studies (CT scans and MR images in four; CT scans, MR images, and angiograms in one; and CT scans only in two patients) were reviewed retrospectively. Hemorrhage occurred 3-12 years after suboccipital craniectomy for tumor (ependymoma in two, medulloblastoma in three, astrocytoma in one, and ganglioglioma in one). Silastic dural substitute was used to repair the surgical wound in six cases and human dural graft in one case. Hematomas were spontaneous in four and occurred after minor head trauma in three. Four patients had multiple hemorrhagic episodes. CT scans and MR images showed acute extraaxial hemorrhages at the craniectomy site without contiguous residual or recurrent neoplasia in all patients. No intraaxial or intratumoral hemorrhage was detected. Findings on cerebral angiograms in one patient were normal. Four patients underwent surgical exploration of the hematoma and craniectomy site; no macroscopic source of bleeding was detected. The hematomas were not associated with recurrent tumor pathologically. Delayed, benign extraaxial hematomas may occur in children who have undergone craniectomy for tumors of the posterior fossa and have had dural substitute used to repair large defects. Fragile vessels associated with nonmembranes have been proposed as the source of hemorrhage."}
{"id": "8090273", "title": "[A case of polycystic kidney associated with new growth of cerebral aneurysm after aneurysmal operation].", "content": "[A case of polycystic kidney associated with new growth of cerebral aneurysm after aneurysmal operation]. We have encountered a 66-year-old woman with a polycystic kidney (PCK). This was combined with the fact that the new growth of an aneurysm at the left anterior cerebral artery (A2-A3 junction) had ruptured 3 years after an operation for a right IC-PC aneurysm in 1985. The cause of the neogenesis and enlargement of an intracranial aneurysm is important because of the changes in the arterial wall due to congenital factors, hypertension, arteriosclerosis, etc, or hemodynamic stress caused by hypertension. We suspected that intracranial aneurysm formation was caused by hypertension due to PCK and the intracranial aneurysm is explained as being due to maldevelopment. In patients with PCK, it should be kept in mind that intracranial aneurysms may be present, and it is advisable to use cerebral angiography and MRA to see whether this is so or not. It should be also stressed that the control of hypertension is very important for the prognosis of patients with PCK. Not only new growth of cerebral aneurysms but also intracerebral hemorrhage is to be prevented."}
{"id": "8078609", "title": "Trigeminal neuralgia: differentiation between intracranial mass lesions and ordinary vascular compression as causative lesions.", "content": "Trigeminal neuralgia: differentiation between intracranial mass lesions and ordinary vascular compression as causative lesions. We investigated 164 patients who presented with trigeminal neuralgia as their initial symptom at our institute. Twenty-two patients (13.4%) had intracranial causative lesions other than vascular compression. There were 19 tumors (10 epidermoids, 5 meningiomas, and 4 neurinomas) and 3 vascular lesions (2 arteriovenous malformations and 1 aneurysm). Eleven patients (50%) demonstrated only trigeminal neuralgia without any other neurological deficits. Preoperative computed tomography could not identify any causative lesions in 6 of these 22 patients. In 3 of the 6 patients, a causative lesion was clearly detected only by magnetic resonance imaging, while in 1 of the 6 patients an arteriovenous malformation was detected by angiography alone. Intraoperatively tumor was encountered in 3 cases even though preoperative computed tomography could not detect any apparent causative lesions. A higher incidence of hypesthesia in the trigeminal nerve regions as well as a reduced corneal reflex was noted in patients with a mass lesion compared to those with vascular compression. We thus conclude that magnetic resonance imaging should be performed on all patients who complain of trigeminal neuralgia in order to rule out mass lesions, however, angiography is still considered useful for the diagnosis of some vascular lesions."}
{"id": "8061440", "title": "Efficacy evaluation of gadoteridol for MR angiography of intracranial vascular lesions.", "content": "Efficacy evaluation of gadoteridol for MR angiography of intracranial vascular lesions. A phase III multicenter study was conducted in 89 patients with known intracranial vascular lesions to evaluate an extracellular gadolinium contrast agent, gadoteridol, for intracranial magnetic resonance (MR) angiography. The pre- and postcontrast MR angiograms of 82 patients were evaluated by the unblinded investigators and by two blinded readers (A and B) for visualization of lesions; arterial and venous anatomy; extent, size, and number of lesions; and disease classification. The unblinded readers indicated that lesions were visualized better on postcontrast images in the following categories: venous anatomy, 87 (81%) of 107 lesions; arterial anatomy, 43 lesions (40%); and extent or size of lesions, 38 lesions (36%). In 29 (35%) of 82 patients, the unblinded readers determined that enhanced MR angiography provided more diagnostic information than unenhanced MR angiography. The blinded readers determined that enhanced MR angiography provided more information for visualization of vascular anatomy in more than 60% of cases. The additional information provided with gadoteridol would have changed the diagnosis in nine (8%) of 107 lesions seen by the unblinded readers, 11 (12%) of 90 lesions seen by reader A, and three (3%) of 93 lesions seen by reader B. The results confirm that the use of gadoteridol improves the visualization of intracranial vascular lesions with MR angiography. The authors conclude that development of new postprocessing algorithms will improve the utility of contrast-enhanced MR angiography."}
{"id": "8058940", "title": "Acute stroke: evaluation with serial proton MR spectroscopic imaging.", "content": "Acute stroke: evaluation with serial proton MR spectroscopic imaging. To investigate the evolution of metabolic changes detectable with proton magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopic imaging in acute stroke and to compare these findings with those of conventional MR imaging. A patient with middle cerebral artery stroke underwent conventional proton-density (PD)- and T2-weighted MR imaging, MR angiography, and multisection proton two-dimensional MR spectroscopic imaging over a period of 3 hours to 5 months after symptom onset. On 3-hour MR images, no abnormal signal intensity change was detectable. Spectroscopic images obtained at 24 hours showed localized elevation of cerebral lactate levels. In most regions with high lactate levels, infarction subsequently occurred. In the chronic stage (5 months), the infarct was associated with reduced N-acetylaspartate levels, increased choline levels, and absence of lactate. Spectroscopic imaging enables mapping of ischemic and infarcted brain regions with greater sensitivity than does conventional MR imaging."}
{"id": "8033471", "title": "Basilar artery migraine. Reversible ischemia demonstrated by Tc-99m HMPAO brain SPECT.", "content": "Basilar artery migraine. Reversible ischemia demonstrated by Tc-99m HMPAO brain SPECT. The authors present a case of basilar artery migraine in a 33-year-old woman who was initially misdiagnosed as having a cerebrovascular or mental disorder and subjected to MRI and cerebral angiography, which, however, did not show any pathologic findings. During admission to the university hospital, she lost consciousness. An emergency Tc-99m HMPAO brain SPECT showed a significant decrease of regional cerebral blood flow in the right temporal and occipital cortices, and right cerebellar hemisphere, where regional cerebral blood flow was decreased by 10-24% as compared to the left side. The second brain SPECT during a symptom-free phase showed the reversion of regional cerebral blood flow to normal in these areas. Basilar artery migraine was diagnosed by the finding of reversible ischemia in the territory of the right basilar artery on brain SPECT images and the clinical picture."}
{"id": "8033163", "title": "Association of Wilms' tumor and intracranial hemorrhage due to arteriovenous malformation.", "content": "Association of Wilms' tumor and intracranial hemorrhage due to arteriovenous malformation. A high incidence of congenital malformations associated with Wilms' tumor has been recognized lately. Aniridia, hemihypertrophy, and urinary tract anomalies are among the most frequently reported. Anomalies of the central nervous system associated with Wilms' tumor are rare. We report a previously healthy 4-year-old girl who presented with an intracranial hemorrhage secondary to a ruptured arteriovenous malformation. A routine abdominal examination revealed a large right-sided Wilms' tumor. The question generated by the coexistence of these two uncommon disorders in one individual is whether there is a genetic or other relationship between them, or whether this is merely a coincidental occurrence. The question at this point is unanswered and must await demonstration of additional, similar cases."}
{"id": "8009411", "title": "Vascular malformations of the brain in hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (Rendu-Osler-Weber disease).", "content": "Vascular malformations of the brain in hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (Rendu-Osler-Weber disease). Six patients with vascular malformation of the brain in hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) were reviewed to determine clinical and radiographic characteristics of these lesions. There were two patients with arteriovenous fistula (AVF), three with arteriovenous malformation (AVM), and one with multiple AVMs associated with AVF. Seizures were the most common presenting symptom (seen in three patients), and two of them had intracerebral hematomas (ICH). In the remainder, the malformations were incidentally found in the course of evaluation of other diseases. Their locations were variable, but the majority was superficially confined to the cerebral cortex. Arterial supply was from mostly one feeding artery that was a cortical branch of either anterior, middle, or posterior cerebral artery. In six of nine malformations, the venous drainage was through a superficial cerebral vein into either the superior sagittal sinus or transverse sinus. Direct surgery was done on two patients with ICH, artificial embolization on one, and stereotactic radiosurgery on one. The cerebral vascular malformations in HHT are not infrequent, and in particular the importance of computed tomography and cerebral angiography should be recognized in patients with pulmonary AVF associated with HHT."}
{"id": "8004740", "title": "Cerebral arteriovenous malformations in children.", "content": "Cerebral arteriovenous malformations in children. The treatment of cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVM) or vascular anomalies are challenging neurosurgical procedures for an anaesthetist. Large AVMs are uncommon in children. Only 18% of AVMs become symptomatic before the age of 15 yr. This series reviews the experience at this institution during the period of 1982 to 1992. The symptoms at the time of presentation are varied and include haemorrhage (50%), seizures and hydrocephalus (36%) or congestive cardiac failure (18%). Symptoms of congestive heart failure predominate in the newborn whilst neurological symptoms, such as stroke, seizures or hydrocephalus occur more commonly in infants and older children. Approximately one third of AVMs in childhood present acutely. Radiological investigations, e.g., CT scan, MRI and cerebral angiography are essential to identify the precise location of the lesion. Therapeutic intervention in the acute presentation may involve craniotomy for evacuation of haematoma and treatment of increased intracranial pressure (ICP). Control of seizures and congestive heart failure may take priority and allow time to plan the elective procedures of embolization and surgical excision of the AVM. Operative intervention is hazardous and peroperative complications can be expected in more than 50% of patients. The morbidity and mortality associated with cerebral AVM are high, especially in infants who present in the neonatal period with congestive cardiac failure. The overall mortality in this series was 20%. Children presenting with intracranial arteriovenous malformations require a multidisciplinary approach. The successful management of anaesthesia either for embolization or surgical resection necessitates an understanding of the disciplines of paediatric and neuroanaesthesia. Special care and specific attention to detail may contribute to reduce the high morbidity and mortality encountered in these compromised children."}
{"id": "8002813", "title": "[Perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage nonaneurysmatic: report of a case and literature review].", "content": "[Perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage nonaneurysmatic: report of a case and literature review]. A 42 year-old man with subarachnoid hemorrhage was admitted in our Service (Hunt & Hess grade II). CT-scan disclosed predominantly perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage. Digital subtraction angiographic study did not disclose either cerebral aneurysm or any other potential site of intracranial bleeding. The evolution was uneventful. A DSA was repeated one month later and was negative. Four months later, the patient was asymptomatic. The authors review the literature and emphasize the importance in recognizing this benign clinical form of nonaneurysmatic subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "7999442", "title": "[Sequential change of cerebral angiography in a case of cerebral angiitis following herpes zoster ophthalmicus].", "content": "[Sequential change of cerebral angiography in a case of cerebral angiitis following herpes zoster ophthalmicus]. Delayed neurological symptoms and signs following herpes zoster ophthalmicus (HZO) such as \"Delayed contralateral hemiplegia with HZO\" are supposed to be due to ipsilateral intracranial angiitis and ischemic disorder. We experienced a rare case with ipsilateral cerebral hemorrhage following HZO. Under the diagnosis of cerebral angiitis associated with HZO, we treated her conservatively and observed sequential change of angiography for four months. A 54-year-old female, who had been treated for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), developed HZO on left ophthalmic nerve area. Seven weeks after the onset of HZO, she complained of headache, mild right hemiparesis, and disturbance of consciousness. Computed tomography revealed subcortical hemorrhage at the left temporo-occipital lobe. Cerebral angiography showed vascular irregularities such as segmental narrowing and sausage-like dilation on proximal portion of the ipsilateral anterior, middle and posterior cerebral arteries. Same findings were seen on peripheral portions of the posterior cerebral artery on the same side. Moreover sequential angiograms showed appearance of an aneurysm in the left middle cerebral artery (M2 potion). Under the diagnosis of cerebral angiitis associated with HZO, she was treated with antiviral agents, antiplatelet drugs, steroid and stellate ganglion block. Those irregularities were found to diminish on the sequential angiograms, and the aneurysm disappeared four month later."}
{"id": "7991082", "title": "The value of MRI in angiogram-negative intracranial haemorrhage.", "content": "The value of MRI in angiogram-negative intracranial haemorrhage. In one year, cerebral angiograms were performed for intracranial haemorrhage (ICH) on 334 patients. No cause for haemorrhage could be identified in 41 (12%), 30 of whom had predominantly subarachnoid (SAH) and 11 predominantly parenchymal haemorrhage (PH). These patients were prospectively examined by cranial MRI 1-6 weeks after the ictus. The MRI studies were positive in 7 patients (17%). In the 30 patients examined after SAH, 2 studies were positive, showing an aneurysm in one case and a brain stem lesion of uncertain aetiology in the other. In those examined after PH, cavernous angiomas were shown in 2, a tumour in 1 and a vascular malformation in another; useful diagnostic information was thus obtained in 36% of this group."}
{"id": "7974558", "title": "Aneurysm of the left middle cerebral artery caused by myxoid degeneration of the vessel wall.", "content": "Aneurysm of the left middle cerebral artery caused by myxoid degeneration of the vessel wall. Myxoid degeneration of arterial walls may result in dissection and dissecting aneurysms in extracranial and intracranial portions of cerebral arteries. Rarely, saccular aneurysms may also develop on that basis, but thus far these have only been reported in the cervical portions of the carotid arteries. We describe a case of a nondissecting aneurysm of the left middle cerebral artery caused by myxoid degeneration of the media. A 39-year-old man had acute onset of frontal headache and neck stiffness. Computed tomographic scan and lumbar puncture established the presence of subarachnoid hemorrhage. Angiography demonstrated a left middle cerebral artery aneurysm. This was clipped and the wall biopsied. Microscopically the entire thickness of the vascular wall showed marked myxoid alterations. No dissection was present. The patient had an uneventful recovery. This observation confirms that myxoid degeneration of arterial walls may cause aneurysms with eventual rupture even in the absence of dissection. Rare cases of this type of aneurysm have been reported to occur in the cervical portions of the carotid arteries, but this is the first reported observation of such changes involving an intracerebral artery."}
{"id": "7969758", "title": "[Necessity of cerebral angiography in thunderclap headache patients who show no evidence of subarachnoid hemorrhage: investigation of 350 cases].", "content": "[Necessity of cerebral angiography in thunderclap headache patients who show no evidence of subarachnoid hemorrhage: investigation of 350 cases]. The necessity of cerebral angiography was assessed in patients with thunderclap headache in whom subarachnoid hemorrhage had been ruled out on CT findings and the color of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The subjects of this study were 350 patients with thunderclap headache in whom subarachnoid hemorrhage was ruled out at our clinic based on CT findings and the color of CSF. The time span from the onset of thunderclap headache to the first visit to our clinic ranged from 1 to 9 days (mean: 2.5 days). The ages of the patients ranged from 22 to 64 years. 147 were male and 203 female. All patients underwent CT angiography. Percutaneous cerebral angiography was also performed in cases in which cerebral aneurysms were suspected on CT angiography or the CSF cell count was elevated (over 10/3mm3 on white blood cells). (1) Of the 350 patients, 162 were suspected to have cerebral aneurysms when examined by CT angiography. When these 162 patients were examined by percutaneous cerebral angiography, cerebral aneurysms were found in 34 patients (9.7%). (2) Four patients had an elevated CSF cell count. Cerebral aneurysms were found in all these patients. (3) Of the 34 patients with cerebral aneurysms, 31 consented to and underwent direct surgery. Localized subarachnoid hemorrhage around their aneurysms was found in seven (22.6%) of these 31 patients intraoperatively. Elevation in CSF cell count was shown in three of these patients. Even when CT and CSF studies reveal no abnormalities in the early stage after the onset of thunderclap headache, subarachnoid hemorrhage can not be ruled out. Therefore, cerebral angiography is recommended in patients with thunderclap headache."}
{"id": "7967754", "title": "Transient ischemic attack and minor ischemic stroke: an algorithm for evaluation and treatment. Mayo Clinic Division of Cerebrovascular Diseases.", "content": "Transient ischemic attack and minor ischemic stroke: an algorithm for evaluation and treatment. Mayo Clinic Division of Cerebrovascular Diseases. To report a cost-effective and scientifically based algorithm for the clinical assessment and treatment of patients with transient ischemic attack (TIA) or minor ischemic stroke. We comprehensively reviewed the literature on the epidemiologic features, assessment approaches, and treatment recommendations for ischemic cerebrovascular disease and developed an algorithm by using the available clinical and research data to support all decision-making steps. For patients with TIA or minor ischemic stroke, the appropriate setting for investigation (inpatient or outpatient), suggested diagnostic tests, use of anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents, and indications for surgical treatment are reviewed. Although stroke is a common cause of death and lost productivity in the United States, the clinical assessment of patients with TIA or minor ischemic stroke has lacked consistency. The simplified algorithm clarifies patients who may be candidates for hospitalization and possible anticoagulation therapy. Initial diagnostic studies should include computed tomography of the head without use of a contrast agent, which quickly distinguishes nonhemorrhagic from hemorrhagic cerebrovascular disease. Evolving noninvasive studies of the cerebral vasculature are providing increasingly sensitive means of detecting stenoses, yet cerebral angiography remains the \"gold standard.\" Treatment options depend on the pathophysiologic findings on diagnostic evaluation. The assessment of patients with ischemic cerebrovascular disease is complex. The simplified algorithmic approach reported herein necessitates entry of appropriate patients into the algorithm. Because of clinical heterogeneity, an algorithm may apply to a wide spectrum of patients but will not cover every situation; hence, evaluation must be guided by a patient's unique history and findings on examination and by the physician's clinical experience."}
{"id": "7966069", "title": "Sensitivities of noninvasive tests for central nervous system vasculitis: a comparison of lumbar puncture, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Sensitivities of noninvasive tests for central nervous system vasculitis: a comparison of lumbar puncture, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging. To determine the sensitivities of lumbar puncture (LP), computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for central nervous system (CNS) vasculitis. We reviewed the charts and radiologic studies of 20 patients with angiogram positive CNS vasculitis. The patients ranged in age from 7-72 years, with a mean of 43.7 +/- 15.5 years. Twelve patients (60%) were women; 8 (40%) were men. Seven had primary angiitis of the CNS (PACNS), 8 had rheumatological illnesses (4 had systemic lupus erythematosus), and 5 had vasculitis due to other diverse etiologies, including 2 who had CNS infections. LP was positive in 8/15 angiographically proven cases, for a sensitivity of 53% [95% confidence interval (CI): 27-79]. The sensitivity of CT was 65% (11/17) (95% CI: 38-86), and that of MRI 75% (12/16) (CI: 48-93). The use of LP plus either CT or MRI was more sensitive than LP alone: for LP and CT, the sensitivity was 92% (11/12) (CI: 62-100), and for LP and MRI, 100% (12/12) (CI: 74-100). The combination of CT and MRI was not more sensitive than either test alone. The sensitivities of LP, CT, and MRI for angiogram positive vasculitis are only modest. CT and MRI may be completely normal in cases of CNS vasculitis when the angiogram is positive. LP and either CT or MRI are of additive benefit in the diagnosis of CNS vasculitis, and should be done before angiography; and, in a patient with both a normal LP and a normal CT or MRI, a CNS angiogram is unlikely to be positive for vasculitis."}
{"id": "7965138", "title": "Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography: influence on scheduling of angiography and delayed surgery for ruptured intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography: influence on scheduling of angiography and delayed surgery for ruptured intracranial aneurysms. The role of transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) was studied retrospectively in relation to the management of 73 patients with a subarachnoid hemorrhage due to a ruptured intracranial aneurysms. TCD velocity measurements provided very valuable data to assist scheduling of angiography and delayed surgery. Angiography and surgery were planned significantly sooner in the TCD examined group of patients with TCD velocities indicative for the absence of vasospasm than in the group of patients who did not have TCD examinations. The cerebral circulatory resistance index (R), calculated as: (maximum systolic velocity--end diastolic velocity)/maximum systolic velocity, and changes in R did not predict a change in clinical grade or outcome."}
{"id": "7954507", "title": "Intracranial hemorrhage due to rupture of an arteriovenous malformation in a full-term neonate.", "content": "Intracranial hemorrhage due to rupture of an arteriovenous malformation in a full-term neonate. A case of neonatal intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) secondary to rupture of an arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is reported. The baby began to vomit frequently 9 h after birth. Computed tomographic scan revealed the presence of an ICH. Intravenous digital subtraction angiography (IVDSA) demonstrated an AVM, which was successfully excised on the 2nd day after birth. It is stressed that IVDSA is safe and noninvasive in comparison with conventional angiography and is useful for diagnosis of cerebral vascular disease in neonates."}
{"id": "7938769", "title": "Head and neck MR angiography in pediatric patients: a pictorial essay.", "content": "Head and neck MR angiography in pediatric patients: a pictorial essay. Magnetic resonance (MR) angiography is a new, noninvasive imaging method with well-known uses in adults for the evaluation of carotid disease in the neck and cerebral vasculopathy. MR angiography examinations were prospectively studied in 126 children to evaluate the usefulness of MR angiography of the head and neck in children, as well as to correlate its findings with those of conventional angiography. Eleven patients underwent conventional angiography in addition to MR angiography. MR angiography was performed with commercially available pulse sequences and included two- and three-dimensional time-of-flight and phase-contrast techniques. Indications for MR angiography included evaluation of pathologic conditions (aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations, infarcts, venous sinus thrombosis, brain tumors, and cerebritis), screening examinations in sickle cell disease, and follow-up of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. MR angiography was found to be a useful, noninvasive diagnostic and screening examination for head and neck and cerebral vascular abnormalities in children and had excellent correlation with conventional angiography."}
{"id": "7931586", "title": "Intracranial dural arteriovenous fistulae: angiographic predictors of intracranial hemorrhage and clinical outcome in nonsurgical patients.", "content": "Intracranial dural arteriovenous fistulae: angiographic predictors of intracranial hemorrhage and clinical outcome in nonsurgical patients. This long-term follow-up study of 54 patients clarifies the angiographic predictors of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) and clinical outcome in individuals with unoperated intracranial dural arteriovenous fistulae (AVF's). All of these patients were examined at the Mayo Clinic between 1976 and 1989, and all available cerebral arteriograms were reviewed by a neuroradiologist. Follow-up information was obtained for 52 patients (96%) until death or treatment intervention, or for at least 1 year after diagnosis, with a mean follow-up period of 6.6 years. Throughout this 6.6-year follow-up period, ICH related to dural AVF occurred in five of the 52 patients, for a crude risk of hemorrhage of 1.6% per year. The risk of hemorrhage at the time of mean follow-up examination was 1.8% per year. Angiographic examination revealed several characteristics that were considered potential predictors of ICH during the follow-up period. Lesions of the petrosal sinus and straight sinus had a higher propensity to bleed, although the small numbers in the series precluded a definite conclusion. A person suffering from a dural AVF with a venous varix on a draining vein had an increased risk of hemorrhage, whereas no hemorrhage was seen in the 20 patients without a varix (p < 0.05). Lesions draining into leptomeningeal veins had an increased occurrence of hemorrhage, although this increased risk was not statistically significant. Patients' initial symptoms were compared to those at follow-up evaluation. Pulsatile tinnitus improved in more than half of the 52 patients, and resolved in 75% of those showing some improvement. Individuals without a sinus or venous outflow occlusion at initial cerebral angiography were more likely to improve or remain stable (89%), whereas patients with an occlusion showed infrequent improvement (11%; p < 0.05)."}
{"id": "7931378", "title": "Prospective evaluation of cerebral angiography and computed tomography in cerebral haematoma.", "content": "Prospective evaluation of cerebral angiography and computed tomography in cerebral haematoma. One hundred and two consecutive patients with cerebral haematoma were prospectively allocated to one of two groups according to their CT on admission. Group 1 patients were thought to have a high probability of an underlying structural lesion and underwent cerebral angiography acutely. If normal, this was repeated at three months. Group 2 patients were thought not to have such a lesion and underwent angiography at three months. Patients older than the mean age of the study population, and hypertensive patients were much less likely to harbour an aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation than younger or normotensive patients (p < 0.01; sensitivity 87.9%, specificity 88.6%). An aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation was the cause of haemorrhage in 12.8% of hypertensive patients, in 30.9% of patients with haematoma involving the basal ganglia, and 18.2% of those with posterior fossa haemorrhage. Features of CT in isolation give a sensitivity of 77.2% and a specificity of 84.2%. Follow up angiography in group 1 showed an arteriovenous malformation in one of seven patients in whom the original study was normal. These results contrast sharply with data from previous retrospective studies. The decision to investigate a patient with cerebral haematoma should be primarily based on the patient's clinical condition, rather than on the site of haemorrhage."}
{"id": "7917085", "title": "The value of repeat cerebral angiography in subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "The value of repeat cerebral angiography in subarachnoid haemorrhage. In 216 consecutive patients investigated for subarachnoid haemorrhage, 44 (20.3%) of cerebral angiograms were either normal or equivocal for the presence of aneurysm. Arteriography was repeated in 30 patients and an aneurysm was demonstrated in 10 cases. Repeat arteriography is recommended in proven subarachnoid haemorrhage even when the initial study is normal, and in this study achieved a reduction in overall negative rate to 15.6%."}
{"id": "7915489", "title": "Cerebral hemorrhagic complication in polyarteritis nodosa. Case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Cerebral hemorrhagic complication in polyarteritis nodosa. Case report and review of the literature. Polyarteritis nodosa (PN) is frequently cause of both central and peripheral neurological disorders. However, involvement of the central nervous system is rare at the beginning of the disease. In this paper we report a case of a 38-year-old woman hospitalized in our Neurosurgical Service because of left hemiparesis in presence of cutaneous arteritis (PN). At computed tomography (CT) an intracerebral hemorrhage was found. No radiographic evidences of vasculitis of the visible arterial branches, at angiography, were seen. Cerebral arteritis should be suspected as a cause for intracranial hemorrhage in patients without hypertension or other risk factors."}
{"id": "7915258", "title": "[Imaging procedures in angiology in cerebrovascular diseases].", "content": "[Imaging procedures in angiology in cerebrovascular diseases]."}
{"id": "7912863", "title": "Intracranial blood flow velocities in acute ischemic stroke.", "content": "Intracranial blood flow velocities in acute ischemic stroke. Transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) can evaluate noninvasively the blood flow velocities and patency of the main trunk of the middle cerebral artery (MCA). Using TCD we evaluated MCA patency and patterns of flow through the circle of Willis in patients with acute stroke. Patients with symptoms of hemispheric stroke were evaluated with serial TCD tests during admission. The Canadian Neurological Scale was used to assess neurological deficits. In all cases computed tomographic scan, 99mTc hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime single-photon emission computed tomography, and carotid duplex were performed, and in some cases cerebral angiography. Seventy-five consecutive patients with symptoms of acute ischemic stroke (mean time, 8 +/- 4 hours) were studied. Four circle of Willis perfusion patterns were observed: normal, collateral, stenotic, and occlusive. MCA occlusion or stenosis was seen in 70% of initial TCD studies in the stroke group (n = 50) but not in patients with transient ischemic attacks (n = 25). Eighty-six percent of the initial MCA occlusions had recanalized by 2 weeks after onset. Four patients, evaluated within the first 4 hours after onset, illustrated different patterns of MCA flow. TCD findings were compared with cerebral angiography, computed tomography, and single-photon emission computed tomography. TCD allows early differentiation of patency and natural history of MCA thromboembolic events. This may have important implications in the decision for thrombolytic therapy."}
{"id": "7911776", "title": "Ischemic stroke and TIA: clinical clues to common causes.", "content": "Ischemic stroke and TIA: clinical clues to common causes. Establishing the cause of a transient ischemic attack (TIA) or minor stroke enables you to institute effective therapy to prevent major stroke. Clinical and radiologic features that help to clarify the cause of cerebrovascular ischemia include characteristics of prior TIAs, temporal progression and nature of the neurologic deficit, and appearance of infarction on CT and MRI of the brain. Carotid and transcranial Doppler ultrasound, magnetic resonance angiography, arterial angiography, and echocardiography are used to confirm the cause of cerebral ischemia. We provide three case studies to illustrate our approach to stroke diagnosis."}
{"id": "7889695", "title": "Occult cerebrovascular malformations: 2 cases.", "content": "Occult cerebrovascular malformations: 2 cases. Since the introduction of high accuracy CT scanning and MR imaging, angiographically occult cerebrovascular malformations are a relatively common finding. The clinical presentation is usually related to hemorrhage. Asymptomatic intralesional bleeding frequently occurs. Currently, MR imaging is the most sensitive method for the detection of occult cerebrovascular malformations. The dynamic nature of these malformations seems to be a key factor in their therapeutic management. We present 2 cases of occult cerebrovascular malformations and discuss the clinical presentation, neuroradiologic appearance and current management of these lesions."}
{"id": "7873280", "title": "[Werner's syndrome associated with meningioma and a cerebrovascular disorder].", "content": "[Werner's syndrome associated with meningioma and a cerebrovascular disorder]. We present a case of Werner's syndrome associated with intracranial meningioma and a cerebrovascular disorder. A 49-year-old male was transferred to this hospital with a head injury as a result of a car accident, and a CT scan revealed a traumatic intracerebral hemorrhage. The patient displayed the characteristic clinical features of Werner's syndrome, including premature senility, juvenile cataract, atrophic skin, and a tendency to ward familial occurrence was present. MRI and cerebral angiography revealed multiple intracerebral hemorrhages, perhaps due to amyloid angiopathy, multiple lacunar infarctions and parasagittal meningioma. This is the first report on the MRI findings in the brain of a patient with Werner's syndrome. We suspect that of Werner's syndrome also shows evidence of premature aging on MR images."}
{"id": "7858919", "title": "Trauma to the cerebrovascular system.", "content": "Trauma to the cerebrovascular system. Trauma to the cerebrovascular system can result in vascular injuries, such as dissection, pseudoaneurysm, thrombosis, rupture, and arteriovenous fistula. Although the diagnosis of vascular injury is usually considered in all cases of penetrating trauma, it may be overlooked in patients with nonpenetrating trauma. The possibility of vascular injury should be considered in all patients with head and neck trauma, especially those patients with acute or delayed neurologic dysfunction. Although intra-arterial angiography remains the gold standard diagnostic tool, the combination of MR imaging and MR angiography may permit noninvasive diagnosis of vascular injury. Moreover, MR readily provides detection of intracranial sequelae, such as cerebral infarction and intracranial hemorrhage."}
{"id": "7857409", "title": "Blinded prospective evaluation of sensitivity of MR angiography to known intracranial aneurysms: importance of aneurysm size.", "content": "Blinded prospective evaluation of sensitivity of MR angiography to known intracranial aneurysms: importance of aneurysm size. To determine the sensitivity of time-of-flight and phase-contrast MR angiography for the detection of intracranial aneurysms. Sixteen patients with 27 intracranial aneurysms previously identified with conventional angiography and 19 control patients were examined with three-dimensional time-of-flight, three-dimensional phase-contrast MR angiography, and standard MR imaging. Subvolumes of the carotid and posterior circulations, source images, and standard MR images were blindly interpreted by three experienced neuroradiologists. Detection of an aneurysm by a given sequence was defined as at least two of the three blinded readers identifying the aneurysm. The sensitivities of the sequences based on all 27 aneurysms were: transaxial T1, 25.9%; T2, 48.1%; PC, 44.4%; and TF, 55.6%. Two of 3 aneurysms detected with T2 but not MR angiography had adjacent blood products. Five millimeters appeared to be a critical size; the sensitivities for aneurysms greater than or equal to 5 mm were: T1, 37.5%; T2, 62.5%; PC, 75%; and TF, 87.5%. Three-dimensional time-of-flight MR with 512 x 256 matrix is more sensitive than three-dimensional phase-contrast or standard MR imaging for detection of aneurysms. Retrospectively, aneurysms 3 mm or larger can be identified with MR angiography; however, prospectively, 5 mm is the critical size for detection."}
{"id": "7853026", "title": "Peak time difference of time-density curve in contrast media transit as an indicator of asymmetric cerebral perfusion.", "content": "Peak time difference of time-density curve in contrast media transit as an indicator of asymmetric cerebral perfusion. Time-density curve study in contrast media transit has a theoretical possibility to evaluate asymmetric cerebral perfusion. We studied the right-to-left hemispheric difference of peak time in regional time-density curve. Twenty-seven chronic stroke patients underwent either dynamic CT or intravenous digital subtraction angiography (IVDSA), and single photon emission CT (SPECT). We placed symmetric regions of interest as appropriate in each study, and obtained a peak time of each regional time-density curve in IVDSA or dynamic CT, and a laterality index of reconstructed counts in SPECT. Right-to-left difference of peak time significantly correlated to the laterality index both in IVDSA and dynamic CT (r = -0.88, p < 0.001, and r = -0.82, p < 0.001, respectively). Thus, time-density curve study well reflected unilateral reduction of cerebral perfusion. Recent progress in acute thrombolytic intervention for ischemic stroke recommends a quick and efficient evaluation of ischemic status, and time-density curve study may satisfy this requirement."}
{"id": "7850152", "title": "Indications for diagnostic tests in the evaluation of stroke.", "content": "Indications for diagnostic tests in the evaluation of stroke."}
{"id": "7837706", "title": "[Superimposition of MR angiography and three dimensional radionuclide brain perfusion image with personal computer].", "content": "[Superimposition of MR angiography and three dimensional radionuclide brain perfusion image with personal computer]. To investigate the correlation of arterial obstruction with brain perfusion, MR angiography (MRA) and three dimensional (3D) radionuclide brain perfusion image were superimposed. Eleven cases with intracranial artery obstructive patients were studied. Three dimensional brain perfusion images were generated based on the ray-tracing method. Superimposition of MRA on to 3D brain perfusion image was performed on a personal computer. Reconstructing time for 3D image was about 15 minutes for each patient, Superimposing time was about 5 minutes for each image. Correlation of arterial obstruction with decrease in brain perfusion was demonstrated clearly by superimposed image. With a personal computer, it was possible to produce clinically useful synthesized images with relatively short time and conveniently."}
{"id": "7829694", "title": "Bilirubin, ferritin, D-dimers and erythrophages in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with suspected subarachnoid haemorrhage but negative computed tomography scans.", "content": "Bilirubin, ferritin, D-dimers and erythrophages in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with suspected subarachnoid haemorrhage but negative computed tomography scans. To assess the diagnostic value of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) spectrophotometry, cytology, ferritin, and D-dimer measurements in the investigation of suspected subarachnoid haemorrhage in patients with negative or equivocal computed tomography (CT) scans. CSF specimens submitted for assessment of xanthochromia were examined for erythrophages using a cytospin preparation stained with Wright's stain, for ferritin using the Ciba-Corning Magic IRMA assay, D-dimers using the Dimertest 2 latex agglutination slide test, and for bilirubin by scanning spectrophotometry. The patients were divided into three groups for data analysis and the results compared with the existing methods, CT, and angiogram results. Final diagnoses were reviewed by a consultant neurologist. Thirty six patients were recruited. In those patients with confirmed subarachnoid haemorrhage CSF cytology had a low sensitivity and there were false negative results with both the D-dimer and ferritin assays. Eleven patients with a negative or equivocal CT scan underwent angiography, but only one aneurysm and no arterio-venous malformations or bleeding points were identified. In the patient with the aneurysm there was no laboratory evidence of subarachnoid haemorrhage. Six patients had CSF abnormalities detected by the special tests only and in none of these cases was subarachnoid haemorrhage confirmed. All results were normal in four out of five cases of traumatic tap. This is a small study, but it shows that, depending on the timing of the lumbar puncture, false negative results can occur with both ferritin and D-dimer measurements. It suggests that neither of these tests adds significantly to the information provided by CT, visualisation of CSF, and spectrophotometry and confirms that, despite the use of spectrophotometry, D-dimer and ferritin assays in selecting patients for angiography, the proportion of patients with negative CT scans and colourless CSF with demonstrable vascular lesions remains low."}
{"id": "7818632", "title": "The clinical efficacy of magnetic resonance imaging in neuroimaging.", "content": "The clinical efficacy of magnetic resonance imaging in neuroimaging. To assess the clinical efficacy of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for neuroimaging and to provide guidelines for clinical practice. After a comprehensive literature search, studies of the diagnostic accuracy of MRI alone or compared with other tests and of any impact on therapeutic choices or patient outcomes were reviewed by independent readers, followed by discussion to reach consensus conclusions. Of 3125 citations retrieved, 156 studies with original data could be rated according to methodologic criteria for study design. One article contributed grade A quality information about diagnostic accuracy, 28 were graded B or C, and 113 were graded D. One randomized trial and 2 comparison studies contributed grade B or C information about the impact on therapeutic choices. Only 2 studies surveyed health status before and after magnetic resonance scanning. For most abnormalities, the sensitivity of MRI is equal to or better than competing technologies. Magnetic resonance imaging shows greater contrast and detail than computed tomography (CT) but also shows more clinically silent abnormalities or incidental findings. A few studies found a modest impact on therapeutic choices but no impact on quality of life or disability. Costs for MRI are high. Computed tomography is sufficient for initial diagnosis of most mass lesions or intracranial hemorrhages requiring immediate intervention. Magnetic resonance imaging is more accurate in the temporal lobes, posterior fossa, brainstem, and spinal cord. For lumbar radiculopathy, MRI and plain spinal CT are as accurate as post-myelographic CT and are less invasive. The role of magnetic resonance angiography for carotid artery stenosis is being studied. Although suggestions for appropriate use of MRI in clinical practice can be made, the supporting evidence in published studies is weak. Firm guidelines for appropriate use of MRI should be based on further clinical research using more rigorous methods."}
{"id": "7816180", "title": "[Traumatic anterior cerebral artery aneurysm difficult to distinguish from congenital cerebral aneurysm: case report].", "content": "[Traumatic anterior cerebral artery aneurysm difficult to distinguish from congenital cerebral aneurysm: case report]. We report the case of a 29-year-old woman in whom a saccular aneurysm of the distal anterior cerebral artery developed following head trauma due to a car accident. She was semicomatose on admission but had no lateralizing motor signs. Reflexes were symmetrical, with bilateral extensor toe sign. X-ray of the skull showed no fracture but CT scans demonstrated a large frontal hematoma and interhemispheric bleeding. Initial cerebral angiography performed within 12 hours of trauma showed a small protrusion on the pericallosal portion of the left pericallosal artery with no branching point nearby. Angiography was repeated on the 9th day after admission and confirmed the presence of a saccular aneurysm of the pericallosal artery, which had been visible as a small protrusion on the initial angiogram. Traumatic aneurysm was suspected and successful neck clipping of the aneurysm was performed on the 14th day. Preoperative CT and angiographic findings could not rule out a congenital aneurysm but the histological study of the specimen confirmed that it was a traumatic false aneurysm. We discussed the diagnosis and the etiology of posttraumatic aneurysm."}
{"id": "7813170", "title": "[Magnetic resonance angiography in the study of cervical and endocranial vascular pathology].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance angiography in the study of cervical and endocranial vascular pathology]. The principles of MR angiography techniques for the detection of vascular anatomy are discussed in this review. We underlined the possibilities and limits of this technique with its advantages and disadvantages. We also discuss the applications of MR angiography in diagnosing of cerebrovascular or neoplastic diseases. Finally we stress the role of MR angiography in clinical practice, and its reliability, in comparison with digital angiography, conventional angiography, and spiral CT."}
{"id": "7808570", "title": "[Dural arteriovenous fistula as a rare cause of intracerebral hemorrhage].", "content": "[Dural arteriovenous fistula as a rare cause of intracerebral hemorrhage]. Dural arteriovenous fistulas are rare vascular malformations presenting with very different clinical signs, depending on the pattern of venous drainage. Retrograde leptomeningeal venous drainage is significantly correlated with a progressive neurological presentation. A case of a dural arteriovenous fistula with cortical venous drainage is presented. The draining vein was frankly aneurysmal dilated. Rupture of this venous aneurysm caused an intracerebral hemorrhage. The venous varix and the hematoma were microsurgically resected and evacuated."}
{"id": "7800126", "title": "Vascular considerations and complications in cranial base surgery.", "content": "Vascular considerations and complications in cranial base surgery. The technical evolution of cranial base surgery has resulted in approaches that allow more radical surgical extirpation of complex cranial base lesions. Our service has extensively applied these cranial base approaches for lesions of the cranial base. A subgroup of 100 patients who had cranial base tumors involving potential manipulation or sacrifice of carotid arteries underwent 20-minute balloon test occlusions coordinated with vascular assessments consisting of a combination of the following: 1) four-vessel cerebral angiogram with compression studies; 2) occlusion transcranial Doppler ultrasonography; 3) occlusion single-photon emission computed tomography perfusion studies; and 4) xenon-133 cerebral blood flow studies. Transient neurological deficits associated with balloon test occlusion occurred in 7 of 100 patients (7%). Subsequently, 18 patients underwent permanent carotid occlusion by endovascular detachable balloons. Delayed ischemic complications (> 72 h) occurred in 4 of 18 (22%) patients. Additionally, a number of vascular complications not predicted by the balloon occlusion tests and vascular assessments were experienced. Repeat vascular assessments defined the causes and guided treatment of ischemic patients. Ischemic complications were caused by hemodynamic insufficiency, embolization, vasospasm, radiation vasculopathy, and venous anomaly. Our experience leads us to believe that no vascular assessment exists today that can predict the occurrence of vascular complications accurately. The current enthusiasm for cranial base surgery must be tempered with the sober reality that management of cerebrovascular anatomy and physiology remain significant limitations. Consideration of potential cerebrovascular complications is paramount to successful outcome and implementation of cranial base surgery."}
{"id": "7769484", "title": "Diagnosis and imaging of stroke.", "content": "Diagnosis and imaging of stroke. Less than 20 years ago the diagnosis of stroke was almost entirely based on clinical features. Since the mid-1970s sophisticated ultrasonography, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, angiography and spectroscopy, single-photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography have been developed in rapid succession. By using a combination of imaging modalities it is now possible to show nearly all of the vascular tree from the left ventricle of the heart through to small arteries within the brain. Depending on clinical need, in most cases, it should be possible to define the location and mechanism of any given vascular event affecting the brain, and thus design appropriate management. Neuroimaging, clinical diagnosis and therapy are closely linked. Neuroimaging will become even more important if potential neuroprotective or thrombolytic agents prove effective. Categorization of pathophysiological subtypes of haemorrhagic and ischaemic stroke will allow more precise management of patients. If the rate of development in neuroimaging of the previous 20 years is maintained, even more precise evaluation of stroke patients will become possible."}
{"id": "7753413", "title": "Evaluation of cerebral vasospasm in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage using single photon emission computed tomography.", "content": "Evaluation of cerebral vasospasm in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage using single photon emission computed tomography. Cerebral vasospasm (CVS) occurs as a result of the breakdown in cerebral autoregulation mechanisms. Because cerebral vasospasm can occur after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), it is important to evaluate borderline perfusion. Evaluation of borderline vascular insufficiency is important to reduce ischemic complications. In this study 25 patients with SAH were investigated by somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP), computed tomography (CT), digital subtraction angiography (DSA) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in order to predict borderline ischemic areas. Clinical grades were also correlated with these investigations. Thirteen patients had symptomatic vasospasm and 15 patients had angiographic vasospasm. SPECT showed hypoperfusion in 22 out of 25 patients. CT predicted CVS in 8 of these 22 patients. Our study shows that brain perfusion SPECT is a non-traumatic, non-invasive, non-allergic, inexpensive method for the prediction of cerebral vasospasm. We conclude that brain SPECT with Tc-99m HM-PAO is an accessible technique that can demonstrate varying degrees of regional tissue hypoperfusion in patients with delayed ischemic deficits due to CVS following SAH."}
{"id": "7718868", "title": "Operations on aneurysms of the anterior communicating artery not visualized by cerebral angiography--report of four cases.", "content": "Operations on aneurysms of the anterior communicating artery not visualized by cerebral angiography--report of four cases. Four cases of anterior communicating aneurysms are reported with clinical presentations of recurrent intracranial hemorrhage undisclosed in their cerebral angiography. Operative exploration revealed anterior communicating aneurysms in these patients. It is thought possible that these patients harbored aneurysms which failed to exhibit on angiograms due to temporary thrombosis or development of abnormal cerebral vessels. CT scanning was important for diagnosis of these patients."}
{"id": "7624643", "title": "Stereotactic linear radiosurgery for cavernous angiomas.", "content": "Stereotactic linear radiosurgery for cavernous angiomas. Optimal management of symptomatic cavernous angiomas (CA) located in the thalamus and the brainstem is problematic. Clinical and radiological (MRI) follow-up series suggest that having hemorrhaged once, recurrent hemorrhage with progressive neurologic dysfunction may commonly occur. We have therefore chosen to treat these lesions when first symptomatic with stereotactic linear radiosurgery (SLR). We now report, after a median follow-up of 27 months, 12 patients with CAs (9 women, 3 men, mean age 40 years) treated in this fashion. Ten patients presented with hemorrhage (3 had more than one hemorrhage): two patients had new onset seizures. All patients had enhanced MRI/MRAs characteristic of CA. There were five brainstem and five thalamic CAs, and one each in the temporal lobe and insula. Cerebral angiograms were done in 8 patients for comparison with their respective MRAs. Only one CA was visualized in the late venous phase on cerebral angiogram and identical vascular features were appreciated on the MRA. The diameter of the CAs ranged from 1.0 to 3.0 cm with a mean of 1.6 cm. Dosimetry planning was based on MRI/CT features and the mean dose at the isocenter was 2.167 cGy (range = 2,000-2,500 cGy) delivered with a mean collimation diameter of 1.46 cm (range = 1.0-2.0 cm). All 12 patients continued to improve neurologically after SLR and had MRI-documented changes in their lesions: in general, the lesions became smaller and signal characteristics converted to methemaglobin. However, 1 patient had an early post-SLR hemorrhage, documented by MRI, at 4.5 months.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7601395", "title": "A case of delayed subdural hematoma.", "content": "A case of delayed subdural hematoma. Over the recent years, a number of authors have assumed that traumatic intracranial hematomas reach their maximum size within minutes after the trauma. However, there are reports in the literature of proven traumatic intracranial hematoma of delayed onset after a negative computer tomographic or arteriographic study of the brain. We present a case of a 70-year-old patient admitted to the Clinic after a road accident. On admission the patient was disoriented in regard to time but his neurological status was otherwise normal. On the second day after admission the patient's condition deteriorated and he became comatose with moderate left hemiparesis. An emergency left carotid angiography was performed which was negative for a hematoma. Three days later the patient died. Postmortem examination disclosed a subdural hematoma in the left parietotemporal region with a volume of about 100 ml, as well as encephalomalacia and brain edema."}
{"id": "7514752", "title": "Double bilateral symmetrical aneurysms--case report.", "content": "Double bilateral symmetrical aneurysms--case report. A 52-year-old female admitted for subarachnoid hemorrhage and preoperative angiography revealed bilateral symmetrical middle cerebral artery aneurysms, which were successfully clipped. Post-operative angiography revealed bilateral symmetrical aneurysms in the distal anterior cerebral arteries, which were not identified on the preoperative angiograms, and were also clipped successfully. Such multiple aneurysms should not be treated by bilateral approaches in a one-stage operation."}
{"id": "10184167", "title": "Contrast compensates for slow flow in MRA.", "content": "Contrast compensates for slow flow in MRA."}
{"id": "10150152", "title": "Transcranial Doppler validation pilot study.", "content": "Transcranial Doppler validation pilot study. The use of transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) for the evaluation of patients with ischemic cerebrovascular disease remains controversial. This study was organized to gather preliminary data regarding the sensitivity and specificity of TCD when compared to cerebral angiography in detecting stenosing lesions and collateral flow patterns of the anterior cerebral circulation. Forty-two patients from six medical centers were prospectively enrolled. Each received cerebral angiography and TCD testing within 24 hours of each other. Based on TCD criteria established a priori, the results were first analyzed by a blinded investigator and then by computer. Computerized analyses were then repeated with modified criteria. Collateral flow through the anterior communicating and ophthalmic arteries was detected with sensitivities of 62% and 100%, and specificities of 98% and 92%, respectively. Internal carotid artery proximal and distal severe ( greater than 70%) stenoses were detected with sensitivities of 79% and 100% and specificities of 88% and 97%. Middle and anterior cerebral artery stenoses and middle cerebral artery occlusion were detected with specificities exceeding 98%; however, the data were insufficient to determine sensitivity. Computerized analyses did not permit improvement of sensitivity and specificity of the baseline criteria. The selected TCD criteria are highly specific in detecting intracranial stenoses and collateral flow patterns of the anterior circulation. The criteria have limited but acceptable sensitivity and specificity in detecting internal carotid artery origin severe stenoses, and are highly sensitive in detecting ophthalmic artery retrograde flow. A study with a larger sample is necessary to provide definitive guidelines for diagnosis."}
{"id": "10148579", "title": "Flow quantification extends MRA's neuro applications.", "content": "Flow quantification extends MRA's neuro applications."}
{"id": "10148530", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography in vertebrobasilar ischemia. Preliminary experience.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography in vertebrobasilar ischemia. Preliminary experience. Forty-five patients were evaluated for vertebrobasilar ischemic disease by magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). Ten also underwent intraarterial digital subtraction angiography. All were sorted into three groups based on results of the MRA and their clinical presentation. In the first group, vertebrobasilar ischemic disease could be reasonably excluded. In the second, such disease was nearly certain. In the third group, the vertebrobasilar system could not readily be assessed by the MRA alone and often required further studies. In 8 of 10 patients a strong correlation was found between MRA and intraarterial digital subtraction angiography. MRA provided valuable information for assessing vertebrobasilar disease and, in many instances, eliminated the need for invasive angiography."}
{"id": "8512504", "title": "Perimesencephalic subarachnoid haemorrhage: negative angiography and favourable prognosis.", "content": "Perimesencephalic subarachnoid haemorrhage: negative angiography and favourable prognosis. The computed tomography (CT) scans of 110 consecutive patients who presented, over a 4.5-year period, following spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH), were reviewed. All 110 patients also had one or more 4-vessel digital subtraction cerebral angiograms. The CT scans were reviewed in each case without knowledge of the angiographic result. In nine patients (8%), SAH was confined to the perimesencephalic area, interpeduncular cistern and/or prepontine region at CT. All nine patients had at least two, and some as many as four, negative cerebral angiograms. Eighteen of the 110 patients (16%) ultimately had negative angiography. Hence, the patients with isolated perimesencephalic haemorrhage (PMH) accounted for 50% of the negative angiograms. There was a significant association between isolated PMH and negative angiography (chi 2 = 50.1, P < 0.005). The specificity of PMH for negative angiography was 100% (95% confidence interval (CI) = 97-100%) and the sensitivity of PMH for a negative study was 50% (95% CI = 16-84%). Six of the 110 patients had basilar artery aneurysms demonstrated angiographically as the cause of their SAH but none of these six had isolated PMH at CT. All patients with isolated PMH were alive and well at follow up and none had suffered repeat SAH or vasospasm-related ischaemic cerebral injury. Perimesencephalic haemorrhage should be distinguished from SAH in general, because of the good prognosis associated with it and the doubtful need for repeat cerebral angiography after an initial negative study."}
{"id": "8506547", "title": "Pattern of cerebral atherosclerosis in Hong Kong Chinese. Severity in intracranial and extracranial vessels.", "content": "Pattern of cerebral atherosclerosis in Hong Kong Chinese. Severity in intracranial and extracranial vessels. The clinical pattern of stroke and the angiographic distribution of cerebral atherosclerosis in Chinese are different from those in Caucasians. Pathological data from autopsy studies are lacking. The intracranial and extracranial arteries supplying the brains of 114 consecutive Chinese patients undergoing autopsy in a regional general hospital were examined by computer-assisted morphometric analysis under a microscope as well as by macroscopic grading for atherosclerotic narrowing. The severity was correlated with various atherosclerosis-related factors. Atherosclerosis of the intracranial cerebral vessels was more severe than that of the extracranial vessels. The distal branches of the intracranial vessels were also commonly involved. Hypertension and diabetes mellitus were identified as factors associated only with intracranial atherosclerosis (p < 0.001), whereas ischemic heart disease was associated with atherosclerosis in both the intracranial (p < 0.001) and extracranial (p = 0.012) vessels. Smoking was associated with narrowing of the extracranial vessels only (p = 0.0054). Compared with figures from Caucasian and Japanese populations, the extent of intracranial atherosclerosis is much more severe in Hong Kong Chinese, whereas atherosclerotic narrowing of the extracranial carotid artery is less severe in Hong Kong Chinese than in Caucasians."}
{"id": "8492870", "title": "Comparison of the clinical presentation of symptomatic arteriovenous malformations (angiographically visualized) and occult vascular malformations.", "content": "Comparison of the clinical presentation of symptomatic arteriovenous malformations (angiographically visualized) and occult vascular malformations."}
{"id": "8492865", "title": "Treatment of a bacterial (mycotic) intracranial aneurysm using an endovascular approach.", "content": "Treatment of a bacterial (mycotic) intracranial aneurysm using an endovascular approach. The case of a patient with a bacterial intracranial aneurysm treated with antibiotics and endovascular obliteration is reported. The patient presented with dysphasia and right hemiparesis. A medical workup revealed endocarditis and associated heart valve dysfunction with no evidence of congestive heart failure. Computed tomography demonstrated subarachnoid hemorrhage, and a subsequent cerebral arteriogram showed a distal left middle cerebral aneurysm, which, as demonstrated by angiography, did not change in size in 2 weeks. An endovascular approach was used to obliterate the aneurysm and its parent vessel. Endovascular techniques may be used to obliterate certain bacterial intracranial aneurysms, particularly in patients who harbor distal aneurysms."}
{"id": "8492860", "title": "A case of distal anterior choroidal artery aneurysm: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "A case of distal anterior choroidal artery aneurysm: case report and review of the literature. We describe a very rare case of distal anterior choroidal artery aneurysm. A 34-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of headache and vomiting. Computed tomographic scans revealed a diffuse intraventricular hematoma and a thin subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography disclosed a saccular aneurysm in the peripheral portion of the right anterior choroidal artery, which was located in the temporal horn of the right lateral ventricle. We approached the temporal horn through a small inferior temporal incision, and the aneurysm was resected without any neurological damage. A histological examination of the surgical specimen revealed it to be a true aneurysm."}
{"id": "8488523", "title": "Sneddon's syndrome: diagnosis by skin biopsy and MRI in 17 patients.", "content": "Sneddon's syndrome: diagnosis by skin biopsy and MRI in 17 patients. Sneddon's syndrome, characterized by generalized livedo racemosa and cerebrovascular lesions, is an underdiagnosed disease. We evaluated clinical, laboratory, histological, and neuroradiological findings in a series of 17 patients to improve diagnostic criteria for Sneddon's syndrome. Patients with generalized livedo racemosa and cerebrovascular events were included in the study. All underwent neurological and dermatological examination, skin biopsy, computed tomographic scan, magnetic resonance imaging as well as magnetic resonance angiography, sonography of the extracranial arteries, and a comprehensive laboratory protocol. Completed stroke was present in eight patients, and 15 reported transient neurological deficits. Magnetic resonance imaging yielded cerebral abnormalities in 16 of 17, whereas computed tomographic scans were abnormal in only 12 of 16 patients. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed more lesions in individual patients than did computed tomography. Magnetic resonance angiography demonstrated patent intracranial vessels in 16 of 17 patients. Skin biopsy showed distinct histopathological findings in all patients. The involved vessels were small to medium-sized arteries at the border between dermis and subcutis. Early inflammatory reactions were followed by subendothelial proliferation and a late fibrotic stage. Laboratory examinations showed impaired creatinine clearance in eight patients, whereas all other laboratory tests, including antiphospholipid antibodies, were normal. In this series, magnetic resonance imaging and skin biopsy were useful for confirmation of the diagnosis of Sneddon's syndrome. Magnetic resonance findings were not specific, but the high sensitivity for detection of asymptomatic brain lesions helped to confirm the diagnosis in patients with transient symptoms. Histological features of skin biopsies were characteristic if appropriate techniques were employed."}
{"id": "8459917", "title": "Large vessel disease in Chinese patients with capsular infarcts and prior ipsilateral transient ischaemia.", "content": "Large vessel disease in Chinese patients with capsular infarcts and prior ipsilateral transient ischaemia. Carotid angiography was carried out in 21 Chinese patients with acute capsular infarcts; all had had a previous ipsilateral transient ischaemic attack (TIA) or reversible ischaemic neurological deficit (RIND) during the preceding 6 months. Sixteen (group 1) showed lacunar capsular infarcts, and 5 (group 2) either \"giant lacunae\" or \"striatocapsular infarcts\". Angiography showed that 81% of group 1 and all group 2 patients had ipsilateral severe stenosis or occlusion of either the M1 segment of the middle cerebral artery or the internal carotid artery. Ten group 1 patients and 3 group 2 patients also had contralateral intra- or extracranial carotid artery stenosis. Apart from hypertension, other risk factors such as hyperfibrinogenaemia, polycythaemia, and low HDL-cholesterol level seem to play a role. Haemorheological abnormalities in the presence of atherostenosis at the orifice of lenticulostriate arteries and/or artery-to-artery embolism might be the cause of infarcts in the majority of the patients. A fifth of patients had recurrent large ipsilateral infarcts. Thus capsular lacunar syndromes with prior ipsilateral TIA or RIND are not as benign as previously thought, and they should indicate more intensive studies including cerebral angiography, and more vigorous therapy."}
{"id": "8459251", "title": "Localised neuronal migration disorder and intractable epilepsy: a prenatal vascular aetiology.", "content": "Localised neuronal migration disorder and intractable epilepsy: a prenatal vascular aetiology. Localised neuronal heterotopias are an increasingly recognised cause of intractable focal epilepsies. The aetiology of these circumscribed disorders of neuronal migration is often unknown although in some instances proximity to areas of prenatal infarction suggests that severe ischaemia was responsible. A patient is described with intractable complex partial seizures associated with heterotopic grey matter and cerebral hypoplasia confined to the territory of the left posterior cerebral artery; the left hippocampus was spared. Angiography showed a normal left anterior choroidal artery but a hypoplastic left posterior cerebral artery, implicating prenatal ischaemia without frank infarction as the aetiology of the malformation."}
{"id": "8454743", "title": "3D TOF MR angiography of cerebral arteriovenous malformations after radiosurgery.", "content": "3D TOF MR angiography of cerebral arteriovenous malformations after radiosurgery. To investigate the potential of three-dimensional time-of-flight MR angiography (MRA) to complement SE imaging, 18 patients with intracerebral arteriovenous malformations were prospectively followed after undergoing radiosurgery. Vessel occlusion after stereotaxic single high dose radiotherapy develops slowly. The MRA detected signs of nidus obliteration earlier and with a higher sensitivity than did SE imaging. Six months after radiosurgery, MRA showed a reduction of the nidus flow signals in nine patients and after 1 year it showed reduction in 15 of the 18 patients. As shown by MRA, the loss of flow signals was related to a reduction of the nidus size in 4 patients after 6 months and in 11 after 1 year. The SE imaging revealed a reduction of the nidus size in only two patients after 6 months and in eight after 1 year. The signal intensity of the feeding arteries was reduced in nine patients and that of the draining veins was reduced in six. The T2-weighted images exhibited white matter lesions in eight patients after 1 year. For complete follow-up, SE imaging should be performed together with MRA."}
{"id": "8434886", "title": "Delayed peripartum vasculopathy: cerebral eclampsia revisited.", "content": "Delayed peripartum vasculopathy: cerebral eclampsia revisited. Over a 2-year period, we treated 4 postpartum patients with acute neurologic problems appearing 4 to 9 days after delivery. Three patients either had no proteinuria or edema and therefore did not meet all accepted clinical criteria for the diagnosis of eclampsia. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain in all patients demonstrated high-signal foci most prominent in the parieto-occipital regions and the subcortical white matter. Cerebral angiogram in 2 patients revealed diffuse vasospasm. In 3 patients, MRI abnormalities resolved. MRI and angiographic abnormalities in our patients are identical to those of patients meeting accepted criteria for eclampsia. Our experience suggests that the current criteria for the diagnosis of eclampsia are too stringent, both in terms of clinical picture and days postpartum to cerebral manifestations."}
{"id": "8434514", "title": "Cerebral venous angiomas: surgery as a mode of treatment for selected cases.", "content": "Cerebral venous angiomas: surgery as a mode of treatment for selected cases. Eleven patients with venous angiomas, 6 males and 5 females ranging in age from 4 to 58, are presented. Four patients presented with intracerebral haematoma and 3 patients had associated cavernous angioma, respectively. Patients with intracerebral haematoma had signs and symptoms due to the localization of the haematoma. The other patients presented with headache, seizures, vertigo, ataxia and mental disturbances. Pre-operative diagnosis was based on computerized tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and cerebral angiography. In 9 surgical cases it was confirmed by histopathological examination of operative specimens. After establishing the type, size and location of the lesion decision for operative treatment was made in nine cases, in four of them because of the presence of an intracerebral haematoma and in 5 of them due to severe disability. Eight of these 9 patients recovered completely and one improved. No severe cerebral oedema was encountered after converging medullary veins were excised and main draining veins partially coagulated. In this small series we encountered an unexpectedly large percentage of venous angiomas causing intracerebral haemorrhage which are commonly considered more benign than other vascular malformations. After reviewing previously reported cases of venous angiomas causing intracerebral haemorrhage and severe neurological deficit we think that the term \"benign\" is worth reconsidering. We propose a thorough examination of each case of venous angioma and the operative treatment when appropriate taking into account patients state and location of angioma."}
{"id": "8430372", "title": "Bilateral internal carotid artery agenesis: a case study and review of the literature.", "content": "Bilateral internal carotid artery agenesis: a case study and review of the literature. Bilateral internal carotid artery agenesis is a rare lesion, with only 18 cases previously reported. Blood supply to the anterior cerebral circulation is most commonly through enlarged basilar and posterior communicating arteries. Occasionally collateral flow is through abnormal transsellar anastomoses or anastomoses between the external carotid and intracranial systems. Associated intracranial aneurysms occur in 25% of patients, accounting for a significant incidence of intracranial hemorrhage as the initial symptom. Diagnosis is best made by cerebral arteriography with computed tomography to verify the congenital nature of the abnormality by demonstrating the absence of carotid canals. This is the second case to begin with transient ischemic attacks suggestive of carotid territory ischemia but originating from the vertebral system. Angiographic findings included absent internal carotid arteries, small common carotid arteries, and bilateral high-grade stenoses at the origins of large vertebral arteries. This is the first such case to be treated with reimplantation of the vertebral artery with resolution of symptoms."}
{"id": "8430184", "title": "Intracranial MR angiography: application of magnetization transfer contrast and fat saturation to short gradient-echo, velocity-compensated sequences.", "content": "Intracranial MR angiography: application of magnetization transfer contrast and fat saturation to short gradient-echo, velocity-compensated sequences. To circumvent artifacts related to saturation, turbulence, and data processing in three-dimensional (3D) time-of-flight (TOF) magnetic resonance (MR) angiography, the authors used a high-resolution (256 x 512), short, asymmetric velocity-compensated gradient-echo sequence, magnetization transfer contrast (MTC) between all excitation pulses to suppress brain parenchyma signal, and frequency-offset fat saturation (FS) to suppress fat signal. Signal intensity and blood-background contrast was measured in several regions of interest on conventional 3D TOF MR images, MTC images, and those with MTC and FS in seven volunteers. One patient each with an arteriovenous malformation, an aneurysm, and stenosis in the intracranial vascular system underwent the protocols with an echo time (TE) of 5 msec and then a TE of 8 msec. Use of the 5-msec-TE sequence with MTC and FS led to reduced problems associated with signal void in areas of fast flow in patients. In volunteers and patients, vascular visualization was superior to that of current 3D TOF techniques."}
{"id": "8427107", "title": "Neuroradiologic evaluation of patients with acute stroke treated with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. The rt-PA Acute Stroke Study Group.", "content": "Neuroradiologic evaluation of patients with acute stroke treated with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. The rt-PA Acute Stroke Study Group. 1) To describe the effectiveness and safety of thrombolytic therapy in patients with acute atherothrombotic and embolic stroke and 2) to study the variables of the occlusion site as seen on the angiograms, the CT signs of early ischemia, the hyperdense middle cerebral artery sign (HMCAS), and the size of the infarcts as seen on the 24-hour CT scan. Ninety-three of 139 patients with acute stroke were treated with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA). The initial disease and the effects of treatment were assessed with both CT and cerebral angiography. Recanalization of occluded arteries occurred in 32 patients and was more frequent in distal occlusions. In general, patients displaying recanalization tended to develop small infarcts and patients with a HMCAS tended to develop large infarcts. Patients with signs of early ischemia developed large infarcts. The presence of a HMCAS was 100% fic for an occluded artery, but only 27% sensitive. Hemorrhagic transformations occurred in the distribution of the occluded arteries in 32 patients. Emergency cerebral angiography, which can be carried out relatively safely, adds important information about the nature and extent of the arterial occlusions, and the recanalization efficacy of fibrinolytic therapy for patients with acute stroke. Fibrinolytic therapy can be carried out with a relatively low complication rate that still needs to be correlated with the clinical benefits of the treatment. Fibrinolytic therapy in the doses utilized in this study, is more effective with distal than with proximal carotid territory occlusions."}
{"id": "8426937", "title": "Comparison of time-of-flight and phase-contrast MR neuroangiographic techniques.", "content": "Comparison of time-of-flight and phase-contrast MR neuroangiographic techniques. Magnetic resonance (MR) angiography constitutes a group of evolving MR imaging techniques that can be used to directly image flow in arteries, veins, and cerebrospinal fluid. By using multiple MR angiographic sequences in each of 18 patients with neurologic conditions such as aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, and carotid atherostenotic disease, the advantages, disadvantages, and unique artifacts of each technique could be investigated. Time-of-flight imaging is susceptible to saturation effects, and short T1 substances may simulate flow. Two-dimensional time-of-flight imaging is useful in cranial venography in assessing the patency of the dural sinuses or venous drainage from an arteriovenous malformation. Three-dimensional time-of-flight images depict small and medium-sized aneurysms. Phase-contrast imaging has excellent background suppression, allows variable velocity encoding, and provides directional flow information. Two-dimensional phase-contrast imaging is useful in the assessment of the patency of major vascular structures. Three-dimensional phase-contrast imaging (with 30-cm/sec velocity encoding) is also useful in depicting small and medium-sized aneurysms. Although some applications of MR angiography are clear, further study and development of the techniques are necessary to determine which imaging sequence or combination of techniques is best suited for answering specific diagnostic questions."}
{"id": "8421833", "title": "Cerebral blood flow in mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and strokelike episodes.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow in mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and strokelike episodes. The precise mechanism of neurological symptoms with mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and strokelike episodes (MELAS) is still controversial. We investigated the correlation between strokelike episodes and cerebral blood flow in two patients with MELAS and discuss the pathogenesis of strokelike episodes with MELAS. Cerebral dynamic computed tomography and cerebral angiography were used to measure cerebral circulation in the first case, that of a 20-year-old woman with MELAS. The second subject was a 13-year-old female who was studied with xenon-enhanced computed tomography. The cerebral blood flow studies were performed 3-72 hours after the onset of strokelike episodes. Serial cerebral angiography, dynamic computed tomography, and xenon-enhanced computed tomography showed vasodilation localized in the affected cerebral cortexes during strokelike episodes, without any reduction in regional cerebral blood flow. Our study suggests that the strokelike episodes associated with MELAS are different in origin from ischemic stroke."}
{"id": "8418537", "title": "Sudden bilateral hearing impairment in vertebrobasilar occlusive disease.", "content": "Sudden bilateral hearing impairment in vertebrobasilar occlusive disease. Bilateral hearing impairment is rare in vertebrobasilar occlusive disease. Between 1986 and 1991, we encountered seven patients (four men, three women; median age, 61 years; range, 46-71 years) who had sudden bilateral hearing impairment among 503 patients with vertebrobasilar occlusive disease. The main initial neurological symptoms were sudden bilateral hearing impairment, tinnitus, and vertigo. Acute labyrinthitis or M\u00e9ni\u00e8re's disease was the initial diagnosis until subsequent brain stem or cerebellar signs appeared. Brain stem auditory evoked potentials were abnormal bilaterally in six patients but had unilateral attenuation of the IV-V complex in the remaining one patient. Computed tomographic scans in all six patients showed multiple hypodense lesions in the brain stem and the cerebellum. Cerebral angiography showed complete occlusion on both vertebral arteries in one patient, occlusion on the left with small caliber on the right in another, and severe stenosis on both sides in a third. There was no opacification of internal auditory arteries in these three patients. The remaining patient had arteriosclerotic changes with faint opacification of the bilateral internal auditory arteries. Five patients had a poor prognosis, with locked-in state in four and severe truncal ataxia in one. We conclude that sudden bilateral hearing impairment in vertebrobasilar occlusive disease is more common than previously recognized and that it may indicate a grave prognosis."}
{"id": "8410246", "title": "Surgery for angiographically occult cerebral aneurysms.", "content": "Surgery for angiographically occult cerebral aneurysms. In 15% of patients with spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), the source of bleeding cannot be determined despite repeated cerebral angiography. However, some patients diagnosed as having \"SAH of unknown cause\" actually harbor undetected aneurysms. The authors report six patients with SAH who, despite multiple negative cerebral angiograms, underwent exploratory surgery due to a high clinical and radiographic suspicion for the presence of an aneurysm. Brain computerized tomography (CT) scans revealed blood located mainly in the basal frontal interhemispheric fissure in four patients, in the sylvian fissure in one patient, and in the interpeduncular cistern in one patient. The patients were evaluated as Hunt and Hess Grades I to III, and had undergone at least two high-quality cerebral angiograms that did not reveal an aneurysm. Vasospasm was visualized in two patients. Three patients rebled while in the hospital. Exploratory surgery was performed at an average of 12 days post-SAH. Five aneurysms were discovered at surgery and were successfully clipped. All four patients with interhemispheric blood were found to have an anterior communicating artery (ACoA) aneurysm. The patient with blood in the sylvian fissure was found to have a middle cerebral artery aneurysm. These aneurysms were partially thrombosed. No aneurysm was detected in the patient with interpeduncular SAH, despite extensive basilar artery exploration. Five patients had an excellent outcome and one patient developed diabetes insipidus. These results show that exploratory aneurysm surgery is warranted, despite repeated negative cerebral angiograms, if the patient manifests the classical signs of SAH with CT scans localizing blood to a specific cerebral blood vessel (particularly the ACoA) and if a second SAH is documented at the same site."}
{"id": "8377912", "title": "Haemorrhage in intracerebral arteriovenous malformations: detection with MRI and comparison with clinical history.", "content": "Haemorrhage in intracerebral arteriovenous malformations: detection with MRI and comparison with clinical history. Fifty-one patients with 59 angiographically proven cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) were examined by high-field MRI to detect blood breakdown products. Results were correlated with the history of intracranial bleeding. Evidence of previous episodes of haemorrhage was seen in 10 of 12 patients (83.3%) with verified bleeding, in 4 of 9 patients (44.4%) with symptoms which could suggest bleeding and in 6 of 30 patients (20%) with negative histories. Because of the known rebleeding rate and the increased risk of associated complications, identification of the subgroup who had had haemorrhage and should therefore be considered for surgery may be beneficial. MRI can make a contribution to management by demonstrating prior haemorrhage in patients with an inadequate clinical history."}
{"id": "8361576", "title": "[Radiation-induced cerebrovasculopathy: a case report and review of the literature].", "content": "[Radiation-induced cerebrovasculopathy: a case report and review of the literature]. We reported a case of a patient who suffered from a cerebrovasculopathy after irradiation therapy for astrocytoma located at the left temporal lobe. An eleven year-old boy who presented himself with headache and vomiting as his chief complaints received partial removal of a tumor. Histological diagnosis of the tumor was astrocytoma (grade II). His preoperative cerebral angiograms showed mass sign solely, without stenosis or occlusion of the cerebral vessel. Postoperatively, he was treated with irradiation therapy involving the whole brain with a total of 30 Gy, and gamma knife therapy. Six months after irradiation, he started suffering from frequent cerebral ischemic attacks, but there was no regrowth of the tumor visible on CT scans. Cerebral angiograms were made again, and revealed multifocal stenoses in the bilateral internal carotid arteries, middle cerebral arteries, and the anterior cerebral artery. His symptoms did not improve after conservative treatment with steroids, calcium antagonist, or low molecular weight dextran. Although he received a superficial temporal artery-middle cerebral artery (STA-MCA) anastomoses bilaterally, multiple cerebral infarctions appeared. Although irradiation therapy is acceptable in patients with brain tumor, a cerebrovasculopathy after irradiation should be considered as one of the most important complications, and the risk incurred by irradiation therapy should lead to more careful consideration and caution when treating intracranial brain tumors, especially in children. From our experience, the usefulness of bypass surgery for radiation-induced cerebrovasculopathy is still controversial."}
{"id": "8357238", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography: current clinical applications.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography: current clinical applications. Magnetic Resonance Angiography (MRA) is the newest non-invasive procedure for the evaluation of the vascular system. The basis to obtain images of vessels from Magnetic Resonance (MR) data rely upon the specific signal alteration determined by flowing blood. By using special techniques only these signals are evidenced, with cancelling of the surrounding stationary tissues. Clinical applications are reviewed in this paper. They include: Evaluation of intracranial vessels with important adjunct information to those obtained by conventional MR images; Definition of cerebrovascular disease including the carotid artery with good correlation with Digital Subtraction Angiography (DSA); Evidence of abdominal vessels, with clear imaging of abdominal aortic aneurysms; Definition of renal arteries; although problems exist, the technique may become useful in the future for the screening of renovascular hypertension; Visualization of peripheral vessels; initial results indicate a potential application in the evaluation of peripheral run-off distal to occlusions."}
{"id": "8350110", "title": "Transcranial Doppler detection of anterior cerebral artery vasospasm.", "content": "Transcranial Doppler detection of anterior cerebral artery vasospasm. The performance of transcranial Doppler in the detection of anterior cerebral artery vasospasm and vasospasm in patients after subarachnoid haemorrhage was analysed. Transcranial Doppler and cerebral angiography were performed within the same 24 hours on each of 41 patients with acute subarachnoid haemorrhage. Sensitivity and specificity of transcranial Doppler to classify middle cerebral arteries, anterior cerebral arteries, and patients with angiographic vasospasm were determined at mean velocities of 120 and 140 cm/s. Accuracy of transcranial Doppler was better at 140 than at 120 cm/s. For the middle cerebral artery, sensitivity was 86%, specificity 98%. For the anterior cerebral artery, sensitivity was 13%, specificity 100%. Among all patients, sensitivity was 45%, specificity 96%. Among patients with anterior communicating artery aneurysms, sensitivity was 14%, specificity 90%. Therefore, transcranial Doppler accurately differentiates between middle cerebral arteries with and without vasospasm on angiography, but has a very low sensitivity for detecting anterior cerebral artery vasospasm and vasospasm in patients with anterior communicating artery aneurysms. Since vasospasm may involve anterior cerebral arteries while sparing middle cerebral arteries, especially after rupture of an anterior communicating artery aneurysm, caution should be exercised in using negative transcranial Doppler results to make treatment decisions based on the assumed absence of vasospasm."}
{"id": "8338918", "title": "Value of magnetic resonance angiography for the detection of intracranial aneurysms in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.", "content": "Value of magnetic resonance angiography for the detection of intracranial aneurysms in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. The association of intracranial aneurysms with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), the 30-day mortality rate exceeding 50% for aneurysmal rupture, the effectiveness of surgical repair of unruptured aneurysms with a low surgical risk, and the development of noninvasive imaging techniques for their detection have led physicians to consider the value of screening patients with ADPKD for unruptured intracranial aneurysms. The sensitivity and specificity of high-resolution computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging for the diagnosis of small intracranial aneurysms have been disappointing. To determine the value of magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), 85 patients with ADPKD without symptoms related to an intracranial aneurysm and 2 patients with ADPKD presenting with a subarachnoid hemorrhage or a suspected aneurysmal leak were studied. MRA was performed with the Multisequence Vascular Package (GE Medical Systems) with use of three-dimensional time-of-flight and three-dimensional phase-contrast techniques, and postprocessing maximum intensity projection images were generated to eliminate the problem of overlapping vessels. Asymptomatic intracranial aneurysms were detected in 6 (22%) of 27 patients with and 3 (5%) of 56 patients without a family history of intracranial aneurysm or subarachnoid hemorrhage (P = 0.02, information missing in 2 patients) and in the 2 patients who presented with a symptomatic aneurysm. A stepwise logistic regression analysis indicated that a family history of intracranial aneurysm or subarachnoid hemorrhage was independently associated with the presence of intracranial aneurysms. All of the aneurysms were < or = 6.5 mm in diameter.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8333305", "title": "Intraventricular haemorrhage caused by aneurysms and angiomas.", "content": "Intraventricular haemorrhage caused by aneurysms and angiomas. More than 200 intraventricular haematomas (IVH) have been treated in the Homburg Neurosurgical University Clinic since computed tomography was available and facilitated the diagnosis. Among 200 consecutive cases, which are analysed and presented in this publication, there were 71 patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH)--58 of whom with angiographically and/or pathologically verified aneurysms--, and 21 cases with intraventricular angiomas. IVH without concomitant intracerebral haematoma (ICH) and without evidence of SAH is highly suggestive of intraventricular angioma. In our experience panangiography [if available digital subtraction angiography (DAS)] should be done as soon as possible in all cases of IVH. It is a precondition for early diagnosis and operative elimination of the source of bleeding, because the retrospective analysis of our material shows that rebleeding is by far the highest single risk factor in cases with IVH caused by aneurysms or angiomas. We therefore recommend early microsurgical occlusion of the aneurysms and exstirpation or intravascular embolisation of the angioma. The best survival rate (76%) was achieved in IVH cases caused by angiomas. In aneurysms with IVH the survival rate was 35%, in IVH caused by other diseases 37%. The worst prognosis occurs in SAH with IVH without proven aneurysm or angioma. The survival rate of this group was only 8%."}
{"id": "8328684", "title": "Idiopathic cerebral hemorrhage during delivery in normotensive women--case reports.", "content": "Idiopathic cerebral hemorrhage during delivery in normotensive women--case reports. Two normotensive pregnant women who developed cerebral hemorrhage during delivery are reported. The hematoma was small and subcortical in one and large and putaminal in the other. They had no history of hypertension, cerebrovascular disorders, or eclampsia. Cerebral angiography studied in one case revealed no abnormalities. Idiopathic cerebral hemorrhage during delivery without any evidence of vascular risk factors is discussed."}
{"id": "8323820", "title": "[Cerebral hemorrhage in a case of antiphospholipid antibody syndrome].", "content": "[Cerebral hemorrhage in a case of antiphospholipid antibody syndrome]. We describe a 36-year-old man with antiphospholipid antibody syndrome complicated by cerebral hemorrhage. In December 1991 he was brought to another hospital with sudden onset of left hemiparesis and status epilepticus. He had been well previously. A CT scan and MRI showed a cerebral hematoma located in the right frontoparietal region. Twelve days later he was transferred to our hospital. Although a CT scan, MRI, and cerebral angiography were repeated, they did not reveal any abnormality regarding an etiology. Only persistently abnormal finding in laboratory studies was positive for lupus anticoagulant and anticardiolipin antibody, i.e. antiphospholipid antibodies. There was no serological evidence of SLE or other autoimmune diseases. Stereotactic biopsy of the hematoma wall and scalp artery showed no abnormality. Based on above findings we conclude that antiphospholipid antibodies have played an important role for the hemorrhage. Antiphospholipid antibody syndrome should be considered in a case of an unexplained cerebral hemorrhage especially in a young and normotensive patient."}
{"id": "8314676", "title": "Acute hemispheric stroke: correlation between three-dimensional transcranial Doppler, MR-angiography, CT and clinical findings.", "content": "Acute hemispheric stroke: correlation between three-dimensional transcranial Doppler, MR-angiography, CT and clinical findings. We examined 50 ischemic stroke patients and 67 controls free of vascular disease, intra- or extracranial. We assessed all subjects clinically by neurological examination (quantified on the Canadian Neurological Scale or CNS), by three-dimensional transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD-3D) and by computed tomography (CT) within 24 h of the acute event, repeating CT 15 days later. 15 patients also underwent magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). We used the following Doppler parameters: interhemispheric asymmetry index (AI), mean flow velocity (mV) and pulsatility index (PI) for the middle cerebral artery (MCA). The difference between patients and controls on analysis of the variance (ANOVA) in respect of AI was significant: F = 50.8, p < 0.0001. The CNS-AI correlation was equally valid: r = -0.56, p < 0.001. The CNS-CT correlation proved to be highly significant: r = -0.72, p < 0.0001. TCD-3D allowed quantitative evaluation of the hemodynamic changes and of the collateral blood supply and proved to be a sound method for the investigation of ischemic stroke, correlating well with the clinical findings, MRA and lesion size on CT."}
{"id": "8279281", "title": "[Angiography in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular pathology. Current indications and controversies].", "content": "[Angiography in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular pathology. Current indications and controversies]. The role of cerebral angiography in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease is currently being questioned due to both the increasing availability of carotid sonography and the recent introduction of Magnetic Resonance Angiography (MRA). After a technical foreword about the different modalities available today in Cerebral Angiography, we discuss its present indications (Conventional or Digital subtraction by intra-arterial route), in patients with extra and intra cranial atherosclerotic cerebro vascular disease, subarachnoid hemorrhage and arterial aneurysms, in vascular malformations, particularly arterio-venous malformations (AVM's), in occlusive non-atherosclerotic non hypertensive arteriopathies and in occlusive venous pathology. Although it is possible that the future will show us the progressive replacement of the invasive technologies by MRA, at the present stage of Magnetic Resonance development there is still an important role, if not crucial, for catheter angiography in the diagnosis of most of the diseases producing stroke syndromes."}
{"id": "8274095", "title": "Cerebral metastasis from choriocarcinoma and oncotic aneurysms. Case report.", "content": "Cerebral metastasis from choriocarcinoma and oncotic aneurysms. Case report. Cerebral metastasis occur in 10 to 20% of patients with choriocarcinoma. We describe the twelfth patient with oncotic aneurysms from choriocarcinoma verified by cerebral angiography. The importance to consider this disease in a woman of childbearing age who develop an intracerebral hemorrhage or a lesion with mass effect is emphasized, as well as laboratial and radiological characteristics. Therapeutic approaches with chemotherapic agents, surgery and irradiation are discussed."}
{"id": "8267357", "title": "Cerebrovascular applications of magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Cerebrovascular applications of magnetic resonance angiography. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) has been applied to a variety of different manifestations of cerebrovascular disease to date. Practically, the limitations of these techniques must be taken into account such that the appropriate method is applied to answer a specific clinical question and the acquisition parameters are chosen to maximise the sensitivity and specificity of the study. Based upon these results, it must be decided whether the conventional parenchymal MR and MRA evaluations are sufficient in a particular setting or whether it is necessary to commit the patient to a more traditional, invasive angiographic study for a more thorough investigation. Presently, MR angiographic studies and flow measurement techniques serve to compliment the more traditional spin-echo evaluation of patients with small aneurysms, arterial and venous occlusions, vascular malformations and in some cases of neoplastic vascular invasion. With well-trained technicians and carefully prescribed protocols, this new information and improved diagnostic sensitivity can be used routinely with only a minor increase in patient exam time."}
{"id": "8267356", "title": "Comparison of accuracy of magnetic resonance angiography with conventional angiography: a report of 45 cases.", "content": "Comparison of accuracy of magnetic resonance angiography with conventional angiography: a report of 45 cases. To investigate the accuracy of magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), compared to conventional cerebral and carotid angiography (CA), 45 patients underwent MRA within one week after CA. The MRA involves a FISP (fast imaging steady precession) pulse sequence base on three-dimensional time-of-flight phenomena at 1.0 Tesla. Repetition time of 35-40 msec, echo time of 7-11 msec and a flip angle of 15-25 degrees were used to optimise the depiction of blood flow as high intensity. Volume data were then submitted to a maximum intensity projection programme and viewed at multiple arbitrary projection angles rotating through the three orthogonal planes. Venous structures were suppressed with a presaturation slab superior to the area of interest. All significant stenoses and occlusions at the carotid bifurcation and circle of Willis were detected. Other than the carotid siphon (61.4%), the rest of the arteries have above 70% complete agreement between MRA and CA. The carotid bifurcation and basilar artery show complete agreement of 75.4% and 76.2% respectively, making MRA a simple sensitive screening procedure. This report shows that MR angiography has an important role in the evaluation of blood flow in the head and neck regions."}
{"id": "8267355", "title": "Cerebral venous angioma--a misnomer?", "content": "Cerebral venous angioma--a misnomer? Cerebral venous angioma (CVA) is an embryonic venous malformation. Its incidence was thought to be radiologically rare previously but with greater clinical awareness, the routine use of contrast enhanced computerised tomography (CECT) and the increasing availability of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), it is no longer perceived to be a rare lesion. In fact, it is the commonest intracranial vascular malformation seen at autopsy. We report our experience of 15 patients with cerebral venous angiomas, 14 of whom had their lesions confirmed by cerebral angiography. Presentation was variable and non-specific. The commonest presenting symptom was headache (n = 7). Other clinical presentations included epilepsy (n = 5), intracerebral bleed (n = 4, two were thought to be due to an associated cerebral cavernous angioma and one was due to a ruptured arteriovenous malformation) and non-specific giddiness (n = 3). Six were diagnosed incidentally. Based on the angiographic findings and the relatively benign clinical course in the majority of our patients, we believe that CVA is a developmental anomaly and should not be excised routinely."}
{"id": "8255388", "title": "[High dose nicardipine therapy for delayed cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage].", "content": "[High dose nicardipine therapy for delayed cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage]. The effect of high dose nicardipine on delayed cerebral vasospasm was studied in 33 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Intravenous infusion of nicardipine started before or immediately after early operation. The dosage was from 4 to 10 mg/h with an average of 7.4 mg/h. The duration was from 2 to 17 days with an average of 12.3 days. Symptomatic vasospasm was observed in only one (3%) out of 33 patients. The remaining 32 patients (97%) showed neither ischemic symptoms nor low-density areas on computed tomography. Severe angiographical vasospasm was diagnosed in 3 patients, who entered hospital on day 3 to 5 after initial attacks. They were operated upon on day 4 to 6 under the administration of nicardipine before or immediately after the operation. No patients showed symptomatic vasospasm and angiographical vasospasm was improved markedly. The present study demonstrated that high dose nicardipine appeared to prevent both brain ischemia and angiographical vasospasm after aneurysmal SAH."}
{"id": "8248996", "title": "Postpartum cerebral angiopathy. Is there a role for sympathomimetic drugs?", "content": "Postpartum cerebral angiopathy. Is there a role for sympathomimetic drugs? Postpartum cerebral angiopathy is associated with the use of of ergot alkaloids. The exact mechanism is unclear but may be related to their sympathomimetic properties, as evidenced in patients already on other ergot derivatives who deteriorated only after taking additional sympathomimetic drugs. We postulate that sympathomimetic agents, independent of ergot alkaloids, may produce the same complication. A postpartum patient, initially presenting with headaches, subsequently manifested rapid neurological deterioration after ingesting isometheptene, a sympathomimetic drug. She was not on any ergot derivative but presented similar clinical and radiological manifestations. She experienced increased headache severity, visual disturbance, and seizures associated with multiple segmental cerebral vasoconstriction on angiography and increased T2-weighted signal in the occipital areas on magnetic resonance imaging. This case is additional evidence that sympathomimetic actions of some drugs, such as ergot derivatives and isometheptene, may lead to postpartum cerebral angiopathy. Documentation of medication used by postpartum women suffering similar complications is needed to verify these findings."}
{"id": "8246060", "title": "Ganglioglioma presenting as a vascular lesion in a 10-year-old boy. Case report.", "content": "Ganglioglioma presenting as a vascular lesion in a 10-year-old boy. Case report. The authors present the case of a 10-year-old boy admitted for evaluation of a generalized seizure and a history of headaches. Computerized tomography (CT) and gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging demonstrated a large nonhomogeneous contrast-enhancing mass of the left frontal lobe, with a large cystic component. Cerebral angiography revealed the lesion to be highly vascular and fed entirely by the internal carotid artery system. The patient underwent craniotomy and the lesion was completely removed. Neuropathological study revealed that the tumor was a ganglioglioma. On review of the literature, it was found that gangliogliomas often present in the second and third decade, are known to have cystic components, and are contrast-enhancing on CT and MR imaging; however, they are classically known to be avascular on angiography. This case of a markedly vascular ganglioglioma emphasizes that these tumors should be included in the differential diagnosis of vascular supratentorial lesions."}
{"id": "8239466", "title": "[Indentation sign in the sylvian sulcus and the arterial origin of an acute subdural hematoma. Contribution of computerized tomography].", "content": "[Indentation sign in the sylvian sulcus and the arterial origin of an acute subdural hematoma. Contribution of computerized tomography]. Thirty-two traumatic subdural haematomas were operated between 1984 and 1990. In 16 cases (50%), we encountered, after removal of the heamorrhage, a bleeding from a cortical artery at the lateral sulcus (middle cerebral artery). Four mechanisms of arterial bleeding have been reported: a) rupture of a cortico-dural bridging artery, b) \"fire-hose\" rupture, c) rupture at the level of an arachnoid attachment and d) rupture at the level of a dural adhesion. The characteristic finding of such haematomas on computerized tomography (CT-scan) was an indentation towards the lateral sulcus. This was called the \"double brackets sign\". In seventy-nine percent of subdural haematomas of arterial origin, the \"double brackets sign\" was demonstrated on CT-scan on at least two slices (9 mm). In 9% of subdural haematomas of non-arterial origin, this sign was absent or present in only one CT image. The characteristic \"double brackets sign\", when present on 3 or 4 CT-scan images, seems to have a very high specificity for an arterial origin of the haematoma."}
{"id": "8230914", "title": "[A case of Rendu-Osler-Weber disease associated with pulmonary arteriovenous fistula].", "content": "[A case of Rendu-Osler-Weber disease associated with pulmonary arteriovenous fistula]. A 60-year-old female was admitted with a chief complaint of left hemothorax. Chest X-ray films revealed an abnormal shadow when the pleural effusion disappeared. On the physical examination, multiple telangiectases were found at the nasal mucosa, tongue and stomach. The family history showed that her son experienced frequent episodes of epistaxis. The patient was diagnosed to have Rendu-Osler-Weber disease. CT scanning and pulmonary angiography showed an arteriovenous fistula of the left lower lobe (S10) and cerebral angiography did a small arteriovenous fistula in the cerebellum. Pulmonary partial resection was performed to prevent re-hemorrhage. Pulmonary arteriovenous fistula was 2.5 x 1.5 cm in size. It located in the left lower lobe exposing through the surface of the lung over the diaphragm. The postoperative course was uneventful and she was discharged on the 18th postoperative day without any complications."}
{"id": "8227579", "title": "Apparent vascular occlusion on cranial TOF MRA with peripheral presaturation technique.", "content": "Apparent vascular occlusion on cranial TOF MRA with peripheral presaturation technique. Improvement in the visibility and accurate representation of intracranial vessels may be achieved on cranial time-of-flight (TOF) MR angiography (MRA) when the signal intensity of orbital and superficial fat is suppressed. This may be accomplished by placement of spatial radiofrequency presaturation bands along the periphery of the head. The objective of this study was to evaluate the potential for this peripheral presaturation technique to result in a spurious appearance of vascular occlusion. Three-dimensional TOF MRA of the head was performed in three patients. Flow-compensated spoiled gradient echo images were acquired in the transaxial plane, using the peripheral presaturation technique. The MRA acquisitions were then subsequently repeated in each patient following retraction of the peripheral presaturation bands. A phantom study was also performed to assess the slice profile of the presaturation bands. There was absence of flow-related enhancement, indicating apparent vascular occlusion, involving one carotid siphon in each patient on initial MRA images. Following lateral retraction and/or removal of presaturation bands, the carotid siphons were documented to be patent, with normal caliber and flow-related enhancement demonstrated. Image analysis and phantom experiments indicate this vascular pseudoocclusion is due to proximity of the lateral presaturation band to the lateral aspect of the petrous segment of the internal carotid artery. In this location, there is inadvertent saturation of flowing spins due to imperfections in the presaturation band slice profile. The use of peripheral presaturation bands for cranial TOF MRA is useful for improving vascular depiction. However, patent vessels may occasionally demonstrate an absent signal intensity, suggesting occlusion when this technique is used. Awareness of this diagnostic pitfall is important so that serious misdiagnosis does not occur."}
{"id": "8211030", "title": "[Local therapeutic fibrinolysis in ischemic cerebrovascular insults: initial findings in 6 patients].", "content": "[Local therapeutic fibrinolysis in ischemic cerebrovascular insults: initial findings in 6 patients]. Local therapeutic fibrinolysis is considered an efficient and established treatment for peripheral arterial occlusive disease. The introduction of newer fibrinolytics along with the development of interventional catheterization techniques have extended its use to previously untreated events such as cerebrovascular occlusions. Between 1989-1991 six patients with basilar and/or middle cerebral artery thrombosis were treated at the University Hospital, Basel, by superselective local intraarterial infusion of 400,000 U/h urokinase for 1-2 hours. Two of four patients with basilar artery occlusion showed complete remission one year after the intervention. The third showed no neurological improvement despite angiographic recanalization, and 48 h later suffered a fatal brainstem haemorrhage, while the fourth did not recover from coma and succumbed. Both patients with occlusion of the middle cerebral artery showed complete recanalization, but one had complete and the other partial neurological remission. Signs of slight systemic fibrinolysis were present but never attained the intensity of systemic therapeutic fibrinolysis as the antiplasmin and fibrinogen values showed. In summary, local therapeutic fibrinolysis contributes to the reduction of mortality and to remission of symptoms in occlusions of basilar artery, and offers some advantage in occlusions of the middle cerebral artery. A definite benefit from the latter will be proved only through large-scale randomized trials. The indication for local therapeutic fibrinolysis for thromboses of cerebral arteries requires a careful benefit-risk evaluation, an experienced angiography team and a special infrastructure for computed tomography and digital subtraction angiography."}
{"id": "8160280", "title": "Moyamoya disease and alternating hemiplegia. A report of two cases.", "content": "Moyamoya disease and alternating hemiplegia. A report of two cases. Moyamoya disease is one of the cerebrovascular disorders and is characterized by bilateral stenosis or occlusion of the distal internal carotid arteries and their main branches. Repeated ischemic episodes in children and intracranial hemorrhage in adults with moyamoya disease is usually noted. In this report, we describe two children with moyamoya disease who presented with alternating hemiplegia. The final diagnosis was made by cerebral angiography and cranial computed tomography in these patients. Other neurological and radiological features of the patients were described."}
{"id": "8153528", "title": "[Radiological study of the internal carotid artery].", "content": "[Radiological study of the internal carotid artery]. Three radiologic methods are used to investigate the internal carotid artery. The main indication of CT scan is the assessment of brain ischaemic complications of carotid disease. Magnetic resonance imaging allows in addition to detect dissecting hematomas and carotid flow abnormalities. Cerebral angiography, which owes much to the advent of digital techniques, remains the standard examination of internal carotid artery. Complications of angiography although rare and usually benign explain the recent development of less invasive explorations such as dynamic CT scan and magnetic resonance angiography. This latter method is still under evaluation for diagnosis of carotid stenosis and small size aneurysms."}
{"id": "8131805", "title": "Results of parenchymal and angiographic magnetic resonance imaging and neuropsychological testing of children after stroke as neonates.", "content": "Results of parenchymal and angiographic magnetic resonance imaging and neuropsychological testing of children after stroke as neonates. We describe the long-term follow up of infants after neonatal stroke of the middle cerebral artery (MCA). Stroke was diagnosed by CT scan in eight full-term neonates. Three dimensional (volume) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is a noninvasive technique that images the arterial vessels without contrast agents. All patients, aged from 1.5 to 8.4 years, were investigated by MRI and MRA and by neuropsychological tests. Cognitive development was investigated by intelligence tests, tests of visual perception, motor and language development. Out of the eight patients, seven had a retarded mental and motor development, and 50% of the children were treated for epilepsy. Seven patients had a spastic hemiparesis. Seven out of eight children showed major cognitive deficits. In all patients, MRI revealed clear parenchymal defects with variable distribution patterns. MRA studies showed abnormalities corresponding to the expected vascular distribution. Children with complications at delivery, with seizures, and an interruption of the main stem of MCA as demonstrated on MRA had the least favourable long-term follow up prognosis with severe cognitive delays."}
{"id": "8126582", "title": "Intraventricular hemorrhage and cerebral ischemic attacks in the presence of lupus anticoagulant mimicking moyamoya disease.", "content": "Intraventricular hemorrhage and cerebral ischemic attacks in the presence of lupus anticoagulant mimicking moyamoya disease. A case of an 18-year-old female, who developed an intraventricular hemorrhage and recurrent cerebral ischemic r attacks with Moyamoya like angiographical findings was reported. Lupus Anticoagulant (LA) was present in the patient's plasma. Cerebral angiography demonstrated stenosis and occlusion of the intracranial major arteries. Hemorrhagic episodes in patient's with LA is quite rare. The mechanism of intraventricular hemorrhage and the significance of LA in the differential diagnosis of Moyamoya disease are discussed."}
{"id": "8124417", "title": "Cerebrovascular disorders and trauma in children.", "content": "Cerebrovascular disorders and trauma in children. Our ability to identify cerebrovascular lesions in children has improved in recent years and with it our willingness to consider the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease in children. Magnetic resonance angiography and other tests have made diagnosis easier and safer, particularly in very young children and in patients with sickle cell disease. Transcranial Doppler examination makes it possible to accurately predict without angiography which patients with sickle cell disease are at most risk for stroke. Many patients with mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and strokelike episodes (MELAS) syndrome have a specific mutation of the mitochondrial DNA, and soon the recently devised diagnostic criteria for MELAS syndrome may be replaced by molecular markers. There are many causes of cerebrovascular disease in children, and a thorough evaluation will discover a likely cause in about two thirds of the patients. Recent attention has focused on the HLA-B51 antigen and chicken pox as possible risk factors. Magnetic resonance imaging is also helpful in assessing the prognosis of children with cerebrovascular disease or head trauma."}
{"id": "8120993", "title": "[Neuroradiology of cerebellar hemorrhage--differential diagnosis between hypertensive and non-hypertensive cerebellar hemorrhage and their prognosis].", "content": "[Neuroradiology of cerebellar hemorrhage--differential diagnosis between hypertensive and non-hypertensive cerebellar hemorrhage and their prognosis]."}
{"id": "8105505", "title": "Cerebrovascular disease in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with sickle cell anemia: screening with duplex transcranial Doppler US--correlation with MR imaging and MR angiography.", "content": "Cerebrovascular disease in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with sickle cell anemia: screening with duplex transcranial Doppler US--correlation with MR imaging and MR angiography. The authors evaluated the role of transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (US) in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) and cerebrovascular disease. Twenty-one patients with SCD and stroke (aged 3-22 years; mean age at stroke, 9 years) were evaluated with magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and duplex transcranial Doppler US with a 2-MHz transducer. Nineteen patients also underwent MR angiography. Forty-six asymptomatic patients with SCD were also evaluated with Doppler US, MR imaging, and MR angiography. The following transcranial Doppler US findings were correlated with cerebrovascular disease in patients with SCD: (a) maximum velocity in the ophthalmic artery (OA) of more than 35 cm/sec; (b) mean velocity in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) of more than 170 cm/sec; (c) resistive index in the OA of less than 50; (d) velocity in the OA greater than that of the ipsilateral MCA; and (e) maximum velocity in the posterior cerebral, vertebral, or basilar arteries greater than the maximum velocity in the MCA. Transcranial Doppler US scanning has great potential as an inexpensive, easily performed screening procedure for cerebrovascular disease in patients with SCD."}
{"id": "8046915", "title": "[Clinical polymorphism of neoplastic and vascular brain diseases: pathogenetic characteristics].", "content": "[Clinical polymorphism of neoplastic and vascular brain diseases: pathogenetic characteristics]. Using evidence on 533 patients with an atypical course of brain tumors and vascular diseases, the author discusses the role of the vascular factor in polymorphism of clinical manifestations of tumors and metastases to the brain. It is shown that in 55.4% of cases brain tumors simulated CNS affections. Of these most frequent was the picture of cerebral circulatory disturbances. Mechanisms causing cerebral circulation impairment in various tumors and metastases to the brain are considered. It is found that pathologically changed circulation and angioarchitecture of the tumors may contribute to a wide spectrum of clinical signs typical for vascular brain diseases. The conclusions are based on the analysis of the results obtained with present-day techniques of angio- and neurovisualization and postoperative as well as autopsy examinations of the tumors."}
{"id": "7902999", "title": "[Transcranial color-coded duplex ultrasonography in adults].", "content": "[Transcranial color-coded duplex ultrasonography in adults]. Transcranial color-coded duplex sonography (TCCD) represents an improvement in ultrasound technology for study of the intracranial circulation. This new method was applied in 33 healthy volunteers and 63 neurological patients in order to study the following questions: (1.) how often can non-occluded intracranial arteries be delineated; (2.) reliability of pathological TCCD findings in comparison with cerebral angiography; (3.) reference blood flow velocity data. 99% of vertebral (VA), 98% of basilar (BA), 96% of middle (MCA) and posterior cerebral (PCA), 95% of internal carotid (ICA; siphon and terminal segment), 93% of anterior cerebral (ACA), and 86% of posterior inferior cerebellar (PICA) arteries were delineated. In conjunction with the findings of extracranial color-coded duplex sonography (ECCD), 4 stenoses (2 MCA, 1 ICA and PCA each), 8 occlusions (4 ICA, 1 ACA, MCA, BA and VA each; differential diagnosis: subtotal stenosis), 9 collateral circulations (anterior and posterior communicating arteries in 4 cases each, occipital artery-intracranial VA in one), 4 cerebral arteriovenous malformations, and 2 giant aneurysms of the terminal ICA were suspected and confirmed by angiography. However, 2 hypoplastic VA's and ipsilateral PICA's were missed. (3.) Maximal +/- SD values were 83 +/- 27, 110 +/- 18, 67 +/- 12, 64 +/- 13, 53 +/- 13, and 51 +/- 12 cm/sec for systolic, and 36 +/- 9, 49 +/- 9, 30 +/- 7, 29 +/- 8, 24 +/- 7, and 25 +/- 7 cm/sec for end-diastolic velocity in the ACA, MCA, PCA, BA, VA, and PICA."}
{"id": "7719689", "title": "Case report: radiation-induced vasculopathy implicated by depressed blood flow and metabolism in a pineal glioma.", "content": "Case report: radiation-induced vasculopathy implicated by depressed blood flow and metabolism in a pineal glioma. A case of radiation-induced vasculopathy of a pineal glioma was presented with haemodynamic and metabolic changes before and after radiotherapy. After radiation of 60 Gy with conventional fractionation (1.8-2.0 Gy daily, 5 days per week), regional blood flow, oxygen extraction fraction, metabolic rate of oxygen, kinetic metabolic rate of glucose and the rate constants (K2, K3) were markedly depressed (20% or greater) compared with the pre-irradiated study. 7 months after radiotherapy, the patient developed transient transient episodes of both right and left upper limb convulsion, terminating in generalized convulsion. When she developed status epilepticus, computed tomography showed extensive low density areas in the territory supplied by the right middle cerebral and the right posterior cerebral arteries. Cerebral angiography revealed diffuse stenosis at both carotid bifurcations and at the origins of the right posterior communicating and posterior cerebral arteries. Haemodynamic and metabolic depression therefore implicated radiation-induced vasculopathy in the present case."}
{"id": "10148271", "title": "Community-based MRA impacts patient care.", "content": "Community-based MRA impacts patient care."}
{"id": "10147939", "title": "Angiographic magnetic resonance color composites of the normal brain and its vasculature.", "content": "Angiographic magnetic resonance color composites of the normal brain and its vasculature. Vascular magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has become an important noninvasive adjunct to conventional cerebral MRI studies. To detect parenchymal changes associated with vascular anomalies, optimal diagnostic evaluation requires the comparison of both spin-echo and angiographic gradient-echo MRIs. To compress image data into a single 24-bit color image possessing the combined tissue contrast characteristics of both conventional spin-echo \"black-blood\" images and flow-sensitive gradient-echo \"bright-blood\" images, the red-green-blue color model and computer-based image-processing software were used to generate composites of MRI sets in which blood appears bright red while many stationary tissues possess near-natural colors. This technique may have potential applicability to human cerebrovascular MRI."}
{"id": "10147850", "title": "MRA abets visualization of intracranial aneurysms.", "content": "MRA abets visualization of intracranial aneurysms."}
{"id": "1739604", "title": "Ischemic brain disease, vascular brain disease, and magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Ischemic brain disease, vascular brain disease, and magnetic resonance angiography. Rapid, accurate diagnosis and successful implementation of new stroke therapies will depend on the refinement and skilled use of neuroimaging. Because a variety of MR techniques offer information on local brain biochemistry, blood flow, perfusion, vascular integrity, ischemia, edema or free water, infarction, and hemorrhage, there is intense interest in their application to cerebrovascular disease. This review highlights recent advances in MR technology as they relate to conventional MR imaging, MR angiography, and basic MR research into the use of diffusion, perfusion, and spectroscopic techniques."}
{"id": "1734297", "title": "'Spectacular shrinking deficit': rapid recovery from a major hemispheric syndrome by migration of an embolus.", "content": "'Spectacular shrinking deficit': rapid recovery from a major hemispheric syndrome by migration of an embolus. We studied the clinical features of a major hemispheric stroke syndrome with rapid recovery (\"spectacular shrinking deficit\" [SSD]) compared with stroke patients with the same major initial manifestations but without rapid recovery (non-SSD). There were 118 patients with an initial major hemispheric syndrome; 14 patients (12%) had SSD. All but one SSD patient met criteria for cardiogenic brain embolism. Angiographic examination within 24 hours after stroke onset demonstrated that the occlusion sites in SSD differed from those in non-SSD and suggested that rapid embolus migration had occurred in all SSD patients but in only five of 39 non-SSD. Infarcts in SSD were smaller and often scattered over the cortices and deeper structures. Hemorrhagic transformation was less frequent in SSD. In patients with a potential cardiac source of emboli, SSD was more likely to occur in nondiabetic men less than 60 years of age."}
{"id": "1730952", "title": "Lobar intracerebral hemorrhage. A clinical, radiographic, and pathological study of 29 consecutive operated cases with negative angiography.", "content": "Lobar intracerebral hemorrhage. A clinical, radiographic, and pathological study of 29 consecutive operated cases with negative angiography. The authors operated consecutively on 50 patients with lobar intracerebral hemorrhage during a prospectively designed study period from January, 1986, to March, 1990. They investigated the correlations between the underlying causes and the clinicoradiographic features in 29 patients who showed no angiographic vascular abnormalities, in order to elucidate the operative indication for such cases. Patients with ruptured saccular aneurysm or trauma were not included in this study. There were 15 males and 14 females, ranging in age from 7 to 76 years (mean 52.4 years). Histological diagnoses of the surgical specimens were as follows: vascular malformation in nine cases (arteriovenous malformation (AVM) in six and cavernous malformation in three), microaneurysm in 11, cerebral amyloid angiopathy in six, and brain tumor in two; in the remaining case the cause was not verified histologically. The underlying cause was determined in 96.5% of cases. The mean patient age was lowest in the cavernous malformation group (27.0 years), followed by the AVM (45.8 years), microaneurysm (59.8 years), and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (70.0 years) groups. Four patients with vascular malformation (three AVM's and one cavernous malformation) had previous episodes of bleeding at the same site, whereas none of those with microaneurysms or cerebral amyloid angiopathy had such episodes. On computerized tomography (CT) scans, the round to oval hematoma was related to the presence of an AVM or cavernous malformation in contrast to microaneurysms and cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Upon infusion of contrast material, variable enhancement was seen in five (two AVM's and three cavernous malformations) of the nine vascular malformations while no enhancement was noted in any patient with microaneurysm or cerebral amyloid angiopathy at the acute stage. Subarachnoid extension of the hematoma was associated with cerebral amyloid angiopathy significantly more frequently than with AVM's (p less than 0.05) and microaneurysms (p less than 0.01). The results suggest that clinicoradiographic pictures in cases with negative angiography are quite different among the three major pathological categories; namely, vascular malformation (AVM and cavernous malformation), microaneurysm, and cerebral amyloid angiopathy. It is suggested that the underlying etiology of a given lobar intracerebral hemorrhage with negative angiography may be predicted by a combination of patient age, history of previous bleeding at the same site, hematoma shape, and subarachnoid extension of the hematoma on CT scans. Based upon these findings, the authors discuss operative indications for such cases."}
{"id": "1727311", "title": "Cerebral vasculitis: MR imaging and angiographic correlation.", "content": "Cerebral vasculitis: MR imaging and angiographic correlation. Cerebral vasculitis is an unusual disorder with numerous causes. One such entity, noninfectious granulomatous angiitis of the nervous system (GANS), is an extremely rare disease with a predilection for leptomeningeal and parenchymal arteries and veins. Isolated involvement of the central nervous system is characteristic of GANS, which has also been referred to as primary angiitis of the central nervous system (PACNS). The results of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and angiography in seven patients with presumed PACNS were retrospectively analyzed and correlated. MR images were positive in every case. Characteristically, lesions were multiple, bilateral, and supratentorial. Both gray- and white-matter infarcts were identified in four of seven patients; infarcts were most common in the deep white matter. PACNS can also appear as primary parenchymal hemorrhage or simulate low-grade glioma. All lesions identified on MR images were associated with positive angiographic findings of cerebral vasculitis in the corresponding vascular distribution. However, for 12 of 33 vascular distributions with angiographic evidence of cerebral vasculitis, no lesions were identified on MR images. These correlative observations suggest that some patients with proved PACNS may have normal MR imaging results."}
{"id": "1644879", "title": "Sudden neurologic deficit in a young person.", "content": "Sudden neurologic deficit in a young person."}
{"id": "1641092", "title": "Acute subdural hematoma after aneurysmal rupture; evacuation with aneurysmal clipping after emergent infusion computed tomography: case report.", "content": "Acute subdural hematoma after aneurysmal rupture; evacuation with aneurysmal clipping after emergent infusion computed tomography: case report. A 74-year-old woman sought treatment after an initial subarachnoid hemorrhage verified on computed tomographic scan with no focal neurological deficit. Shortly after admission, she sustained a second subarachnoid hemorrhage with acute neurological decompensation. A repeat computed tomographic scan revealed increased blood along the right medial temporal region, as well as in the interhemispheric fissure and bilateral sylvian cisterns. Also evident was a right hemispheric acute subdural hematoma. The patient's rapidly deteriorating neurological status precluded a cerebral angiogram; therefore, a double-dose infusion computed tomographic scan was performed. This revealed a cerebral artery aneurysm adjacent to the right medial temporal hematoma. She was taken to the operating room on the basis of this study. After evacuation of the right hemispheric subdural hematoma and clipping of the right posterior communicating artery aneurysm, the patient made a rapid, full neurological recovery."}
{"id": "1636530", "title": "Endoscopic paranasal sinus surgery: radiographic evaluation of severe complications.", "content": "Endoscopic paranasal sinus surgery: radiographic evaluation of severe complications. To report our experience with the radiographic evaluation of severe complications resulting from the functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS) procedure. Ten major complications were reviewed retrospectively. Ten major complications occurred. Eight of 10 had injury to the floor of the anterior cranial fossa, fovea ethmoidalis (roof of the ethmoid sinus), or roof of the sphenoid sinus. Six patients presented with meningitis or rhinorrhea, two presented with headache and massive pneumocephalus; one patient who presented with meningitis had a large nasal frontal encephalocele. Noncontrast brain CT that included the paranasal sinuses adequately evaluated the source of pneumocephalus. Thin-section coronal CT accurately predicted the site of leak in five patients. Both coronal sinus CT and MR imaging were useful to confirm the nasal encephalocele. Two of 10 had vascular injury secondary to FESS. One patient presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage seen on noncontrast CT and cerebral angiography demonstrated an aneurysm of the anterior cerebral artery. The second patient suffered severe intraoperative hemorrhage. Emergency angiography revealed a pseudoaneurysm of the cavernous carotid artery, and balloon occlusion of the artery was performed. No deaths occurred in this series. Radiologists should be familiar with the rare, but potential complications of this commonly performed procedure in order to help direct the work-up in an efficacious manner."}
{"id": "1636180", "title": "Transcranial Doppler correlation with cerebral angiography in sickle cell disease.", "content": "Transcranial Doppler correlation with cerebral angiography in sickle cell disease. Cerebral infarction in sickle cell disease is associated with arterial narrowing or occlusions of intracranial arteries. Primary stroke prevention would be feasible if a noninvasive screening test could be developed to detect intracranial disease in patients before symptoms develop. To determine the sensitivity and specificity of transcranial Doppler in detecting significant (greater than or equal to 50% lumen diameter reduction) intracranial arterial lesions, we compared transcranial Doppler and cerebral angiography in a primarily young, symptomatic group of 33 patients (18 males and 15 females) with sickle cell disease. From a total of 34 examinations, transcranial Doppler detected significant abnormalities in 26 of 29 (sensitivity 90%, specificity 100%). Five were normal by both techniques. The transorbital examination detected abnormalities in two patients whose studies were otherwise unremarkable. Transcranial Doppler is sensitive and specific for the detection of arterial vasculopathy of sickle cell disease. Screening should include a transorbital examination of the distal internal carotid artery as well as examination using the transtemporal approach."}
{"id": "1633485", "title": "Cerebral amyloid angiopathy and moyamoya disease.", "content": "Cerebral amyloid angiopathy and moyamoya disease. The incidence, clinical manifestations, diagnosis, and management of cerebral hemorrhage from amyloid angiopathy and moyamoya disease are reviewed. Particular attention is given to pathophysiologic mechanisms producing cerebral hemorrhage in these conditions, the diagnosis based on characteristic CT and angiographic appearances, and the role of surgery in comprehensive management."}
{"id": "1633456", "title": "Charged-particle radiosurgery for intracranial vascular malformations.", "content": "Charged-particle radiosurgery for intracranial vascular malformations. Heavy charged-particle radiation has unique physical characteristics that offer several advantages over photons and protons for stereotactic radiosurgery of intracranial AVMs. These include improved dose distributions with depth in tissue, small angle of lateral scattering, and sharp distal fall-off of dose in the Bragg ionization peak. Under multi-institutionally approved clinical trials, we have used stereotactic helium-ion Bragg peak radiosurgery to treat approximately 400 patients with symptomatic, surgically inaccessible vascular malformations at the UCB-LBL 184-in synchrocyclotron and bevatron. Treatment planning for stereotactic heavy charged-particle radiosurgery for intracranial vascular disorders integrates anatomic and physical information from the stereotactic cerebral angiogram and stereotactic CT and MR imaging scans for each patient, using computerized treatment-planning calculations for optimal isodose contour distribution. The shape of an intracranial AVM is associated strongly with its treatability and potential clinical outcome. In this respect, heavy charged-particle radiosurgery has distinct advantages over other radiosurgical methods; the unique physical properties allow the shaping of individual beams to encompass the contours of large and complexly shaped AVMs, while sparing important adjacent neural structures. We have had a long-term dose-searching clinical protocol in collaboration with SUMC and UCSF and have followed up over 300 patients for more than 2 years. Initially, treatment doses ranged from 45 GyE to 35 GyE. Currently, total doses up to 25 GyE are delivered to treatment volumes ranging from 0.1 cm3 to 70 cm3. This represents a relatively homogeneous dose distribution, with the 90% isodose surface contoured to the periphery of the lesion; there is considerable protection of normal adjacent brain tissues, and most of the brain receives no radiation exposure. Dose selection depends on the volume, shape, and location of the AVM and several other factors, including the volume of normal brain that must be traversed by the plateau portion of the charged-particle beam. The first 230 patients have been evaluated clinically to the end of 1989. Using the clinical grading of Drake, about 90% of the patients had an excellent or good neurologic grade, about 5% had a poor grade, and about 5% had progression of disease and died, or died as a result of unrelated intercurrent illness. Neuroradiologic follow-up to the end of 1989 indicated the following rates of complete angiographic obliteration 3 years after treatment: 90% to 95% for AVM treatment volumes less than 4 cm3, 90% to 95% for volumes 4 to 14 cm3, and 60% to 70% for volumes greater than 14 cm3.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1632359", "title": "MR angiography of the head and neck: value of two-dimensional phase-contrast projection technique.", "content": "MR angiography of the head and neck: value of two-dimensional phase-contrast projection technique. MR angiography is commonly performed by using two- and three-dimensional time-of-flight and three-dimensional phase-contrast techniques. These procedures require long examination times and processing of imaging data by computing maximum intensity projections. Two-dimensional phase-contrast projection angiography has neither of these disadvantages. We analyzed the value of this technique for head and neck MR angiography in 84 patients and 15 control subjects. Patients were examined to resolve specific clinical questions such as the presence of arteriovenous malformations (20 cases), patency of carotid and vertebral arteries (35 cases), patency of the superior sagittal sinus (14 cases), patency of saphenous vein bypass grafts (11 cases), and vascularity of masses (four cases). Conventional angiograms were available for correlation in 22 patients. Two-dimensional phase-contrast projection angiograms were generated by using a gradient-recalled-echo sequence sensitized to flow with the use of flow-encoding gradients. Projection MR angiograms were obtained in approximately 3.5 min by combining images obtained with flow-encoding gradients applied along the axes defining the image plane. MR angiograms were subjectively evaluated by three observers without reference to routine MR images or conventional angiograms. High-quality studies were obtained in 93% of control subjects and 90% of patients examined. The findings based on phase-contrast angiography were confirmed with conventional angiography in 21 of 22 patients for whom conventional angiograms were available. Evaluation of vascular grafts and of the patency of major cranial vessels was easily done with two-dimensional phase-contrast angiography and was useful in postoperative follow-up examinations. We also advocate its use for superior sagittal sinus thrombosis and follow-up examinations in patients with arteriovenous malformations."}
{"id": "1631346", "title": "[Spontaneous dissection of the extracranial internal carotid artery: an atypical angiographic finding].", "content": "[Spontaneous dissection of the extracranial internal carotid artery: an atypical angiographic finding]."}
{"id": "1623238", "title": "Imaging in cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Imaging in cerebrovascular disease. High-resolution structural imaging of ischemic lesions now enables the assignment of complex ischemic clinical symptoms to cortical and subcortical lesions. Functional imaging shows some new features of cerebral ischemia which can be directly investigated in the individual patient. Vascular imaging is rapidly improving with the introduction of magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). Today its diagnostic value is unsettled but promising, in particular if used in combination with other techniques like ultrasonography and positron emission tomography (PET)."}
{"id": "1616402", "title": "[CT vs MRI in the diagnosis of acute stroke].", "content": "[CT vs MRI in the diagnosis of acute stroke]. 70 patients who had suffered an acute stroke (52 ischaemic and 18 haemorrhagic) were studied with CT and MR, performing both techniques during the first week of disease and correlating the findings with the clinical data. MR proved superior in the detection of ischaemic infarcts, specially those in the posterior territory and with a small size; it was also superior to CT in the detection of leukoaraiosis and the demonstration of vascular obstructions. CT failed to detect a small brain stem haemorrhage secondary to bleeding of a cavernoma, while its performance was similar to that of MR in the remaining cases. In all patients with intracerebral haemorrhages, including two who were examined on the first day, an area of increased density was evidenced in the T1 sequences. It is concluded that CT, due to its greater availability and easiness of performance, must be maintained as first choice in acute stroke in order to differentiate haemorrhage from ischaemia, while MR may provide additional information in selected cases."}
{"id": "1609697", "title": "Current role of cerebral angiography in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular diseases.", "content": "Current role of cerebral angiography in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular diseases. The role of cerebral angiography in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease is currently being questioned because of the increasing availability of MR angiography. The purpose of this essay is to place the use of cerebral angiography in perspective in light of these new developments. In patients with atherosclerotic cerebrovascular disease, MR angiography can almost entirely supplant cerebral angiography as a screening procedure in the evaluation of the carotid bifurcation. However, detection of \"pseudoocclusion\" still requires cerebral angiography for accurate diagnosis. Atherosclerotic stenosis or occlusion of the major intracranial vessels at the base of the brain can be detected with MR angiography, but not as accurately as with cerebral angiography. Furthermore, for detection of more distal occlusions, cerebral angiography is still needed. A number of erroneous concepts about the risks and value of cerebral angiography have prevented its optimal use for patients with cerebrovascular disease. These myths can be countered by applying several rules to optimize the use of cerebral angiography. Subarachnoid hemorrhage is best evaluated with CT followed by detailed cerebral angiography, although MR angiography can be used as a screening test for aneurysms 3 mm or larger. Cerebral angiography is still necessary to confirm the diagnosis of cerebrovascular malformations, although MR angiography is a useful screening test. Cerebral angiography is required for the definitive diagnosis of arteritis, arterial dissection, or fibromuscular dysplasia."}
{"id": "1604419", "title": "[Systemic lupus erythematosus associated with benign intracranial hypertension: a case report].", "content": "[Systemic lupus erythematosus associated with benign intracranial hypertension: a case report]. A case of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with benign intracranial hypertension (BIH) is reported. A 41-year-old male with a history of SLE starting in 1982 was admitted to our hospital in December 1989 because of headache and vertigo. Laboratory examinations on admission showed proteinuria, mild anemia, and positive antinuclear and anti-Sm antibodies. No abnormal findings except high pressure of 350 mmH2O were observed in his cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Fundoscopic examinations showed marked bilateral papilledema and retinal bleeding. Brain CT, MRI and angiography revealed diffuse brain edema without space occupying lesion and cerebrovascular diseases. Because there were no diseases such as endocrinological disorders, severe anemia, and no history of the administration of drugs which might cause intracranial hypertension, the diagnosis of BIH was made. Subsequently, he was treated with intravenous methylprednisolone therapy and osmotic diuretics and his clinical symptoms and pressure of CSF gradually improved. The decrease of CSF adsorption was observed with RI cisternography in our case. Psychosis, seizures and meningitis are common CNS manifestations in SLE patients. But BIH is very rare and its cause is unclear. Only 17 cases of SLE with BIH have been reported. The pathogenesis and treatment of BIH in SLE patients were discussed in this paper."}
{"id": "1603219", "title": "Cerebral vasospasm with elevated creatine phosphokinase following surgery of unruptured arteriovenous malformation.", "content": "Cerebral vasospasm with elevated creatine phosphokinase following surgery of unruptured arteriovenous malformation. Delayed cerebral vasospasm associated with marked elevation of serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) is reported. A 21-year-old man with unruptured arteriovenous malformation (AVM) in the left temporal lobe developed postoperative symptomatic vasospasm lasting for 2 weeks. A postoperative computerized tomography scan showed intraventricular hematoma without subarachnoid hemorrhage in the basal cistern. On day 5 after surgery, the patient developed motor aphasia due to marked vasospasm around the bifurcation of internal carotid artery. On day 7 and 8, serum CPK was elevated as high as 1175 and 1376 IU/l, respectively. On day 35 when he had completely recovered from cerebral vasospasm both clinically and angiographically, the level of CPK was normalized. The causative factors of symptomatic cerebral vasospasm following surgery of unruptured AVM associated with CPK elevation are discussed."}
{"id": "1595250", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography in the head and neck.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography in the head and neck."}
{"id": "1584363", "title": "Ruptured occult arteriovenous malformation associated with an unruptured intracranial aneurysm: report of three cases.", "content": "Ruptured occult arteriovenous malformation associated with an unruptured intracranial aneurysm: report of three cases. Three patients who were admitted for intracranial hemorrhage are reported. Cerebral angiography demonstrated an aneurysm arising from the middle cerebral artery bifurcation. No other malformation was visible either on the computed tomographic scan or on angiography. The diagnosis was ruptured middle cerebral artery aneurysm with intracerebral hematoma. At surgery, there was no blood in the sylvian fissure and the aneurysm was not ruptured. Evacuation of the hematoma and thorough exploration of the cavity led to the discovery and resection of a small vascular anomaly typical of an arteriovenous malformation responsible for the hemorrhage. Occult vascular malformations and the association of aneurysm with arteriovenous malformations are discussed. In these 3 patients, the coexistence of these two malformations could be related to a common congenital abnormality."}
{"id": "1584361", "title": "Spontaneous disappearance of a huge cerebral arteriovenous malformation: case report.", "content": "Spontaneous disappearance of a huge cerebral arteriovenous malformation: case report. A case of spontaneous disappearance of a cerebral arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is reported. A 59-year-old woman, who had been diagnosed as having a huge AVM in the left occipital lobe 6 years before and who was monitored without treatment, complained of a sudden headache and vomiting. Computed tomography revealed an acute subdural hematoma, intracerebral hematoma, and subarachnoid hemorrhage, for which a craniotomy was performed. Cerebral angiograms performed 9 days after the operation demonstrated a decrease in the size of the AVM. Repeated cerebral angiograms performed a month later demonstrated complete disappearance of the AVM. Follow-up angiograms performed 19 months after hemorrhage confirmed complete disappearance of the AVM. Spontaneous disappearance is known to occur occasionally in small AVMs but rarely in huge ones such as the one presented here. Several possible mechanisms for spontaneous disappearance of AVMs are discussed."}
{"id": "1579977", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography. Cerebrovascular applications.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography. Cerebrovascular applications."}
{"id": "1579960", "title": "Safety and efficacy of intravenous tissue plasminogen activator and heparin in acute middle cerebral artery stroke.", "content": "Safety and efficacy of intravenous tissue plasminogen activator and heparin in acute middle cerebral artery stroke. There is little reported of the safety and efficacy of high-dose intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (alteplase) in combination with heparin anticoagulation in patients presenting with acute ischemic stroke. Thirty-two patients with severe hemispheric stroke syndrome caused by angiographically proven middle cerebral artery and/or intracranial internal carotid artery occlusion were treated with 100 mg alteplase by intravenous infusion over 90 minutes within a mean +/- SD of 226 +/- 68 minutes after symptom onset. Recanalization was assessed by digital subtraction angiography in all patients immediately after treatment and by transcranial Doppler monitoring (n = 30) and/or a third angiogram (n = 5) 12-24 hours later. Complete or partial reperfusion was observed in 11 patients (34%) 90 minutes after the initiation of alteplase infusion and in 17 patients (53%) within 12-24 hours. Hemorrhagic infarction without clinical deterioration was detected by follow-up computed tomography in nine patients (28%). Fatal parenchymal hemorrhage occurred in three patients (9%) with huge middle cerebral artery infarcts. Serious hemorrhage from the puncture site occurred in two patients (6%). Good clinical outcome correlated with reperfusion (p less than 0.05) and the presence of grade 2 collateral blood flow (p less than 0.01). When 100 mg of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator was given within the first 6 hours of acute stroke together with heparin the incidence of deleterious hemorrhage was less than 10%. Reperfusion and effective collateral blood flow seem to be two important factors associated with a small infarct volume and good clinical outcome."}
{"id": "1577281", "title": "Transient ischemic attacks in the elderly: diagnosis and treatment.", "content": "Transient ischemic attacks in the elderly: diagnosis and treatment. Transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) are the most reliable warning sign of impending stroke and are highly indicative of significant coronary artery disease. The history and physical examination may suggest the pathologic mechanism, an important clue to diagnosis and prognosis. Diagnostic testing is individualized but often includes ECG and cerebral contrast angiography. Exercise testing, echocardiography, ultrasound, CT, and/or MRI are sometimes indicated. The patient with recent TIAs may be hospitalized for acute management. Long-term treatment includes stroke risk factor modification, use of antiplatelet agents, and sometimes anticoagulant therapy. Selected older patients may be candidates for carotid endarterectomy."}
{"id": "1570076", "title": "[Multiple intracranial aneurysms following radiation therapy for pituitary adenoma; a case report].", "content": "[Multiple intracranial aneurysms following radiation therapy for pituitary adenoma; a case report]. A report is made here on a rare case in which occurrence of multiple cerebral aneurysm was observed after radiotherapy. The case was that of a female aged 51 who was hospitalized with the chief complaint of consciousness disorder. The patient was discharged from the hospital 1 year before, after undergoing subtotal extirpation of a tumor through the transsphenoidal sinus in a case of pituitary adenoma, and post-operative radiotherapy (topical 50 Gy). Mild hyperlipidemia associated with hypothyroidism was observed by blood biochemical test during the patient's hospitalization, and multiple cerebral infarction was also observed by CT scanning and MR imaging. Therefore, conservative treatments including intensified endocrine-supplementing treatment, centering on thyroid hormone, were attempted. The patient's thyroid gland function and hyperlipidemia improved but the consciousness disorder persisted. Exacerbation of the consciousness disorder occurred suddenly 6 weeks after the patient's hospitalization. Subarachnoid hemorrhage and hydrocephalus were observed by CT scanning. Cerebral angiography detected a saccular aneurysm in the trifurcation of the right middle cerebral artery, 3 fusiform aneurysms in the periphery of the right middle cerebral artery, 2 fusiform aneurysms in the posterior cerebral artery and irregularity of wall width in the central artery including the terminal region of the internal carotid artery. These findings were not observed at the initial hospitalization and were considered to have been formed newly afterwards. Further, these findings were observed unexceptionally in all the radiated fields. The patient died 8 weeks after hospitalization, and no autopsy finding was obtained. From the above, we presumed that radiation vasculopathy caused by the radiation therapy made one year previously, had led to the formation of multiple cerebral aneurysms.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1564343", "title": "[Valve replacement in a patient with infective endocarditis and ruptured mycotic cerebral aneurysm].", "content": "[Valve replacement in a patient with infective endocarditis and ruptured mycotic cerebral aneurysm]. A 55-year-old man with a mild fever and sweating developed severe headache for the days before admission. Cerebral computed tomography and selected cerebral angiography on the day of admission revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage due to rupture of an aneurysm of a distal branch of the left middle cerebral artery. Detection of vegetation on the aortic valve by two dimensional echocardiography confirmed the diagnosis of infective endocarditis with a ruptured mycotic cerebral aneurysm. Because of rapid growth of the vegetation on the aortic valve and progression of heart failure despite antibiotic therapy, emergency cardiac surgery was performed. To prevent re-rupture of the aneurysm, the aortic valve was replaced with a bioprosthetic valve, and no anticoagulant was administered postoperatively. Repeated cerebral angiography revealed that the aneurysm was becoming progressively smaller during the next 9 months. No cerebrovascular accident occurred postoperatively. We believe that it is safe to treat a ruptured mycotic cerebral aneurysm without involvement of a hematoma mass in the brain conservatively, and that use of a bioprosthetic valve, if valve replacement is mandatory, and avoidance of anticoagulant therapy during the postoperative period are advisable in the treatment of a patient with infective endocarditis and a ruptured cerebral mycotic aneurysm."}
{"id": "1561335", "title": "Intranidal aneurysms in cerebral arteriovenous malformations: evaluation and endovascular treatment.", "content": "Intranidal aneurysms in cerebral arteriovenous malformations: evaluation and endovascular treatment. Patients with cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) have an increased risk of hemorrhage if an intranidal aneurysm is present. Angiograms from 125 patients with cerebral AVMs were evaluated, and 15 (12%) had intranidal aneurysms. All 15 patients had a history of bleeding. Five patients underwent particulate or liquid embolization before surgical excision of or radiation therapy for the AVM. All aneurysms were thrombosed at the time of embolization. Ten patients underwent radio-surgery alone. Eight of the 10 underwent angiographic follow-up (mean, 33 months); seven patients showed complete obliteration of the AVM without residual aneurysm. Histologic evaluation showed intranidal aneurysms to be thin-walled vascular structures, and they are the likely site for AVM hemorrhage. Embolization is an effective method for achieving thrombosis of the intranidal aneurysm and may be beneficial in patients undergoing radiation therapy because of a long latency period between treatment and thrombosis of the AVM."}
{"id": "1546272", "title": "[Cerebral angiography using proton spin tomography].", "content": "[Cerebral angiography using proton spin tomography]. In only a few years magnetic resonance angiography has evolved to a clinically useful tool. In many situations it can resolve questions which used to be addressed by conventional contrast angiography, such as carotid stenoses, aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, and venous and sinus disorders. In addition, selective magnetic resonance angiography provides information on direction and origin of flow and circulation in vessels serving as collaterals."}
{"id": "1542889", "title": "Prevalence and significance of hyperdense middle cerebral artery in acute stroke.", "content": "Prevalence and significance of hyperdense middle cerebral artery in acute stroke. Early noncontrast computed tomographic scans may visualize a hyperdense middle cerebral artery before the infarct becomes visible. This sign disappears within a few days, corresponds to the clot itself, and might be associated with a poor prognosis. The aim of the study was to determine its prevalence, diagnostic value, relationship to demographic data, ability to separate embolic from nonembolic causes, short-term prognostic value, evolution over time, and relationship to arterial occlusion on angiography. We performed this study using computed tomographic scans performed within 12 hours after onset in 272 consecutive unselected patients with a first acute cerebrovascular event. Seventy-three subjects had the hyperdense middle cerebral artery sign, leading to a prevalence of 26.8% in the whole group and 41.2% in patients with a middle cerebral artery infarct. Specificity was 100%, but sensitivity was only 30%. This sign was not dependent on cerebrovascular risk factors, but was more likely to occur in cortical and in large, deep, middle cerebral artery infarcts (p less than 0.01). It provided only a 3.5% gain in predicting death, and one fifth of patients with the sign recovered within 2 weeks; this sign was not an independent variable of poor outcome on multiple linear regression. It spontaneously disappeared within a few days and was always related to an occlusion of the middle cerebral artery in patients who underwent early angiography. The hyperdense middle cerebral artery sign is useful in the diagnosis of middle cerebral artery occlusion but does not always predict a poor prognosis."}
{"id": "1538280", "title": "Stroke in a cohort of patients with homozygous sickle cell disease.", "content": "Stroke in a cohort of patients with homozygous sickle cell disease. Strokes occurred in 17 of 310 children with homozygous sickle cell disease who were followed from birth, representing an incidence of 7.8% by the age of 14 years. Two children had subarachnoid hemorrhage, one having resolution of symptoms after aneurysm surgery and another dying of a presumed second hemorrhage 14 days later. The remaining 15 strokes were presumed to be cerebral infarction, although autopsy, angiographic, or computed tomographic evidence was available in only 8 children. There were 6 deaths, 2 in the acute event and 4 after recurrence, which occurred in 6 (46%) of 13 patients who survived the initial episode. There were 10 recurrent episodes at a median interval of 9 months after the initial event. Steady-state hematologic data revealed significantly higher leukocyte counts than in control subjects without strokes at age 1 year and in the last study preceding the stroke. The initial stroke coincided with an acutely lowered hemoglobin value in 5 patients (3 aplastic crises, 1 acute splenic sequestration, 1 probable pulmonary sequestration) and with painful crises in another 7 patients. We conclude that a high leukocyte count and an acute decrease of hemoglobin are risk factors for stroke in patients with homozygous sickle cell disease."}
{"id": "1538235", "title": "Non-invasive diagnosis of internal carotid artery dissections.", "content": "Non-invasive diagnosis of internal carotid artery dissections. Arteriography is thought to be mandatory for the diagnosis of internal carotid artery (ICA) dissection. With the introduction of transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), however, this is no longer the case. In 13 consecutive patients with ICA dissections the diagnosis was made by means of non-invasive tests including extracranial and transcranial Doppler sonography, contrast enhanced computed tomography (ceCT), and, in five patients, MRI. Intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography used as the gold standard in all cases was confirmative. Extracranial and transcranial ultrasound findings indicative of the diagnosis could be identified. MRI directly demonstrated the intramural haematoma and the false lumen of the dissected artery. These non-invasive techniques also allowed for repetitive follow up examinations. They were, however, unable to demonstrate false aneurysms in the chronic state. Results show that the diagnosis of carotid dissection can be made by means of cerebrovascular ultrasound and MRI."}
{"id": "1537068", "title": "Intracranial magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Intracranial magnetic resonance angiography. Intraarterial angiography remains the \"gold standard\" for the evaluation of the intracranial vasculature, but it carries with it the risks of local vascular damage, systemic reactions, transient neurologic deficits, permanent neurologic compromise, and even death. To date, magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) has been applied to a variety of different manifestations of intracranial vascular disease. Presently, MRA studies and flow measurement techniques serve to compliment the more traditional spin-echo evaluation of patients with small aneurysms, arterial and venous occlusions, vascular malformations, and in some cases of neoplastic vascular invasion. Practically, the limitations of these techniques must be taken into account such that the appropriate method is applied to answer a specific clinical question and the acquisition parameters are chosen to maximize the sensitivity and specificity of the study. The intent of this review is to summarize the technical approaches, clinical role, pitfalls, and potential improvements in the MRA techniques as they apply to the intracranial circulation."}
{"id": "1537066", "title": "Pediatric magnetic resonance angiography: assessment of stroke.", "content": "Pediatric magnetic resonance angiography: assessment of stroke. Thirty-one (59.6%) of 52 magnetic resonance angiographic (MRA) studies performed on pediatric patients were for evaluation of strokes. Thirteen of the 31 patients (41.9%) of MRA studies were positive for either vascular occlusion or congenital vascular malformation (arteriovenous, venous, or aneurysm). Results indicate that MRA is a valuable noninvasive diagnostic tool that can be routinely performed as part of the initial magnetic resonance evaluation, often thereby avoiding the need for conventional angiography in occlusive vascular disease, and permitting the performance of conventional angiography, in the case of vascular malformations, later when the patient is stable."}
{"id": "1537062", "title": "Basic principles of magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Basic principles of magnetic resonance angiography. The flow of blood through magnetic field gradients and radiofrequency fields produces signal changes that can be used to distinguish blood vessels from surrounding stationary tissue. The field of magnetic resonance (MR) angiography attempts to overcome this limitation by creating images that depict blood vessels in a projective format similar to a conventional invasive angiogram, but without the need for ionizing radiation or a contrast agent. This article reviews basic concepts involved in MR angiography, including signal changes from time-of-flight and phase effects, maximum intensity projection algorithm for postprocessing of two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) image sets, and methods for flow quantification. Potential problems with MR angiography are considered, as well as means to overcome them."}
{"id": "1536636", "title": "Watershed infarction on computed tomographic scan. An unreliable sign of hemodynamic stroke.", "content": "Watershed infarction on computed tomographic scan. An unreliable sign of hemodynamic stroke. We identified three patients with computed tomography-defined infarctions that were partly or exclusively located in watershed territories; clinical evaluation and cerebral angiography suggested that the infarcts were of embolic origin. In two patients, arteriography demonstrated minimal carotid plaque without evidence of significant stenosis. The third patient did have high-grade stenosis of the petrous portion of the ipsilateral internal carotid artery, but arteriography demonstrated a branch artery occlusion corresponding to the territory of the infarction. Although most authors suggest that watershed territory infarctions arise from hemodynamic events, cerebral embolization may be a common cause."}
{"id": "1529849", "title": "MR angiography in children with cerebral neurovascular diseases: findings in 31 cases.", "content": "MR angiography in children with cerebral neurovascular diseases: findings in 31 cases. We evaluated the suitability of MR angiography for routine use in children with suspected intracranial vascular disease. Thirty-one children, 6 months to 14 years old, with intracranial lesions or clinically suspected vascular malformations were studied prospectively with conventional MR imaging and time-of-flight MR angiography. In nine cases, MR angiographic findings were verified with digital subtraction angiography or conventional angiography. All MR studies were performed on a 1.5-T MR system using a circularly polarized head coil. Arterial MR angiography, performed in 24 cases, revealed congenital abnormalities of the arterial vessels in 20 cases. Vessel stenosis was observed in nine patients, and displacement of intracranial arteries due to tumors could be seen in 10 patients. Seven children had no abnormal findings. Venous MR angiography was performed in seven children, with depiction of sinus thrombosis in six cases. The comparative analysis of MR angiography and digital subtraction angiography showed equivalent results in nine patients; in one patient the degree of stenosis was overestimated with MR angiography. MR angiography, when combined with MR imaging, reveals information about soft-tissue and vascular structures in a single setting. At this point, MR angiography can replace invasive conventional angiography or digital subtraction angiography only in selected cases because of software and hardware limitations. Arterial or venous MR angiography can be helpful as an additional scan in MR examinations of children with suspected cerebral neurovascular diseases, and its noninvasive nature makes it well suited for routine use in children."}
{"id": "1514413", "title": "Intracerebral arteriovenous fistula: report of one case.", "content": "Intracerebral arteriovenous fistula: report of one case. Intracranial arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is rare. Of the 320 arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) treated by Halbach over the past ten years, only five (1.6%) had a single arteriovenous connection. In the present study, a male infant developed focal seizure and intracranial hemorrhage without cardiac decompensation at the age of 42 days. When he was 3 years and 4 months old, status epileptics occurred, and AVF was discovered via CT scan and cerebral angiographic examination. The AVF was fed by a middle cerebral artery and drained into a huge cortical vein over the left parietooccipital area. Endovascular therapy and/or surgery were suggested, but the family refused. Though seizures occurred occasionally, the patient's consciousness level had become more clear, and he was discharged after three weeks' hospitalization. The patient was noted to be lethargic and only could roll over partially at the age of 3 year and 8 months, in the latest follow-up."}
{"id": "1511219", "title": "Comparison of MRI, CT and angiography in cerebral arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "Comparison of MRI, CT and angiography in cerebral arteriovenous malformations. Computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and cerebral angiography were performed in 30 patients with cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). Clinical data and radiographic findings are presented. The diagnostic values of CT and MRI are compared. 25 of 30 AVMs were seen on CT-scans, 27 on MR-images, 26 by angiography. Typical CT-findings were irregularly hyperdense areas with spotlike contrast enhancement. 4 out of 5 AVMs not depicted by CT were diagnosed for tumor, in one case the malformation was hidden by a hematoma. MRI mostly showed the AVM as round or oval lesions with spongelike structure of low signal intensity in T1-weighted sequences or as single enlarged vessels. The 26 AVM revealed by angiography presented typically enlarged vessels; in 2 cases angiography was without any pathological findings, 2 cases showed signs of a space occupying lesion. The results confirm that MRI is superior to CT in detecting and recognizing AVM. Its strength lies in the possibility to detect abnormal vessels even in presence of fresh or older hematoma, and in the precise information on size and location of the AVM. In our series, MRI and CT-scans together showed 28 of 30 AVMs, the remaining 2 cases were not seen with angiography either but only proven histologically. Although today MR-angiography is able to provide three dimensional images of blood vessels, it cannot yet replace angiography in the exact study of the vessels which is required for surgical planning."}
{"id": "1510352", "title": "New magnetic resonance techniques for evaluating cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "New magnetic resonance techniques for evaluating cerebrovascular disease. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of acute stroke has made important contributions to diagnosis. Several novel MR technologies, now in preclinical and clinical development, will contribute to stroke diagnosis and perhaps help to guide therapy. MR angiography is the most clinically advanced new MR technology and offers the clinician a method to image noninvasively the extra- and intracranial vasculature. Diffusion-weighted MR imaging can demonstrate ischemic lesions quantitatively within minutes of onset in experimental stroke models, and human application is proceeding. Perfusion MR studies can reveal the presence or absence of cerebral perfusion in specific arterial territories. MR spectroscopy can assess tissue metabolites in vivo and reveal changes in these metabolites associated with ischemic injury. The combination of these new MR techniques should provide a plethora of information about the extent of ischemic lesions, associated vascular and perfusion deficits, and metabolic consequences. This information will afford the clinician the opportunity to assess and subtype ischemic stroke patients more rapidly and could be used to monitor therapeutic responses."}
{"id": "1503794", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography in intracranial vascular disease.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography in intracranial vascular disease. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) offers a noninvasive alternative for studying normal and pathological blood vessels within the brain. Insights from important clinical aspects of intracranial vascular disease enable the effective application of MRA. Several MRA techniques have demonstrated clinical utility for the detection and characterization of intracranial vascular pathology. Clinical protocols should comprise combinations of time-of-flight and phase-contrast acquisitions to achieve diagnostic sensitivity."}
{"id": "1498700", "title": "MRA review.", "content": "MRA review. Magnetic resonance (MR) angiography is a rapidly evolving field in MR imaging, the main goal of which is a noninvasive tool for visualizing blood vessels. The acquisition of continuous images of the blood vessels, comparable to the conventional DSA images, as well as the functional evaluation of blood-flow velocities and flow patterns are the subject of continuing developments. The basic principles of the various techniques and their clinical applications are reviewed and the practical limitations in specific anatomic regions discussed. The review concludes with a survey of future developments."}
{"id": "1493079", "title": "Clinical, radiological, and functional evaluation following acute stroke.", "content": "Clinical, radiological, and functional evaluation following acute stroke. 1. There are currently no proven treatments for cerebral infarction or intracerebral haematoma. Drug testing is at an exciting phase, however, and thrombolytic and neuroprotective agents appear to have the potential to rescue ischaemic cerebral tissue. The heterogeneous nature of stroke demands adequate patient assessment by clinical and radiological study, with standardised approaches to the measurement of recovery. 2. Previous studies have not fulfilled these stringent criteria, impairing interpretation and inter-study comparison. The needs of drug studies in the acute phase following stroke are discussed in this review."}
{"id": "1492601", "title": "[Neuroradiology in the physiopathologic diagnosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage--cerebral aneurysm].", "content": "[Neuroradiology in the physiopathologic diagnosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage--cerebral aneurysm]. The clinical importance of the cerebral aneurismatic lesion in well known. In Portugal we still do not have reliable statistics regarding the occurrence of the subarachnoid hemorrhage, however we can make a comparison through Kassel's and Drake's studies where they refer that annually 28,000 North-Americans suffer from subarachnoid hemorrhage attributed to the rupture of the cerebral aneurysm. This is a clinical situation that needs to be analyzed, more so because if it is not diagnosed and treated in time, it can cause a high level of morbidity and mortality. From 1984 to 1990, the authors studied 208 clinical cases of in-patients at the Santa Maria Hospital who had been diagnosed as having subarachnoid hemorrhage-cerebral aneurysm. They analyzed 172 cranium-encephalic Tomographies and 190 cerebral Angiographies. They found levels that overlapped the series already published with respect to the location of the lesion, dimensions and age groups involved. They tried to relate the presence aneurysm in the willis arterial circle with the occurrence of locoregional anatomic variants that were detected in 51% of the patients with aneurysm of the anterior communicating artery and in 33% of the cases in the posterior communicating artery. The high occurrence of serious forms of tomodensitrometric presentation should also be emphasized. As a matter of fact, 42.6% of the patients studied were grouped in degree IV of the Fisher Scale. This result translates the effort that is still required towards an early clinical and imaging diagnosis of warning hemorrhage to avoid or prevent a catastrophic hemorrhage recurrence."}
{"id": "1489676", "title": "Magnetic resonance evaluation of stroke.", "content": "Magnetic resonance evaluation of stroke. Stroke is not a specific disease but is, instead, a symptom complex reflecting destruction of brain tissue by cerebrovascular disease. Several different specific diseases are included in the \"stroke\" category, including intra- and extracerebral hemorrhage as well as ischemic infarction. These different types of stroke have major differences regarding etiology, management, and prognosis. The goal of stroke imaging is to diagnose the type of stroke at clinical presentation, allowing prompt and appropriate management. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) provide powerful noninvasive means to evaluate the pathologic and metabolic changes that occur in acute stroke. These techniques allow the early detection of stroke and greatly increase the ability to determine the etiology of the stroke. One or more of these methods will surely become a standard means of evaluating acute stroke. The information provided, combined with new stroke therapies, should result in improved patient outcome."}
{"id": "1484597", "title": "[A ruptured aneurysm of the distal posterior inferior cerebellar artery associated with basilar artery occlusion: a case report].", "content": "[A ruptured aneurysm of the distal posterior inferior cerebellar artery associated with basilar artery occlusion: a case report]. We presented a case of a distal posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) aneurysm associated with basilar artery occlusion. A 66-year-old female was found unconscious at home and transferred to our hospital in a deep coma on February 9, 1991. Emergency CT scan revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage in the posterior fossa. She was treated conservatively because of her poor neurological status. The angiograms performed on February 13 showed occlusion of the basilar artery and a saccular aneurysm at the cortical branch of the PICA. The contrast material remained in the aneurysm for a long time throughout the venous phase. The left vertebral artery was markedly hypoplastic. The patient improved remarkably after admission and became almost alert late in February, although she still presented tetraparesis, dysfunction of lower cranial nerves and other neurological signs linked with the brain stem. The unusual angiographical findings in this case prompted us to perform the examination again, expecting some angiographical changes. The angiograms taken on March 15 revealed spontaneous disappearance of the aneurysm, although the basilar artery occlusion remained unchanged. The authors discussed some problems involved in this case, including the relation between the aneurysm and the arterial occlusion, and the mechanism of spontaneous disappearance of the aneurysm."}
{"id": "1468873", "title": "Intracranial magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Intracranial magnetic resonance imaging. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is currently being incorporated into the routine MR evaluations of patients with suspected cerebrovascular disease. Currently, MRA serves as a useful adjunct to routine parenchymal spin-echo imaging of the head. Intracranial MRA is predominantly used as a screening test for cerebrovascular disease in situations where the clinical suspicion and/or the patient's physical condition does not warrant a conventional arteriogram. Clinical experience to date suggests that MRA can play a significant role in the evaluation of patients with suspected intracranial aneurysms, arteriovenous fistulae, large vessel occlusive disease, and dural sinus occlusion/thrombosis. MRA has not yet reached the point where it can replace conventional catheter angiography. This is most apparent when trying to evaluate 1) larger vessels which are typically difficult to visualize due to higher order motion terms (eg, carotid siphon); 2) the smaller cortical branches with relatively slow flow that would be necessary to see in patients with suspected vasculitis; and 3) any situation in which dynamic information is important such as with mass lesions or vascular malformations. These limitations must be taken into account when deciding on the appropriate imaging study for an individual patient. Large-scale, well-controlled prospective clinical trials will ultimately determine the role intracranial MRA will play in the evaluation of patients with suspected cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "1467579", "title": "Recent advances in magnetic resonance angiography of the brain.", "content": "Recent advances in magnetic resonance angiography of the brain. Newer techniques in magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) are faster, have higher resolution, and have greater vascular conspicuity than the early techniques introduced just a few years ago. Advances in 'black blood' and 'bright blood' (time-of-flight and phase-contrast) MRA are discussed with attention to saturation effects, use of gadolinium, and background suppression with magnetization transfer contrast."}
{"id": "1465341", "title": "[MR angiography enhanced by sodium acetazolamide].", "content": "[MR angiography enhanced by sodium acetazolamide]. We tried to use sodium acetazolamide to enhance MR angiography (MRA). Sodium acetazolamide, one of carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, has an effect to increase regional cerebral blood flow. We made a direct comparison between pre and post enhanced MRA (both 3D-TOF and 3D-PC techniques). MRA after administration of sodium acetazolamide could depict more details of cortical branches without enhancement of back-ground. So we recommend this simple method to be used widely in any examination of MR angiography."}
{"id": "1462589", "title": "[The so-called stroke headache].", "content": "[The so-called stroke headache]. Sudden violent headache occurring for the first time in life suggests subarachnoid haemorrhage and requires diagnostic management. In 20 cases the authors failed to find blood in cerebrospinal fluid, but in 8 cases the protein level was raised. The patients were examined again after 2-10 years, and had control neurological examination and CT of the brain. In half the cases similar headaches returned after various time periods, and haemorrhage was again ruled out. In all patient chronic headaches of lower intensity developed. Control CT examination showed in 7 cases scars or atrophy of brain tissue. It is difficult to qualify such headaches as migraine and other known types of headache. Recently in the literature a new name has been coined for them--thunderclap headaches, and some authors regard them as a sign of minor intracranial haemorrhage. CT changes, raised protein level in cerebrospinal fluid, and the type of pain may suggest haemorrhage. The usefulness of cerebral arteriography in such patients should be considered. We propose the name of stoke headache for suggesting the cause and special management."}
{"id": "1457008", "title": "Intracranial arterial aneurysm due to birth trauma. Case report.", "content": "Intracranial arterial aneurysm due to birth trauma. Case report. The authors present what is believed to be the first description of an intracranial arterial aneurysm attributable to birth trauma. A male neonate, the product of a precipitious, instrumented, footling breech delivery, exhibited seizures at the age of 18 hours. A computerized tomography scan of the head showed hemorrhage along the tentorium with a globular component at the incisura. Transfontanel Doppler ultrasound examination detected pulsatile arterial flow within the globular mass. Cerebral angiography demonstrated a 1.5-cm saccular aneurysm arising from a small distal branch of the superior cerebellar artery. The pathogenesis of aneurysms in children is obscure and controversial. Birth trauma may be responsible for some pediatric aneurysms that are currently classified as idiopathic or congenital, particularly aneurysms in the region of the tentorial incisura."}
{"id": "1448823", "title": "99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT with acetazolamide challenge to detect hemodynamic compromise in occlusive cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT with acetazolamide challenge to detect hemodynamic compromise in occlusive cerebrovascular disease. Insufficiency of collateral supply may lead to low-flow infarcts in severe occlusive cerebrovascular disease. The aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of technetium-99m-labeled hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to assess hemodynamic compromise in the anterior circulation. Cerebral blood flow before and after 1 g acetazolamide was analyzed by 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT in 21 symptomatic patients with documented extracranial obstructions. SPECT findings were correlated with the results of angiography, transcranial Doppler sonography, and computed tomographic scan. The acetazolamide-induced increase of cerebral blood flow could be reliably monitored by increase of cerebral 99mTc-HMPAO uptake, which varied between 11.4% and 47.6% in the less-affected hemisphere. Increment of hemispheric side-to-side asymmetry of tracer uptake after drug challenge revealed significant restriction of regional vasoreactivity in 11 patients. Agreement in assessing hemodynamic compromise was reached in 81% of patients with ophthalmic artery collaterals on angiography (p < 0.001), in 76% with low-flow infarcts on computed tomographic scan (p < 0.01), and in 91% with markedly reduced flow velocities on transcranial Doppler (p < 0.0001). One patient developed a low-flow infarct in the area predicted by SPECT during follow up. We conclude that 99mTc-HMPAO-SPECT with acetazolamide challenge is a useful method for assessment of the adequacy of hemispheric collateral pathways in patients with severe occlusive cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "1441417", "title": "[The clinical characteristics of a cerebral ischemic stroke with a tumor-like course].", "content": "[The clinical characteristics of a cerebral ischemic stroke with a tumor-like course]. A complex examination (clinical picture, EEG, REG, EchoEG, CT, angiography) of 27 patients with ischemic stroke showing a tumour-like course allowed to single out three variations of stroke course: with a stormy development of the disease due to the hypertensive syndrome; with a remittent course; with epileptic seizures and absence in the postseizure period. The character and frequency of the above variants of the onset and further clinical course of cerebrovascular insufficiency will favour early diagnosis and efficient treatment of the disease."}
{"id": "1436415", "title": "Penetrating stab wounds to the brain: the timing of angiography in patients presenting with the weapon already removed.", "content": "Penetrating stab wounds to the brain: the timing of angiography in patients presenting with the weapon already removed. Angiography is always necessary in patients with penetrating stab wounds to the head, to exclude unexpected vascular lesions. The most important, since they are seldom clinically evident, are traumatic aneurysms and arteriovenous fistulae. It has previously been proposed that carotid angiography should be delayed until the start of the second week, to allow for better visualization of these complications. However, traumatic aneurysms can rupture at any time after the injury, and the mortality resulting from a second hemorrhage is unacceptably high. A prospective study was undertaken in which 330 patients with penetrating stab wounds to the head underwent angiography as soon as possible after admission. In 250 of these patients (76%), the weapon had already been removed by the assailant, and there was radiological evidence of penetration of the dura. Of these 250, 130 patients underwent angiography within 7 days of the injury. Another 51 patients, who presented late, underwent angiography more than 7 days after the injury. The timing of angiography did not affect the identification of traumatic aneurysms, the incidence of which was 12% in both groups. Of the patients with cranial stabs and who required urgent evacuation of intracerebral hematomas, 10% had traumatic aneurysms that could be dealt with simultaneously. No patient in this series suffered a secondary hemorrhage. We conclude that it is neither necessary nor safe to delay angiography. In some patients, either because of vasospasm or \"cut-off\" of a vessel, a second angiogram may be necessary to further elucidate a vascular abnormality that might not have been evident originally."}
{"id": "1434077", "title": "[Discrepancy between 123I-IMP SPECT and X-ray CT in chronic cerebrovascular disease].", "content": "[Discrepancy between 123I-IMP SPECT and X-ray CT in chronic cerebrovascular disease]. The discrepancy between the low accumulation area (LAA) seen on 123I-IMP SPECT and the low density area (LDA) on X-ray CT was evaluated in 76 cases with chronic cerebrovascular disease. In 19 patients, LAA was larger than LDA beyond the vascular territory. Brain angiogram showed either obstruction or stenosis of the major arteries in as many as 59 percentages of this discrepancy group. In many patients of this group, cortical neurological symptoms were observed. In 37 patients in which the size of LAA was equal to that of LDA, abnormality of the major arteries was observed in only 7 percentages. These results indicated that the discrepancy mainly reflected the infarction due to irreversible ischemic change of perforate artery with the cortical low perfusion caused by the major artery disease. In some patients, the discrepancy was believed to show the remote effect caused by neurological pathway disturbance."}
{"id": "1419338", "title": "[Hyponatremia and cerebral vasospasm in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage].", "content": "[Hyponatremia and cerebral vasospasm in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage]. We studied retrospectively the relationship between hyponatremia and cerebral vasospasm in 121 consecutive patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. In 19 patients sodium levels fell below 130 mEq/l on at least two consecutive days. Hyponatremia developed at average 8.9 hospital day and lasted for 4.4 days. It was mild (126 to 130 mEq/l) in 15 patients, moderate (121 to 125 mEq/l) in 3 patients, and severe (116 to 120 mEq/l) in 1 patient. Cerebral vasospasm was evaluated by angiography, symptoms and CT finding. Angiographical vasospasm was found in 57 patients, symptomatic vasospasm in 38 patients and low density area on CT in 20 patients. Angiographical vasospasm developed in 15 of the 19 patients (78.9%) with hyponatremia, symptomatic vasospasm in 16 patients (84.2%), low density area on CT in 8 patients (42.1%), the difference being significantly high. (respectively, p < 0.01, p < 0.001 and p < 0.01 by chi-square test) Polyuria of 2500 ml or more immediately before the onset of hyponatremia developed in 14 patients (87.5%). When symptomatic vasospasm and hyponatremia coincided, there were only 4 patients in which symptomatic vasospasm was preceded by hyponatremia. So, it is difficult to predict the development of vasospasm from that of hyponatremia. This study found incidence of cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage to be significantly higher in patients who developed hyponatremia, which raised suspicion about the presence of dehydration. Hyponatremia with central origin generally remains asymptomatic, but it is important to treat positively when the pathology of cerebral vasospasm is taken into consideration."}
{"id": "1419090", "title": "[Beh\u00e7et's syndrome with neurological involvement: value of magnetic resonance].", "content": "[Beh\u00e7et's syndrome with neurological involvement: value of magnetic resonance]. Beh\u00e7et's syndrome is a rare inflammatory, multisystemic disease of unknown etiology and chronic relapsing course, manifested chiefly by ocular and mucocutaneous lesions. Among its neurologic complications, a cerebral vasculitis can occasionally been observed, upon which there is little information at present. A 31-year-old man presented with fever, weight loss, oral and genital ulcers, blurred vision and memory loss during the last two months. The cerebrospinal fluid contained 170 lymphocytes/microliters. Computed Tomography and cerebral angiography were normal. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed small hyperintense lesions in the corticomedullary and periventricular regions. The patient's condition improved with corticosteroids. We stress upon the importance of MRI to detect small-vessel vasculitis in Beh\u00e7et's disease."}
{"id": "1407338", "title": "[Clinical application of phase contrast angiography].", "content": "[Clinical application of phase contrast angiography]. \"Phase Contrast Angiography\" is a new technique of Magnetic Resonance Angiography as reported by Dumoulin CL et al. Using this technique, we can obtain images of vessels (angiograms) without injection of contrast medium. We present the results of phase contrast angiography on cerebral and spinal vascular disease. We utilized the General Electric SIGNA, 1.5 tesla NMR. One hundred and ninety-one cases of cerebral and spinal vascular diseases were scanned using phase contrast angiography. Included were 90 cases of occlusive vascular disease, 16 cases of moyamoya disease, 39 cases of arteriovenous malformation, and 28 aneurysms. The phase contrast angiography uses flow encoding gradient pulses, which impart a velocity-dependent phase shift to the transverse magnetization of moving spins. The resulting image contains only information from the moving spins; while information from stationary tissue remains suppressed. In cases using 3-D angiogram, we made 32 images 6 degrees apart in their projection direction and displayed them on a video terminal. We were able to visualize occlusions of vessels, aneurysms, bypassed vessels, and abnormal vessels of arteriovenous malformations. Retrospective evaluation comparing phase contrast angiography with conventional angiography of the stenotic findings on the horizontal portion of middle cerebral arteries (64 vessels of 32 patients), resulted in a false positive ratio of 39.1%. We obtained clinically valuable results regarding the hydrodynamics of patients using \"phase contrast angiography\" non-invasively. These results reveal not only \"anatomical\" images of vessels, but also \"functional\" images, which are sensitive to the pattern of the blood flow. This study would strongly suggest that phase contrast angiography presents a valuable tool for the clinical diagnosis of cerebral and spinal vascular diseases."}
{"id": "1392244", "title": "Automated local maximum-intensity projection with three-dimensional vessel tracking.", "content": "Automated local maximum-intensity projection with three-dimensional vessel tracking. Despite the simplicity and widespread acceptance of the maximum-intensity-projection (MIP) technique for displaying three-dimensional (3D) magnetic resonance angiographic data, several disadvantages are associated with MIP as it is applied to all of the 3D data. These include elevated noise level, reduced contrast between small vessels and background tissue, and the inability to distinguish arteries from veins. The authors have developed a 3D vessel tracking method combined with a local MIP around a given vessel to complement conventional MIP and alleviate these problems. The method is referred to as a traveling MIP (TMIP). TMIP was evaluated in both patients and healthy volunteers. The results indicate that TMIP provides better contrast between vessels and background tissue, better lumen definition, and better vascular visualization than either MIP or vessel tracking alone."}
{"id": "1362250", "title": "Application of magnetic resonance angiography to neurosurgical practice: a critical review of 150 cases.", "content": "Application of magnetic resonance angiography to neurosurgical practice: a critical review of 150 cases. The potential role of magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) in clinical neurosurgical practice was evaluated in 150 consecutive patients in an attempt to define clinical situations in which it aided in diagnosis, helped guide treatment options, and/or possibly eliminated the need for conventional catheter angiography. Among patients with nonvascular pathology (n = 42), MRA provided useful clinical information in 55% of cases, and could have effectively replaced catheter angiography in 76% of cases. In this group of patients, MRA provided excellent depiction of tumour and vessel relationships, and in conjunction with conventional imaging modalities reliably ruled out the question of tumour versus aneurysm whenever that question was raised. Among patients with vascular lesions (n = 108), MRA visualized the lesion in 18 of 20 (90%) aneurysms, 11 of 11 (100%) vascular malformations, 31 or 31 (100%) cases with known occlusive vascular disease, and reliably excluded occlusive vascular disease in 19 of 30 (63%) cases. The MRA potentially could have replaced conventional catheter angiography in less than 8% of cases with vascular pathology treated surgically, and in 76% of cases with vascular pathology treated medically or expectantly. Imaging time was relatively short, 10 to 20 minutes for intracranial vessels and 6.5 to 13 minutes for extracranial vessels. Shortcomings included the lack of spacial resolution required for surgical planning and the possible misleading information in the settings of low flow and partial thrombosis. It is concluded that currently available MRA modalities contribute useful information in a wide spectrum of neurosurgical clinical situations including screening and serial follow-up.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1355892", "title": "Correlation of MRI and CT data with outcome of cerebral revascularization after stroke.", "content": "Correlation of MRI and CT data with outcome of cerebral revascularization after stroke. Sixteen patients with the occlusion of the internal carotid artery (ICA) underwent extra-intracranial bypass surgery. All patients had stroke in evolution or completed stroke with mild or moderate (n = 9) or severe (n = 7) neurological deficits. In each case, the clinical course, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT) and angiographic (AG) findings were evaluated. Patients were followed up from 9 months to 2.5 years postoperatively. MRI was much more sensitive than CT for appreciating the ischaemic tissue. The infarct volume determined by MRI had greater extent than previously detected by CT. If the difference of the infarct volume, detected by MRI and CT was more than 30% the patients appeared to have benefited from bypass surgery as demonstrated clinically as well as with postoperative MRI and AG studies. Patients with lesser difference showed insignificant or no postoperative improvement."}
{"id": "1355864", "title": "Cerebral magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Cerebral magnetic resonance angiography. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) is an accurate non-invasive tool for imaging the cerebral vessels. It provides morphologic information about the cerebral vessels relying on blood flow as the physical basis for generating contrast between stationary tissues and moving spins. 'Selective' MRA gives functional information about the cerebrovascular system such as flow direction, origin of flow, and presence or absence of collaterals. Arteries and veins can be imaged selectively due to their usually opposite flow directions. Although at a relatively early stage of development, MRA has already become a widely used tool for the study of the cerebrovascular system."}
{"id": "1346828", "title": "Investigation of patients with stroke and transient ischaemic attacks.", "content": "Investigation of patients with stroke and transient ischaemic attacks."}
{"id": "1339749", "title": "[Experiences in diagnosis and treatment of chronic subdural hematoma].", "content": "[Experiences in diagnosis and treatment of chronic subdural hematoma]. Diagnosis and treatment of 95 patients with chronic subdural hematoma (CSDH) are presented. There were 92 males, 56 patients (59%) over 51 years old and 66 of them with history of head injury. The majority of our patients appeared increased intracranial pressure. Mental confusion and incontinence of urine and stool usually occurred in senile patients. Ultrasonic and electroencephalography examination were helpful in location of the hematoma. Cerebral angiography could make actual diagnosis. CT scan were more useful in diagnoses of CSDH and may discover multiple hematomas. If CSDH image were iso-dense on CT scan cerebral angiography should be performed. In the early years extirpation of CSDH including the capsule was performed. Now an irrigation drainages by cranial bur hole was performed usually. 5 patients had complication. The mechanism and prevention of CSDH are discussed."}
{"id": "1331963", "title": "[Cerebrovascular accidents and sickle cell disease].", "content": "[Cerebrovascular accidents and sickle cell disease]. A 7 year-old girl, with homozygous sickle cell disease experienced two cerebrovascular strokes over an 8-month period. The diagnostic investigations were performed with highly sensitive imaging methods (MRI, angiography). Such a complication raises problems in curative and prophylactic treatment. New diagnostic methods are being evaluated."}
{"id": "1320503", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the so-called cerebral cryptic angiomas.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the so-called cerebral cryptic angiomas. Cerebral cryptic angiomas are vascular malformations with variable histological appearance, but with similar radiological features. Angiography does not usually visualize the lesion. Computer tomography often detects the malformation, but frequently fails to make classify correctly. With magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) the cryptic angioma is studied best on T2 weighted images. The pattern of signal intensities differs both among and within the lesions. Evidence of small hemorrhages of different ages and flow phenomena are seen in all malformations. A total of 51 angiomas were demonstrated in 38 patients by MRI (excluding one patient with a very large number of angiomas). Enhanced or plain CT scans depicted respectively 16 and 6 lesions. In one case angiography was the only way to detect an angioma. Currently, MRI is the most sensitive method for the detection of cerebral cryptic angiomas."}
{"id": "1297551", "title": "[Clinical significance of carotid and ocular bruits in cerebrovascular disease].", "content": "[Clinical significance of carotid and ocular bruits in cerebrovascular disease]. We investigated the clinical significance of carotid and ocular bruits in 250 consecutive patients with cerebrovascular disease (CVD). The incidence of bruits was compared with that in 100 age- and sex-matched neurological controls without CVD. In the cerebrovascular disease group, carotid bruits alone were found in 12 patients, both carotid and ocular bruits in 7, and ocular bruits alone in 2. Carotid bruits were found only in 3 controls. We then evaluated cerebrovascular disease in the 25 patients (16 men and 9 women) who had bruits. The patients ranged from 55 to 81 years in age (mean: 70.6 years). The patients with carotid bruits alone constituted the largest group, and those with ocular bruits alone were the smallest group. Carotid bruits were heard and abnormal blood flow was observed in 19/28 arteries of the 21 patients who underwent echo-flow studies. Carotid artery stenosis/occlusion was detected in 24/31 arteries (77%) in 23 patients who underwent digital subtraction angiography (DSA). Thus, the sensitivity was 0.77 and specificity of a carotid bruit 0.91, respectively. In 9/10 patients with unilateral ocular bruits, ipsilateral or contralateral carotid artery stenosis/occlusion was detected. Diminished cerebral blood flow was observed in 10/15 patients with bruits who underwent SPECT. Of these 8 had reduced cerebral blood flow ipsilaterally to the bruit. Blood flow was reduced in the carotid artery territory in all of the patients, and watershed reductions were commonest. Among the 25 patients, some showed neurological semiology of the vertebrobasilar territory in addition to that of the carotid territory.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1296734", "title": "[A case of aneurysm of the peripheral middle cerebral artery presenting putaminal hemorrhage--pitfall in diagnosis].", "content": "[A case of aneurysm of the peripheral middle cerebral artery presenting putaminal hemorrhage--pitfall in diagnosis]. A case mimicking hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage which was first treated by CT-guided stereotactic aspiration and eventually diagnosed as a sequence of the ruptured aneurysm of the left peripheral middle cerebral artery on postoperative angiography is presented. This 41 old, right-handed, hypertensive female suffered sudden onset of headache and right hemiparesis. Next day hematoma was evacuated by the CT-guided stereotactic aspiration because of progressive deterioration of the consciousness and patient recovered well. Fourteen days after the evacuation when she presented mild right hand weakness and motor aphasia, angiography revealed a saccular aneurysm with broad neck derived from left posterior parietal artery. A neck clipping necessitated an additional anastomosis between superficial temporal artery and distal middle cerebral artery because of parent artery stenosis. Postoperatively she is doing well with slight motor aphasia. Among the typical hypertensive putaminal hemorrhage diagnosed on CT scan, it is stressed that there may be a possibility of ruptured aneurysm situated on the peripheral middle cerebral artery."}
{"id": "1293982", "title": "[Magnetic resonance angiography in occlusive/stenotic pathology of the intra and extracranial cerebral vessels].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance angiography in occlusive/stenotic pathology of the intra and extracranial cerebral vessels]."}
{"id": "1289741", "title": "Investigation of stroke in sickle cell disease by 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy.", "content": "Investigation of stroke in sickle cell disease by 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Localized proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), obtained with stimulated echo and spin echo sequences, MR imaging (MRI) and MR angiography (MRA) were used to study the brain in 13 children and adolescents with sickle cell disease. Regions of interest (ROI) studied by MRS included regions appearing normal on MRI as well as regions showing complications of sickle cell disease, including focal deep white matter areas of high signal intensity (deep white matter ischemia, DWMI) seen on long TR images, focal atrophic brain areas, and infarcts. The findings in these studies are summarized as follows: Normal-appearing regions on MRI have normal MRS. In ROI including small areas of DWMI, lactate elevation was not detected, but the levels of N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA) appeared slightly elevated. In areas of DWMI 1-2 cm in size, reduced blood flow could be seen on MRA and lactate elevation could be detected with MRS. When blood flow to a DWMI region was normal, NAA was reduced and there was little lactate elevation, as cell death had already occurred. ROI consisting of atrophic tissue had reduced NAA levels but total creatine levels were not changed. Sometimes lipids, presumably from broken cell membrane, could be detected. In regions of past massive stroke, all metabolites were absent except for small amounts of lactate or lipids."}
{"id": "1288972", "title": "Insular cistern hematoma. A special type of subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Insular cistern hematoma. A special type of subarachnoid hemorrhage. The clinical manifestations of 20 cases of insular cistern hematoma were characterized by sudden onset violent headache, vomiting, bloody CSF, and subhyaloid hemorrhage (1/3 cases). CT scan showed semilunar high density image centering on the insular cistern with serrate internal edge. The average volume of the hematoma was 20 ml. By means of cerebral angiography, operation and/or autopsy, 7 cases were identified as aneurysm of middle cerebral artery, 6 as aneurysm of posterior communicating artery, and 2 as amyloid angiopathy. In the other 5 cases, the etiology was unknown."}
{"id": "1285924", "title": "MR imaging of the internal carotid artery in ischemic cerebrovascular disorders--clinical and angiographic correlation.", "content": "MR imaging of the internal carotid artery in ischemic cerebrovascular disorders--clinical and angiographic correlation. This study was intended to correlate the appearance of the cavernous segment of the carotid artery on MR images with the presence of significant stenosis or occlusion of the cervical carotid artery as seen on angiograms in 37 patients with cerebrovascular disorders who had brain MRI and arteriography. Three patients demonstrated an isointense signal within the carotid artery's cavernous segment, correlating with complete carotid occlusion as seen angiographically. Ten patients had variable signal intensity and/or luminal narrowing in the carotid siphon; seven of these findings correlated with angiographic evidence of carotid occlusion, while carotid branch occlusion was seen angiographically in the other three. The demonstration of normal signal void within a normal-appearing cavernous segment of the internal carotid artery in the remaining 24 patients correlated with an absence of significant stenosis within the cervical segment in 21 patients. In the remaining three, significant disease of the internal carotid artery was found. Isointensity or luminal irregularity within the intracranial carotid artery can indicate complete occlusion or slow flow. The presence of normal flow void in the intracranial segment does not exclude significant abnormality of the cervical segment of the carotid artery."}
{"id": "1282683", "title": "Intracranial mycotic aneurysm caused by Aspergillus--case report.", "content": "Intracranial mycotic aneurysm caused by Aspergillus--case report. A 75-year-old female with chronic renal failure diagnosed as Wegener's granulomatosis was receiving steroids and immunosuppressive agents when subarachnoid hemorrhage developed. Cerebral angiography showed a fusiform aneurysm arising from an angular branch of the left middle cerebral artery. Hemorrhage occurred and the aneurysm was excised by emergency surgery. Microscopic examination of the aneurysm revealed dense infiltration of hyphae identified as Aspergillus. She died of subsequent hemorrhage. Autopsy showed numerous Aspergillus hyphae in the lung. Fungal mycotic aneurysm should be considered in the differential diagnosis of an immunocompromised patient with subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "10146205", "title": "Cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Cerebrovascular disease. The recent literature addresses the early detection of cerebrovascular disease using imaging techniques, metabolic assessment using spectroscopy, developments in quantitative analysis of brain blood flow, and new interventional techniques for aneurysm obliteration and carotid angioplasty."}
{"id": "2062773", "title": "Investigation of acute stroke: what is the most effective strategy?", "content": "Investigation of acute stroke: what is the most effective strategy? Techniques of investigation of acute stroke syndromes have progressed rapidly in recent years, outpacing developments in effective stroke treatment. The clinician is thus faced with a variety of tests, each with different cost implications and each altering management to a greater or lesser extent. This review will concentrate on the basic tests which should be performed for all strokes (full blood count, ESR, biochemical screen, blood glucose, cholesterol, syphilis serology, chest X-ray and electrocardiogram). Additional tests may be required in selected cases: CT scan to diagnose 'non-stroke' lesions, to exclude cerebral haemorrhage if anti-haemostatic therapy is planned, and to detect strokes which may require emergency intervention (such as cerebellar stroke with hydrocephalus); echocardiography to detect cardiac sources of emboli; and in a few cases lumbar puncture and specialized haematological tests. Other tests, which are currently research tools, may be suitable for widespread use in the future including NMR, SPECT and PET scanning."}
{"id": "2054196", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography of the intracranial vasculature.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography of the intracranial vasculature. Preliminary experience has shown that MRA can provide useful clinical information that complements the more traditional SE brain evaluation of patients with cerebrovascular disease. MRA is particularly appealing in that it provides a relatively rapid, noninvasive alternative to the existing vascular imaging modalities and the capability to evaluate the brain parenchyma directly. This can often be done without repositioning the patient or significantly prolonging the examination time. MRA sequences have been applied in the evaluation of patients with intracranial aneurysms, vascular malformations, vasoocclusive disease, neoplasms, and dural sinus thrombosis. The MRA study design and acquisition parameters are crucial and need to be optimized to maximize sensitivity and specificity of the examination based on the individual clinical presentation. The results of the SE and MRA studies should be evaluated together to obtain a definitive diagnosis or to determine whether conventional angiography is needed. As with any other diagnostic procedure, it is important to recognize the strengths and limitations of these techniques. Despite its advantages, MRA will not replace conventional catheter angiography in the near future. Rather, it will complement existing indications for conventional MR studies. Spatial resolution and intravascular signal loss due to rapid, complex flow continue to be the most limiting factors in intracranial MRA imaging. Significant improvements in these areas are currently being realized."}
{"id": "2031790", "title": "Radiologic manifestations of focal cerebral hyperemia in acute stroke.", "content": "Radiologic manifestations of focal cerebral hyperemia in acute stroke. In 16 acute stroke patients with focal cerebral hyperemia angiography and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) were studied 1 to 4 days post stroke. CT was performed twice with and without contrast enhancement 3 +/- 1 days and 16 +/- 4 days post stroke. Angiographic evidence of focal cerebral hyperemia was seen in 8 patients in the form of early filling veins. In 5 of these the hyperemic areas were located within infarcted areas and in 3 patients in areas which appeared normal on CT. In the remaining 8 patients the hyperemias were located perifocally around ischemic infarcts. Early filling veins were not seen in this type of hyperemia. The blood flow was higher and the transit time of the contrast medium was faster in the former type of hyperemia probably because of arteriovenous shunting. Contrast enhancement was not observed on the early CT but was typically seen in the infarcts on the late CT at a time when the hyperemic state is known to have vanished. It is concluded that focal cerebral hyperemia is not responsible for contrast enhancement on CT."}
{"id": "2031477", "title": "Symptomatic cerebral vasospasm of unusually late onset after aneurysm rupture.", "content": "Symptomatic cerebral vasospasm of unusually late onset after aneurysm rupture. An unusually late occurrence of symptomatic cerebral vasospasm is reported. The case involves a 50-year-old male who was uneventfully operated on for a ruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysm, with no symptom of cerebral vasospasm, 17 days after sustaining the subarachnoid haemorrhage. Two days after surgery, a right hemiparesis developed and angiography disclosed severe cerebral vasospasm. This case history and the aetiological factors of symptomatic vasospasm are discussed."}
{"id": "2031074", "title": "Recent developments in the diagnosis and management of patients with transient ischaemic attacks and minor ischaemic strokes.", "content": "Recent developments in the diagnosis and management of patients with transient ischaemic attacks and minor ischaemic strokes. Appropriate management of the patient with transient focal neurological symptoms must start with accurate clinical diagnosis. Wider use of clear diagnostic criteria and symptom checklists, and better knowledge of the clinical features of the 'funny turns' which are not related to transient focal cerebral ischaemia could reduce the present variability in clinical diagnosis of transient ischaemic attacks. More accurate clinical diagnosis contributes to better selection of the most appropriate investigation strategy for each patient. A basic minimum standard of investigation is outlined and perhaps provides a suitable template for audit. Patients with transient ischaemic attacks which are definitely in the carotid distribution may be eligible for entry in trials of carotid endarterectomy. Prudent use of duplex ultrasound studies of the carotid arteries in patients with appropriate symptoms is an effective way to reduce the costs of investigations and their complications (i.e. the number of strokes associated with cerebral angiography). Digital venous subtraction angiography has, by comparison, many disadvantages as a screening tool. Advances in management include: recent statistical overviews which have emphasized the need to consider blood pressure and plasma cholesterol reduction in a large proportion of patients, and the value of long term anti-platelet therapy in reducing the risks of stroke, myocardial infarction and vascular death in both males and females. The value of anticoagulants in patients with atrial fibrillation and transient ischaemic attacks or minor stroke is being tested in current trials."}
{"id": "2025504", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography of cerebral vascular disease.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography of cerebral vascular disease. Magnetic resonance imaging has emerged as the primary modality in detection and characterization of cerebrovascular lesions. New applications of existing spin-echo and gradient-recalled echo techniques are described. Functional imaging techniques ranging from the characterization of macroscopic proton motion (diffusion-weighted MR imaging), rapid imaging of intravascular contrast transit times (perfusion MR imaging), fast-flow mapping (MR angiography), and in vivo metabolic assessment (MR spectroscopy) are discussed. CT scanning remains important as an initial screening examination, in identifying acute hemorrhage, and in demonstrating blood flow."}
{"id": "2024274", "title": "Angiographic vasospasm and release of platelet thromboxane after subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Angiographic vasospasm and release of platelet thromboxane after subarachnoid hemorrhage. We studied adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation and the associated release of thromboxane B2 in 49 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage in relation to angiographic vasospasm. Postoperative cerebral angiography was performed less than or equal to 3 (median 1) days after surgery for an aneurysm 5-14 days after subarachnoid hemorrhage. Correspondingly, one sample from each patient was taken within 24 hours either before or after angiography. The occurrence of severe as well as diffuse, moderate, or severe angiographic vasospasm was associated with the presence of delayed cerebral ischemia (p less than 0.05). Patients with diffuse angiographic vasospasm had significantly higher (p less than 0.05) values for thromboxane B2 release than the others, even after adjustment by the clinical grades on admission and before surgery, the timing of surgery, the time from subarachnoid hemorrhage to angiography and blood sampling, and nimodipine therapy. Severe and diffuse angiographic vasospasm were also associated with poor outcome at 1 year (p less than 0.05). Our results suggest that augmented release of platelet thromboxane may be involved in the pathogenesis of vasospasm in large cerebral arteries."}
{"id": "2017931", "title": "Conventional MR neuroangiography.", "content": "Conventional MR neuroangiography. MR angiography of the brain plays an important role in the diagnosis of vessel thrombosis and dissection, giant aneurysms, and occult vascular malformations. This essay highlights some of the features of the intra- and extracranial circulation that make conventional MR neuroangiography valuable in the demonstration of vascular anatomy and vascular disease."}
{"id": "2012489", "title": "[Neurologic manifestations of infectious endocarditis].", "content": "[Neurologic manifestations of infectious endocarditis]. Thirty out of 287 patients (10.4%) admitted to hospital for infective endocarditis between December 1970 and January 1990 had neurological complications. Twenty-three patients had native valve infectious endocarditis and 7 had prosthetic valve endocarditis. The clinical features were characterized by the frequency of aortic valve involvement (23 out of 30) and other complications, especially cardiac failure (16 cases) and peripheral vascular manifestations (7 cases). The commonest organism was the staphylococcus (53% of identified organisms) but the number of negative blood cultures was high (50% of cases). The neurological complication was often the presenting symptom of the endocarditis (19 cases) but it occurred after bacteriological cure in 4 cases. The complications observed were cerebral ischemia (16 cases), cerebral haemorrhage (11 cases), coma (2 cases), and one peripheral neuropathy causing a Claude Bernard Horner syndrome. These complications presented with hemiplegia in 17 cases, a meningeal syndrome in 8 cases, a convulsion in 1 case, a Von Wallenberg syndrome in 1 case, and a Claude Bernard Horner syndrome in 1 case. Twelve patients had a transient or permanent neurological coma. Cerebral CT scan showed ischemic lesions in 7 cases and haemorrhagic lesions in 10 cases. Carotid angiography demonstrated mycotic aneurysms in 6 patients. Twelve patients died: the cause of death was neurological coma (7 cases), low cardiac output (4 cases) and haemorrhagic shock (1 case). Four patients underwent neurosurgery: 3 for clipping a mycotic aneurysm and 1 for drainage of an intracerebral haematoma. Poor prognostic factors were: coma, cardiac failure, cardiac valve prosthesis and, above all, the extent and multiplicity of the neurological lesions. The authors propose the following measures to improve the prognosis: early surgery in cases of large and/or mobile vegetations especially when the infecting organism is a staphylococcus and when a systemic embolism has occurred; routine CT scanning and/or digitised cerebral angiography in all patients with infective endocarditis to detect surgically accessible mycotic aneurysms."}
{"id": "2007950", "title": "Significance of cerebrovascular disease in sickle cell anemia diagnosed by magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Significance of cerebrovascular disease in sickle cell anemia diagnosed by magnetic resonance angiography."}
{"id": "1999776", "title": "High risk of recurrent stroke after discontinuance of five to twelve years of transfusion therapy in patients with sickle cell disease.", "content": "High risk of recurrent stroke after discontinuance of five to twelve years of transfusion therapy in patients with sickle cell disease. Although long-term transfusion therapy is at least 90% effective in preventing recurrent strokes after an initial cerebrovascular accident in patients with sickle cell disease, it is unknown how long transfusion therapy should be continued. To address this question, we prospectively discontinued transfusions in 10 patients with sickle cell disease whose median duration of transfusion therapy after an initial stroke was 9 1/2 years (range 5 to 12 years). Before the transfusions were discontinued, patients were examined by cerebral angiography, magnetic resonance imaging of the head, neuropsychologic testing, electroencephalography, and a complete neurologic examination. Within 12 months after transfusion therapy was stopped, 5 of 10 patients had had an ischemic event. Three events caused relatively mild deficits in the same areas as those originally affected. Two were associated with massive intracranial hemorrhage, including one on the contralateral side of original involvement. An additional patient died suddenly of unknown causes. Of the four remaining patients, three declined to resume transfusion and are relatively well at greater than or equal to 18 months after therapy was stopped. The studies performed before transfusions were stopped were not predictive of recurrent stroke. The risk of recurrent cerebrovascular accident in this group was significantly greater than the estimated risk of 10% in patients who are receiving long-term transfusion therapy (p = 0.002). This adverse outcome suggests that patients with sickle cell disease who have had a stroke must receive long-term transfusion indefinitely or a suitable therapeutic alternative must be devised."}
{"id": "1999689", "title": "The community hospital-based stroke programs in North Carolina, Oregon and New York--V. Stroke diagnosis: factors influencing the diagnostic evaluation of patients following acute stroke.", "content": "The community hospital-based stroke programs in North Carolina, Oregon and New York--V. Stroke diagnosis: factors influencing the diagnostic evaluation of patients following acute stroke. Among the 4129 patients of the Community Hospital-based Stroke Program, 30% had an unspecified stroke diagnosis. Since specific diagnosis and, perhaps, eventual treatment, derives in part from diagnostic testing, we examined the effect of clinical condition, geographic and demographic factors on the incidence of certain diagnostic tests after acute stroke. In this multivariable analysis, race, sex, history of hypertension and history of diabetes did not influence the chance of having any test, but older age strongly reduced the chances of receiving extensive evaluation. When CT scanning was available, the utilization of a CT as well as other diagnostic studies including cerebral angiography, radionuclide brain scan, EEG and EKG was increased. The odds of receiving a CT scan increased if the patient was married, and decreased with a history of previous stroke. A history of previous TIA increased the chance of having a cerebral angiogram while a history of cardiac disease decreased the chance. There were striking regional geographic differences in the use of CT, radionuclide brain scanning and cerebral angiography which may, in part, reflect differences between the availability of these technologies in urban and rural hospitals. These results indicate that evaluation of stroke patients remains heterogenous."}
{"id": "1998890", "title": "The stroke syndrome of striatocapsular infarction.", "content": "The stroke syndrome of striatocapsular infarction. Striatocapsular infarction has recently been described as a distinct stroke entity and forms an important subgroup of subcortical infarctions. In a prospective study of 50 consecutive patients over a 10 yr period with this syndrome, clinical and neuropsychological features, pathogenesis and outcome were studied to provide information concerning management and prognosis. The most common clinical presentation was that of a stroke affecting mainly the upper limb with cortical signs such as dysphasia, neglect or dyspraxia. Evidence from EEG, angiographic and neuropsychological data supported a vascular/haemodynamic basis for the presence of the acute neuropsychological changes, while the chronic changes were more likely to be due to diaschisis. A study of risk factors and cerebral angiography enabled 4 pathophysiological subgroups to be identified: (1) cardiac emboli to the origin of the middle cerebral artery; (2) severe extra-cranial cranial carotid artery occlusive disease with presumed embolism to the same site and/or involvement of haemodynamic factors; (3) proximal middle cerebral artery abnormalities causing occlusion of multiple lateral striate arteries at their origins; (4) normal angiography where pathogenesis was uncertain. The risk factors of cardiac disease and smoking were significantly increased as compared with age and sex-matched controls with other forms of ischaemic stroke. Stroke or vascular death rate was 2.7% per yr during a mean follow-up period of 2.25 yrs. Predictors of an excellent recovery with return to normal lifestyle were younger age, only brachial or brachiofacial weakness with absence of cortical signs at presentation and minimal change on angiography. This stroke entity deserves particular recognition in the spectrum of subcortical infarctions because of its specific pathogenesis, distinct neuropsychological features and reasonable prognosis."}
{"id": "1997899", "title": "Emergent aneurysm surgery without cerebral angiography for the comatose patient.", "content": "Emergent aneurysm surgery without cerebral angiography for the comatose patient. Neurologically based clinical grading scales offer excellent prognostic information for the patient suffering diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). These grading scales are less applicable to patients with life-threatening intraparenchymal hematomas after aneurysmal rupture. During the last 3 years, four patients in a comatose state with brain stem compression syndromes documented by computed tomographic scans have undergone emergent operation in our neurosurgical service. Each patient was so critically ill that we believed it unwise to delay craniotomy for diagnostic angiography. The average delay from the onset of coma to skin incision was 3.02 hours (range, 1.67-6.5 hours), and the average delay from arrival in our unit until skin incision was 1.8 hours (range, 0.75-2.5 hours). The condition of two arousable patients deteriorated while they were in the emergency room, presumably from new bleeding. Each patient underwent craniotomy for hematoma evacuation, definitive aneurysm clipping, and lobectomy for decompression. Temporary clipping was employed in one patient, and intraoperative rupture occurred in two others. Three patients survived but retain significant disability. Emergent craniotomy with empiric exploration of appropriate subarachnoid cisterns after hematoma decompression may be life-saving in some cases. The delay imposed for diagnostic angiography may be avoided in attempts to save vital minutes of severe brain stem compression."}
{"id": "1987608", "title": "Cerebral venography with MR.", "content": "Cerebral venography with MR. The authors describe a two-dimensional time-of-flight magnetic resonance (MR) angiography technique to create projection venograms of the head. The technique was applied to 27 healthy volunteers and 39 patients. The superior sagittal and straight sinuses, the internal cerebral veins, and the Galen vein were visualized in all the volunteers. Other veins were seen in a high percentage of subjects. Systematic comparison of digital subtraction angiography (DSA) after intraarterial contrast medium injection and MR venography in patients showed good correlation between the two techniques. MR venography proved helpful in identifying thrombosis or patency of cerebral veins and sinuses and showed collateral venous drainage and venous drainage from arteriovenous malformations. There was good correlation between conventional contrast angiography and MR venography. In conclusion, MR venography is considered reliable for showing the cerebral venous system and provides information additional to that of conventional spin-echo imaging."}
{"id": "1954367", "title": "[Imaging of cerebral flow dynamics using MR angiography and selective pre-saturation: initial experiences].", "content": "[Imaging of cerebral flow dynamics using MR angiography and selective pre-saturation: initial experiences]. MR angiography with selective pre-saturation was applied in 5 normal volunteers, 22 patients with cerebrovascular disease, 3 patients with arteriovenous malformations (AVM) and one patient with thrombosis of the superior sagittal sinus. The results were compared with Doppler ultrasound and conventional angiography. MR angiography reliably demonstrated the direction of blood flow and the presence or absence of collateral flow in the circle of Willis. Collateral flow via leptomeningeal vessels and the ophthalmic artery could not be demonstrated. In the patient with superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, the absence of flow was well seen. MR angiography was able to demonstrate the major supplying arteries in the patients with AVMs. MR angiography is a valid noninvasive means to demonstrate direction of flow and blood supply of the major intracranial arteries."}
{"id": "1950905", "title": "Nonaneurysmal perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage: CT and MR patterns that differ from aneurysmal rupture.", "content": "Nonaneurysmal perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage: CT and MR patterns that differ from aneurysmal rupture. We describe a characteristic distribution of cisternal blood in 52 patients with nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage proved by a normal angiogram. On CT, the center of the bleeding was located immediately anterior to the brainstem in all patients, which was confirmed in four patients who were studied with MR imaging. Extension to the ambient cisterns or to the basal parts of the sylvian fissures was common, but the lateral sylvian or anterior interhemispheric fissures were never completely filled with blood. Rupture into the ventricular system did not occur. MR demonstrated downward extension of the blood anterior to the brainstem as far as the medulla, but failed to detect the source of hemorrhage. Our aim was to determine whether this so-called nonaneurysmal perimesencephalic hemorrhage could be distinguished from aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage on early CT scans. Two neuroradiologists were shown a consecutive series of 221 CT scans of patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage who subsequently underwent angiography. Only one patient with a basilar artery aneurysm on angiography was incorrectly labeled by both observers as having a nonaneurysmal perimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage. The high predictive value of the perimesencephalic pattern of hemorrhage for a normal angiogram (0.95 and 0.94, respectively, for the two observers) and the excellent interobserver agreement (kappa 0.87) demonstrate that nonaneurysmal perimesencephalic hemorrhage can be distinguished on CT in the majority of patients. Recognition of this pattern of hemorrhage is important as patients with this subset of subarachnoid hemorrhage have an excellent prognosis."}
{"id": "1950901", "title": "Stroke associated with coronary artery bypass surgery.", "content": "Stroke associated with coronary artery bypass surgery. Medical records and neuroimaging studies of 30 patients with major neurologic events after coronary artery surgery were reviewed. Two thousand and twenty-nine coronary artery bypass graft operations were performed in our institution between October 15, 1985, and December 27, 1989. Of these, there were 30 documented neurologic events suggesting acute ischemic injury during the intraoperative or the postoperative period. Clinical manifestations included hemiparesis, monoparesis, aphasia, bilateral cortical dysfunction, cortical and brainstem dysfunction, and left homonymous hemianopsia. There were five deaths directly attributable to neurologic injury. Twenty-two patients had a CT scan of the head, of which 15 showed evidence of acute infarction, two suggested watershed lesions from cerebral hypoperfusion, and the remainder showed findings consistent with multiple cerebral emboli or primary intracranial occlusion. Five carotid arteriograms and one digital subtraction arteriogram of the carotids were obtained. Angiographic findings revealed two common carotid artery occlusions, one callosal marginal artery occlusion, and two cases of bilateral high-grade internal carotid stenoses. Our findings support the contention that in patients who suffer cerebral infarction associated with coronary artery bypass grafting, the main mechanism of injury is cerebral embolization rather than cerebral hypoperfusion."}
{"id": "1945782", "title": "The role of MR angiography in neuroradiology.", "content": "The role of MR angiography in neuroradiology."}
{"id": "1944793", "title": "[Association of an epidermoid tumor with a cerebral aneurysm on the contralateral internal carotid artery].", "content": "[Association of an epidermoid tumor with a cerebral aneurysm on the contralateral internal carotid artery]. A 71-year-old female was evaluated for a sudden loss of consciousness. Initial computed tomography and cerebral angiography revealed a severe subarachnoid hemorrhage, a large cystic lesion in the left occipital region, and an aneurysm at the bifurcation of the internal carotid and the posterior communicating artery on the right side. As the subarachnoid hemorrhage was thought to be due to rupture of the aneurysm, we attempted to clip the aneurysmal neck at first, and 2 weeks later the cystic tumor was removed for the purpose of internal decompression. The extirpated specimen proved to be an epidermoid tumor. Association of a brain tumor and an cerebral aneurysm is very rare, especially a combination of an epidermoid tumor and a cerebral aneurysm, and until now only 2 cases have been reported to the best of our knowledge. Moreover, the epidermoid tumor of our case was located intracerebrally. The phenomenon that the internal carotid aneurysm was on the left side and the tumor on the right side may suggest that these 2 lesions originated quite coincidentally. It is controversial to decide which lesion and when to treat first in a case of association of a tumor and an aneurysm, and we discussed as to the surgical therapy reviewing literature."}
{"id": "1933499", "title": "Multiple intracerebral cavernous angiomas.", "content": "Multiple intracerebral cavernous angiomas. Eight patients (seven women and one man) with multiple intracerebral cavernous angiomas (cavernomas), also known as angiomatosis cerebri, were examined with high-field magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Although previous articles have referred to such cases, a series similar to the one reported here has apparently not been described in the radiology literature. The patients presented with seizures, progressive neurologic deficit or cerebral hemorrhage. In all eight cases the multiplicity of the lesions was an incidental finding in the magnetic resonance images. The MRI appearance of the cavernomas, although characteristic, is similar to that of other angiographically occult intracranial vascular malformations, in particular thrombosed arteriovenous malformations and mixed vascular malformations, as well as that of hemorrhagic metastases. Additional criteria, such as the absence of edema, the presence of calcifications and the temporal evolution of the cavernomas on serial scans, should allow cavernomas to be differentiated from hemorrhagic metastases. The exquisite sensitivity in detecting angiomatosis cerebri and the ability to show the evolution of internal hemorrhage in individual lesions make MRI the method of choice for diagnosing and following this condition."}
{"id": "1926245", "title": "Cardioembolic stroke revealed by increased hemostatic markers associated with intracardiac thrombus.", "content": "Cardioembolic stroke revealed by increased hemostatic markers associated with intracardiac thrombus. The presence of hemocoagulative disorders in acute ischemic stroke has been reported occasionally. However, the cause of the hemostatic derangement has not been fully elucidated. A 66-year-old woman with a history of hypertension and myocardial infarction developed pure motor hemiparesis. On admission, she was thought to have a lacunar infarction. However, computed tomography of the brain with contrast medium revealed a small infarct in the cortex of the frontal lobe. Conventional angiography showed no stenotic or occlusive lesions. Sensitive hemocoagulative tests revealed hypercoagulative and hyperfibrinolytic states. Ultrafast computed tomography of the heart with contrast enhancement demonstrated a large left ventricular mural thrombus. There were no further abnormal findings suggestive of other systemic diseases that affect blood coagulability. As a result, the patient was diagnosed as having suffered a cardioembolic stroke. An intracardiac thrombus could be one of the causes of the hemostatic disorders of acute cardioembolic stroke."}
{"id": "1922741", "title": "Spontaneous intracerebral hematomas from vascular causes. Predictive value of CT compared with angiography.", "content": "Spontaneous intracerebral hematomas from vascular causes. Predictive value of CT compared with angiography. The aim of the present study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy of CT in determining the underlying causes of brain hematomas with a state-of-the art CT. For this purpose, CT and angiographic data of 149 subjects with spontaneous intracerebral hematomas (ICH) were statistically compared in a blind, retrospective study, taking angiography, supported when possible by surgical findings, as providing the correct diagnoses. 5 groups were distinguished on the basis of CT data: 103 patients with isolated deep ICH had normal angiograms; 9 patients with isolated superficial ICH and 8 with deep ICH and intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) had arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). 4 with this combination showed no angiographic abnormalities, one had an aneurysm. 14 subjects with ICH and subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) had a middle cerebral or carotid artery aneurysm; and 10 with ICH, SAH and IVH had also an aneurysm, in 7 on the anterior communicating artery. Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values were respectively: for AVMs 100, 96, 77 and 100%; and for aneurysms 96, 100, 100 and 99%. Kendall coefficient was 0.95, indicating close correlation between the two modalities. This study confirms that CT can accurately predict the likelihood, nature and location of vascular ICHs. It indicates whether angiography is necessary or not, and if so, what vascular tree ought to be explored."}
{"id": "1896123", "title": "[Traumatic carotid-cavernous fistula presenting subarachnoid hemorrhage 5 years after head injury; case report].", "content": "[Traumatic carotid-cavernous fistula presenting subarachnoid hemorrhage 5 years after head injury; case report]. A case of traumatic carotid-cavernous fistula (CCF) which presented subarachnoid hemorrhage long after the injury is reported. A 24-year-old male was admitted to the National Yokohama Hospital with complaints of severe headache and nausea. CT scan and cerebral angiography showed subarachnoid hemorrhage due to ruptured CCF. His right visual acuity has disappeared after a traffic accident 5 years before, and he had hit his forehead again 3 years previously. He experienced severe headache twice for 2 weeks after his admission. He was transferred to Kanagawa Rehabilitation Center to be treated with intravascular surgery. Plain CT showed high density areas in the basal cisterns. CT after contrast infusion disclosed a small enlarged high density area in the right cavernous sinus, and showed an enhanced mass lesion in contact with the right ventrolateral side of the midpons. The right internal carotid angiogram showed high flow CCF, fed only by the internal carotid artery. It drained mainly into the basilar plexus, partially into the basal vein of Rosenthal and the inferior petrosal sinus. The CCF was found at the C4 portion of the right internal carotid artery. CT and the angiogram revealed a part of the CCF developing into a varix in the ventral side of the prepontine cistern. It ruptured and the patient developed subarachnoid hemorrhage 5 years after the head injury. The CCF was intravascularly embolized by a detachable balloon. Early treatment for CCF is necessary to prevent the occurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage if a part of the CCF develops into a varix."}
{"id": "1887732", "title": "[Diagnosis of cerebrovascular disorders using nuclear magnetic resonance tomography].", "content": "[Diagnosis of cerebrovascular disorders using nuclear magnetic resonance tomography]. Regarding cerebrovascular diseases magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides informations which could not be obtained before by any other imaging method. MRI permits an early detection of ischemic infarctions, exact delineation of lesions near to skull base, and microangiopathy. Further diagnosis of arteriovenous malformations and venous thromboses can be done without using contrast media. Exclusion of acute hemorrhage or subarachnoidal hemorrhage is still a domain of computed tomography (CT). Other MR methods, like magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) are expected to replace angiography and positron emission tomography (PET) in the near future, at least for some purposes."}
{"id": "1886258", "title": "[Cine MR angiography--application to cerebrovascular disease].", "content": "[Cine MR angiography--application to cerebrovascular disease]."}
{"id": "1886256", "title": "[Three-dimensional MR angiography; its application for intracranial vascular lesions].", "content": "[Three-dimensional MR angiography; its application for intracranial vascular lesions]."}
{"id": "1881535", "title": "Extended use of cranial CT in the evaluation of patients with stroke and transient ischaemic attacks.", "content": "Extended use of cranial CT in the evaluation of patients with stroke and transient ischaemic attacks. The hypothesis was explored that patterns of ischaemic brain damage shown by CT may be of greater value in estimating the relevance of angiographic stenosis in the carotico-vertebral arteries in some patients than presenting clinical features. Five angiographic and six CT abnormalities were defined and charted independently in a blinded manner in 312 patients whom clinical features and subsequent management were known. Charts were combined for statistical analysis. Statistically significant associations were found between two types of CT lesion and angiographic abnormalities, but these were present in only 18% of cases. The distribution of clinical features did not differ significantly within this subset compared to the whole population, from which it was concluded that the hypothesis was upheld. Furthermore significantly more patients in this subset were subjected to carotid endarterectomy, suggesting that management decisions may have been modulated by CT findings in some patients."}
{"id": "1878867", "title": "Cerebral cavernous malformations (cavernomas) in the pediatric age-group.", "content": "Cerebral cavernous malformations (cavernomas) in the pediatric age-group. Cavernomas are vascular malformations composed of a compact mass of sinusoidal-type vessels that are immediately contiguous with one another and have no intervening parenchyma. Cavernous malformations were previously held to be a rare pathology occurring predominantly in adults. New neuroradiological techniques such as computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrate, on the contrary, that these lesions are also more frequent during childhood than was previously thought. In our institution we observed 17 cases of cavernous malformations in patients aged between 18 months and 16 years, 16 of whom were diagnosed after 1982. In 4 of these cases there was a documented familial history; in 2 multiple malformations were present. The most common site was the subcortical frontal region, but in 1 case the malformation was located in the pineal region. The most frequent (in 12 cases) initial symptom was hemorrhage, with the characteristics of an intracerebral hematoma. In 4 cases the initial symptom consisted of epileptic fits and 2 of these patients subsequently suffered hemorrhage. In one case the symptoms observed were those of an expansile process. All our patients underwent cerebral angiography and only in 1 case did this show a vascular abnormality. CT, performed in 16 patients, gave positive results in all cases. MRI, performed in 12 patients, gave highly significant images in all cases. Radical surgical removal of the malformation was performed in 15 of the 17 patients, and the results can be considered excellent in the majority of cases. Cavernous malformations are, therefore, more frequent lesions than had previously been thought, especially in pediatric patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1857782", "title": "[Comparison of magnetic resonance angiography and digital angiography of the epiaortic vessels].", "content": "[Comparison of magnetic resonance angiography and digital angiography of the epiaortic vessels]. Atheromasic lesions and other pathologic conditions of the arterial vessels of the neck are the most frequent causes of cerebrovascular disease. Diagnostic imaging currently employs digital subtraction angiography (DSA), Doppler, and color-Doppler US to study these conditions. Digital subtraction intraarterial angiography (DSAA) can provide both an early diagnosis and an accurate preoperative depiction of neck vessels; however, in spite of its effective value, it still remains an invasive technique. Magnetic Resonance angiography (angio-MR) is the latest technique allowing the depiction of neck vessels morphology. It shares with digital angiography the capability of supplying spatial depiction of all the examined vascular structures, and with US its noninvasiveness. The authors investigated angio-MR capabilities in providing accurate and detailed images of neck arteries; the images were then compared with DSA ones. Thirty patients with cerebrovascular diseases were studied. MR imaging was performed with a 1.5 T unit with a dedicated coil, and gradient-echo sequences were employed. Refocused sequences for flow were acquired on both the coronal and the sagittal planes, with the following parameters: TR 40, TE 10, flip angle 25 degrees, acquisition volumes 80-35 mm, 64-15 frames. Digital angiography demonstrated 101 vascular lesions: 27 slight stenoses (less than 30%), 19 mild stenoses (31-70%), 12 severe stenoses (71-99%), 7 occlusions, 14 coilings, 7 kinkings, and 15 hypoplasias of vertebral artery. In slight stenoses, angio-MR underestimated the condition in 11/27 patients. In mild and severe stenoses, as well as in occlusive diseases, angio-MR tended to overestimate the condition. In coiling, kinking, and hypoplasia, angio-MR yielded the same results as DSA."}
{"id": "1850162", "title": "[MR tomography and MR angiography in cerebral arteriovenous malformations].", "content": "[MR tomography and MR angiography in cerebral arteriovenous malformations]. Av malformations are cerebral abnormalities with a high risk of bleeding. The role of MRI and MR angiography (MRA) for demonstrating these congenital vascular malformations has been studied. It has been shown that MRI/MRA can provide a rapid and certain diagnosis. MRA can demonstrate arteries to the second set of branches beyond the main cerebral vessels. It has the advantage of being able to produce rapidly and noninvasively 3-D images and, unlike conventional angiography, it can be repeated at will. The disadvantage is the limited special resolution and the difficulty in distinguishing between arteries and veins."}
{"id": "1842783", "title": "[Chronic subdural hematoma of the adult in Senegal. (Apropos of 118 cases)].", "content": "[Chronic subdural hematoma of the adult in Senegal. (Apropos of 118 cases)]. Epidemiological and clinical analysis of a population of 118 cases o adult subdural hematoma in S\u00e9n\u00e9gal led the authors to make some statements. The age histogram has shown a peak after 50 years old; this fact supports the belonging of subdural hematoma to brain aging pathology. Male were more involved than female (101/17). The head trauma is found in 55%, alcoholism in 3.4%, anticoagulating treatment in 1.69%; others etiological factors were discussed. The authors stressed out the swinging of the clinical picture of subdural hematoma which might lead to misdiagnosis; CT scan or cerebral angiography are useful to make the diagnosis. The pathology of subdural hematoma has given rise to a controversial issue. Surgical decompression allowed to get a complete recovery in 64%. The post operated death-rate was 18.75%."}
{"id": "1815538", "title": "Sneddon syndrome presenting with hemicranic attacks: a case report.", "content": "Sneddon syndrome presenting with hemicranic attacks: a case report. The case of a young woman suffering from a rare cerebrovascular disease associated with livedo reticularis (Sneddon syndrome) is reported. Hemicranic attacks were the first symptom detected. The patient had a progressive clinical course of neurologic symptoms. Cerebral CT scan, NMR and cerebral arteriography revealed a progressive cerebral multifarctual feature involving middle-size arteries."}
{"id": "1791131", "title": "Comparative evaluation of SPECT, CT and CW Doppler data in patients with ischemic lesions of the brain.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of SPECT, CT and CW Doppler data in patients with ischemic lesions of the brain. We report the SPECT, CT and CW Doppler findings in a series of 117 patients with cerebral ischemic lesions and correlate them with the clinical findings. SPECT-PAO proved to be more sensitive in localizing focal lesions than CT, which in 50% of the cases was normal or yielded an image of cerebral atrophy. In the latter cases CW Doppler ultrasound on the supraaortic trunks showed changes, circumscribed or diffuse. On the CW Doppler and SPECT evidence we consider that the CT image of cerebral atrophy may denote an alteration of the cerebral blood flow and metabolism and should be assessed in this light in the diagnosis and prognosis of cerebral ischemic lesions."}
{"id": "1786128", "title": "Surgical treatment of pontomedullary cavernomas.", "content": "Surgical treatment of pontomedullary cavernomas. Direct treatment of brainstem cavernous haemangiomas (cavernomas) naturally represents a considerable surgical challenge due to the close proximity of vital structures. The results of such treatment have only rarely been described. We report our experience in the management of seven patients with cavernomas of the brainstem treated by microsurgical resection. All patients presented with neurological symptoms directly attributable to one or more episodes of brainstem haemorrhage. CT scan examination in all cases revealed either obvious haematoma or a focal region of high density within the pons or medulla; calcification in and around the lesion was detected in two patients. MRI scanning was performed in four of our cases and was strongly suggestive of the diagnosis of cavernoma with evidence of both recent and older haemorrhage as evidenced by haemosiderin deposits. Cerebral angiography failed to disclose abnormal vessels to the cavernoma in any instance, although interestingly a co-existent but separate cerebellar venous malformation was observed in two of our cases. Surgery was performed between 19 days and 3 months following the most recent haemorrhage. Microsurgical removal of both haematoma and underlying cavernoma was accomplished either via a median suboccipital or retromastoid craniectomy, with an appropriate incision being made into that part of the brainstem most directly overlaying the lesion. Significant improvement in neurological function has followed in all seven cases. Although the natural history of symptomatic cavernous haemangiomas is incompletely understood, the favourable results obtained in our patients suggest that total surgical removal is both practicable and relatively safe even in the case of those lesions situated within the brainstem."}
{"id": "1785979", "title": "Radiological investigations in stroke and transient ischaemic attacks.", "content": "Radiological investigations in stroke and transient ischaemic attacks. This article covers the radiological investigations of CT scanning, Doppler ultrasound, digital subtraction angiography and magnetic resonance imaging in relationship to diagnosis and management of stroke and transient ischaemic attacks. The author discusses what each technique can and cannot do."}
{"id": "1785389", "title": "[Urological management for stroke patients; relation between brain lesions and establishment of micturitional modality].", "content": "[Urological management for stroke patients; relation between brain lesions and establishment of micturitional modality]. A total of 154 stroke patients, 96 males and 58 females, were analyzed to establish the micturitional modality according to the type of detrusor function and the level of activities of daily living (ADL). All patients had only one episode of stroke attack and were checked at least one month after the onset. Localization of cerebral lesion in each patient was evaluated by neurological findings and cerebral angiography in addition to computed tomography of the brain. In the patient groups classified according to the type of detrusor function, micturitional modality was established in 50% of the patients with the underactive type, 70% of those with the overactive type and in 88% of those with normal function. This suggests that the overactive and normal type of detrusor function may not affect establishment of micturitional modality. On the other hand, when classified according to the level of ADL, none established micturitional modality in patients with poor ADL. By contrast, in the patients on higher levels of ADL who were able to transfer themselves from or to a wheel-chair without any assistance it was established in 75%, and in those who were able to gait with or without a brace upon discharged from the hospital, in 91%. It is concluded that establishment of micturitional modality in stroke patients is closely related to the level of ADL or function of lower extremities, but not to localization of the brain lesion."}
{"id": "1782619", "title": "The association between polycystic kidney disease and cerebral aneurysms.", "content": "The association between polycystic kidney disease and cerebral aneurysms. Rupture of cerebral aneurysms is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with adult polycystic kidney disease (PKD). In the present paper, we review the literature regarding the association of cerebral aneurysms and PKD and emphasize, by means of a case report, the importance of familial clustering of aneurysms in patients with PKD. We conclude that the prevalence of intracranial aneurysms in patients with PKD approaches 40% and is likely significantly higher in patients with PKD and a positive family history for cerebral aneurysm. We recommend that screening cerebral angiography be strongly considered in all patients with PKD and a family history of cerebral aneurysm or subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "1776522", "title": "Three-dimensional time-of-flight MR-angiography and the surgical indication of brainstem cavernomas.", "content": "Three-dimensional time-of-flight MR-angiography and the surgical indication of brainstem cavernomas. This study was designed to assess the diagnostic value of 3D time-of-flight MR-angiography in cerebral cavernomas. In seven patients, nine out of ten cavernomas were removed by microsurgery. While MR-angiography demonstrated well branches of brain arteries adjacent to the lesions, no flow signal in the vascular malformations was observed. On the other hand, there was a high intensity signal induced by methaemoglobin in those three patients with brainstem cavernomas who had experienced a significant bleeding attack seven months prior to admission. It had a spotted appearance in MR-angiography with volumes of the largest spots around 1.8 cm3. It is suggested that this spot signal could be used as a path marker for the surgical approach in brainstem cavernomas."}
{"id": "1767045", "title": "[Cerebrovascular pathology. Comparison of magnetic resonance and magnetic resonance angiography].", "content": "[Cerebrovascular pathology. Comparison of magnetic resonance and magnetic resonance angiography]. After making the visualization of the intracranial circulation possible without contrast media, the radiologist is now evaluating the diagnostic role of the different techniques of MRA. Attempts are also being made to characterize the main patterns of intracranial vascular diseases. The authors examined, with 3D TOF MRA, 40 patients presenting with 50 vascular lesions on MRI scans. Twenty of 40 patients were also studied with angiography. Seventeen aneurysms were detected, together with 3 stenoses of the cerebral arteries, 13 arteriovenous malformations, 12 dolichobasilar arteries, 3 postoperative and 2 post-embolization controls. MRI was performed with a superconductive magnet (1.5 T), a dedicated coil and gradient-echo 3D TOF FT sequences. The refocused sequence for flux, FISP 3DFT, required the following parameters: TR = 0.04 s, TE = 10 ms, flip angle = 15 degrees, 256 x 256 matrix, 1 acquisition. The 64-80 mm volume along the axial plane was divided so that an actual 1-mm thickness was excited. In post-processing, the maximum-intensity projection was employed on the axial plane 0 degrees-90 degrees (15 degrees interval). In the various conditions, the results obtained with MRA were correlated and compared with MRI findings. MRA provided useful additional information in 27.4% of cases in the study of aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, vascular occlusion and dolichobasilar arteries, as well as in the follow-up of these lesions. MRA is currently suggested in the evaluation of cerebral circulation and is considered a complementary technique to MRI. MRA is also to be used preliminary to angiography."}
{"id": "1766543", "title": "[A case of what was regarded as isolated benign cerebral vasculitis].", "content": "[A case of what was regarded as isolated benign cerebral vasculitis]. A 55-year-old man came to us with dysarthria and right hemiparesis. The cerebral angiography showed segmental narrowing and irregularity of the left anterior cerebral artery. The patient responded well to corticosteroid therapy and there was later angiographic evidence of healing. After systemic angiitis and central nervous system infection were excluded, the diagnosis of isolated benign cerebral vasculitis was made. According to past reports, at least 13 patients have been described as having isolated benign cerebral vasculitis. The common features of isolated benign cerebral vasculitis are as follows: 1) benign evolution, 2) sensitiveness to corticosteroids, 3) absence or minimal change of CSF findings, 4) angiographic pattern of arteritis, 5) the most common symptom is headache. We suggest that early corticosteroid therapy is necessary in any case of cerebral vasculitis."}
{"id": "1766539", "title": "[Cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage, and inhibitory effect of nicardipine investigated by means of transcranial Doppler ultrasonography].", "content": "[Cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage, and inhibitory effect of nicardipine investigated by means of transcranial Doppler ultrasonography]. Cerebral vasospasm is a major complication associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). However, real-time evaluation of vasospasm is very difficult via angiography, CT scan, and cerebral blood flow. In this study, for the evaluation of the arterial narrowing, the flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery (MCAFV) was measured with transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (TCD) in 41 patients with ruptured cerebral aneurysms which were repaired surgically within 48 hours after SAH. MCAFV was measured daily until the 25th day after onset. All patients underwent CT scan, angiography, and neurological assessments upon admission. To clarify the morphological changes of the cerebral vessels due to SAH, angiography was performed again about 10 days after surgery. For evaluation of the efficacy of treatment for vasospasm, 21 out of 41 cases were administered a calcium antagonist (4mg of nicardipine) through the cisternal drain every 12 hours for an average of 10 days. The other 20 cases did not receive nicardipine and served as controls. 15 patients with clinical symptoms had a rapid increase in MCAFV from the 3rd to 6th day after onset, and a high velocity of more than 150cm/sec continued for 7.6 +/- 3.6 days on the average. In marked contrast, 26 patients without clinical symptoms showed only a small increase in MCAFV of less than 110cm/sec. There was a significant correlation between the arterial narrowing of MCA and MCAFV (gamma = 0.72, p less than 0.01) except for 5 cases (12%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1752182", "title": "[Pathological and clinical features of primary ventricular hemorrhage due to moyamoya disease].", "content": "[Pathological and clinical features of primary ventricular hemorrhage due to moyamoya disease]. The clinical and pathological features of 20 cases of moyamoya disease complicated with primary intraventricular hemorrhage (PIVH) and verified by CT scanning, cerebral angiography and autopsy were reported. It seemed to the author that moyamoya disease appeared to be prone to cause PIVH, this hemorrhage being likely due to ischemic malacia in the ventricular wall. The tortuous, abnormal network vessels ruptured and bled as a result of infarction and damage of the walls of the miliary aneurysms. PIVH might be divided into two types: the panventricular hemorrhage and partial ventricular hemorrhage, according to the amount of blood that filled into the ventricles. 6 cases of the panventricular type were fatal. The symptoms were in conformity with the traditional concept of the most critical, intraventricular hemorrhage. The external ventricular drainage in combination with lumber puncture drainage would be the better way of treatment for these patients. 14 cases of the partial ventricular hemorrhage type showed the clinical features of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The treatment was similar to SAH too, and the prognosis was much better. It would be worth noting that moyamoya disease should be a factor not to be neglected in causing PIVH."}
{"id": "1726264", "title": "[Superior sagittal sinus thrombosis complicated with multiple aneurysms presenting as subarachnoid hemorrhage. Case report].", "content": "[Superior sagittal sinus thrombosis complicated with multiple aneurysms presenting as subarachnoid hemorrhage. Case report]. A 48-year-old female suffered from severe headache, vomiting, and disturbance of consciousness. On admission, she was somnolent with mild paresis of the left leg. Precontrast computed tomography (CT) scans showed a high-density area in the left sylvian fissure and the posterior horn of the left lateral ventricle. Angiographically, a right middle cerebral artery aneurysm and a basilar artery aneurysm were recognized. Furthermore, on the venous phase of bilateral carotid angiograms, superior sagittal sinus (SSS) thrombosis was recognized. Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) was probably induced by rupture of a dilated vein associated with SSS thrombosis, because high-density area on CT scan and location of the aneurysms were different. The patient was initially treated conservatively. Two months later, craniotomy was performed which did not disclose any trace of hemorrhage around the aneurysms and aneurysms themselves. Postoperatively, acute brain swelling and generalized convulsion were induced. The patient became ambulatory 5 months after surgery. In SAH cases, the venous phase should be examined at least in one side of the carotid arteries. In such a SAH case induced by venous thrombosis complicated by aneurysms it is very difficult to decide the timing of surgery for aneurysms."}
{"id": "1725812", "title": "Dynamic computed tomography for the evaluation of cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Dynamic computed tomography for the evaluation of cerebrovascular disease. Dynamic computed tomography (DCT) was evaluated as a diagnostic indicator for chronic supratentorial ischemia in 50 cases with or without minor neurological deficits. Peak height (PH, the maximum value of the gamma fitted curve), peak time (PT, the time to PH from the start of DCT), transit time (TT, the time between the first and second inflection points of the gamma fitted curve), and their functional maps were analyzed. Cerebral angiography was then performed in all cases to identify stenotic or occlusive vascular lesions in major cerebral arteries. DCT clearly detected 12 of 13 occlusions of the internal carotid artery (ICA) or middle cerebral artery (MCA), although one ICA occlusion was masked by the contralateral MCA occlusion. However, DCT detected only severe ICA or MCA stenosis (more than 90%). Probably, stenotic lesions of less than 90% did not cause detectable hemodynamic compromise. DCT using PH, PT, and TT functional maps is a useful diagnostic method for hemodynamic changes in ischemic cerebrovascular disease, although bilateral lesions and less stenotic lesions (less than 90%) are difficult to detect."}
{"id": "1712924", "title": "Subarachnoid and intracerebral hemorrhage associated with necrotizing angiitis due to methamphetamine abuse--an autopsy case.", "content": "Subarachnoid and intracerebral hemorrhage associated with necrotizing angiitis due to methamphetamine abuse--an autopsy case. The authors report an autopsy case of methamphetamine-related intracranial hemorrhage and vasculitis. A 22-year-old female was comatose after an intravenous injection of an unknown dose of methamphetamine. Computed tomographic scans demonstrated massive subarachnoid hemorrhage and hematoma in the corpus callosum. Cerebral angiography revealed nonfilling of bilateral intracranial carotid arteries and extravasation of contrast medium from the right pericallosal artery which was visualized retrogradely via the vertebral artery. Postmortem studies found cerebral edema, subarachnoid, intraventricular, and intracerebral hemorrhage, and intracranial vasculitis, but no aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation. Necrosis of vessel walls with destruction of the smooth muscle layer, but no leukocytotic infiltration of the vessel walls were observed in all major cerebral arteries. The hemorrhage probably resulted from medial necrosis in the large intracerebral vessels, and a sudden drug-induced rise in blood pressure."}
{"id": "1681340", "title": "Outcome in patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage and negative angiography according to pattern of haemorrhage on computed tomography.", "content": "Outcome in patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage and negative angiography according to pattern of haemorrhage on computed tomography. 15% of patients with spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage have normal cerebral angiograms; they fare better than patients with demonstrated aneurysms, though rebleeding and cerebral ischaemia can still occur. In patients with a normal angiogram and accumulation of blood in the cisterns around the midbrain--\"perimesencephalic nonaneurysmal haemorrhage\"--outcome is excellent. To test the hypothesis that rebleeding and disability in angiogram-negative subarachnoid haemorrhage might be limited to those with other patterns of haemorrhage on initial computed tomography (CT), complications and long-term outcome were studied in 113 patients with angiogram-negative subarachnoid haemorrhage, admitted between January, 1983, and July, 1990. All patients were investigated with third-generation CT scans within 72 h of the event, and with cerebral angiography. The mean follow-up period was 45 (range 6-96) months. None of 77 patients with a perimesencephalic pattern of haemorrhage on CT died or was left disabled as a result of the haemorrhage (0% [95% confidence interval 0-5%]). Among the other 36 patients, who had a blood distribution on CT indistinguishable from that in proven aneurysmal bleeds, 4 had rebleeds and 9 died or were left disabled as result of the haemorrhage (25% [14-43%]). Thus, two distinct subsets of patients with angiogram-negative subarachnoid haemorrhage should be recognised. Patients with a perimesencephalic pattern of haemorrhage have an excellent prognosis. Rebleeding, cerebral ischaemia, and residual disability occur exclusively in patients with aneurysmal patterns of haemorrhage on initial CT. Repeated angiography in search of an occult aneurysm is justified only in the patients with aneurysmal patterns."}
{"id": "10149355", "title": "Selective MRA determines origin and direction of flow.", "content": "Selective MRA determines origin and direction of flow."}
{"id": "10148432", "title": "Cerebrovascular disease--including intravascular therapy.", "content": "Cerebrovascular disease--including intravascular therapy."}
{"id": "2406686", "title": "[Significance of computer analysis of dynamic brain scintigraphy in patients with cerebrovascular disorders].", "content": "[Significance of computer analysis of dynamic brain scintigraphy in patients with cerebrovascular disorders]. Dynamic cerebral scintigraphy was performed on 41 patients with cerebrovascular disease. The diagnostic value of parametric images formed by a computer was correlated to angiographic findings and clinical sings, respectively. Having the appropriate software these examinations can be performed with traditional gamma-cameras. Analysis of parametric pictures increases the reliability of the method. Analysis of cinematic display of serial images had the highest sensitivity and accuracy, while time-of-maximum pictures had the highest specificity. In departments, where digitized subtraction angiography, single photon emission computed tomography or positron emission tomography is not available, the non invasive dynamic brain scintigraphy is a useful screening method, its application is proposed by the authors."}
{"id": "2399486", "title": "Cavernous angioma with encapsulated intracerebral hematoma: report of two cases.", "content": "Cavernous angioma with encapsulated intracerebral hematoma: report of two cases. Two cases of a cavernous angioma with an encapsulated intracerebral hematoma are presented. In both instances, computed tomography scan showed a ringlike appearance with a nodular lesion. Cerebral angiograms of the two cases, however, were normal. The preoperative diagnosis for both cases was a brain neoplasm. The diagnostic problems that this type of vascular malformation presents and its role in the development of the encapsulated hematoma are discussed."}
{"id": "2396261", "title": "Clinical and laboratory findings in patients with antiphospholipid antibodies and cerebral ischemia. The Antiphospholipid Antibodies in Stroke Study Group.", "content": "Clinical and laboratory findings in patients with antiphospholipid antibodies and cerebral ischemia. The Antiphospholipid Antibodies in Stroke Study Group. We reviewed the clinical and laboratory data of 128 patients with cerebrovascular disease and antiphospholipid antibodies. Cases were evenly divided between men and women, and the mean age of the study group was 46 years. Cerebral infarction occurred in 97 patients, and transient hemispheric ischemic attacks without stroke were recorded in 19; 12 suffered ocular ischemia. Systemic lupus erythematosus was diagnosed in 16% of all cases. Histories of systemic thromboembolic events and recurrent miscarriages were noted in 14% of the patients and in 19% of the women, respectively. Evidence of cerebral infarction preceding the index event was present in 30% of cases. During a mean follow-up of 16 months, nine of 96 (9%) patients sustained new cerebral infarctions. Of 72 echocardiographic studies, 16 (22%) showed valvular abnormalities. Cerebral angiography detected intracranial lesions in 24 of 49 patients (49%). These data indicate that antiphospholipid antibodies can be identified in stroke patients without known autoimmune disorders. They also suggest that antiphospholipid antibody-associated cerebrovascular ischemia may be recurrent and often occurs in patients with systemic thromboembolic events. Our findings should help design a prospective clinical trial that will assess the risk of recurrent thromboembolism in this population, identify stroke risk factors, and address therapy."}
{"id": "2390370", "title": "[Clinical analysis of etiology of spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage diagnosed by computed tomography].", "content": "[Clinical analysis of etiology of spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage diagnosed by computed tomography]. In 575 cases with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) diagnosed by computed tomography (CT) scan, four vessel cerebral angiography was performed several times at more than two-week intervals to investigate a source of the hemorrhage. The first four-vessel study on admission revealed 530 cases (92.2%) of ruptured cerebral aneurysms, four (0.7%) of ruptured arteriovenous malformation, 25 (4.3%) of unknown etiology. Repeated four vessel study showed eight (32.0%) aneurysms among 25 cases whose first studies were negative. Six of the eight cases had aneurysms in the vertebro-basilar system. In 11 cases, repeated four-vessel study failed to detect the hemorrhagic source; and no generalized diseases were noted. One of them had recurrence of SAH 19 months after the onset of the initial one. The patient was underwent operation, which showed thrombosed ruptured aneurysm. Our present investigation demonstrated that ruptured aneurysm was responsible for 94.8% of all 575 cases of SAH detected by CT scans and 10 cases (1.7%) were diagnosed as cases of SAH of unknown etiology."}
{"id": "2374649", "title": "[Adult moyamoya disease with a transcranial internal carotid-external carotid (EC-IC) anastomosis through burr holes].", "content": "[Adult moyamoya disease with a transcranial internal carotid-external carotid (EC-IC) anastomosis through burr holes]. A case of adult Moyamoya disease, with formation of a transcranial external carotid-internal carotid (EC-IC) anastomosis through burr holes which had been made previously. A 43-year-old male suffered sudden headache and vomiting. Neurological examination revealed mild consciousness disturbance and dysarthria. The computed tomography (CT) scans showed intraventricular hemorrhage, which was drained through burr holes bifrontally. The diagnosis of Moyamoya disease was subsequently made by cerebral angiography. A month later he was discharged with mild gait disturbance and mental retardation. Seven years later he suddenly complained of gait disturbance, dysarthria and sensory disturbance involving the right upper extremity. A CT scan revealed a small hemorrhage in the left putamen. Carotid angiograms disclosed transcranial EC-IC anastomosis through the burr holes which had been made previously. It is suggested that revascularization can be expected after opening burr holes and incising the dura matter for Moyamoya disease in adults as well as, possibly, in children."}
{"id": "2369532", "title": "[Hypertensive recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage accompanied with orthostatic hypotension and labile hypertension].", "content": "[Hypertensive recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage accompanied with orthostatic hypotension and labile hypertension]. Authors reported a case of recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage accompanied by severe orthostatic hypotension. A 51-year-old women had recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage 3 times during a period of 2 years. The first and third hemorrhages were located in the right putaminal region, and the second hemorrhage in the left thalamic region. Cerebral angiography revealed neither evidence of vascular malformation nor that of tumor vessels. At the third admission, she became unconscious for three hours after admission, and emergent fronto-temporal craniotomy was performed. Light microscopic histological investigation with congo-red stain demonstrated the absence of cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Laboratory examination revealed no hemorrhagic diathesis. During hospitalization, She complained of dizziness in the standing position. When systolic blood pressure fell from 140 mmHg in the supine position to less than 80 mmHg in the standing position, she became unconscious. Her blood pressure was very labile with orthostatic changes and her systolic blood pressure was also very labile without orthostatic changes, changing from 108 mmHg to 218 mmHg. Severe orthostatic hypotension and labile hypertension made the medical control of hypertension difficult. In conclusion, both severe orthostatic hypotension and labile hypertension were risk factors of recurrence of intracerebral hemorrhage."}
{"id": "2369528", "title": "[Circulatory disturbance of deep cerebral veins in eclampsia].", "content": "[Circulatory disturbance of deep cerebral veins in eclampsia]. A case of eclampsia with interesting angiographic findings is reported. A 19-year-old woman in the 35th week of gestation by date was admitted due to a sudden onset of generalized clonic convulsion and disturbance of consciousness. The diagnosis was eclampsia. On the second hospital day, extraction of a stillborn female was performed by laminaria. Thereafter, the consciousness improved rapidly and she became alert on the following day. She was discharged without neurological deficit on the 18th hospital day. A CT scan on the day of admission showed narrow lateral ventricles and symmetrical low-density lesions in and around the basal ganglia. These had almost disappeared by the 10th hospital day. Carotid angiography on admission revealed no abnormality in the arterial phase including the lenticulostriate arteries, but, early appearance of deep cerebral veins and some cortical veins was noted. These deep veins, however, were not distinct even in the venous phase. These angiographic findings suggested medullary dilatation caused by circulatory disturbance of the deep cerebral veins. Most authors have stressed the contribution of diffuse arterial vasospasm in the pathogenesis of eclampsia in relation to low-density lesions on CT scans. In the present case, we could not find vasospasm but found circulatory disturbance of the deep cerebral veins. These angiographic findings suggested that the appearance of the low-density lesions on the CT scan was most likely due to venous congestion caused by circulatory disturbance of the deep cerebral veins, since most of the deep medullary veins in the low-density lesions flowed into the deep cerebral veins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2367931", "title": "The variable presentations of craniocervical and cervical dural arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "The variable presentations of craniocervical and cervical dural arteriovenous malformations. The authors reviewed four patients with dural arteriovenous malformations in the upper spinal axis. Two were at the foramen magnum and two were lower cervical. The patients presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage, a slowly progressive cervical myelopathy, a rapidly progressive thoracic myelopathy, and tinnitus with a sixth nerve palsy. This report emphasizes the importance of studying both the intracranial dural vessels as well as the supply to the cervical spine in searching for a spinal arteriovenous malformation. Subarachnoid hemorrhage with negative cerebral angiography requires spinal angiography if there are any signs or symptoms suggesting cord or nerve root dysfunction. Embolization by an endovascular approach resulted in an angiographic cure in two patients. A combination of embolization and surgery resulted in obliteration of the arteriovenous malformation in one patient. Embolization achieved a clinical cure in one patient, and clinical improvement in two patients."}
{"id": "2366074", "title": "Surgical management of hematomas of the brain stem.", "content": "Surgical management of hematomas of the brain stem. Nine patients with brain-stem hematoma were admitted to the authors' institute during the period from 1985 to 1988. Clinical symptoms and signs pointed to pontine involvement in most cases. Progressive clinical deterioration was quite common and usually led to a clinical diagnosis of brain-stem intra-axial tumor. Angiography was noncontributory; computerized tomography (CT) was the main diagnostic test. This gave evidence of different pathological characteristics, including masses showing highly increased density, nonhomogeneous hyperdense lesions, and isodense lesions with peripheral contrast enhancement. No clear correlation was found, however, between the presumed duration of the clinical picture and the CT characteristics of the lesion. In the last four cases, magnetic resonance imaging was performed using a 0.015-tesla resistive system. This examination usually confirmed the presence of a brain-stem mass already shown by previous CT scans. There were, however, no cases in which direct evidence of an intra-axial vascular malformation could be obtained. The patients were all treated surgically with an attempt at total removal of the lesion and thorough inspection of the hematoma cavity and biopsy. Evidence of \"cryptic\" arteriovenous malformation was obtained in six of the nine cases. There were minor transitory complications in three cases. All of the patients were able to resume their previous activity, and none suffered recurrence of the symptoms following the operation. It may be concluded that surgery is the treatment of choice for brain-stem hematoma."}
{"id": "2360268", "title": "[Migraine with aura (classical migraine) in patients examined for cerebrovascular disease].", "content": "[Migraine with aura (classical migraine) in patients examined for cerebrovascular disease]. Four patients were investigated for cerebrovascular origin of focal neurologic deficits. Three of the patients had persistent deficits. However, during cerebral angiography and subsequent regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) investigation all patients developed attacks of migraine with aura. During the rCBF study focal reduction of the blood flow, typical for migraine with aura, developed in the posterior brain regions. It is concluded that vasospasm of migrainous origin might be the cause of the neurological deficits in the four patients."}
{"id": "2353094", "title": "Cerebral blood flow: assessment with dynamic contrast-enhanced T2*-weighted MR imaging at 1.5 T.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow: assessment with dynamic contrast-enhanced T2*-weighted MR imaging at 1.5 T. The authors assessed regional cerebral blood flow dynamics with magnetic resonance (MR) imaging enhanced with gadolinium diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA). After bolus administration of Gd-DTPA, rapid T2*-weighted gradient-echo images were acquired. Image acquisition time ranged from 2 to 3 seconds. The signal intensity (SI) of brain tissue and blood vessels markedly decreased during the first pass of contrast agent through the brain due to the local field inhomogeneity caused by the concentrated paramagnetic contrast agent. The method was used in 18 subjects with no cerebrovascular disease and 32 patients with stroke, vascular stenosis, arteriovenous malformation, and cerebral neoplasm. Comparison with intracranial angiography was performed in three patients and with single-photon emission computed tomography of blood flow in four. The change in T2* relaxation rate was approximately linearly related to the dose of contrast agent. The SI change increased as the echo time was lengthened. Regions in cerebral infarcts, metastases, and arteriovenous malformations showed different enhancement patterns than those of edema around a lesion and of normal brain tissue. Abnormal circulation times in patients with vascular stenoses were demonstrated. The method provides information about cerebral blood flow dynamics not available from conventional MR imaging and MR angiography."}
{"id": "2349537", "title": "Cerebellar venous angioma associated with angiographically occult brain stem vascular malformation. Report of two cases.", "content": "Cerebellar venous angioma associated with angiographically occult brain stem vascular malformation. Report of two cases. We studied two patients with angiographically documented cerebellar venous angioma (malformation) and angiographically occult vascular malformation of the brain stem. One patient had recurrent hemorrhage in the pontine tegmentum. The second patient had recurrent hemorrhage in the midbrain. None had hemorrhage originating from the abnormal cerebellar venous channels. The more benign nature of angiographic venous malformations is supported by the cases we are presenting, as well as from a review of the literature, which includes an autopsy study of similar cases. The management of multiple vascular brain lesions is contingent on the verification of symptomatic pathological blood vessels. It is emphasized that angiographically occult vascular malformation could possibly exist in the vicinity of angiographic venous malformation when the patient with intracerebral hemorrhage, especially in the posterior fossa, was diagnosed as having venous malformation."}
{"id": "2345510", "title": "Carotid-CNS MR flow imaging.", "content": "Carotid-CNS MR flow imaging. The authors present their 1-year experience with the use of 3DFT, time-of-flight MR angiography for the evaluation of vascular diseases of the head and neck. Their experience with over 150 patients indicates that this examination may be performed in conjunction with standard spin-echo imaging with only a minimal increase in patient examination time. This combined examination is most applicable to atherosclerotic disease of the carotid bifurcation, arterial occlusions of the primary and secondary branches of the intracranial circulation (particularly in pediatric patients such as those following ECMO or with sickle cell anemia), and patients with saccular berry aneurysms. This type of static, angiographic technique adds little to standard spin-echo imaging in patients with arteriovenous fistulae, neoplasms, and giant intracranial aneurysms. Limitations of the present technique include the inability to visualize slow flow lesions (e.g., giant aneurysms) and selected high flow states (arteriovenous fistulae, some severe stenoses)."}
{"id": "2336144", "title": "[Transbrachial artery approach for selective cerebral angiography].", "content": "[Transbrachial artery approach for selective cerebral angiography]. Transaxillary or transbrachial approaches to the cerebral vessels have been reported, but selective angiography of all four vessels has not been possible through one route. In this report, a new technique for selective cerebral angiography with transbrachial approach is described. One hundred and twenty three patients with cerebral infarction, vertebrobasilar insufficiency, intracerebral hemorrhage, epilepsy, or cerebral tumor were examined. Those patients consisted of 85 outpatients and 38 inpatients whose age ranged from 15 years old to 82 years old. The patients were examined via the transbrachial approach (97 cases via the right brachial, 29 cases via the left). Materials included a DSA system (Digital Fluorikon 5000, General Electric Co.), a 4 French tight J-curved Simmons 80-cm catheter, a 19-gauge extra-thin-wall Seldinger needle, and a J/Straight floppy 125-cm guidewire. Generally, the volume of the contrast agent (300 mgI/ml iopamidol) used in the common carotid artery angiogram was 6 ml, while that used in the vertebral artery angiogram was 4ml. If catheterization of the vertebral artery or right common carotid artery was unsuccessful, about 8ml of the contrast agent was injected into the subclavian or brachiocephalic artery. Definitive diagnosis and a decision on proper treatment of the patients can be easily obtained, and the results were clinically satisfactory. Moreover, no complications were encountered in this study. This new technique making a transbrachial approach to the cerebral vessels using the DSA system is introduced here. Neurosurgeons can use this technique easily, and they will find that it provides them with all the information they need about the patient."}
{"id": "2334307", "title": "Pediatric cerebrovascular disease. Alterations of regional cerebral blood flow detected by TC 99m-HMPAO SPECT.", "content": "Pediatric cerebrovascular disease. Alterations of regional cerebral blood flow detected by TC 99m-HMPAO SPECT. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) alterations, as determined by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using technetium Tc 99m hexamethyl propylenamine oxime (Tc 99m-HM-PAO), were studied in 15 infants and children presenting with cerebrovascular disorders between the ages of 2 weeks and 16 years. The rCBF patterns were correlated with clinical presentation, electroencephalographic patterns, radiologic studies, including computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the head, and cerebral angiography. All patients presented with motor weakness that was accompanied in some with dysphasia, defects in visual fields, obtundation, seizures, and high temperature. Perturbations of rCBF with Tc 99m-HMPAO SPECT brain scanning were detected in all patients investigated, with no adverse effects related to the radiotracer. All patients had a focal area of decreased rCBF, with adjacent hyperemia in 3 patients. In 7 patients, there was an rCBF decrease in a vascular distribution, mainly that of the middle cerebral artery, that correlated with the clinical findings and a focal electroencephalogram, as well as computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the head. Impairment of rCBF was more extensive in 3 children, while early abnormal SPECT findings preceded abnormal computed tomographic findings in another 2 children. In 2 patients, Tc 99m-HMPAO SPECT was the only positive radiologic test to correlate with focal clinical and electroencephalographic abnormalities, in view of repeated normal computed tomographic scans. We conclude that Tc 99m-HMPAO SPECT brain scanning is a sensitive, complementary diagnostic measure in the early detection, localization, and estimation of rCBF alterations in pediatric cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "2315772", "title": "Spontaneous midbrain hemorrhage.", "content": "Spontaneous midbrain hemorrhage. Spontaneous (nontraumatic) midbrain hemorrhage (SMH) is an uncommon condition whose diagnosis is greatly assisted by the use of cranial computerized tomography. Of 18 cases described in the English language literature, only two were diagnosed without the aid of CT. We report five cases of SMH in five normotensive patients. Vertical gaze palsies were noted in four patients, headache in four, pupillary dysfunction in four, mild hemiplegia in two, unilateral ataxia in two, and unilateral asterixis in one. The diagnosis of SMH had not been considered before CT scanning in any of these patients. All patients had partial to complete recovery. Cerebral angiography in each case showed no abnormalities in the area of the hemorrhage."}
{"id": "2311610", "title": "Synthesized image processing in clinical neurosurgery.", "content": "Synthesized image processing in clinical neurosurgery. In an effort to achieve efficient image management in clinical neurosurgery utilizing a local image filing system (EFPACS, Fuji Electric Co., Ltd), adequate image-processing and display techniques were developed. One is a method whereby the anatomical location of the thalamic and basal ganglion lesions is determined by automatically superimposing these lesions defined by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) directly onto the Schaltenbrand-Wahren's human brain atlas. Horizontal, coronal and sagittal MR images are initially obtained based on the intercommissural line and a perpendicular erected on the midcommissural point as the basic reference coordinates. Precise superimposition is accomplished by the use of these reference axes. This imaging technique may offer the potential for help in anatomical identification of small intracranial lesions. Another technique described in the current communication is automated synthesis of two cerebral angiograms. By simply indicating two reference points, nasion and inion, with a cursor on the display screen, two films are automatically superimposed and displayed as a single synthesized image, featuring two different vascular phases simultaneously by a positive(vein)-negative(artery) mode. This technique was applied to patients with complete occlusion of the middle cerebral artery with or without sufficient blood flow through collateral circulation and was found useful in evaluating basic hemodynamics on a single angiographic image."}
{"id": "2301799", "title": "An unusual case of proctalgia.", "content": "An unusual case of proctalgia. We report the case of a 21-year-old man with the sudden onset of severe proctalgia followed by headaches and fever. The patient had a lumbar puncture consistent with subarachnoid hemorrhage. After a normal four-vessel cerebral arteriogram, a myelogram and computed tomography scan of the spine were performed and revealed a mass lesion of the L1 level. Pathologic evaluation after resection of the mass resulted in a diagnosis of hemorrhage from a myxopapillary ependymoma. These relatively benign tumors of the cauda equina-filum terminale respond well to treatment. The differential diagnosis of proctalgia is reviewed, and the need for emergency physicians to consider spinal subarachnoid hemorrhage when a patient presents with the acute onset of rectal pain is emphasized."}
{"id": "2283200", "title": "Stroke rehabilitation: a method and evaluation.", "content": "Stroke rehabilitation: a method and evaluation. Subjects of this study were 53 patients who presented with cerebrovascular stroke and who took part in a rehabilitation programme that included the basic elements of Bobath's concept and Peto's Conductive Education. The protocol called for a three point assessment: on admission to the rehabilitation ward and at one month and one year after entry. Baseline and follow-up examinations included clinical and laboratory tests, CT scan, cerebral blood flow studies and angiography. Motor functions were evaluated by the Rivermead Motor Assessment and dependence (ADL) was measured by the Barthel index. Neuropsychological evaluations were also made using Benton's test, Bourdon's letter cancellation test and the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale. Significant improvement was found in functional conditions both one month and one year after entry. There was a strong correlation between the Rivermead Motor Assessment and the Barthel index. The Rivermead Motor Assessment proved to be the most sensitive indicator of improvement in relation to the size and site of the infarct."}
{"id": "2282894", "title": "Delayed intracranial haematomas.", "content": "Delayed intracranial haematomas. Seven patients with delayed traumatic epidural and subdural haematomas who were treated at the Neurosurgical Centre, Nijmegen between 1975 and 1985 were reviewed. There were 3 males and 4 females with ages ranging from 16 to 70 years. Clinical signs which necessitated re-investigation in these patients included deteriorating level of consciousness in 3 patients, progressive hemiparesis in 1; extensor motor response and pupillary dilatation in 1; bradycardia in 1; and vomiting, severe headache and fits in 1 patient. Analysis of the initial CT-scan or angiography films demonstrated cerebral contusion in 4 patients and skull fractures in 5 cases. Of the 5 skull fractures there was a minor depression in 2 cases."}
{"id": "2280814", "title": "[Distal aneurysm of posterior inferior cerebellar artery: report of two cases--pitfall in diagnosis].", "content": "[Distal aneurysm of posterior inferior cerebellar artery: report of two cases--pitfall in diagnosis]. Two cases treating aneurysms of the distal PICA were reported, and 36 cases with 39 aneurysms in the literatures in Japan were reviewed concerning the distribution of aneurysms and their findings on CT. Case 1; a 68-year-old female suffered from sudden onset of severe headache and nausea. On admission, it was found she was lethargic. However, her consciousness deteriorated down to semicoma with tetraparetic condition soon after. CT revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage in the basal, quadrigeminal and supravermian cisterns and blood clots in the entire ventricle. Cerebral angiography demonstrated an aneurysm located at the distal segment of the left PICA. She was initially treated conservatively because of being in Hunt and Kosnik Grade 5, and then, 3 weeks after onset, suboccipital craniectomy was performed and the aneurysm was clipped successfully. Case 2; a 60-year-old, female, suddenly experienced severe suboccipitalgia and vomiting. CT revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage in the entire subarachnoid space and intraventricular hemorrhages in the 4th, 3rd and lateral ventricles. Subsequently cerebral angiography was performed and left VAG demonstrated an aneurysm at the left A2-A3 junction. She underwent bifrontal craniotomy and the aneurysm was clipped via the interhemispheric approach. Her postoperative course was uneventful. Postoperative left CAG showed successful clipping of the aneurysm. However, left VAG suggested an aneurysm-like shadow in the right PICA. Right BAG carried out one week later demonstrated an aneurysm at the distal segment of the right PICA. This aneurysm was then clipped successfully under suboccipital craniectomy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2272785", "title": "Spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage in an HIV patient.", "content": "Spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage in an HIV patient. In an HIV-seropositive patient presenting generalized tonic-clonic seizures, magnetic resonance imaging and cerebrospinal fluid examination disclosed the signs of a previous subarachnoid bleed. No vascular malformation was observed with cerebral angiography. Laboratory tests revealed an autoimmune thrombocytopenia. A spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage induced by thrombocytopenia should be considered when investigating HIV patients presenting even non-specific neurological symptoms."}
{"id": "2264073", "title": "Diagnostic significance of flow separation within the carotid bifurcation demonstrated by digital subtraction angiography.", "content": "Diagnostic significance of flow separation within the carotid bifurcation demonstrated by digital subtraction angiography. The presence of an area of reversed blood flow due to flow separation in the interval carotid artery is a normal finding in Doppler ultrasound studies in vivo as well as in model carotid bifurcations. This flow separation phenomenon is caused by the geometry of the carotid bifurcation and the fluid dynamics of blood. We demonstrated the flow separation phenomenon on lateral-projection intra-arterial digital subtraction angiograms in 99 of 100 carotid bifurcations. The mean duration of flow separation was 5.8 seconds, with values up to 14 seconds in normal carotid bifurcations. The presence of this flow separation phenomenon is almost independent of atherosclerotic lesions and is not correlated with cerebral ischemia. Therefore, the angiographic finding of a flow separation has no diagnostic value. However, our results refer to a factor that may be important in the genesis of atherosclerosis at the carotid bifurcation, namely the duration of the stay of blood and its components within the area of flow separation."}
{"id": "2256445", "title": "Lone atrial fibrillation and stroke.", "content": "Lone atrial fibrillation and stroke. We studied 21 consecutive patients from the Lausanne Stroke Registry, who had first-ever ischemic stroke and lone atrial fibrillation, with a standard protocol of investigations including brain CT, and non-invasive cardiac and arterial tests. Rarity of associated risk factors and extracranial; arterial disease, presence of distal intracerebral occlusions on early angiography, and topography of cerebral infarct suggested that cardioembolism was the cause of stroke, though echocardiographic evidence for an atrial thrombus was uncommon. There was no recurrence during a post-stroke 14-day phase, during which anticoagulant and antiaggregant therapies were systematically avoided. Though low, the main risk of stroke recurrence was 0.99 per 100 patient-years during a mean follow-up period of 4.8 years, including a mean duration of anticoagulant therapy of 2.3 years in 18 patients. On the other hand, no death, severe cardiac events, or disabling anticoagulation-related hemorrhages occurred."}
{"id": "2234370", "title": "Intradural spinal cord tumor presenting as a subarachnoid hemorrhage: magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis.", "content": "Intradural spinal cord tumor presenting as a subarachnoid hemorrhage: magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis. Negative findings on four-vessel angiography after a subarachnoid hemorrhage are seen in 5 to 30% of patients. A previously silent lesion in the spinal canal may be responsible for the ictus in a small percentage of this group. The etiological factors include tumors and arteriovenous malformations; however, investigations of such lesions have been limited to patients with signs and symptoms of spinal cord or nerve root pathological processes. This report describes the management of a 56-year-old woman with clinical findings typical of an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on cerebral angiography, in whom magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement revealed an intradural extramedullary cervical schwannoma. For this reason, cervicothoracic magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement should be considered as an adjunctive scanning examination in all patients with a subarachnoid hemorrhage and negative findings on angiography."}
{"id": "2213377", "title": "Diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease in sickle cell anemia by magnetic resonance angiography.", "content": "Diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease in sickle cell anemia by magnetic resonance angiography. The study of blood flow by means of magnetic resonance techniques has led to a noninvasive magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) technique for imaging large cerebral vessels. Ten children with sickle cell hemoglobinopathy and a history of acute neurologic syndromes were studied with combined parenchymal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and MRA. Six had abnormal MRI findings and MRA-defined luminal lesions in the vascular distribution of these parenchymal infarctions. The three children with previous intraarterial angiography had MRA abnormalities that corresponded with vascular lesions on conventional angiograms. Four had normal MRI and MRA findings. We conclude that a combination of MRI and MRA provides a noninvasive screening test for large-vessel disease in this population."}
{"id": "2181079", "title": "Neurological deterioration in a patient with a spinal arteriovenous malformation following lumbar puncture. Case report.", "content": "Neurological deterioration in a patient with a spinal arteriovenous malformation following lumbar puncture. Case report. The mechanism of nonhemorrhagic neurological deterioration from spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM) and the role of acute surgical intervention in this setting are not well understood. The case is described of a 65-year-old man who presented with a 2-year history of mild gait spasticity and vague sensory complaints affecting both lower extremities. Following a diagnostic lumbar puncture, these symptoms progressed painlessly over a 4-day period to total motor paraplegia, urinary retention, and hypesthesia in all modalities with a midthoracic sensory level. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a probable spinal AVM but no evidence of hemorrhage or cord compression. Spinal angiography confirmed the diagnosis of spinal AVM fed by radicular branches of left T-7 and T-8 segmental intercostal arteries. Drainage was via long dorsal veins caudally. Emergency laminectomy with intradural exploration was performed. There was no evidence of prior hemorrhage or focal mass effect, although the cerebrospinal fluid pressure was elevated. The dural component of the spinal AVM was excised, and its communications with the spinal cord were disconnected intradurally. Neurological function started improving within 6 hours of the patient awakening from anesthesia. He had achieved antigravity strength in every muscle group of the lower extremities by the time of discharge to a rehabilitation center 10 days after surgery. Three months postoperatively, he was ambulating with a walker and was continent of urine and stool. Possible pathophysiological mechanisms are discussed in light of the favorable response to timely surgical intervention."}
{"id": "2164304", "title": "[Surgical treatment of multiple arterial aneurysms of the brain].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of multiple arterial aneurysms of the brain]. On the basis of analysis of 83 cases with multiple arterial aneurysms of the brain, the authors arrived at the following conclusions. The frequency of their recognition is 10.3% and is directly dependent on the completeness and thoroughness of the angiographic examination. Recurrent hemorrhages in multiple aneurysms occur mostly from one and the same aneurysm (85.3%) and in rare cases form different aneurysms (14.7%). With the use of a diagnostic complex (cerebral angiography, EEG, CT, careful study of the medical history and the clinical picture of the disease) the aneurysm which is the source of the intracranial bleeding can be identified in most cases (93%), which is important in planning the tactics of surgical treatment. Exclusion of all aneurysms, in one stage if possible, is the main principle of surgical management of multiple aneurysms. The aneurysm which caused the intracranial bleeding should be excluded first. The development of surgical approaches to the aneurysms and the use of microsurgery made it possible to achieve definite successes in surgery of multiple aneurysms. Postoperative lethality was 2.7%. Most of the patients (84.7%) are capable of working or are adapted to every-day life."}
{"id": "2078001", "title": "[Intracranial arteriovenous malformations in children and adolescents].", "content": "[Intracranial arteriovenous malformations in children and adolescents]. Six children, ranging in age from 5 years to 13 years, with a history of intracranial arteriovenous malformation were studied from 1980 to 1989. The more frequent clinical presentation was the intracranial bleeding. The brain angiography was performed on five patients who were all diagnosed with cavernous hemangioma the diagnosis was anatomopathologic. Three patients were treated with neurosurgery and two patients were treated with radiosurgery. Only one patient died after the operation and the other five had a satisfactory recovery."}
{"id": "2074166", "title": "Angiographic changes suggestive of vasospasm in migraine complicated by stroke.", "content": "Angiographic changes suggestive of vasospasm in migraine complicated by stroke. A 30-year-old woman with a history of common migraine developed a permanent left homonymous hemianopia during a typical headache. CT scan demonstrated a right posterior cerebral infarction and angiography showed irregular narrowing of the ipsilateral posterior cerebral artery, suggestive of vasospasm. In the case no risk factors for atherosclerotic stroke were present except for smoking, and no other causes of stroke could be found."}
{"id": "1701862", "title": "Saccular aneurysm of the distal anterior choroidal artery--case report.", "content": "Saccular aneurysm of the distal anterior choroidal artery--case report. The authors report a case of a distal anterior choroidal artery aneurysm in a 75-year-old female who presented with nausea, vomiting, and severe headache. Computed tomographic (CT) scans revealed a hematoma in the right lateral ventricle and a subarachnoid hemorrhage in the right parasellar-Sylvian cistern. Cerebral angiography showed a saccular aneurysm at the right distal anterior choroidal artery. The authors intended to operate at the chronic stage, and carried out conservative management. After 1 month her condition suddenly worsened and she died, although a CT scan showed no remarkable changes. At autopsy, a pulmonary artery thrombosis was considered the cause of death. The aneurysm was identified in the temporal horn of the right lateral ventricle, and was a true aneurysm."}
{"id": "1670036", "title": "[Radiologic diagnosis of consequences from head trauma].", "content": "[Radiologic diagnosis of consequences from head trauma]. In the light of the Lublin clinical center examinations and the literature data the author describes the roentgen-diagnostic methods used for recognition of the consequences of cranial injuries. The diagnostic effectiveness of different radiological techniques was compared. In cranial trauma without loss of consciousness no examination should be carried out. Skull films are of little use and may give a false safety, if no fracture is evident. Particular attention is paid to the importance of computed axial tomography in the diagnosis of various pathological conditions. It is revealed that a high agreement between the radiological results and the final clinical diagnosis in the patients with head injuries should be obtained only in the way based on a good cooperation between the radiologist and clinicians."}
{"id": "2918970", "title": "Evaluation of prognostic factors in cerebral arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "Evaluation of prognostic factors in cerebral arteriovenous malformations. In a retrospective study of 48 patients who underwent elective surgery for cerebral arteriovenous malformations, a statistical analysis of demographic, clinical, and neuroradiological data was undertaken in order to discover the best predictors of operative morbidity. In addition, the predictive value of different clinical grading systems as applied to this series was compared. All patients had a computed tomographic scan and a positive angiogram before surgery. Complete resection was proven angiographically. The univariate Mann-Whitney-Wilcoxon rank sum test, the Fisher exact test, Spearman's rank correlation coefficient analysis, and multivariate logistic regression were used as statistical methods. Duration of surgery, the development, of either new deficits or an increase in the preoperative neurological signs immediately after surgery, and rehabilitation (as measured by the Karnofsky index) were taken as target variables for the difficulty of operation and for postoperative morbidity, respectively. The largest diameter of the nidus of the arteriovenous malformation, eloquence of the adjacent brain, and deep venous drainage showed the most consistent correlation with these target variables. Intracerebral hematoma and other single factors, such as the age of the patient or localization of the arteriovenous malformation did not affect the outcome. The clinical grading scale of Spetzler and Martin provided better prediction of surgical risks than other proposed systems."}
{"id": "2910928", "title": "Sneddon syndrome: CT, arteriography, and MR imaging.", "content": "Sneddon syndrome: CT, arteriography, and MR imaging. We report a rare case of Sneddon syndrome, which consists of livedo reticularis and cerebrovascular lesions. The syndrome is characterized by occlusions of medium-sized arteries manifest particularly in the extremities and in the cerebrum. The spectrum of neuroradiological findings in this clinical entity are illustrated and discussed."}
{"id": "2910922", "title": "Subcortical cerebral hemorrhages associated with cocaine abuse: CT and MR findings.", "content": "Subcortical cerebral hemorrhages associated with cocaine abuse: CT and MR findings. Four young individuals with histories of heavy cocaine abuse occurring several hours to days before the development of acute symptoms of severe headaches, disorientation, and subsequent stupor were shown to harbor subcortical cerebral hemorrhages. Thorough workup of these patients revealed no underlying pathology (i.e., arteriovenous malformations) or other possible causes such as hemorrhage into a tumor. It is well known that heroin, ephedrine, and methamphetamine use may result in cerebral vasculitis, but only one case study in the literature has reported on cerebral vasculitis with ischemic stroke secondary to cocaine abuse. The possibility of heavy cocaine use should be considered, along with the previously mentioned drugs, when a young, previously healthy person presents with a deep cerebral hemorrhage."}
{"id": "2798869", "title": "Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in infants: angiographic and parenchymal evaluation of the brain with MR imaging.", "content": "Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation in infants: angiographic and parenchymal evaluation of the brain with MR imaging. The authors report their preliminary experience with intracranial three-dimensional Fourier transform magnetic resonance (MR) angiography and T2-weighted MR imaging of the brain parenchyma in 15 neonates less than 1 week old after extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) with permanent ligation of the right common carotid artery and internal jugular vein, four 1-year-old infants after ECMO with carotid ligation, and four neonates less than 1 week old after ECMO with reanastomosis of the same artery. MR angiography was technically satisfactory in 20 of the 23 patients and documented patency of the right internal carotid artery proximal to the ophthalmic artery in nine of 16 patients with permanent carotid ligation and in all four patients with reanastomosis. This study suggests MR angiography is feasible in newborns and infants and that, in combination with parenchymal MR imaging, it provides a sensitive, noninvasive method to assess vessel patency and follow cerebrovascular and parenchymal changes in infants after ECMO."}
{"id": "2798835", "title": "[Modern imaging procedures in the diagnosis of an acute apoplectic insult and their therapeutic consequences].", "content": "[Modern imaging procedures in the diagnosis of an acute apoplectic insult and their therapeutic consequences]. The acute occlusion of arteries as an acute condition demands immediate action. Previously the radiologist was only involved with the angiography elucidation but with the advent of hemolytic therapy a close cooperation of radiologist and intensive care physicians becomes necessary. Under intensive care conditions, the radiologist must be available around the clock, even at night and on holidays. First results of haemolytic therapy seem to justify these efforts."}
{"id": "2781953", "title": "[Transcranial Doppler sonography combined with other ultrasonic methods in the diagnosis of stroke].", "content": "[Transcranial Doppler sonography combined with other ultrasonic methods in the diagnosis of stroke]. The use of transcranial Doppler sonography (TDS) in combined ultrasound diagnosis was the first to allow a noninvasive assessment of cerebral circulation. Altogether 50 patients in acute stroke period were examined. The results obtained were verified at surgery, cerebral angiography or autopsy. Changes in the velocity of the blood flow, its reversal, different Doppler sonogram pattern appeared controversial for cerebral and subarachnoid haemorrhages caused by the occlusion of the internal carotid artery or other factors of encephalomalacia. TDS employment promotes the improvement in the diagnosis of the cause underlying the acute impairment of cerebral circulation and in the prognosis of cerebral coma. The findings are correlated with routine echo-pulsography and Doppler sonography."}
{"id": "2781908", "title": "[Clinico-anatomic correlations in traumatic ventricular hemorrhage].", "content": "[Clinico-anatomic correlations in traumatic ventricular hemorrhage]. A total of 265 patients with intracerebroventricular hemorrhages were investigated for correlation between clinical manifestations and craniographic, echoencephaloscopic and cerebral angiographic data and brain pathomorphology. Intracerebroventricular hemorrhages were found in cases of severe craniocerebral trauma complicated, as a rule, with skull bones fractures, polar-basal cantusional foci, and intracerebral (rarely meningeal) hematomas. Relationship was established between the severity of craniocerebral lesions and intesites of intracerebroventricular hemorrhages which varied in character depending on the volume of adjacent intracerebral hemorrhage and the area covered by contusional polar-basal foci."}
{"id": "2764817", "title": "Late-onset post-hemiplegic hemidystonia: CT and angiographic findings.", "content": "Late-onset post-hemiplegic hemidystonia: CT and angiographic findings. A 27-year-old woman is described who suffered an acute left hemiplegia at the age of three years and 20 years later she noted the onset of unilateral left limb dystonic movements. Her cranial CT scan showed an area of low density, consistent with longstanding infarction, in the right lentiform nucleus. Cerebral angiography demonstrated aneurysmal dilatation of the terminal portion of the right internal carotid artery, minor irregularity of the lenticulostriate branches of the right middle cerebral artery (suggestive of Moya Moya disease) and occlusion of the right anterior cerebral artery. The dystonic movements improved with levodopa therapy. Clinico-radiological correlation in this case supports recent evidence for a disruption of pathways between the caudate nucleus, lentiform nucleus and thalamus in the pathophysiology of hemidystonia."}
{"id": "2755231", "title": "[Multiple aneurysms and cerebral vasculitis in systemic lupus erythematosus].", "content": "[Multiple aneurysms and cerebral vasculitis in systemic lupus erythematosus]. A female in whom systemic lupus erythematosus had been diagnosed 5 years before suddenly developed headache and recurrent vomiting. Cranial computed tomography (CT) was consistent with subarachnoid hemorrhage, and cerebral arteriography disclosed cerebral aneurysms, multiple microaneurysms and cerebral vasculitis. After 7 days she developed left hemiparesis, and a cerebral infarct area was apparent in a new CT scan. Despite the poor prognosis of these lesions, the patient had a favorable outcome, without residual neurological deficit, after having been treated with intravenous corticosteroid boluses and oral cyclophosphamide."}
{"id": "2719868", "title": "[Essential thrombocythemia associated with subdural hematoma and postoperative intracerebral hemorrhage--a case report].", "content": "[Essential thrombocythemia associated with subdural hematoma and postoperative intracerebral hemorrhage--a case report]. A case of essential thrombocythemia (ET) associated with subdural hematoma and postoperative intracerebral hemorrhage was reported. A 57-year-old man had complained headache in the morning. Six hours later he was found unconsciousness and soon he was brought to our hospital. On admission he was comatose. There was no evidences of head injury and the X-rays were normal. A computed tomography (CT) scan revealed an acute subdural hematoma over the left temporoparietal region. Laboratory data revealed thrombocytosis of 85.7 x 10(4)/mm3 with increased red and white blood cell counts. Emergent right craniotomy was performed and a subdural clot was evacuated. Neither cortical damage nor vascular malformations were seen on the cortical surface. But a spurting cortical artery with a pin-hole could be seen. A postoperative CT scan revealed an intracerebral hemorrhage deep in the right hemisphere. Cerebral angiograms revealed no vascular anomalies. Postoperatively, the platelet count remained high and laboratory data including bone marrow finding, neutrophil alkali-phosphatase score and chromosome analysis were consistent with the diagnosis of essential thrombocythemia. The mechanisms of subdural hematoma formation and postoperative intracerebral hemorrhage associated with essential thrombocythemia were discussed."}
{"id": "2718867", "title": "Blood flow in the carotid arteries: quantification by using phase-sensitive MR imaging.", "content": "Blood flow in the carotid arteries: quantification by using phase-sensitive MR imaging. The feasibility of MR phase-sensitive imaging for the quantification of blood flow in the carotid arteries was studied in two normal volunteers and six patients with carotid artery and/or cerebrovascular disease. The technique consists of sensitizing the phase of the MR signal to blood flow velocity gated to different times in the cardiac cycle. Flow velocities and volumes were measured by using transverse planes in the common, internal, and external carotid arteries, and flow curves were generated. Measurements made by using flow phantoms correlated well with calculated results. The MR measurements yielded values between 250 and 580 ml/min for the total flow through each of the common carotid arteries in the two normal volunteers. Markedly reduced flow (about 50% below normal) was detected in a patient whose arteriogram showed severe occlusion of the internal carotid artery. In a second patient, who had a large frontal intracranial arteriovenous malformation noted by arteriography, the MR-quantified flow was abnormally high (about 1 liter/min). In the remaining four patients, the findings on phase-sensitive quantification were consistent with those expected from clinical and other laboratory studies (including arteriography and sonography). These preliminary findings suggest that MR phase mapping may be a feasible tool for the noninvasive quantification of carotid blood flow."}
{"id": "2718199", "title": "Hemorrhagic transformation in cerebral embolism.", "content": "Hemorrhagic transformation in cerebral embolism. We studied the mechanism of hemorrhagic infarction after acute cerebral embolism in 160 patients by brain computed tomography and angiography. Hemorrhagic infarction during the month after the embolic event was evident in 65 patients (40.6%). Initial angiography a median of 1.5 (range 1-60) days after the event revealed occlusion of the cerebral arteries in 117 of 142 patients (82.4%), and reopening of the vessels was observed in 56 (94.9%) of 59 patients who had follow-up angiography a median of 20 (range 3-47) days after the event. The incidence of hemorrhagic infarction was higher in patients greater than or equal to 70 years old (31 of 61, 50.8%) than in those aged 50-69 years (27 of 72, 37.5%) or less than 50 years (seven of 27, 25.9%) (greater than or equal to 70 vs. less than 50, p less than 0.05). In patients with moderate or large infarcts, hemorrhagic infarction developed in 50.0% or 51.5%, respectively, while in those with small infarcts it developed in only 2.9% (p less than 0.05). No correlation was found between hemorrhagic infarction and history of hypertension or blood pressure during the acute stage of stroke. Thrombolytic and/or anticoagulant therapy did not affect the incidence of hemorrhagic infarction (40.0% with vs. 40.7% without therapy) but tended to cause massive hematoma. Our results indicate that hemorrhagic transformation in cerebral embolism is caused not only by reopening of the occluded vessels but also by other factors such as age and size of the infarct. Hypertension per se seems to be less important for hemorrhagic infarction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2717754", "title": "Intracranial circulation: preliminary clinical results with three-dimensional (volume) MR angiography.", "content": "Intracranial circulation: preliminary clinical results with three-dimensional (volume) MR angiography. The authors assessed the clinical utility of a magnetic resonance angiography technique in the evaluation of intracranial circulation. Eighteen patients with a low likelihood of cerebrovascular disease (control group) and 40 patients with suspected cerebrovascular disease were imaged with a FISP (fast imaging with steady precession) sequence (repetition time of 50 msec, echo time of 15 msec, velocity compensation in the read and section-select directions with acceleration compensation in the read direction, 15 degrees anisotropic volume, and a 1.25-mm partition thickness). Ninety-four percent of images in the control group and 72% of images in the group with cerebrovascular disease were considered useful for diagnosis. This technique can provide accurate images of intracranial circulation and can be performed in conjunction with two-dimensional spin-echo or gradient-echo imaging. It was most useful in the evaluation of patent intracranial aneurysms, vessel displacement, and large-vessel occlusive disease. Disadvantages included limited field of view, persistent signal voids, limited spatial resolution, and inadequate depiction of lesions with slow flow."}
{"id": "2701912", "title": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage and intracerebral hematoma in injury of the middle meningeal artery (aneurysma spurium)].", "content": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage and intracerebral hematoma in injury of the middle meningeal artery (aneurysma spurium)]. Traumatic lesions of meningeal arteries represent the typical cause of the acute epidural hematoma. Under certain circumstances, however, they may be the origin of space-occupying hemorrhages with only an intradural extent, e.g. subdural or intracerebral hematomas. We present a case of a temporal lobe hematoma with an additional subarachnoid hemorrhage. This gave rise to the suspicion of a spontaneously ruptured cerebral aneurysm that might have caused the patient's accident. Preceding the evacuation of the hematoma, cerebral angiography ruled out the suspected vascular malformation, but revealed a pseudoaneurysm of the middle meningeal artery close to a skull fracture. Intraoperatively, this lesion proved to be the source of the bleeding which was exclusively directed towards the intradural space. Presented is a review of the relevant literature regarding atypical hematomas secondary to meningeal artery lesions and traumatic aneurysms of these vessels."}
{"id": "2697262", "title": "Aneurysms and vascular malformations.", "content": "Aneurysms and vascular malformations. Intracranial aneurysms and vascular malformations are frequently detected following intracranial hemorrhages. A CT scan is the most sensitive method of detecting acute subarachnoid, parenchymal, and intraventricular hemorrhages. Small aneurysms are inconsistently visualized on MR scans. Angiography remains the standard for complete and accurate depiction of patent aneurysms, as well as of arteriovenous and venous malformations that have not thrombosed. Giant and thrombosed aneurysms present as mass lesions and are frequently detected when MR is used as a screening examination. Often MRI characterizes these lesions better than CT or angiography. Patients with vascular malformations who have focal neurologic symptoms without hemorrhage are best evaluated with MRI. Patent vascular malformations demonstrating flow void and other flow-related phenomena are readily demonstrated. Occult vascular malformations, including thrombosed arteriovenous, venous, and cavernous malformations and telangiectasia, are also best detected by MRI and are not visible on angiography."}
{"id": "2696305", "title": "[The diagnosis of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage].", "content": "[The diagnosis of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage]. A report is given on the diagnosis of spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhages, which points art that because of possibly occurring surgical consequences every acute occurrence of cerebral symptoms should be cleared up as soon as possible. In this diagnosis the computer tomography is well to the fore, which enables not only the recognition of the haematoma itself and its extent, but in particular also positional relations to important cerebral structures. In a number of cases, however, a representation of the cerebral vessels is nevertheless necessary. As an exclusive diagnostic measure in case of an intracerebral haematoma the angiography does not reach the value of information of computer tomography."}
{"id": "2688197", "title": "Anterior cerebral artery velocity changes in disease of the middle cerebral artery stem.", "content": "Anterior cerebral artery velocity changes in disease of the middle cerebral artery stem. Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography can map the changes in blood velocity that result from stenosis or occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. To evaluate patterns of collateral blood flow in disease of the middle cerebral artery stem, we used both cerebral angiography and transcranial Doppler ultrasonography to study the systolic blood velocities in both anterior cerebral arteries in 10 consecutive patients with middle cerebral artery stenosis or occlusion. Five patients had no evidence of hemodynamically significant carotid disease and good-quality measurements of systolic velocity in each anterior cerebral artery. Two of the five patients had middle cerebral artery stem stenosis and the other three had occlusion. The ratios of mean blood velocity in the normal compared with the abnormal side for the five patients (mean 1.34 +/- 0.23, range 1.15-1.74) were significantly higher than ratios for 10 controls (mean 1.04 +/- 0.12, range 0.76 +/- 1.19) using an unpaired t test (t = 3.492, 0.0005 less than p less than 0.005). Our results suggest that transcranial Doppler ultrasound measurements of anterior cerebral artery blood velocity may be a useful index of collateral blood flow from the anterior cerebral artery territory into the middle cerebral artery territory. Changes in mean velocity ratio may document the evolution and adequacy of collateral blood flow over the cerebral convexity in middle cerebral artery stem disease. In addition, the changes in anterior cerebral artery blood velocity appear to be an important corroborative finding for middle cerebral artery stem occlusion."}
{"id": "2678596", "title": "The value of angiography in cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "The value of angiography in cerebrovascular disease. The expanding availability of digital subtraction angiography has essentially contributed in lowering the risks in the use of angiography of the cerebral arteries. The best results in imaging the cerebral artery are achieved by conventional subtraction angiography after selective catheterisation. This is, however, only important for diagnosis in intracerebral pathological changes distal of the Circulus Willisi or in connection with preoperative interventional radiological treatment. Pre-clinical diagnosis of patients with cerebrovascular occlusive disease as well as clinical diagnosis with Doppler and B-scan US sonography can be optimally complemented by DSA using 4-5 French catheters entered in the thoracic ascending aorta. Using this technique, the sensitivity and specificity with an image-matrix of 512 is diagnostically adequate and includes an only limited examination risk. Complication with lasting neurological defects will be least observed after intravenous pre-atrial application of contrast media and most after selective angiography of the carotid artery. Here the extent of the multiple arteriosclerotic obliteration is of essential importance. The quality of interpretation of the diagnostic findings essentially depends on indications not only about the grade of obliteration but also on the morphological details. At present DSA with application of contrast media into the thoracic ascending aorta in combination with the duplex-scan method represent the optimum for the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease. In spite of lower specificity intravenous application of contrast media has to be preferred for post-operative controls and controls of progressing disease with \"screening\"."}
{"id": "2678595", "title": "The value of diagnostic procedures in treating ischemic attacks and stroke.", "content": "The value of diagnostic procedures in treating ischemic attacks and stroke. Diagnostic procedures for cerebral ischemia make clear strategies mandatory. Careful recording of case history, internal and neurological investigation either substantiate or make unlikely TIA and stroke. CT scan not only differentiates bleedings, tumors etc from ischemia but also can give very valuable information about the underlying vascular pathology. Multiple lacunes are characteristic of cerebral microangiopathy. Territorial and branch occlusion infarcts mostly indicate embolic occlusion of pial vessels from either cardiac or arterial sources. Endzone and borderline infarctions are seen with high grade stenosis or occlusion of the internal carotid artery. The identification of embolic sources necessitates cardiological (including echocardiography) and angiological (Doppler sonography and in selected cases angiography) investigations. Therapeutic and prophylactic measures depend on the etiology of TIA and stroke and are briefly dealt with."}
{"id": "2667572", "title": "Pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment of hypertension-associated stroke.", "content": "Pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment of hypertension-associated stroke. Chronically elevated blood pressure predisposes to stroke through effects on the extracranial and intracranial cerebral vessels. Hypertension-associated disease of small-diameter penetrating cerebral arteries may produce either lacunar infarction or intracerebral hemorrhage. The role of hypertension in the pathogenesis of atherothromboembolic cerebral infarction must be questioned in view of the evidence that antihypertensive therapy does not prevent myocardial infarction. Hypertension, in the absence of rheumatic heart disease, is frequently associated with atrial fibrillation. The incidence of stroke due to embolization of thrombus from the fibrillating left atrium of the nonrheumatic heart may have been overestimated in the past. Ideally, investigation of the patient who has had a stroke should include a brain-imaging study and a cerebral arteriogram. In practice, however, arteriography cannot always be justified. Treatment of the completed stroke is unsatisfactory but tissue plaminogen activator and calcium-channel blockers hold promise for cerebral infarction. Surgical decompression of the posterior fossa can be life-saving in cases of cerebellar infarction or hemorrhage. In patients with cerebral infarction, aspirin has been shown to reduce the incidence of stroke recurrence."}
{"id": "2665206", "title": "Comparison of cerebral angiography and transcranial Doppler sonography in acute stroke.", "content": "Comparison of cerebral angiography and transcranial Doppler sonography in acute stroke. We compared digital intra-arterial angiography and transcranial Doppler sonography in acute cerebral ischemia as part of a wider study on a continuous series of 48 patients with acute focal cerebral ischemia in the carotid territory, observed within 4 hours of the onset of symptoms. The most significant Doppler findings of the middle cerebral artery included no detection of the artery when occlusion of the carotid siphon or the middle cerebral artery at its origin was shown by angiography and reduced flow velocities and asymmetry (symptomatic less than asymptomatic) when the occlusion was located in the terminal tract of the middle cerebral artery mainstem or in numerous terminal branches. Higher flow velocities in the anterior cerebral artery or posterior cerebral artery, mostly in the symptomatic hemisphere, often accompanied middle cerebral artery pathology, probably indicating collateral compensatory pathways."}
{"id": "2662400", "title": "[Diagnosis, therapy and prevention of cerebrovascular diseases. 1. Clinical aspects and diagnosis].", "content": "[Diagnosis, therapy and prevention of cerebrovascular diseases. 1. Clinical aspects and diagnosis]. The anatomy, type, etiology, and functional classification of stroke are reviewed. Diagnostic techniques are outlined and a diagnostic plan is suggested which the authors consider reasonable."}
{"id": "2654588", "title": "Doppler diagnosis in cases of acute stroke.", "content": "Doppler diagnosis in cases of acute stroke. Ultrasound techniques are employed increasingly for the evaluation of patients with cerebrovascular disease. We determined the accuracy of carotid Doppler ultrasonography, which incorporated spectral analysis and periorbital directional Doppler assessment, by comparison with conventional or digital-subtraction arteriography in 93 patients (186 vessels). We also reviewed our experience with the Doppler technique in consecutive patients who were admitted to hospital with established carotid-territory stroke. The Doppler technique had a sensitivity of 93% and a specificity of 97% as a screening test for the presence of carotid stenosis, and a high level of precision. The arteriography rate in patients with completed stroke was 40% before the introduction of Doppler ultrasonography but decreased to 24% after its introduction, and to 16% in the last 100 cases. The proportion of cases in whom an underlying cause for stroke could not be identified decreased from 31% of cases to 21% of cases. Extracranial carotid stenosis was implicated in only 22 of the last 100 patients with carotid-territory stroke. Doppler ultrasonography is a valuable diagnostic tool in patients with completed stroke. It aids in the selection of patients for arteriography and provides clues to the pathogenesis of stroke in patients in whom arteriography is inappropriate."}
{"id": "2645691", "title": "Diagnostic significance of flow separation in the carotid bulb.", "content": "Diagnostic significance of flow separation in the carotid bulb. Pulsatile blood flow within the normal carotid sinus involves at least two distinct components. That near the flow divider is laminar and antegrade, whereas a boundary layer separation zone in the posterolateral aspect exhibits transient blood flow reversal. It is now possible to document these flow velocity components using pulsed Doppler ultrasound methods. When atherosclerosis develops, it preferentially involves the posterolateral bulb region, obliterating the normal configuration of the sinus with consequent loss of the flow separation zone. It was therefore hypothesized that if flow separation could be detected, it should be predictive of a normal angiogram. To assess this, we evaluated 20 symptomatic patients and two with only bruits found by duplex scanning to have flow separation in either one or both carotid bulbs and who also underwent cerebral angiography. Initial diagnoses were stroke in seven, reversible ischemic neurologic deficit in one, transient ischemic attack in 12, and bruit in two. Flow separation was bilateral in 13 patients (59%). There were 15 patients with symptoms in the territory of a carotid bulb exhibiting flow separation. By angiography, of the 35 bulbs with boundary layer separation, 27 (77%) were normal, with the remainder showing lesions that reduced the diameter of the vessel by 20% or less. Final diagnoses of the 15 patients with symptoms ipsilateral to a carotid sinus exhibiting flow separation were fibromuscular disease in two, lacunar stroke in three, dissection in two, subclavian steal in one, cardiogenic embolus in three, migraine in one, hyperventilation syndrome in one, kink of the mid-internal carotid artery in one, and no diagnosis in one.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2634086", "title": "A case of thrombosed aneurysm of the vein of Galen associated with superior sagittal sinus thrombosis.", "content": "A case of thrombosed aneurysm of the vein of Galen associated with superior sagittal sinus thrombosis. A case of thrombosed aneurysm of the vein of Galen associated with superior sagittal sinus thrombosis is reported. Clinical course was characterized by multiple intraparenchimatous hemorrhages and hydrocephalus. NMR showed dural sinuses thrombosis better than CT even though cerebral angiography was more effective for the diagnosis. Intracranial hypertension due to hydrocephalus was relieved with a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. The authors suggest that the abnormal hemodynamic patterns due to the drainage of the malformation into the vein of Galen and dural sinuses led to venous occlusion and multiple intracranial hemorrhages."}
{"id": "2623536", "title": "[Magnetic resonance angiography: the neck and head].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance angiography: the neck and head]."}
{"id": "2623531", "title": "[Magnetic resonance angiography of intracranial blood vessels].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance angiography of intracranial blood vessels]."}
{"id": "2615899", "title": "[Barbiturate therapy in traumatic cerebral vascular disease: report of two cases].", "content": "[Barbiturate therapy in traumatic cerebral vascular disease: report of two cases]. We report two cases of traumatic cerebral vascular disease which were treated successfully with barbiturate. The first case sustained blunt trauma to the bilateral vertebral arteries, resulting in complete occlusion of both arteries. After ligation of the injured vertebral arteries, multiple cerebral infarction appeared. Cerebral angiography revealed dissection and stenosis of the bilateral internal carotid arteries. We treated this case with barbiturate (Thiamylal) in combination with administration of heparin. The second case sustained cerebral contusion and traumatic subarachnoidal hemorrhage as a result of a motor cycle accident. This patient deteriorated and cerebral angiography showed diffuse cerebral arterial vasospasms. When this was treated with induced hypertension, he developed recurrent subarachnoid hemorrhage. In order to protect the brain from ischemia without elevating blood pressure, we employed barbiturate therapy and the patient recovered without major neurological deficit. The condition of severe head injury with cerebral ischemia is complicated. Therefore it has been hard for neurosurgeons to cure the patient with this condition. But we treated it with barbiturate successfully. Barbiturate therapy in severe head injury with cerebral ischemia may decrease the mortality in that group of patients considered difficult to treat with the usual therapeutic modalities."}
{"id": "2615883", "title": "[Preliminary evaluation of diagnostic usefulness of digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in the diagnosis of brain diseases].", "content": "[Preliminary evaluation of diagnostic usefulness of digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in the diagnosis of brain diseases]. On the ground of an analysis of 64 patients the authors present their opinion on the clinical usefulness of digital subtraction angiography in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular diseases. It is believed that this method provides in most cases information which are not necessary to be confirmed by other methods. Digital angiography has a lower resolution ability than conventional angiography but is less invasive and may be presently a good screening or control technique."}
{"id": "2614971", "title": "[Cerebral ischemia and hemorrhage; computed tomography and angiography].", "content": "[Cerebral ischemia and hemorrhage; computed tomography and angiography]. Neuroradiological characteristics of cerebral embolism and hemorrhage were discussed on computed tomography (CT) and angiography. Clinically, cardiogenic embolism was one of major problems in cerebral embolism. On CT, size of the ischemic region, mass effect and frequency of hemorrhagic infarct were most prominent in cerebral embolism. It is difficult to diagnose cerebral infarction within 6 hours of their onset on CT findings. The following signs by Tomura would be important criteria for identifying embolic infarction in the middle cerebral and internal carotid arteries: (a) obscured outline or partial disappearance of the lentiform nucleus, (b) slight decrease in tissue density, (c) effacement of the cortical sulci. Angiographic characteristics of embolism and thrombosis were discussed in terms of shape and configuration at the stump of the occluded arteries, formation of collateral pathway and recanalization. Cerebral hemorrhage were also compared between pathological and CT findings. Indication of cerebral angiography to patients of cerebrovascular disease was also discussed."}
{"id": "2612098", "title": "[Isolated angitis of the central nervous system--case report and review].", "content": "[Isolated angitis of the central nervous system--case report and review]. Isolated angitis of the central nervous system (IACNS) is rare condition with inflammation limited to vessels supplying the brain. This IACNS has been a poorly characterized and infrequently reported illness since it was first described as a separate entity in 1959. However, a patient with IACNS has not been reported in Japan. A patient, 39-year old-male, with IACNS limited to small and middle vessels is described. Recurrent, transient consciousness disturbances, focal myoclonus, papilloedema and temporal lobe epilepsy were observed during disease course. CSF finding of this patient showed lymphocytosis with marked increased protein. Carotid and vertebral angiogram showed irregular luminal outline in branches of all arteries. The most specific finding is that of alternating areas of focal stenosis and ectasia giving a \"sausage\" pattern. These characteristic findings showed in the branch of external carotid arteries. There was no evidence of systemic vasculitis by systemic angiography. Biopsy of temporal artery showed lymphocyte infiltration, fibrinoid necrosis without giant cell and granuloma. Formation of A-V malformation in the branch of external carotid artery was also observed. This histopathological finding was compatible with necrotizing angitis, not granulomatous angitis. Isolated angitis of the central nervous system was diagnosed. In spite of his administration of corticosteroid, cerebrospinal fluid abnormalities has not responded markedly. Abnormal findings of carotid and vertebral angiogram also has not changed. After 7 years from his onset, his neurologic signs and symptoms were well controlled with administration of anti-epileptic drugs."}
{"id": "2611882", "title": "Ischemic stroke in young adults: the relevance of migrainous infarction.", "content": "Ischemic stroke in young adults: the relevance of migrainous infarction. Sixty-one consecutive patients, less than or equal to 40 years old, were hospitalized for cerebral infarction between 1977 and 1985. Evaluation included computed tomographic brain scan, arteriography, echocardiography, and blood tests. A probable migrainous infarction was diagnosed in six patients (10%) (all women with a history of migraine) who survived the initial stroke and were followed-up for an average of four years. In five patients the stroke occurred during a common migraine attack and in one patient during a classic migraine attack. The site of infarction was invariably the occipital lobe. During the follow-up, no subject had a further stroke. All six women had a permanent hemianopic deficit."}
{"id": "2512776", "title": "Comparison of MR imaging with clinical history in the identification of hemorrhage in patients with cerebral arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "Comparison of MR imaging with clinical history in the identification of hemorrhage in patients with cerebral arteriovenous malformations. Twenty-nine patients with true arteriovenous malformations as diagnosed by MR imaging or angiography were examined by MR to detect the presence of hemosiderin deposition, a marker for remote hemorrhage. The resulting information was compared with the clinical record to determine the frequency with which MR demonstrated prior hemorrhagic episodes where no clinical evidence for such episodes existed. Twenty (69%) of 29 patients with arteriovenous malformations showed evidence of acute or older hemorrhage. In four (14%) of 29 cases MR showed a hypointense signal on long TR images, suggesting hemosiderin, but no clinical history could account for prior hemorrhage. Additionally, six (21%) of 29 patients had a clinical history suggestive of acute hemorrhage, but no evidence of bleeding was found on MR. The presence of prior or current hemorrhage is critical to deciding whether to surgically resect the arteriovenous malformation or to treat it conservatively, because of the high rate of rebleeding in patients presenting with hemorrhage or those with a history of this disorder. For this reason, MR imaging has an important role in the management of patients with arteriovenous malformations."}
{"id": "2484189", "title": "[Clinical analysis of 24 cases of caudate hemorrhage].", "content": "[Clinical analysis of 24 cases of caudate hemorrhage]. Twenty-four patients with caudate hemorrhage, in whom such definite organic lesions as arteriovenous malformations or ruptured cerebral aneurysms could not be proved, were analyzed. These cases comprise 2.0% of 1202 cases of hypertensive intracerebral hemorrhage diagnosed by computed tomography and experienced from 1976 through 1987. Thirteen patients were male and 11 were female. Their average age was 61 years. Headache (67%) and nausea and vomiting (50%), which were often the initial symptoms, were similar to those of subarachnoid hemorrhage. The main clinical symptoms were signs of meningeal irritation. Ten patients (42%) had transient disturbance of consciousness, and nine (38%) of these were somnolent; only one patient, who had a massive hematoma, was stuporous. When the hematoma extended to the internal capsule, the patient showed motor disturbance (38%). Two patients (8%) had Horner's sign, five (21%) exhibited diminished activity, and one (4%) suffered anosognosia. The volume of the intracerebral hematoma averaged 4.7 ml and was less than 5 ml in 17 patients (71%). In 20 patients (83%), the hematoma was confined to the head of the caudate nucleus. The hemorrhage tended to rupture into the anterior horn of the lateral ventricle, and in nearly all cases (96%), intraventricular hematoma was observed. Seventeen patients (71%) underwent cerebral angiography. There were no instances of dilation of the recurrent artery of Heubner. Twenty patients (83%) were treated conservatively. Continuous ventricular drainage was employed in four patients (17%), and ventriculoperitoneal shunting in three (13%). However, it was judged retrospectively that continuous ventricular drainage had been necessary in only two cases in which disturbance of consciousness was progressed due to acute hydrocephalus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2482945", "title": "[Massive hemorrhage within an acoustic neurinoma. Case report].", "content": "[Massive hemorrhage within an acoustic neurinoma. Case report]. A 39-year-old male experienced unilateral right hearing loss and tinnitus for 7 years and was hospitalized after he suddenly developed severe headache, vertigo, and right facial paralysis. Computed tomography (CT) showed a round, high-density are in the right cerebellopontine angle. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging demonstrated a crescent-shaped region of high signal intensity, representing hemorrhage, in the superior aspect of the tumor, surrounded by edema. The right internal auditory canal was enlarged. Four-vessel angiography disclosed neither an aneurysm nor an arteriovenous malformation. A right suboccipital craniectomy revealed an encapsulated mass 3 cm in diameter in the right cerebellopontine angle. The tumor was totally removed. Histological examination revealed a typical neurinoma composed of Antoni type A and B cells. After undergoing anastomosis of the right hypoglossal and facial nerves, the patient was discharged in good condition. In this case MR imaging demonstrated intratumoral hemorrhage (which is rare in cases of acoustic neurinoma) and the surrounding tissue more clearly than did CT scanning."}
{"id": "3419568", "title": "Traumatic aneurysms of brain due to high velocity missile head wounds.", "content": "Traumatic aneurysms of brain due to high velocity missile head wounds. Two hundred twenty-three of 255 consecutive patients underwent cerebral angiography 16.9 +/- 11.6 days (SD) after high velocity missile injury to the head over a 29-month study period. Shell fragments were the most frequent projectiles (73.7%), and penetrating wounds were the most frequent injuries (61%). During the study, 2 patients (1 with an ophthalmic and the other with an anterior cerebral artery aneurysm) presented with delayed traumatic intracerebral hematoma; the first patient had had negative angiography 90 days earlier, and the second patient was admitted from a rehabilitation center after operation in another center 25 days earlier for a penetrating left frontal shell fragment injury. Six of 223 patients (2.7%) had dormant aneurysms (4 middle and 2 anterior cerebral arteries). Seven of 8 patients were operated on again to exclude their aneurysms from the cerebral circulation. Two of 8 patients died postoperatively (1 within 24 hours and another 51 days after discharge from the hospital in a vegetative state). Fragments penetrating temporal, temporoparietal, or pterional areas had a significantly greater chance of causing arterial injury (chi 2 = 11.46, P less than 0.001). There was a significant chance of having an aneurysm if a hematoma was seen at operation or on computed tomography of the head (chi 2 = 4.18, P less than 0.05). The penetrating mode of injury and shell fragments crossing the midline were two variables for which the statistical significance had a P value of 0.08. It is concluded that war casualties with penetrating shell fragment injuries near the pterion, especially when harboring intracerebral hematomas, should undergo cerebral angiography to rule out vascular injuries of the brain."}
{"id": "3364097", "title": "[Clinical and pathogenetic problems of a minor stroke in arteriosclerosis].", "content": "[Clinical and pathogenetic problems of a minor stroke in arteriosclerosis]. The authors have studied clinical manifestations in 47 patients with cerebral stroke in whom neurological symptomatology completely regressed within 1-21 days. The underlying disease in all patients was atherosclerosis. Impairment of the blood circulation most often involved the carotid bed. Comparison of the findings provided by angiography and computerized tomography conducted in patients with minor stroke, patients with transient impairments of the cerebral circulation, and those with stroke characterized by stable neurological deficiency revealed definite differences between the groups. Certain questions related to the pathogenesis of minor stroke in patients with atherosclerosis are discussed."}
{"id": "3357569", "title": "CT and angiographic correlation of severe neurological disease in toxemia of pregnancy.", "content": "CT and angiographic correlation of severe neurological disease in toxemia of pregnancy. Two patients with severe cerebral symptoms of toxemia of pregnancy were examined using computed tomography (CT) and angiography. CT disclosed extensive areas of low attenuation within the cerebral hemispheres. Angiography revealed constriction and narrowing of proximal and peripheral vessels suggesting vasculitis with extensive areas of impaired regional cerebral blood flow. A review of the known pathology and the theories regarding the pathophysiology of the cerebral effects of toxemia is presented."}
{"id": "3357564", "title": "Dynamic CT of micro- and macroangiopathic states of the cerebrum.", "content": "Dynamic CT of micro- and macroangiopathic states of the cerebrum. Dynamic computed tomography utilizing intravenous contrast agents affords a unique opportunity to evaluate pathologic vascular states of the cerebrum in cross-section with an imaging system which is more contrast-sensitive than either conventional film-screen or digital subtraction angiography. Dynamic scanning therefore routinely allows the non-invasive detection of pathologic vascularity in-vivo in lesions that could previously only be detected reliably primarily with in-vitro techniques. The first section of this two part report examines the microscopic vascularity observed in active demyelination, inflammatory states, trauma, infarction and other forms of acquired cerebral disease. In the second section, the ability of intravenous dynamic cranial computed tomography to detect macroscopic pathologic vascularity is reviewed. The diagnostic principles of conventional angiography apply in this technique except that the lesion is viewed in cross-section, rather than in-toto with all structures superimposed. The method therefore yields a true tomographic angiogram. Abnormal vascular states associated with malignancies, vascular malformations, aneurysms, and vascular occlusions are simply evaluated and correlate precisely with the aberrant vascular patterns revealed angiographically."}
{"id": "3343606", "title": "The natural history of unruptured intracranial arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "The natural history of unruptured intracranial arteriovenous malformations. The authors conducted a long-term follow-up study of 168 patients to define the natural history of clinically unruptured intracranial arteriovenous malformations (AVM's). Charts of patients seen at the Mayo Clinic between 1974 and 1985 were reviewed. Follow-up information was obtained on 166 patients until death, surgery, or other intervention, or for at least 4 years after diagnosis (mean follow-up time 8.2 years). All available cerebral arteriograms and computerized tomography scans of the head were reviewed. Intracranial hemorrhage occurred in 31 patients (18%), due to AVM rupture in 29 and secondary to AVM or aneurysm rupture in two. The mean risk of hemorrhage was 2.2% per year, and the observed annual rates of hemorrhage increased over time. The risk of death from rupture was 29%, and 23% of survivors had significant long-term morbidity. The size of the AVM and the presence of treated or untreated hypertension were of no value in predicting rupture."}
{"id": "3340283", "title": "Migraine stroke.", "content": "Migraine stroke. Because the cause of stroke during migraine is not known, we studied 22 (17 females, 5 males; mean age, 32.7 years) classic migraine sufferers who had an ischemic stroke during an attack of migraine, with CT, Doppler ultrasound, cerebral angiography, and two-dimensional echocardiography. We found no cardiac or arterial lesion in 91% of the patients, as compared with 9% of age- and sex-matched migraineurs with stroke remote from a migraine attack and 18% of age- and sex-matched nonmigraineurs with stroke (p less than 0.00001). Mitral valve prolapse, arterial dissection, and vasospasm were not significant causes of stroke during migraine. These patients had longer previous attacks of migraine and their infarct was more frequently in the territory involved during the attacks than the controls, supporting the hypothesis that a prolongation of the migrainous process beyond usual limits may explain most migraine strokes."}
{"id": "3258719", "title": "MR imaging in the management of supratentorial intracranial AVMs.", "content": "MR imaging in the management of supratentorial intracranial AVMs. The MR images, CT scans, and angiograms of 15 consecutive patients with intracranial, supratentorial arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) were studied retrospectively. The three imaging techniques were evaluated separately to assess their utility in defining the size, characteristics, and location of the AVM nidus, its arterial supply, and venous drainage. The studies were also evaluated for their ability to show associated parenchymal abnormalities, the presence of mass effect, and changes occurring after embolization. MR was superior to both CT and angiography in showing the exact anatomic relationships of the nidus, feeding arteries, and draining veins, as well as in demonstrating the extent of AVM nidus obliteration after embolization. MR was more sensitive than CT in revealing associated parenchymal abnormalities and subacute hemorrhage. Because of flow-related artifacts and low sensitivity in distinguishing calcification from rapid flow and/or hemosiderin, MR seemed to have a low sensitivity for detecting old hemorrhage within an AVM nidus. Angiography is still needed in the planning of either surgical or endovascular treatment of AVMs."}
{"id": "3245946", "title": "Ischemic stroke in infancy, childhood, and adolescence.", "content": "Ischemic stroke in infancy, childhood, and adolescence. The authors studied 34 patients with juvenile ischemic cerebrovascular disease over a 15-year period. Of the 34 patients, 23 had intracranial occlusions attributed to cerebral thrombosis or embolism and 11 had occlusions resulting from moyamoya disease. Clinicopathological features were evaluated in the 23 cases with ischemic stroke, but not those with moyamoya disease. The cause of the arterial occlusion remained undetermined in 11 patients and was found to be an embolism based on congenital heart disease in 8, on trauma in 3, and on infection in 1. Cerebral angiography was performed in 21 patients. Of these, 17 had stenoses or occlusions corresponding to their symptoms. CT scans were performed in 10 patients; the lesion in question showed no stenosis or occlusion with cerebral angiography. With regard to prognosis, patients with unknown etiology had good outcomes compared with those with congenital heart disease. With respect to \"acute infantile hemiplegia\", 10 patients had convulsive seizures and 4 had a history of an earlier infection. Angiography and CT scans in patients with congenital heart disease demonstrated arterial occlusive sites in the middle cerebral artery region. Three patients had abscesses after their ischemic lesions."}
{"id": "3239254", "title": "[Intracerebral hematoma from a large aneurysm of the middle cerebral artery in infancy].", "content": "[Intracerebral hematoma from a large aneurysm of the middle cerebral artery in infancy]. The article reports on a large aneurysm of the tunica media vasorum with intracerebral haematoma in an infant of the age of 4 1/2 weeks and on the successful treatment by removal of the haematoma and extirpation of the aneurysm. The rare space-occupying lesion of the central organ seemed to point first of all to a peripheral disease due to the very unusual and highly special course in the infant; a gastrointestinal disorder seemed to be responsible for this phenomenon. It was only after observing mild convulsive manifestations that sonography was employed as a diagnostic tool, and thus the central disturbance was identified and its localisation and genesis demonstrated via computed tomography and angiographic diagnosis. Attention is drawn to the outstanding \"search method\" of noninvasive sonography via the still open fontanelle of the infant. This method should be employed if there is even the slightest suspicion of cerebral disease. A study of the literature shows clearly the superiority of the modern methods such as computed tomography and digital subtraction angiography over a femoralis catheter. The literature includes in particular two cases that occurred in the sixties of the present century and were comparable with that of our infant; at that time, the authors of those publications did not yet command over our present-day methods."}
{"id": "3232457", "title": "[Difficulties in the diagnosis of brain tumors].", "content": "[Difficulties in the diagnosis of brain tumors]. In 27 patients brain tumors were misdiagnosed for several years. Most mistakes were due to the incomplete analysis of the patients' complaints, anamnesis and peculiarities of the disease development. Most difficult were identifying the leading neurologic deficit, detecting the adjacent and remote signs. Using full sequence of both simple and sophisticated diagnostic techniques (PET, angiography, CT etc.) one can sharply reduce the incidence of diagnostic errors."}
{"id": "3219243", "title": "[An autopsy case of subarachnoid and intracerebral hemorrhage and necrotizing angitis associated with methamphetamine abuse].", "content": "[An autopsy case of subarachnoid and intracerebral hemorrhage and necrotizing angitis associated with methamphetamine abuse]. We report an autopsy case of methamphetamine-related intracranial hemorrhage and vasculitis. The possible relationship between drug usage and the occurrence of intracranial bleeding and cerebral vasculitis in such patients is discussed. A 22-year-old woman died after an intravenous injection of unknown dose of methamphetamine. A computed tomography head scan demonstrated massive subarachnoid hemorrhage and hematoma in corpus callosum. Cerebral angiography revealed nonfilling of bilateral intracranial carotid arteries and extravasation of contrast medium from right pericallosal artery which was visualized retrogradely via vertebral artery. Postmortem studies showed cerebral edema, subarachnoid and intracerebral hemorrhage, and intracranial vasculitis in the absence of aneurysm, arteriovenous malformation or chronic hypertension. Histological findings of necrosis of blood vessel walls with destruction of the elastica and smooth muscle layer, and without leukocytotic infiltration of the blood vessel walls were observed in order of anterior cerebral, middle cerebral, vertebral, posterior cerebral and basilar arteries. These angiographic and histological evidence suggests that such hemorrhage results from the development of fibrinonecrosis in the large intracerebral vessels, in addition to a sudden rise in blood pressure."}
{"id": "3211246", "title": "[What are the advantages of magnetic resonance tomography compared with computerized tomography in imaging spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage?].", "content": "[What are the advantages of magnetic resonance tomography compared with computerized tomography in imaging spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage?]."}
{"id": "3208228", "title": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage and normal angiography: should the angiogram be reviewed by a second neuroradiologist?", "content": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage and normal angiography: should the angiogram be reviewed by a second neuroradiologist? In recent years there has been a tendency to abandon repeat cerebral angiography in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) if the initial angiogram is normal because prognosis is said to be excellent. Our experience does not support such a conclusion. We report our experiences in 25 patients with SAH, who had a normal initial angiogram. Aneurysms were seen in five of 20 cases when angiography was repeated. On subsequent review of the initial angiograms, the aneurysm was apparent in four of the five cases. When these four initial angiograms were shown to a second observer, unaware of the results of the second study, three of the four aneurysms were correctly identified. We suggest that if, under strong clinical suspicion of SAH, the angiogram is reported as normal the study should be reviewed by a second neuro-radiologist before proceeding to repeat angiography."}
{"id": "3173668", "title": "Multiple intracranial aneurysms: magnetic resonance imaging for determination of the site of rupture. Report of a case.", "content": "Multiple intracranial aneurysms: magnetic resonance imaging for determination of the site of rupture. Report of a case. In a patient with multiple intracranial aneurysms, the clinical examination, computed tomographic brain scan, and cerebral angiogram failed to disclose which of five aneurysms had ruptured. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed high signal intensity compatible with hemorrhage in the lower portion of one cerebellar tonsil, and a corresponding posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm was successfully obliterated. We would add MRI to the list of useful adjuncts in identifying which of multiple aneurysms bled."}
{"id": "3131146", "title": "Clinical criteria for the diagnosis of vascular dementia.", "content": "Clinical criteria for the diagnosis of vascular dementia. The clinical diagnosis of dementia includes medical history, neurological examination, psychiatric interview and dementia scale. The identification of conditions producing dementia can only be achieved by adding to the clinical information the data gathered from ancillary investigations. The usual ancillary diagnostic investigations (biochemical tests, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), EEG, CT, MRI, angiography) can rather easily identify brain disorders due to tumors, vascular malformations, hematomas, infections, toxins and drugs, deficiency diseases, normal-pressure hydrocephalus, metabolic and endocrine derangements. The differential diagnosis between degenerative and vascular dementia needs laboratory tests such as CSF, EEG, Somatosensory Evoked Potentials, CT (which constitutes a major role in a modified ischemic score) and MRI. The three final diagnostic labels are possible, probable and definite vascular dementia, which include clinical features and laboratory investigations concurrently confirming the diagnosis. If ancillary investigations fail to show multiple infarct lesions or if mixed forms are suspected an unequivocal diagnosis can be made only on histopathological evidence."}
{"id": "3062481", "title": "[Traumatic enucleation of the eye ball--report of a case and considerations concerning the pathogenic mechanism of intracranial complications].", "content": "[Traumatic enucleation of the eye ball--report of a case and considerations concerning the pathogenic mechanism of intracranial complications]. A 48-year-old man had his left eye ball enucleated by fingers of an assailant. The optic nerve, measuring 4 cm in length, was attached to the enucleated eye ball, but there was neither a wound in his eyelids nor cerebrospinal fluid leakage from inside the orbit. He was confused, but responsive and was able to recognize other persons with his right eye. His right-eye vision deteriorated within 24 hours and was almost totally lost for about one month. Three months after the trauma his vision recovered to 0.1, but his visual field showed severe concentric narrowing. An emergency CT on admission showed a small subarachnoid hemorrhage in the suprasellar cistern, and follow-up CT scanning on day 7 demonstrated a small infarction in the left globus pallidus and putamen. Cerebral angiography performed on day 17 showed residual vasospasm of the horizontal portion of left anterior cerebral artery. Left ophthalmic artery was patent and there was no aneurysm formation either on the intracranial or on the intraorbital arteries. Literature review yielded only three cases of eye ball enucleation by an assailant. Intracranial complications reported in the literature, including those associated with eye ball enucleation caused by other mechanisms, are; contralateral visual field defect: seven cases, hypothalamic involvement: two cases, subarachnoid hemorrhage: two cases, cerebrospinal fluid leakage: one case, and meningitis: one case. The optic nerve, from just behind the eye ball to the chiasm, is reported to be 40-50 mm long, and eye ball enucleation with the optic nerve measuring 4 cm or more is quite likely to cause intracranial complications such as are cited above."}
{"id": "3060062", "title": "[Treatment of acute cerebrovascular disorders].", "content": "[Treatment of acute cerebrovascular disorders]. Recent advances in technology have improved stroke diagnosis, reduced the risks and increased the frequency of studies of stroke mechanism. Computer-assisted stroke data bank projects have provided new insights into the frequencies of stroke subtypes and the risks for progression and recurrence. A high frequency of strokes due to infarction remain unexplained despite thorough laboratory investigation. These infarcts of undetermined cause suffer recurrence rates almost as high as cardiogenic embolism, forcing a therapeutic decision even in the absence of a demonstrated cause. Stroke from atherosclerosis is far less common than formerly believed but carries the highest risk of worsening and early recurrence, prompting early treatment to attempt to avoid progression. Duplex and transcranial doppler methods of imaging blood vessels and insonating flow have now made it possible non-invasively to follow the course of atheromatous stenosis, embolism and recanalization, development of collateral flow, and vasospasm in ruptured aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations. Extracranial atheromatous disease may progress rapidly from mild to severe stenosis, stabilize at any point; intracranial collateral is not predicted by the degree of extracranial stenosis. Recanalization of cerebral embolism occurs early. Vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage is common and often severe. Where available, magnetic resonance imaging is preferred to CT scanning for the diagnosis of every form of stroke including hemorrhage."}
{"id": "3055441", "title": "Three-dimensional transcranial Doppler blood flow mapping in patients with cerebrovascular disorders.", "content": "Three-dimensional transcranial Doppler blood flow mapping in patients with cerebrovascular disorders. We investigated 60 patients with cerebrovascular disorders using a three-dimensional transcranial Doppler blood flow mapping system. A composite display of the circle of Willis is created with computer assistance, allowing accurate vessel identification and optimal data documentation of blood flow velocity and direction in the basal cerebral arteries. The basilar artery was insonated in every patient; the middle cerebral artery and the most distal internal carotid artery were found in 95% of the patients, the anterior cerebral artery in 85%, and the posterior cerebral artery in 84%. Insonation problems occurred predominantly in elderly women. Transcranial Doppler blood flow mapping showed an abnormal result in 23 of 60 patients (38%). An intracranial stenosis with greater than 50% diameter reduction or occlusion was found in 10 of 31 patients (32%) with completed stroke, reversible ischemic neurologic deficit, or transient ischemic attack. Collateral blood flow mechanisms could be demonstrated in patients with extracranial carotid artery occlusions. Intra-arterial cerebral angiography performed in 21 patients confirmed the transcranial Doppler blood flow mapping diagnosis in 19 (90.5%). In one patient an arteriovenous malformation diagnosed by transcranial Doppler blood flow mapping was confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "3043102", "title": "[Homonymous hemianopsia in brain tumors].", "content": "[Homonymous hemianopsia in brain tumors]. Homonymous hemianopsia may be caused by tumors in the region of the optic tract, the lateral geniculate body, the optic radiation, and the visual cortex. Tumors are responsible for about two-thirds of the temporal lesions and about one-half to one-third of the parietal and occipital lesions. With brain tumors a chronological sequence of two groups of signs and symptoms is the rule: first the focal symptoms corresponding to the tumor lesion in a defined cerebral area, later the distant effects of the increasing volume of the tumor, which lead to the general signs of increased intracranial pressure. The different types of homonymous hemianopia in tumor lesions along the suprachiasmatic pathway (optic tract, lateral geniculate body, temporal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe) are described and discussed. The general neurological signs and symptoms are briefly reviewed. Demonstration of important cerebral diagnostic examination methods (plain X-ray, electroencephalogram, computer tomogram, nuclear magnetic resonance, angiography). Differential diagnosis of brain tumors (hematomas, abscesses, granulomas, parasites etc.)."}
{"id": "2468916", "title": "Calcium antagonists in ischemic stroke.", "content": "Calcium antagonists in ischemic stroke. Clinical neurological examination, computed tomography (CT) scan, cerebral angiography, and cerebral blood flow-single photon emission computerized tomography (CBF-SPECT) study have been performed in 39 patients with acute ischemic stroke within 6 h from the onset of symptoms. Seven of these patients were submitted to a second CBF study after an intravenous infusion of nimodipine. A greater CBF impairment was observed in patients with severe neurological deficit at entry, poor outcome, cerebral arterial occlusion, and large hypodensity on the CT scan performed 1 week after admission. In patients treated with nimodipine, a significant increase of CBF was detected at the periphery of the ischemic zone, indicating a potential action of this Ca antagonist on the \"ischemic penumbra.\""}
{"id": "3678799", "title": "[Rupture of a cerebral angioma in pregnancy].", "content": "[Rupture of a cerebral angioma in pregnancy]. A case of a ruptured intracranial angioma in the 27th week of pregnancy is presented. The diagnosis was ensured clinico-neurologically by lumbar puncture, cranial computerized tomography and carotid angiography. After neurosurgical intervention and appropriate therapy vaginal delivery occurred despite coma of the patient, in the 36th week of pregnancy. Two days post partum the patient awakened from her coma and was eventually released from hospital after an uneventful puerperium with only slight neurological symptom pattern. Following anticonvulsive therapy because of a grand mal attack, and complete regression of the neurological pattern of signs and symptoms, therapy was discontinued."}
{"id": "3659959", "title": "Central nervous system.", "content": "Central nervous system."}
{"id": "3652067", "title": "Rare neonatal intracerebral hemorrhage. Two cases in full-term infants.", "content": "Rare neonatal intracerebral hemorrhage. Two cases in full-term infants. Intracranial hemorrhage in neonates is often found in either the subependymal area or the subdural space. The former is observed particularly in premature infants and is attributable to damage of the germinal matrix layer. The latter usually occurs in the vicinity of the falx and tentorium cerebri of full-term neonates and is thought to be caused by birth injury. Two cases of intracerebral hemorrhage in full-term newborn babies are reported. In both the hematoma was located at the left frontal area under the coronal suture. Angiograms revealed no causative signs, such as arteriovenous malformation, aneurysm or angioma. Observations on CT scans and during surgery led to the conclusion that the hemorrhages were caused by the moulding which forced the frontal bone to slip under the parietal bone at the coronal suture and then press on the fragile cerebral vasculature of the neonates, thus causing contusion."}
{"id": "3614522", "title": "[Post-traumatic intracerebral hematoma].", "content": "[Post-traumatic intracerebral hematoma]. Fifty-five cases of post-traumatic intracerebral haematomas are analyzed, discussing the diagnostic value of such preliminary methods as plain skull films, EEG, echoencephalography. These methods, together with clinical findings make the diagnosis of intracerebral haematoma likely. The final diagnosis was based on carotid arteriography and computerized tomography of the brain, which provided additional information on traumatic brain damage. The diagnostic sensitivity of CT was higher. The considerable prognostic importance of the degree of consciousness disturbances and their duration is stressed. In the group of patients with lucidum intervallum the mortality was higher. Four patients were treated conservatively since CT demonstrated in them only small haematomas without displacement of the ventricles. The remaining patients were treated surgically removing the haematomas through craniotomy or craniectomy. In 54% of these cases improvement was obtained. The 33% mortality was moderate as compared with previous reports."}
{"id": "3601084", "title": "Epilepsy after stroke.", "content": "Epilepsy after stroke. Development of epilepsy was studied prospectively in a group of 77 consecutive stroke patients. Included were stroke patients less than 75 years old admitted within the first 3 days after the stroke. Excluded were patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, vertebrobasilar stroke, and patients with other severe diseases. Cerebral angiography, CT, and EEG were performed in all patients. The patients were followed clinically for 2 to 4 years. Seven patients (9%) developed epilepsy. Of 23 patients with lesions involving the cortex, 6 (26%) developed epilepsy. Of 54 patients in whom the cortex was not involved, only 1 (2%) developed epilepsy. Patients with persisting paresis and cortical involvement seem to be at particularly high risk of developing epilepsy, as 50% of such patients (6 of 12) developed the disease."}
{"id": "3591482", "title": "Changes produced by CT scanning in the outlook of severe head injury.", "content": "Changes produced by CT scanning in the outlook of severe head injury. This is a study of the changes that have occurred in the field of severe head injury since the advent of CT scanning, comparing two homogeneous series of patients selected by clinical status (Glasgow Coma Scale less than or equal to 8), namely a series of 1,000 cases admitted to our Department between 1973 and 1976, already published in this Journal, and one of 385 cases cared for between 1979 and 1980, when CT scanning had become generally available. The two series of patients compare very closely in many respects, particularly in the incidence of surgical cases. In the more recent series the overall outcome was better both in surgical and in non-surgical cases. Among patients in the CT scan series the incidence of brain contusion associated with haematoma was greater than that of pure subdural haematomas. In non-surgical patients the CT scan, unlike cerebral angiography, afforded better identification of traumatic lesions and the grouping of patients into homogeneous categories correlating with a given outcome. On admission, cerebral angiography and CT scanning were equally effective in detecting lesions of surgical import; later in the course of the illness, however, CT scanning proved far more effective in detecting changes, with fully 15% of the patients being referred for surgery in the light of repeat CT scan findings as opposed to only 4% undergoing surgery on the indications of repeat angiography. Also, in the new series the mean interval from injury to surgery was shorter, with 64% of patients being operated on within 6 hours of the injury.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3581848", "title": "Completely thrombosed giant aneurysm of the pericallosal artery: case report.", "content": "Completely thrombosed giant aneurysm of the pericallosal artery: case report. Patients with a giant intracranial aneurysm usually present as having an intracranial space-taking lesion, but no subarachnoid hemorrhage. The authors describe a 61-year-old man with a completely thrombosed giant aneurysm at the pericallosal artery. Computed tomography scan showed a large, round, mottled, high-density area in the paramedian frontal region that had ringlike enhancement with contrast media. On cerebral angiography it was demonstrated to be an avascular mass lesion. These findings led to an initial diagnosis of falx meningioma. However, final diagnosis at operation was completely thrombosed giant aneurysm. The literature is reviewed and the pathogenesis of intracranial thrombosed giant aneurysm, in regard to its growth and thrombus formation, is discussed."}
{"id": "3573823", "title": "Elevation of serum creatine kinase B-subunit levels by radiographic contrast agents in patients with neurologic disorders.", "content": "Elevation of serum creatine kinase B-subunit levels by radiographic contrast agents in patients with neurologic disorders. The effect of radiographic contrast agents on the central nervous system was evaluated by measurement of serum creatine kinase B-subunit (CKB) levels with use of radioimmunoassay in 58 patients who underwent computed tomographic (CT) scanning and 46 patients who underwent cerebral angiography for evaluation of cerebrovascular diseases, brain tumors, and other neurologic disorders. In 11 patients (10.6%), the CKB increased to abnormally high levels within 4 hours after the radiographic procedures, and the median value after 30 minutes was significantly higher than the corresponding precontrast value (P less than 0.01). Eight of the 11 patients had recent ischemic cerebrovascular diseases, and 7 of the 11 had undergone CT scanning. On the basis of the information available in the literature, elevation of the serum CKB levels may be interpreted as reflecting breakdown of the blood-brain barrier and neural damage. Intravascularly administered radiographic media are generally safe, but the results of the current investigation suggested the potential for detrimental effects, particularly in patients with recent cerebrovascular diseases."}
{"id": "3561785", "title": "Lateral pontine tegmental hemorrhage presenting as isolated trigeminal sensory neuropathy.", "content": "Lateral pontine tegmental hemorrhage presenting as isolated trigeminal sensory neuropathy. A 45-year-old man awoke with numbness and paresthesias on the right side of his face, scalp, ear, and tongue. CT and MRI demonstrated a focal hemorrhage in the dorsolateral right pontine tegmentum. Cerebral angiography was negative for vascular malformation or aneurysm. CT performed 1 month later showed complete resolution of the pontine hematoma, with residual minimal lateral pontine atrophy."}
{"id": "3561741", "title": "Isolated central nervous system angiitis first presenting as spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage.", "content": "Isolated central nervous system angiitis first presenting as spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage. Two cases of isolated central nervous system angiitis presenting as spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage are reported. The usefulness and limitations of cortical/leptomeningeal biopsy in this condition is described. Emphasis is placed on the clinical awareness of this unusual association to ensure early recognition and prompt management with immunosuppressive therapy."}
{"id": "3495813", "title": "[Comparative studies of 125I-amphetamine-SPECT, CT, angiography, static and dynamic brain scintigraphy in cerebrovascular disorders].", "content": "[Comparative studies of 125I-amphetamine-SPECT, CT, angiography, static and dynamic brain scintigraphy in cerebrovascular disorders]."}
{"id": "3494026", "title": "Positron emission tomography in minor ischemic stroke using oxygen-15 steady-state technique.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in minor ischemic stroke using oxygen-15 steady-state technique. A study with positron emission tomography (PET) was performed on 10 patients with ischemic stroke and mild disability. The patients underwent cerebral angiography, x-ray computed tomography (CT) scan and regional cerebral measurements of CBF, CMRO2, oxygen extraction ratio (OER), and cerebral blood volume (CBV). Only minor arterial involvement was detected by angiography. In all patients, PET images of functional defects were more extensive than the corresponding CT hypodensity, and there were statistically significant reductions in CBF, CMRO2, and CBF/CBV ratio as compared with control subjects. Half of the regions analyzed in the affected hemisphere demonstrated a disruption of the normal coupling between CBF and CMRO2 as reflected by OER values significantly higher or lower than those of the corresponding region of the contralateral hemisphere. The pathophysiological pattern of high OER combined with a reduction in CBF proportionally greater than the reduction in CMRO2 was particularly indicative of regional chronic hemodynamic compromise in these patients."}
{"id": "3437928", "title": "[Cerebral blood flow in subarachnoid hemorrhage: analysis in patients with poor outcomes].", "content": "[Cerebral blood flow in subarachnoid hemorrhage: analysis in patients with poor outcomes]. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) of 6 patients with poor outcome after subarachnoid hemorrhage is analyzed. Neurological grades of these patients were grade III in 2 and grade IV in 4 patients, and subarachnoid hemorrhage on CT was diffuse and thick in all patients. Cerebral blood flow was continuously measured for 7 to 19 days by the thermal diffusion flow probe with a peltier stack which was left on the cerebral cortex at the surgery for ruptured aneurysm. Moreover, CBF studies by cold xenon CT and 133Xe inhalation methods were also performed in discussing cases. At the same time intracranial pressure was monitored. Cerebral angiography was carried out in all except for 2 patients who died due to severe cerebral vasospasm. The initial CBF value of all patients was 20 to 40 ml/100 g/min (mean value: 27 ml/100 g/min), and these were significantly low compared to normal value (50 ml/100 g/min). Moreover, these CBF was substantially decreased several days after surgery in all patients, and it was marked in 3 patients who died. From these results it was clear that the degree of vasospasm is important to determine the prognosis. One of 3 patients who died had ruptured left posterior cerebral artery aneurysm with occlusion of bilateral internal carotid arteries. In this case further decrease of CBF due to vasospasm was observed in addition to low initial CBF resulting diffuse low flow in both hemispheres although extracranial to intracranial bypass was performed. On the other hand, it was also shown that the intracranial pressure was an important factor to influence the outcomes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3431694", "title": "Size determination of supratentorial arteriovenous malformations by MR, CT and angio.", "content": "Size determination of supratentorial arteriovenous malformations by MR, CT and angio. Twenty patients with high-flow supratentorial arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) were studied by magnetic resonance imaging (MR), computed tomography (CT), and selective cerebral angiography. The size of the malformation measured on MR was found, in general, to be smaller than the size determined from angiographic films. This discrepancy increased as the size of the AVM increased. AVM size on CT and angiography was found to be essentially equivalent. The reason for these differences between MR and CT or angiography was the ability to separate out the draining veins by MR, whereas this was difficult on projection films and contrast enhanced CT. Calcification was more easily detected by CT than by MR. MR better detected hemorrhage, which could be mistaken for old infarction on CT. Foci of cystic change within the nidus of the AVM were equally evident on MR and CT. Due to its sensitivity in discriminating between AVM nidus and adjacent draining veins and MR's ability to show the AVM in three planes, MR appeared to be more accurate in defining the AVM nidus than either CT or cerebral angiography. Such accurate delineation is crucial in patients prior to stereotactic radiosurgery."}
{"id": "3430450", "title": "[Value of the angioscan in the etiological diagnosis of cerebromeningeal hemorrhage].", "content": "[Value of the angioscan in the etiological diagnosis of cerebromeningeal hemorrhage]. Etiologic diagnosis of cerebromeningeal hemorrhage was suspected on CT scan without contrast imaging as a function of distribution of cisternal hyperdensities and/or topography of intracerebral hematomas and/or distribution of parenchymatous hypodensities. It was established in 90% of cases by results of angioscan (type and site of vascular malformation causing the cerebromeningeal hemorrhage are defined with this percent exactitude). Cerebral arteriography provides indispensable precise morphologic data on the vascular malformation: exact site of aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation, orientation of the aneurysm and presence or absence of a collar. It is therefore irreplaceable and will be guided by data from the angio-CT scan."}
{"id": "3330209", "title": "[Usefulness of computerized tomography in the preoperative diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms].", "content": "[Usefulness of computerized tomography in the preoperative diagnosis of intracranial aneurysms]."}
{"id": "3318787", "title": "Strokes and ischaemic attacks.", "content": "Strokes and ischaemic attacks."}
{"id": "3310746", "title": "Systemic noninflammatory vasculopathy with prominent CNS involvement--a case report.", "content": "Systemic noninflammatory vasculopathy with prominent CNS involvement--a case report. This is a case report of a thirty-seven-year-old man with systemic noninflammatory vasculopathy who developed a slowly progressive dementia with multiple sites of stroke. Cerebral angiography revealed abnormal terminal vasculature with beading and occlusions. Brain biopsy confirmed a noninflammatory vascular pathology. We have also reviewed the world literature relevant to this clinicopathologic entity and have discussed its relationship to thromboangiitis obliterans cerebri."}
{"id": "3300046", "title": "[A hierarchy of findings within the scope of cerebrovascular diagnosis today].", "content": "[A hierarchy of findings within the scope of cerebrovascular diagnosis today]. Table 5 gives an overview as to the timing and indication for diagnostic methods and procedures in cerebro-vascular diseases. Anamnesis and clinical aspects have still leading position. After that, computer-tomography stands first in the diagnostic line, followed by angiography, indicated in the acute phase only in progressive stroke. More often it is used during rehabilitation period for indication towards extra-intracranial anastomosis. Sonography gives informations specially in the extracranial stenoses by duplex sonography. The EEG is still necessary in the early stage and for follow-ups. Cerebro spinal fluid analysis, intern medicine (mainly cardiology) examinations, give extra information and should not be skipped. Psychological exams and intracranial bloodflow-studies are used during rehabilitation. Digital angiography, with the possibility of postprocessing, is in comparison to conventional angiography, less invasive. Nuclear-magnetic-resonance with its fast development is taking now place in the clinical field. Cerebro-vascular patients should be treated in specialized centers where beside the equipment, an experienced team is available, which has required its knowledge on a high number of cases and where the cooperation between the different fields of conservative (intern and neurology) radiology and surgery is guaranteed. This paper however has tried to show the up-to-date-guidelines to the other medical specialties that handle cerebrovascular patients."}
{"id": "3120528", "title": "Nontraumatic lobar intracerebral hemorrhage: CT/angiographic correlation.", "content": "Nontraumatic lobar intracerebral hemorrhage: CT/angiographic correlation. Cerebral angiography in patients with nontraumatic lobar intracerebral hemorrhage may or may not uncover the underlying cause of the disorder. The CT and cerebral angiographic studies of 67 consecutive patients with nontraumatic lobar intracerebral hemorrhage were reviewed to assess the relationship between CT pattern and location of hemorrhage and the frequency of diagnostic angiographic findings. Origins of these hematomas were also determined and correlated with radiographic findings. CT revealed 26 temporal, 18 frontal, 17 parietal, three occipital, and three multiple lobar hematomas. Thirty-three patients had \"pure\" lobar hematomas, 12 had coexistent intraventricular hemorrhage, 12 had associated subarachnoid hemorrhage, and 10 had both intraventricular and subarachnoid hemorrhage accompanying their lobar hematomas. Angiographic findings were diagnostic in 29 cases (43%). In the presence of accompanying subarachnoid hemorrhage, angiographic findings were diagnostic in 17 (77%) of 22 patients; in its absence, angiography was diagnostic in 12 (27%) of the remaining 45 patients. Diagnostic angiograms were also more frequent in the presence of a frontal or temporal lobar hematoma than with a parietal or occipital lobar hematoma. While CT patterns do influence the frequency of diagnostic angiographic findings, cerebral angiography is recommended in all patients with otherwise unexplained nontraumatic lobar intracerebral hemorrhage."}
{"id": "3077270", "title": "Digital subtraction angiography (DSA): a neurosurgical perspective.", "content": "Digital subtraction angiography (DSA): a neurosurgical perspective. The purpose of this article is to review the contribution of DSA to neurosurgical practice and to outline its advantages and limitations compared to conventional film-screen angiography. DSA is a technique whereby electronic subtraction allows the near instantaneous demonstration of vascular anatomy essentially free of bony detail. Because DSA possesses a high degree of contrast sensitivity, arterial images can be produced after an intravenous injection of contrast medium as well as by selective arterial catheterisation."}
{"id": "2961755", "title": "CT, MRI, and angiography of venous angiomas: a comparative study.", "content": "CT, MRI, and angiography of venous angiomas: a comparative study. Seventeen venous angiomas in 16 patients were evaluated radiologically at the Montreal Neurological Hospital. Radiologic investigations included contrast-enhanced computed tomograms (CECT) in 15 patients, cerebral angiograms with a long venous phase study in 15, and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with a spin-echo pulse sequence technique in six. CECT revealed abnormalities including six nodular nonspecific enhancing lesions and nine enhanced draining veins, whereas plain CT revealed intracerebral hemorrhages in four patients and calcification in one. All the angiograms showed the characteristic pattern of venous angiomas consisting of medullary veins converging to a large draining vein during the late venous phase. All six patients examined by MR showed abnormal vascular structures; parenchymal hemorrhages were present in two patients. In five patients with venous angiomas, medullary veins converging to a large draining vein were demonstrated as echo-void curvilinear structures. In two patients, the increased signal from medullary veins in long echo delay sequences was suggestive of a slow venous flow rate. Demonstration of the venous nature of the malformation may, in the future, obviate the need for angiography."}
{"id": "2950690", "title": "[Combined lesions of the major arteries of the head (clinico-doppleroangiographic correlations)].", "content": "[Combined lesions of the major arteries of the head (clinico-doppleroangiographic correlations)]. Using Doppler ultrasonography (DUSG) under outpatient conditions multiple combined lesions of the main arteries of the head were found in 127 patients. Comparison of the above results with the findings of cerebral angiography showed a high efficiency of DUSG. In occlusion of the carotid and vertebral arteries the accuracy of the method was 99%, specificity 99%, sensitivity 100%; in stenoses of the internal carotid arteries the respective values were 88, 84, and 95%; in cases of all stenoses of the vertebral arteries they were 93, 92, and 94%. A comparative analysis of the clinical, Doppler and angiographic findings revealed that an increase in the frequency and degree of impairment of the main arteries of the head correlated with an elevated rate of cerebral circulation disorders in several vascular beds."}
{"id": "3962749", "title": "Unruptured intracranial aneurysms in polycystic kidney disease.", "content": "Unruptured intracranial aneurysms in polycystic kidney disease. To detect unruptured intracranial aneurysms, we performed cerebral angiography in five patients with polycystic kidney disease (PKD) who had no neurological deficits and no history of subarachnoid haemorrhage. Three of the five patients had unruptured intracranial aneurysms and two underwent surgery with no mortality or morbidity. Our review of the literature revealed that the surgical risk of unruptured intracranial aneurysms is smaller than the risk of bleeding in conservatively treated patients. We discuss the importance of an early diagnosis, and early operation for unruptured aneurysms in patients with polycystic kidney disease and stress the need for intensive care for their renal dysfunction and hypertension during and after the operation."}
{"id": "3944523", "title": "[The brain scan and cervical artery lesions. Correlations: clinical-arteriographic-scanning].", "content": "[The brain scan and cervical artery lesions. Correlations: clinical-arteriographic-scanning]. Cerebral angiography and CT brain scan are performed on a group of 174 patients (28 asymptomatic patients; 109 patients with symptoms of stroke in relation with a clinically defined vascular territory; 37 patients with symptoms in relation with a clinically uncertain vascular territory). Angiographic findings are: cervical artery lesions in 143 patients, brain artery lesions in 6 patients, both extra and intra cranial artery lesions in 22 patients, and non atheromatous artery lesions in 3 patients. CT brain scan shows: hypodensity in 19 cases, hyperdensity in 1 case, cortical and/or sub cortical atrophy in 141 cases. Only 13 patients have normal CT brain scan. Authors also note: 4 infarction areas in asymptomatic patients and only 4 hypodensities out of 21 cases of internal carotid artery occlusion. Ulcerated cervical artery lesions seem to be the main cause (73%) of cerebral infarction."}
{"id": "3941339", "title": "Cerebral venous thrombosis due to high-altitude polycythemia. Case report.", "content": "Cerebral venous thrombosis due to high-altitude polycythemia. Case report. A case of cerebral venous thrombosis due to polycythemia secondary to adaptation to a high altitude is reported. A 27-year-old previously healthy man developed severe neurological symptoms after climbing 8511 m. Computerized tomography and cerebral angiography suggested hemorrhagic infarction or intratumoral hemorrhage, and a craniotomy was performed. Pathological examination confirmed the diagnosis of hemorrhagic infarction secondary to cortical venous thrombosis. The etiology and incidence of cerebral venous thrombosis secondary to polycythemia are discussed."}
{"id": "3808231", "title": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage with normal cerebral angiography: a prospective study on sellar abnormalities and pituitary function.", "content": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage with normal cerebral angiography: a prospective study on sellar abnormalities and pituitary function. Ten consecutive patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) of unknown cause were examined for sellar abnormalities and pituitary dysfunction. The diagnosis of SAH rested on a typical history and the demonstration of blood in the cerebrospinal fluid (computed tomography (CT), lumbar puncture). Initial CT and four-vessel angiography were performed in all patients, and five had repeat angiography. Endocrinological assessment was done after the initial angiography, and abnormal findings from this first study were reassessed 3 months later. The follow-up study included a high resolution CT scan of the sellar region. One patient had panhypopituitarism. Insufficient growth hormone secretion alone or combined with a low plasma concentration of estradiol or testosterone was found in another seven patients. The sella was ballooned or enlarged in three patients, and four patients had at follow-up a partly empty sella. A spontaneous development of a partly empty sella from an adenoma with suprasellar extension was observed in the patient with panhypopituitarism. This patient had experienced pituitary apoplexy with resulting SAH. Based on sellar enlargement, an empty sella, and pituitary dysfunction, this pathogenesis was suggested in another three patients. Our findings suggest that hemorrhagic necrosis in a pituitary adenoma may be an important cause of SAH with normal angiography."}
{"id": "3808202", "title": "[A case of chronic subdural hematoma associated with an unruptured cerebral aneurysm detected by cerebral computed angiotomography].", "content": "[A case of chronic subdural hematoma associated with an unruptured cerebral aneurysm detected by cerebral computed angiotomography]. One case of chronic subdural hematoma associated with an unruptured cerebral aneurysm detected by cerebral computed angiotomography is reported. A 44-year-old female slipped and hit her head without loss of consciousness, one month ago. Recently she complained of headaches and visited the department of Neurosurgery, Washokai Sadamoto Hospital on May 21, 1985. There were no physical and neurological signs on examination. Plain CT scans showed a crescent-shaped high density area in the left frontal region with a slight mass sign. She was diagnosed as having a possible chronic subdural hematoma and further examination was recommended. Biplane ultrafast overlapping cerebral computed angiotomograms clearly demonstrated a so-called avascular area delineated by enhanced superficial cerebral vessels with contrast medium. Furthermore, a marked high density mass measuring 8 mm X 10 mm X 6 mm in diameters was simultaneously demonstrated around the right anterior clinoid process on the same image, suggesting a cerebral aneurysm. Right carotid angiograms showed a right internal carotid-posterior communicating junction aneurysm. The irrigation of the left chronic subdural hematoma was carried out on May 24 and the neck clipping of the right IC-PC junction aneurysm was done two weeks later. During the operation, there were no findings suggesting a previous subarachnoid hemorrhage from the aneurysm, but a bleb was found on the aneurysm. The post-operative course was uneventful. Since the introduction of the CT scanner, chronic subdural hematomas are usually operated without cerebral angiograms.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3808196", "title": "[Operated case of cerebral venous angioma with early venous filling on cerebral angiography--case report].", "content": "[Operated case of cerebral venous angioma with early venous filling on cerebral angiography--case report]. A 34-year-old woman had a generalized convulsion of sudden onset on April 30, 1985. The next day, she suffered a reattack of generalized convulsion. She was admitted to Kokura Memorial Hospital on May 13, 1985, and was found to have intracerebral hemorrhage on CT-scan then, underwent surgical procedure. Based on cerebral angiographic findings and histological examination, the diagnosis of cerebral venous angioma was done. Cerebral venous angioma is a relatively rare vascular malformation. Its characteristic angiographic findings are a normal arterial phase and a local network of small vein that converged centrally into a single large vein. However, this present case of venous angioma in the left frontal lobe with hematoma showed not only characteristically enlarged medurally vein, but also early venous filling. The literature of operated venous angioma with early venous filling of the brain are reviewed and discussed."}
{"id": "3808168", "title": "[Should the aneurysms of Osler's disease be investigated and operated on prior to hemorrhage?].", "content": "[Should the aneurysms of Osler's disease be investigated and operated on prior to hemorrhage?]. Neurologic accidents are today the first cause of mortality following bacterial endocarditis through ischemia or mycotic aneurysm rupture. Authors propose a protocol management by complete cerebral angiography and CT scan as soon as the least neurologic sign appears. A headache is the most frequent of these signs. 35 patients were explored during 3 years and 10 treated surgically. These authors conclude that: mycotic aneurysm must be detected aneurysm with subarachnoid haemorrhage must be operated on as soon as possible. With unruptured aneurysm, surgical decision is more difficult: sequential angiography after excision of the most dangerous aneurysm, demonstrates that an aneurysm can appear, enlarge, diminish or spontaneously resolve. Carrying on with this protocol should allow an answer to this question."}
{"id": "3785567", "title": "[A case of systemic lupus erythematosus associated with multiple intracranial aneurysms].", "content": "[A case of systemic lupus erythematosus associated with multiple intracranial aneurysms]. The author reports a case of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with multiple intracranial aneurysms and subarachnoid hemorrhage. A 31-year-old woman was admitted to the department of internal medicine of Shizuoka General Hospital for the treatment of nephrotic syndrome due to systemic lupus erythematosus on 1984. She spend an uneventful life until April, 1985 when she suddenly complained of severe headache and nausea. The computed tomographic scan revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage and the cerebral angiography showed multiple intracranial aneurysms and stenotic lesion. A review of the literature was made to clarify the incidence, the pathological change, and the prognosis of systemic lupus erythematosus with subarachnoid hemorrhage. The incidence of subarachnoid hemorrhage in SLE was about two percent in the reported clinical cases. The mechanisms of the subarachnoid hemorrhage and the aneurysmal formation in SLE seemed to be due to angitic changes, which involved the vessels of the whole body systematically. The exact prognosis of SLE with subarachnoid hemorrhage is difficult to say, but it seems to be unfortunately poor due to multiplicity of the lesion and the difficulty of its treatment."}
{"id": "3780266", "title": "Cerebral venous angioma of the pons: report of a case with pontine hemorrhage.", "content": "Cerebral venous angioma of the pons: report of a case with pontine hemorrhage. Cerebral venous angioma in the pons associated with pontine hemorrhage in a 39-year-old normotensive woman was identified with computed tomography and angiography. Venous angioma in the brain stem is usually silent and rarely found by chance at autopsy. Only a few cases have been clinically reported. Our report indicates that in unusual cases of intracerebral hemorrhage, vascular malformations should be suspected and scrutinized with radiologic examination including angiography."}
{"id": "3768186", "title": "[A case of polyradiculoneuropathy associated with diffuse arterial narrowing].", "content": "[A case of polyradiculoneuropathy associated with diffuse arterial narrowing]. A 32-year-old female was admitted complaining of pain over the whole body and dysesthesia in all extremities. On admission, physical examination revealed hypertension, tachycardia, abdominal distension and urinary retention. Neurological examination revealed sensory impairment over the whole body and mild muscular weakness with absent deep tendon reflexes. Abdominal roentgenogram showed gaseous distension of the bowels. CT scans showed low density areas on the bilateral parieto-occipital lobes. CAG showed diffuse narrowing of the cerebral arteries. Laboratory examinations showed an albumino-cytologic dissociation (cells; 21/3mm, prot.; 78 mg/dl) of the cerebrospinal fluid and increased levels of norepinephrine (214 micrograms/day) and epinephrine (16.1 micrograms/day) in the urine. Motor nerve conduction velocities of the median nerves was 42.8 m/sec in the right and 50.0 m/sec in the left. The autonomic function tests revealed hyper-responsiveness to 10 mg of phentolamine and low baroreflex sensitivity. Within 2 months, most symptoms improved. Repeated CT scans showed no abnormality, while CAG showed only mild arterial narrowing. This case was diagnosed as having acute autonomic and sensory neuropathy which was a subtype of acute polyradiculoneuritis. Occult encephalitis or autonomic dysfunction was considered to contribute to the peculiar findings on CT and CAG."}
{"id": "3764957", "title": "Primary intraventricular hemorrhage in adults.", "content": "Primary intraventricular hemorrhage in adults. Five adults with primary intraventricular hemorrhage are described. The presenting features included headache, confusion and drowsiness. Focal neurological signs were minimal or absent. All five had a history of hypertension, three patients had bilateral internal carotid occlusion at its origin, one had unilateral occlusion of the left internal carotid artery with severe stenosis of the contralateral siphon. Unilateral occlusion of the middle cerebral artery were present in the fifth patient. Pathological examination of the brain from one patient showed the presence of severe hemorrhagic \"lacunar\" infarcts adjacent to the left lateral ventricle, one showing direct continuity of blood in the lacune with the massive intraventricular hematoma. We hypothesize that such a finding illustrates one possible mechanism for this unusual type of hemorrhage. Patients with longstanding hypertension and severe occlusive disease of the internal carotid arteries may be predisposed to this unusual complication."}
{"id": "3762861", "title": "[Cystic meningioma associated with intratumor and subarachnoid hemorrhage during embolization--a case report].", "content": "[Cystic meningioma associated with intratumor and subarachnoid hemorrhage during embolization--a case report]. We present a case of a cystic meningioma accompanied with hemorrhage in a cyst and adjacent subarachnoid space that occurred while preoperative embolization in feeders for the tumor was being applied. A 73-year-old male patient was admitted for a complaint of convulsion. Under CT examination, a tumor was observed at the left frontal convexity and found to be fed by the middle cerebral artery shown in the left cerebral angiograms. The tumor was diagnosed meningioma. After removing the tumor, we conducted histological study. Gross findings of its cross section had an atypical bleeding pattern which was resulted from the ruptures of the criss-crossing internal and external carotid arteries in the tumor. The findings indicated that the tumor was an angiomatous meningioma and contained meningotheliomatous components. The hemorrhage was occurred in the portion of the angiomatous meningioma. The possible reason for the hemorrhage was thought that sudden dynamic changes in blood flow which were triggered by the embolization. The sudden changes could have caused multiple ruptures on pathologic small vessels. Therefore, we strongly recommend that preoperative embolization should be proceeded with caution for exercising a cyst meningioma, since it could increase the possibility of bleeding from pathologic weak vessels."}
{"id": "3748295", "title": "[A case of aneurysm at the junction of the vertebral artery and a spinal arterial branch].", "content": "[A case of aneurysm at the junction of the vertebral artery and a spinal arterial branch]. A 68-year-old male suffered from severe occipitalgia, nausea, and vomiting was admitted to our hospital. On admission, he complained only of headache and displayed no evidence of disturbed consciousness or neurological deficits. A computed tomographic (CT) scan revealed a subarachnoid hemorrhage in the basal subarachnoid cisterns, with the thickest, densest area in the bilateral ambient cisterns. Four-vessel angiograms disclosed no pathological findings. The patient was treated with bed rest and his blood pressure was maintained below 120 mmHg. Fortunately, no untoward events occurred during the period of bed rest, and a second vertebral angiogram was obtained 4 weeks after admission. At that time a vertebral artery aneurysm was discovered. At surgery a 3 X 3 X 3 mm aneurysm was found at the junction of the vertebral artery and a branch of the spinal artery. Small clots surrounding the aneurysm were removed. The aneurysm itself was easily clipped without destruction of the caudal cranial nerves and the patient recovered fully. The incidence of vertebral artery aneurysms is very small--about 5%. Moreover, to our knowledge an aneurysm on the proximal portion of the intracranial vertebral artery at the junction of the posterior-inferior cerebellar artery has never before been reported. On the other hand, our case might have been included among cases of subarachnoid hemorrhage of unknown etiology. The first cerebral angiogram revealed no aneurysm; it was found on the second set of angiograms. This case illustrates the importance of repeat angiography when the CT scan clearly shows a subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "3735529", "title": "Computerized tomographic staging of renal trauma: 85 consecutive cases.", "content": "Computerized tomographic staging of renal trauma: 85 consecutive cases. In 85 patients with renal trauma we compared the findings on computerized tomography with those of excretory urography, renal surgery, intra-abdominal surgery and angiography. Patients underwent computerized tomography because of a suspected associated thoracic or abdominal injury, or indeterminate findings on excretory urography, nephrotomography or angiography. Blunt trauma accounted for 87.1 per cent of the renal injuries and penetrating trauma for 12.9 per cent. The most common findings on computerized tomography were perirenal hematoma in 29.4 per cent, intrarenal hematoma in 24.7 per cent and parenchymal disruption in 17.6 per cent. In 33 patients who underwent laparotomy computerized tomographic staging was confirmed. In contrast, the most common finding on excretory urography, diminished opacification (17 of 53 patients), was found to have no correlation with the severity of renal injury as assessed by computerized tomography or laparotomy. Angiography appreciably understaged 1 of 5 cases by failing to show extracapsular extravasation with parenchymal disruption. All findings on angiography were depicted by computerized tomography. We conclude that computerized tomographic staging for renal trauma is more sensitive and specific than excretory urography, nephrotomography and angiography, and that it should be used primarily when multiple traumatic injuries are suspected, when excretory urography suggests major trauma or is nonspecific and when clinical evidence of major trauma exists, regardless of what excretory urography shows."}
{"id": "3731170", "title": "Benign cerebellar hematomas in children.", "content": "Benign cerebellar hematomas in children. Cerebellar hematoma is generally regarded as a rapidly progressive condition which necessitates prompt evacuation in most cases. Unlike adults, where hypertension is the most common etiological factor, children generally have underlying structural lesions (angiomas, tumors) that per se demand surgical intervention. While several reports describe nonsurgical management of cerebellar hematomas in adults, the spontaneous resolution of juvenile cerebellar hematomas is almost unknown. This paper describes a 16-year-old boy with a cerebellar hematoma of obscure etiology that was managed conservatively. This report indicates that nonsurgical treatment of cerebellar hematomas, once structural lesions have been excluded, may be attempted in neurologically stable children."}
{"id": "3725148", "title": "[Spontaneous cerebral hematomas. Treatment and follow-up studies].", "content": "[Spontaneous cerebral hematomas. Treatment and follow-up studies]. How to manage spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage has been in the past years a subject open to discussion. The therapeutic approach, medical or surgical, has constituted a question of debate for the neurosurgeon. The most recent experience, however, attempts to establish the clinical and neuroradiological criteria for medical treatment and clarify the indications, as well as the limitations of surgical treatment. The Authors present 84 cases of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage studied by both CT scan and cerebral angiography (October 1980-April 1985). The acute mortality of intracerebral hemorrhage was 17.8%. Determinant for the immediate prognosis was the level of consciousness and the volume of the hematoma. At follow-up, at a median of 3 years after intracerebral hemorrhage, total mortality was 30.9% and 48% had returned work."}
{"id": "3725143", "title": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by cerebral arteriovenous malformations. Importance of neuroradiological studies].", "content": "[Subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by cerebral arteriovenous malformations. Importance of neuroradiological studies]. The role of skull X-rays, CT scan with and without intravenous contrast enhancement, angiography, digital subtraction angiography and magnetic resonance imaging in the morphological and topographical evaluation of arteriovenous malformation are analyzed and discussed. The literature on this subject is critically reviewed. Venous angioma, cavernoma, dural fistula and arteriovenous malformation with no angiographical evidence, are examined with special attention."}
{"id": "3725139", "title": "[Acute cerebral hemorrhage in childhood. Neuroradiological studies].", "content": "[Acute cerebral hemorrhage in childhood. Neuroradiological studies]. Author presents a ten-year experience in cerebral hemorrhages in infancy and childhood. The importance of congenital vascular malformations is specially remarked and it is also lined out the importance of cerebral hemorrhages due to head injuries, inflammatory process, hemopathies and brain tumors. Neuroradiological procedures are briefly described and the utility of the association computed tomography/cerebral angiography is pointed out. It is too presented a neuroradiological classification of cerebrovascular malformations."}
{"id": "3724974", "title": "[Multiple giant aneurysm--a case report].", "content": "[Multiple giant aneurysm--a case report]. We report a case of five aneurysms, including three giant aneurysms, a pair of symmetric aneurysms, and two fusiform aneurysms. The initial clinical symptom was a cerebral ischemic attack. On admission, the patient complained of sudden onset of speech disturbance. Physical examination showed left hemiparesis. Radiological studies, including computed tomography and cerebral arteriography, revealed multiple low density areas bilaterally in the basal ganglia and three fusiform giant aneurysms bilaterally in the middle cerebral arteries and basilar artery. Considering the difficulty of surgical treatment, the patient was discharged. Six months later, complaining of right hemiparesis and total dysphasia, the patient was readmitted to our department. CT scan on admission revealed no changes except for ischemic changes. During the second admission, another attack of subarachnoidal hemorrhage due to rupture of the left middle cerebral artery aneurysm occurred, and the patient died. Autopsy was performed, and two more aneurysms, not visualized in the former studies, were found in the right anterior communicating artery and the cortical branch of the right middle cerebral artery. The occurrence of aneurysms in such a fashion as seen in the present case is to be very rare in the aspect of the size, the multiplicity and the bilaterally development."}
{"id": "3707772", "title": "[Hemodilutional therapy in raised intracranial pressure; observations in a case of cerebral infarction associated with polycythemia vera].", "content": "[Hemodilutional therapy in raised intracranial pressure; observations in a case of cerebral infarction associated with polycythemia vera]. A 36-year-old man presented with sudden onset of hemorrhagic cerebral infarction in association with polycythemia vera. On admission this patient manifested semicomatous state and left hemiplegia which were gradually progressed. X ray CT demonstrated a severe hemorrhagic infarction in right MCA territory accompanying marked shift of midline structures. Cerebral angiograms represented occlusion of right MCA showing floating emboli in the internal carotid. Hematocrit value was found to be high as 61.2 per cent. Elevated ICP levels were noted by means of epidural pressure monitoring. Deterioration of patient status was considered to be based on impairment of cerebral circulation due to hemostasis by elevated blood viscosity. In addition to administration of mannitol solution, intermittent exsanguinations, 1000 ml in total amount, were performed and hematocrit levels were corrected by hemodilution. Consciousness level was remarkably improved in accordance with reduction of ICP, which well corresponded to values of hematocrit. Level of ICP and tissue perfusion are convinced to be strongly affected by hemorheological factor in the state of raised ICP."}
{"id": "3700087", "title": "Clinical features of stroke in migraine: a review.", "content": "Clinical features of stroke in migraine: a review."}
{"id": "3598117", "title": "Ischemic strokes in children.", "content": "Ischemic strokes in children. Of 44 infants and children (neonates excluded) with ischemic strokes of arterial origin documented by CT scan and/or cerebral angiography, idiopathic strokes, occurring in 22 cases, accounted for half the total. Eight of these patients had basal ganglia and/or capsular infarcts without cortical involvement. The outcome in the idiopathic group was favorable: after an average follow-up duration of 48 months, no child had recurrence, two children developed secondary epilepsy, and only two were severely mentally retarded. However, residual dystonia and dyskinesia constituted an incapacitating handicap, having been observed in 14 children of the idiopathic group and in 18 of the whole series. It may be concluded from the present study that the long-term prognosis of ischemic strokes in children is excellent except for the risk of secondary evolutive dystonia in the absence of any detectable cause."}
{"id": "3587479", "title": "[Stenosis of the posterior cerebral artery (P1) discovered at the time of a meningeal hemorrhage and simulating an arterial aneurysm].", "content": "[Stenosis of the posterior cerebral artery (P1) discovered at the time of a meningeal hemorrhage and simulating an arterial aneurysm]. A case is reported, in which a patient 54 years old, was admitted after a SAH. The CT Scan (D1) demonstrated blood in the peri-peduncular cisterns. A first angiogram through femoral route was performed at D1. There was no vascular malformation on both carotid territories. An arterial ectasia was demonstrated on the basilar artery, arising at the origin of the left superior cerebellar artery. The left posterior cerebral artery was supplied only by the left carotid artery through a dilated posterior communicating artery. A second left vertebral angiogram was performed at D8, to make sure whether this ectasia was an aneurysm or a non aneurysmal dysplasia, but failed to provide certainty. The patient was operated upon at D17, with the diagnosis of possible aneurysm at the origin of the left superior cerebellar artery. Through a pterional route the posterior communicating artery was approached, no blood was found in the area of the upper basilar artery; there was an abnormal posterior circle of Willis, the superior cerebellar artery arising with a common trunk from the upper basilar artery; distal to this common trunk, the P1 segment was normal on the first three fourths of its course; the last fourth of the P1 segment was highly narrowed, the outer diameter of the narrowed P1 segment was approximately one third of the normal P1 segment, and was located at the junction with the complex posterior communicating artery-P2 segment. This narrowed part of the P1 segment showed evidence of an atheromatous plaque on its wall. No aneurysm was found in this area.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3532436", "title": "Transcranial Doppler in cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Transcranial Doppler in cerebrovascular disease. Doppler analysis of flow in intracranial arteries is now possible using a 2 MHz probe allowing sufficient penetration of bone to obtain signals noninvasively. Thirty-two normal subjects, and 11 patients with cerebrovascular diseases including vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage, middle cerebral artery stenosis, and extracranial internal carotid artery stenosis were studied by transcranial Doppler. Increased peak velocity and spectral broadening of the reflected signal corresponded to clinical and angiographic evidence of middle cerebral artery vasospasm or stenosis. Decreased peak velocity and blunted waveforms occurred in the middle cerebral artery ipsilateral to severe extracranial internal carotid stenosis with poor crossfilling from the contralateral carotid artery. Abnormalities resolved following carotid endarterectomy. Transcranial Doppler identifies vasospasm or stenosis of the middle cerebral artery and may allow noninvasive evaluation of collateral flow across the anterior circle of Willis in patients with extracranial carotid artery stenosis."}
{"id": "3525871", "title": "The role of intravenous digital subtraction angiography in the evaluation of extracranial carotid artery disease. Can the decision for carotid artery surgery be made solely on the basis of its findings?", "content": "The role of intravenous digital subtraction angiography in the evaluation of extracranial carotid artery disease. Can the decision for carotid artery surgery be made solely on the basis of its findings? This retrospective study compared intravenous digital subtraction angiography (IV-DSA) with conventional catheter angiography (CA) performed on 105 patients with suspected cerebrovascular disease. Comparisons were made considering CA as the \"gold standard.\" Factors reviewed for correlation included carotid artery stenosis, ulceration, fibromuscular disease, vessel occlusion, and subclavian and intracranial lesions. Each IV-DSA was judged as to its quality. Eighty-seven patients (83%) had interpretable IV-DSA studies. IV-DSA differed from CA regarding stenosis on 46 carotid arteries (26%). Of 47 excellent quality IV-DSA studies, 18 (38%) were in disagreement with CA regarding stenosis. For the subcategory of patients having hemodynamically significant stenosis (greater than 50% luminal narrowing) according to CA, the sensitivity of IV-DSA was 85%. Specificity was 94% with an overall accuracy rate of 92%. The authors believe these high values are somewhat misleading. The IV-DSA interpretation of stenosis differed from CA in 32 of 48 patients (67%) in this group with a mean difference of 30%. IV-DSA identified 3 of 11 intracranial lesions (27%). Surgical therapy was modified in 13 of 87 patients (15%) on the basis of angiographic interpretation of carotid artery stenosis compared with IV-DSA. We conclude that IV-DSA should be used as a screening tool and the decision for carotid artery surgery made solely on its findings should be reached with the knowledge of its limitations and that any patient with hemispheric cerebral symptoms warrants CA as the first diagnostic examination."}
{"id": "3520375", "title": "Current neuroradiological investigation of spontaneous hemorrhage into the craniospinal axis.", "content": "Current neuroradiological investigation of spontaneous hemorrhage into the craniospinal axis. Increasing experience-based statistical knowledge, expertise, and technical advancements in recent years have all contributed to the facility of investigations into the cause of spontaneous neuraxis hemorrhage. The sum of the neuroradiological evaluation has become increasingly more straightforward, simpler to execute, more informative, and safer to perform. Methods of investigation include the traditional forms of radiography such as skull roentgenography and conventional anteriography. However, the contribution of high resolution computed tomography, dynamic computed tomography, and venous and arterial digital subtraction angiography has been largely responsible for the progress in this complicated area of radiological diagnosis. The future advancement of radiological evaluation in patients with craniospinal hemorrhage will lie in the technical improvements of current imaging systems, as well as in the further development and refinement of new techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "3515980", "title": "Fibromuscular dysplasia of the carotid arteries.", "content": "Fibromuscular dysplasia of the carotid arteries. Fibromuscular disease of the carotid artery was identified in 30 patients, which represented 3.2 percent of all patients who had cerebral angiography at Brooke Army Medical Center in the 6 year period from 1978 to 1984. Focal neurologic events were the presenting symptoms in 63 percent of the patients. The majority of the patients were treated with antiplatelet therapy, and eight patients had a total of 10 carotid artery dilatations. The only patients with recurrent symptoms were those who received either no treatment or antiplatelet therapy. There were no recurrent symptoms in the operated patients. This study suggests that surgical treatment for the symptomatic patient may prevent recurrent symptoms with an acceptably low morbidity and mortality. There was, however, no indication that prophylactic dilation of the fibromuscular disease in the asymptomatic patient was beneficial. Fibromuscular dysplasia of the carotid arteries is often associated with intracranial aneurysms, and surgical therapy rather than antiplatelet therapy may be advisable in patients who have intracranial aneurysms. Patients with concomitant atherosclerosis of the carotid artery bifurcation should be treated like any patient with atherosclerotic disease and an endarterectomy should be performed with carotid dilatation when indicated. Fibromuscular disease of the carotid artery is an infrequent angiographic finding that is associated with focal and global neurologic symptoms. Most patients can be effectively treated with antiplatelet drugs with no recurrent symptoms, however, for persistent or progressive symptoms, some patients will require surgical dilatation of the carotid artery. Fibromuscular disease of the carotid artery may lead to catastrophic symptoms of stroke or intracranial hemorrhage if left undiagnosed or untreated."}
{"id": "3489933", "title": "Diagnostic neuroimaging in stroke. The complementary roles of referring physician and neuroradiologist.", "content": "Diagnostic neuroimaging in stroke. The complementary roles of referring physician and neuroradiologist. The number and sophistication of neuroimaging methods for identifying location, size, type, and causes of stroke or stroke-like syndromes have expanded rapidly. In acute stroke, computed tomography is used to distinguish between nonhemorrhagic and hemorrhagic infarction and to eliminate several potential alternative diagnoses. Cerebral angiography can identify surgically treatable lesions in patients experiencing transient ischemic attacks and thus aid in preventing stroke. The superb sensitivity of magnetic resonance imaging has opened new vistas in the ongoing investigation of multiinfarct dementia and small infarcts in neurologically \"noneloquent\" regions of the brain. The more complete the referring physician's clinical and neurologic workup, the more able is the neuroradiologist to structure and coordinate the safest, fastest, and most cost-effective plan of neuroimaging to diagnose a patient's neurologic problem."}
{"id": "3098068", "title": "MR and CT investigation of cerebrovascular disease in sickle cell patients.", "content": "MR and CT investigation of cerebrovascular disease in sickle cell patients. Stroke is a common complication of sickle cell disease. Using MR and CT, we studied 10 patients with sickle cell disease and a history of stroke and compared these findings with those of 10 sickle cell patients without stroke. The purpose was to determine if MR could visualize the large vessel vasculopathy previously seen on angiography and to estimate the incidence of asymptomatic abnormalities in the nonstroke group. MR consistently demonstrated the major intracranial arteries and showed three cases with occlusion and three with stenosis of either the internal carotid or middle cerebral arteries. Infarctions were better delineated on MR but were also seen on CT. Seven cases with and two without stroke had high-signal white matter lesions on MR. Further research using cranial MR to develop noninvasive means of identifying sickle cell patients at risk for stroke is warranted."}
{"id": "2980426", "title": "Focal recurrent hemorrhage on magnetic resonance at 0.5 tesla. An aid to the diagnosis of cryptic cerebral vascular malformations.", "content": "Focal recurrent hemorrhage on magnetic resonance at 0.5 tesla. An aid to the diagnosis of cryptic cerebral vascular malformations. The MR appearance of focal recurrent hemorrhage is characteristic and highly suggestive of an underlying cryptic vascular malformation. We reviewed the MR findings in 14 cases (3 biopsy proven), 9 in the brainstem and 5 supratentorial. CT in all cases demonstrated the lesion to be hyperdense before contrast with minimal to moderate enhancement post contrast. The angiograms were negative in all 14 cases demonstrating mass effect in some but no blush or neovascularity. MR showed focal hyperintensities on both short (T1) and long (T2) TR sequences surrounded by a well-circumscribed hypointense rim particularly on the long TR sequence. Focal central hyperintensity is felt to be secondary to the presence of methemoglobin and indicates relatively recent hemorrhage. In our experience hyperintensity in a solitary hemorrhage usually resolves in 4-6 weeks. In 8 cases serial MR studies over 2-3 years demonstrated evidence of repeated hemorrhage as manifested by increases in size and persistent or new hyperintensity. The intense rim due to a short T2 did not correlate with vessels angiographically nor with calcification on the pre-contrast CT and, therefore, does not represent the vascular malformation itself but rather some portion of the hematoma, possibly the hemosiderin laden capsule. Using CT and angiography alone it is difficult to differentiate cryptic arteriovenous malformations from a neoplasm particularly in the brainstem. MR's specific configuration of focal recurrent hemorrhage can make a more definitive diagnosis at 0.5 T as well as at 1.5 T."}
{"id": "2938891", "title": "Cerebrovascular ultrasound, Doppler and B-mode techniques.", "content": "Cerebrovascular ultrasound, Doppler and B-mode techniques."}
{"id": "2424544", "title": "Cortical hypoperfusion as a possible cause of 'subcortical aphasia'.", "content": "Cortical hypoperfusion as a possible cause of 'subcortical aphasia'. This study was designed to investigate whether aphasia in stroke patients with subcortical lesions ('subcortical aphasia') was due to the subcortical lesion itself or to dysfunction of cortical language zones. A consecutive series of 25 right-handed stroke patients with left hemisphere lesions verified by CT scanning were examined for aphasia in the acute stage, and two weeks, three months and six months after the insult. Cerebral angiography, CT scan and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measurements with the 133Xe intracarotid method were performed in the acute stage. The CT scan was repeated six months later. Seven patients had lesions which involved cortical structures. All of these were severely aphasic in the acute stage and six months later. The rCBF studies showed severe reduction of flow in the infarcts; the perfusion was incompatible with tissue viability. Eighteen patients had subcortical lesions. Eight of these were midly to severely aphasic in the acute state. Recovery was always excellent. Five patients recovered completely, while 3 showed only discrete (clinically undetectable) aphasia after six months. The rCBF demonstrated low-flow areas in the cortex overlying the deep lesions, with a blood flow which was sufficient for tissue viability, but insufficient for normal tissue function (an 'ischaemic penumbra'). The blood flow was pressure dependent (showing impaired autoregulation) in these low flow areas. Ten patients with subcortical lesions were not aphasic. Their CBF was normal. The subcortical lesions were permanent on CT scan while aphasia was transient in these patients as recovery was seen within three months. It was therefore unlikely that the subcortical lesions as such were the cause of aphasia. The present findings indicate that aphasia in patients with subcortical lesions may be due to hypoperfusion and functional loss in cortical language zones. The cortical low-flow areas were invariably confined to occluded vascular territories. These territories were kept viable by collateral circulation characterized by penumbral flow and impaired autoregulation. The patients showed excellent recovery from aphasia. We suggest that the recovery of language is caused by spontaneous arterial recanalization or expansion of collaterals, giving rise to enhancement of flow in the hypoperfused cortical penumbra."}
{"id": "4089926", "title": "Value of cardiac monitoring and echocardiography in TIA and stroke patients.", "content": "Value of cardiac monitoring and echocardiography in TIA and stroke patients. One hundred and eighty-four consecutive patients admitted to an Investigative Stroke Unit with transient ischemic attacks (TIA) and cerebral infarction (stroke) had 48-hour automated arrhythmia monitoring, 55 patients had additional Holter monitoring and 127 patients had 2-D echocardiography. One hundred and sixteen presented with stroke (63%) and 68 patients with TIA (37%). One hundred and twenty-two were men (66.3%) and 62 were women (33.7%), mean age 63.5 years, range 25-86. The monitoring identified twelve (6.5%) patients with significant arrhythmias undetected by history, examination and admission electrocardiogram: six with atrial fibrillation (AF), four with 2 degrees heart block type Mobitz II and one each with 3 degrees heart block and sick sinus syndrome. Two-D echocardiography showed a previously unknown potential source for cardiac emboli in 22 patients (17.3%): segmental ventricular disease in eleven, mitral valve prolapse in seven, left ventricular thrombus in six, left ventricular aneurysm in three and one each with mitral valve endocarditis and global myocardial dysfunction. Only the mitral valve findings were expected on the basis of a previous M-mode echocardiographic study carried out in our city on healthy elderly volunteers. From the clinical history and all cardiac investigations, we found 59 patients (32%) with a possible cardiac source for cerebral emboli. After cerebral angiography, 29 of these 59 patients also showed a vascular lesion in the appropriate carotid artery and we could not decide definitely which lesion was responsible for the cerebral embolus. In the remaining 30 patients (16.4%), the evidence implicated the heart as the most likely source.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "4089922", "title": "Vertebral artery injury and cerebellar stroke while swimming: case report.", "content": "Vertebral artery injury and cerebellar stroke while swimming: case report. A twenty-five year old woman suffered the acute onset of dysequilibrium followed by headache, nausea, vomiting, vertigo, and slurred speech while swimming. Brain imaging revealed a right cerebellar infarct. Intravenous digital subtraction angiography showed a hypoplastic right vertebral artery and focal narrowing of the dominant left vertebral at the level of the C1-C2 junction. The patient was treated with aspirin and dipyridamole and immobilized for two weeks. She achieved almost complete recovery. Repeat angiography showed resolution of the left vertebral artery defect. Other cases of posterior circulation infarction associated with head turning during sports and ordinary activities are reviewed."}
{"id": "4089165", "title": "[Can transcranial Doppler sonography replace cerebral angiography?].", "content": "[Can transcranial Doppler sonography replace cerebral angiography?]. Transcranial Doppler ultrasound is a noninvasive method of recording the flow velocity of larger intracranial vessels. The impact on diagnosis of cerebravascular occlusive disease is not yet evaluated. We present 15 patients, age range 39-73 years, who suffered from completed stroke. The findings of transcranial Doppler ultrasound and of cerebral angiography are presented. The value of both methods in treatment strategy is discussed."}
{"id": "4088398", "title": "[Intracerebral cavernous angiomas].", "content": "[Intracerebral cavernous angiomas]. 8 cases of cavernous haemangiomas operated and histologically proven are presented. 5 patients (5/8) were admitted because of epileptic seizures, one patient (1/8) because of pure headache, another one because of a focal neurological defect and the last because of intracranial hypertension. Computed axial tomography is a sensitive procedure for detection of cavernomas. Of 7 cases examined by this technique, 7 (7/7) have shown a well circumscribed round or oval hyperdense nodule, with calcifications in 6/7 cases, a slight surrounding oedema in 3/7 cases and without mass effect, except if there is a visible hematoma at operation (2/8). After contrast administration, 5/7 malformations were enhanced and 2/7 displayed draining veins, a fact that we underline. The differential diagnosis includes a low grade calcified glioma, a thrombosed arterio-venous malformation, a venous angioma or an intracerebral hematoma. Surgical excision is the best treatment of these vascular malformations that bleed frequently, and improved all the patients in this series (8/8)."}
{"id": "4088395", "title": "[Diffuse intracranial arterectasias: megadolichocarotids, megadolichovertebrals].", "content": "[Diffuse intracranial arterectasias: megadolichocarotids, megadolichovertebrals]. Intracranial diffuse arteriectasis may be located to the carotid and vertebral arteries and their branches separately or concomitantly and associated with saccular aneurysms and generalized arteriectasis. The principle clinical aspects of intracranial arteriectasis are cranial nerve palsies, particularly of the cerebellopontine region in association or not with cerebellar disorders and transient or permanent motor deficiencies. Arterial hypertension exists in a high proportion of cases. The some times complex clinical picture may be due to pressure of nervous structures by the ectatic vessels, ischemia or hemorrhagy. Mostly affected are men over 50 years of age although arteriectasis has been observed in younger patients including children and infants. The disease can be suspected clinically but is generally diagnosed after neuroradiological studies, mostly angiography and/or computerized tomography. Initially arteriectasis was supposed to be the result of arteriosclerosis but histopathology has shown that it may be independent of arteriosclerosis and appears to be the result of a congenital abnormality in the elastic component of the vessel wall. On the basis of our six observations and those already published it becomes apparent that diffuse intracranial arteriectasis represents a specific disease."}
{"id": "4084910", "title": "Childhood cerebrovascular diseases not associated with vascular malformations.", "content": "Childhood cerebrovascular diseases not associated with vascular malformations. Of 76 patients in the pediatric age group suffering from cerebrovascular diseases treated in the years 1970-1983, 26 patients (34%) did not harbor intracranial vascular malformations (aneurysms or arteriovenous malformations). Two groups of patients were identified: (a) those suffering from a spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage (16 cases); (b) those suffering from an ischemic stroke (10 cases). Of those with spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage, 10 patients underwent surgery and evacuation of the hematoma. In 2 cases the hematoma was located in the posterior fossa, in 1 case in the upper brain stem, and in 3 cases in the basal ganglia; in the remainder the hematoma was supratentorial. Two patients died soon after the hemorrhage. Eight of the surviving patients completely recovered. In those with ischemic stroke, none suffered from congenital heart disease, a well-known predisposing factor. In this second group 1 patient died and 9 survived. Only one patient showed complete recovery. The data indicate that a hemorrhagic stroke is more common than an ischemic stroke in a child presenting with acute onset of hemiparesis and/or loss of consciousness: thus the value of CT scan as the first diagnostic procedure is clear, owing to the possibility of emergency surgical treatment. In children with ischemic strokes, a complete laboratory/clinical evaluation should be undertaken in order to exclude preexisting heart disease, coagulation disorders or lipoprotein abnormalities, and less common systemic diseases."}
{"id": "4080128", "title": "Prevention of rebleeding after operation for subarachnoid hemorrhage of unknown cause.", "content": "Prevention of rebleeding after operation for subarachnoid hemorrhage of unknown cause. This study is presented to promote prophylactic operation to prevent rebleeding after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) of unknown cause. Twenty-two cases of nontraumatic SAH of unknown cause of a total of 254 cases of SAH treated during a 5-year period (1980-1984) were available for this study. A follow-up study (4 to 61 months after treatment; median, 43 months) revealed a 4.5% mortality rate. Four patients chosen from among the 22 SAH cases underwent prophylactic operation. The decision to operate was based on repeated angiography showing regional cerebral vasospasm corresponding to a limited hyperdense area on the computed tomographic scan at the time of the onset of SAH. Microsurgery revealed a minute protrusion (less than 2 mm in diameter) or thinning of the arterial wall with old hematoma of the surrounding brain in all 4 cases, and treatment required only coating of the abnormal site. All 4 patients are now fully recovered. Frequently, abnormal changes of such cerebral arteries as the anterior communicating artery, the internal carotid artery (C-1 and C-2), and the middle cerebral artery (M-1) may occur. Therefore, the authors emphasize the necessity of surgical treatment for specific cases of SAH with an unknown cause."}
{"id": "4056807", "title": "Granulomatous angiitis of the central nervous system: a case with recurrent intracerebral haemorrhage.", "content": "Granulomatous angiitis of the central nervous system: a case with recurrent intracerebral haemorrhage. A 43-year-old man with a history of radiculomyelopathy developed recurrent intracerebral haemorrhage confirmed by CT brain scan. Cerebral angiography and systemic investigations showed no underlying cause for the haemorrhage. Cerebral biopsy at the time of evacuation of a haematoma revealed granulomatous angiitis. This condition may be responsive to steroids and should be considered in cases of intracerebral haemorrhage of obscure origin."}
{"id": "4047317", "title": "[Acute spontaneous subdural hematoma associated with multiple aneurysms--a case report].", "content": "[Acute spontaneous subdural hematoma associated with multiple aneurysms--a case report]. A case of acute spontaneous subdural hematoma associated with three aneurysms is reported. On March 12, 1984, a 47-year-old woman experienced the sudden onset of severe headache over the bilateral frontal region and vomiting. Three hours later, she was transferred to our hospital by ambulance car because of continuous headache and vomiting. She had no history of head trauma. She had been medicated hypertension for five years. On admission she suffered from headache and nausea. But there was no clinical sign in physical and neurological examinations. The meningeal irritation was not present, but lumbar puncture showed slightly pinky CSF with normal pressure. A plain computed tomographic scan showed a thin high density mass in the left temporal extra-axial region and the slight deviation of the midline structures to the right. Left carotid arteriogram showed an avascular region over the left cerebral convexity, an aneurysm of the left A2-A3 junction and a questionable aneurysm of the bifurcation of left middle cerebral artery. Right carotid arteriogram showed an aneurysm of the bifurcation of right middle cerebral artery. We diagnosed this case as an acute subdural hematoma by CT scan and arteriogram. We were perplexed preoperatively whether this bleeding was spontaneous or secondary to the rupture of aneurysm, and we could not deny the possibility of a ruptured aneurysm. On March 15, 1984, three days after onset, operation was performed. At operation, a small subdural hematoma was removed, and the underlying cortex was normal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "4011900", "title": "Intracranial vascular malformations: MR and CT imaging.", "content": "Intracranial vascular malformations: MR and CT imaging. Twenty-four patients with 29 cerebrovascular malformations were evaluated with a combination of computed tomography (CT), angiography, and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Characteristics of the malformations on MR images were reviewed retrospectively, and a comparative evaluation of MR and CT images was made. Of 14 angiographically evident malformations, 13 intra-axial lesions were detected on both CT and MR images, and one dural malformation gave false-negative results on both modalities. The appearance of parenchymal lesions on MR images closely mirrored characteristic CT findings. Calcific foci were difficult to separate from vessels on both images. Clot was more easily identified on MR images. In the detection of 15 angiographically occult malformations, CT proved more sensitive when focal calcification was the only evidence of their presence. MR study failed to detect two small supratentorial lesions evidenced by faint calcifications on CT scans. In two patients, MR images showed small hemorrhages not detectable by CT, and MR provided strong evidence for the diagnosis of hematoma for 12 lesions. Angiographically evident malformations have a highly characteristic appearance on MR images. MR may be more sensitive than CT in the detection of small hemorrhagic foci associated with cryptic arteriovenous malformations and may add specificity in the diagnosis of occult malformations in some cases, but MR is less sensitive than CT for the detection of small calcified malformations."}
{"id": "4010926", "title": "Intraventricular blood without parenchymal clot following spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage.", "content": "Intraventricular blood without parenchymal clot following spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage. The position of an intracerebral haematoma shown on computerised tomography (CT) of patients who have suffered a recent spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage is a powerful indicator of the source of the bleed. In the absence of such a parenchymal clot, does the distribution of intraventricular blood have similar predictive value? The scans of 22 patients showing intraventricular blood without parenchymal clot were compared with subsequent angiographic appearances. The distribution of intraventricular blood does not appear to correlate with either the clinical status of the patient, or the nature, site or size of the bleeding lesion."}
{"id": "4002273", "title": "Digital subtraction angiography: current clinical applications.", "content": "Digital subtraction angiography: current clinical applications. The applications of digital subtraction angiography (DSA) in neurologic diagnosis have been evolving as clinical experience with this technology accumulates. Initial enthusiasm with the intravenous contrast material injections has been tempered by often equivocal results. Intravenous DSA (IV-DSA) is still an accurate screening technique for extracranial carotid atherosclerosis, comparable to duplex ultrasound. Intracranial imaging is less satisfying with intravenous injections but reliable information is available in the assessment of the venous sinuses and parasellar internal arteries. The future of DSA lies with intraarterial contrast injections, as this technique substantially decreases the risks and costs of definitive cerebrovascular investigation."}
{"id": "4002261", "title": "Cause of cerebral infarction in the carotid territory. Its relation to the size and the location of the infarct and to the underlying vascular lesion.", "content": "Cause of cerebral infarction in the carotid territory. Its relation to the size and the location of the infarct and to the underlying vascular lesion. Seventy-three patients with acute nonhemorrhagic stroke in the carotid territory were investigated for the cause of the stroke: middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion/stenosis or internal carotid artery (ICA) occlusion/stenosis; embolus from the heart and extra-cranial arteries or thrombosis. The study is prospective and consecutive comprising stroke patients below the age of 75 years, admitted in the acute state i.e. within 3 days after stroke onset. Excluded were patients with intracerebral hematoma, subarachnoid hemorrhage, vertebrobasilar stroke and patients in whom another severe disease was present. Cerebral angiography and CT-scan were performed in all patients within one and two days after admission. CT-scan was repeated 2 weeks and 6 months later. Forty percent had MCA occlusion, none had MCA stenosis, 12% had ICA occlusion, 14% had severe ICA stenosis (half of these were associated with MCA occlusion) and 41% were without significant MCA/ICA lesions. Twenty-seven percent had large infarcts with a diameter greater than 3 cm; 34% had medium-sized infarcts with a diameter between 3 and 1.5 cm; 21% had small infarcts with a diameter less than 1.5 cm; 18% had no identifiable infarct on CT-scan. MCA occlusion was responsible for 62% of the large or medium-sized infarcts. ICA occlusion or severe ICA stenosis were responsible for only 27% of the large or medium-sized infarcts. Only 11% of the patients with small or no infarct on CT-scan had significant MCA/ICA lesion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3982599", "title": "[Thrombosis of cortical vein: a case report].", "content": "[Thrombosis of cortical vein: a case report]. A 39-year-old woman presented with disturbed consciousness, left hemiparesis and headache. CT scan revealed subcortical hemorrhage in the right parietal region, which had lower density than usual intracerebral hemorrhage and was associated with irregular perifocal edema. Cerebral angiograms revealed narrowed cortical vein with irregular wall in the right parietal region, where delayed local blood flow into the deep cerebral veins through collateral vessels was noted. The diagnosis was subcortical hemorrhage due to thrombosis of cortical vein. Her symptoms and brain edema were progressive. To reduce intracranial pressure, evacuation of the hematoma was performed. The hematoma which existed 1cm under the right parietal cortex was about 20g in weight. She remarkably improved soon after operation. Frequency of sinovenous thrombosis has been reported to be about 10% of all cerebral ischemic diseases, however, localized venous thrombosis is rare among them. This is because it is not always symptomatic and it is difficult to make accurate diagnosis. Six cases of localized venous thrombosis were reviewed, in which accurate diagnosis were established by cerebral angiograms, CT scan and/or autopsy. Clinical and radiological features of this case were presented."}
{"id": "3974900", "title": "Cerebral vasculitis and hemorrhage associated with phenylpropanolamine.", "content": "Cerebral vasculitis and hemorrhage associated with phenylpropanolamine. A 20-year-old woman using an oral diet aid preparation containing phenylpropanolamine presented with an intracerebral hemorrhage and angiographic evidence of cerebral vasculitis. Gas chromatography demonstrated phenylpropanolamine in the urine. Even when used within recommended guidelines, phenylpropanolamine usage should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with intracranial hemorrhage."}
{"id": "3974800", "title": "Cerebrovascular occlusive disease with and without the moyamoya vascular network in children.", "content": "Cerebrovascular occlusive disease with and without the moyamoya vascular network in children. Clinical features of cerebrovascular occlusive disease with the moyamoya network (group 1: twenty-nine children) and those without this network (group 2: nine children) are reported herein. Group 1 was characterized by female preponderance, recurrent and transient ischemic attacks, progression of mental deterioration, rebuild-up after hyperventilation on EEG and wide-spread lesions on CT scan. Group 2 had one or two attacks which led to a rather long-lasting hemiplegia but not to mental deterioration, rare rebuild-up findings on EEG and unilateral focal lesion on CT scan. Precipitating factors for ischemic attacks included deep breathing, changes in body temperature or sleep-waking transition were present in both groups. Etiology in some children was considered to be congenital."}
{"id": "3965754", "title": "Carotid endarterectomy in the stroke patient: computerized axial tomography to determine timing.", "content": "Carotid endarterectomy in the stroke patient: computerized axial tomography to determine timing. Historically, patients with mild to moderate neurologic deficits lasting longer than 24 hours were believed to have sustained a completed stroke. They were followed up for 4 to 6 weeks and cerebral angiography was performed if indicated. CT scanning has identified a subset of these patients who have sustained a reversible ischemic neurologic deficit (RIND) rather than a completed stroke. The timing for angiography and surgery for this group has not been established. In an earlier study we found that 21% (4 of 19 patients) suffered a second stroke during the 4- to 6-week waiting period. To avoid this high rate of recurrence, we instituted an aggressive program of CT scan evaluation and surgical therapy for all \"stroke patients\" with negative CT scans. Two hundred forty-five patients were seen with a persistent neurologic deficit between July 1980 and December 1983. These patients underwent CT scans 1 and 5 days after the initial event. Of these 245 patients, 171 patients (70%) were found to have negative CT scans. Appropriate carotid lesions were found by arteriography in 110 (64%) of the negative CT scan group. There were 61 (55%) men and 49 (45%) women in this group. Eighty-five patients (77%) had previous neurologic symptoms or a cerebrovascular accident. Hypertension was present in 52% and diabetes mellitus in 30%. All 110 patients underwent carotid endarterectomy within 14 days (mean 10 days) of the initial onset of their neurologic deficit; these were all done with shunt protection. No patient suffered another neurologic deficit in the same territory within 30 days after surgery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3935042", "title": "Aspergillosis of the central nervous system: clinicopathological analysis of 17 patients.", "content": "Aspergillosis of the central nervous system: clinicopathological analysis of 17 patients. The clinical, laboratory, and pathological features of aspergillosis of the central nervous system (CNS) were studied in a series of 17 autopsied patients. Two groups were defined. Group A consisted of 8 patients with diseases commonly associated with CNS aspergillosis: leukemia, lymphoma, aplastic anemia, and renal transplantation. Group B contained 9 patients with various illnesses not generally known to be associated with CNS aspergillosis. CNS aspergillosis was diagnosed and treated before death in only 1 patient. Patients in Group A received cytotoxic drugs, often had granulocytopenia, less commonly had focal neurological deficits, and seldom had seizures. Group B patients were not granulocytopenic, received no cytotoxic agents, underwent nontransplant surgery, and more frequently had focal neurological deficits. Eleven of the 17 patients (65%) had focal deficits, most of them hemiparesis. Meningeal signs were rare, but the cerebrospinal fluid was usually abnormal. The principal neuropathological process was Aspergillus invasion of blood vessels causing hemorrhagic infarction. Focal clinical deficits correlated neuroanatomically with Aspergillus lesions. In 2 patients, such lesions were detected by 99mTc-DTPA or cerebral angiography before computed tomographic scanning. The lungs were the usual portal of entry, but isolated CNS lesions occurred in 2 patients. CNS aspergillosis should be considered as a cause of new onset of focal neurological deficits in patients with illnesses that are more diverse than has generally been appreciated."}
{"id": "3923954", "title": "Benefits, shortcomings, and costs of EEG monitoring.", "content": "Benefits, shortcomings, and costs of EEG monitoring. A 5-year experience with 562 carotid endarterectomies, using electroencephalogram (EEG) monitoring and selective shunting, was reviewed. EEG changes occurred in 102 patients (18%). The frequency of EEG changes, as related to cerebral vascular symptoms, was as follows: transient ischemic attacks, seven per cent (19/259); completed strokes, 37% (36/98); vertebral basilar insufficiency, 24% (32/135); asymptomatic, 21% (15/71). Patients with contralateral carotid occlusion exhibited EEG changes in 37% (28/76) of operations. Fifteen patients suffered perioperative strokes (2.6%). Nine of the 15 were associated with a technical problem of either thrombosis of the internal carotid artery (five) or emboli (four). Technical problems were more common when shunts were used (five per cent) than when they were not (0.9%). Patients who suffered strokes prior to surgery were more at risk to develop a perioperative stroke (three per cent) than those not suffering prior strokes (0.3%). The EEG did not change in three patients who had lacunar infarcts prior to surgery and who awoke with a worsened deficit. Our series does not clearly establish the advantages of EEG monitoring, which is expensive (+375/patient) and may not detect ischemia in all areas of the brain. However, the use of shunts may introduce a risk of stroke due to technical error that is equal or greater than the risk of stroke due to hemodynamic ischemia. Since the need for protection is unpredictable by angiographic or clinical criteria, the benefit of EEG monitoring may be in reducing the incidence of shunting in those patients whose tracing remains normal after clamping. The decision to shunt, however, when there is electrical dysfunction after carotid clamping should be based not only on the EEG but also on the clinical signs and computed tomography (CT) scan. Our data does not show a net benefit in selective shunting unless the patient has sustained a stroke prior to surgery."}
{"id": "3902437", "title": "[Diagnosis of stroke in young adults].", "content": "[Diagnosis of stroke in young adults]. 42 patients aged up to 35 years who had suffered a stroke were analysed according to etio-pathogenetic and prognostic criteria. The cause of the stroke could be explained with certainty only in ten patients and with high probability in a further eight. In a quarter of the cases the aetiology was completely obscure. Diagnostic gaps exist especially in haemostatic, virological and cardiological areas. Three patients died from the stroke. Follow-up showed that 40% of patients were able to resume their previous occupation. Relapses were observed in cases with disseminated lupus erythematosus and endocarditis. The relatively low rate of clarified cases (42%) is partly due to selection but also to the gaps in diagnostic knowledge. Accordingly, a stepwise diagnostic program was set up, based upon urgency and technical expenditure, that took into account not only the minimal needs for a sound initial diagnosis but also the extensive differential diagnoses for less common causes of stroke."}
{"id": "3895593", "title": "Comparison of ultrasound and IV-DSA for carotid evaluation.", "content": "Comparison of ultrasound and IV-DSA for carotid evaluation. Sixty carotid bifurcations in 34 symptomatic patients were examined prospectively with ultrasound (continuous wave Doppler and high resolution, B-mode imaging) and intravenous digital subtraction angiography (IV-DSA). The overall quality of examination was better with DSA than with ultrasound. Imaging of the external carotid artery was particularly difficult with sonography. For evaluation of the common and internal carotid arteries, eight percent of IV-DSA studies were poor or inadequate as compared with 12% for B-mode imaging. Overall for detection of atherosclerotic plaque, high resolution B-mode sonography was 84% sensitive and DSA 81% sensitive. When only the common and internal carotid arteries were considered, the sensitivity of high resolution sonography improved to 93% and the sensitivity of IV-DSA increased to 86%. Ultrasound (combined high resolution, B-mode sonography and CW Doppler) correctly identified all six internal carotid occlusions in the series. While IV-DSA correctly identified five of the six occlusions, the sensitivity for detection of lesions causing 70% or more stenosis was 95% for both ultrasound and IV-DSA. Sensitivity for 50% or greater obstruction was 79% for ultrasound and 85% for IV-DSA. Ultrasound sensitivity for greater than 50.9% stenoses rose to 87% when only the common and internal carotid were considered while IV-DSA sensitivity remained at 85%. Specificity was good at all levels of obstruction. It may be concluded from this study that the accuracy of ultrasound and IV-DSA are quite similar for evaluation of the carotid bifurcation and that either test is a satisfactory screening method for carotid bifurcation atheromatous disease."}
{"id": "3895373", "title": "[Integration of the new imaging procedures (DSA, CT and MR) in clinical practice].", "content": "[Integration of the new imaging procedures (DSA, CT and MR) in clinical practice]. Survey of the sequence in which modern imaging procedures should be employed in diseases of the central nervous system, the thoracic and abdominal organs, and the extremities, and the rating of these methods also as regards the costs involved."}
{"id": "3875699", "title": "Intraventricular hemorrhage in a term neonate secondary to a third ventricular AVM. Case report.", "content": "Intraventricular hemorrhage in a term neonate secondary to a third ventricular AVM. Case report. An initially healthy infant born of an uncomplicated full-term gestation was brought for evaluation of the acute onset of vomiting, irritability, lethargy, and opisthotonus at 14 days of age. Computerized tomography demonstrated an intraventricular hemorrhage. Arteriography defined an angioma on the roof of the third ventricle which was successfully removed via the transcallosal interfornicial approach on the 34th day of life. Other than an easily controlled seizure disorder, the postoperative course was uneventful. At 8 months of age the child is developing normally. Arteriovenous malformations should be considered in the differential diagnosis of intraventricular hemorrhage in full-term neonates without predisposing trauma or bleeding diathesis. High-speed digital subtraction arteriography may be used to screen for this diagnosis. The transcallosal interfornicial exposure offers a satisfactory approach for excising third ventricular angiomas in young infants."}
{"id": "2938449", "title": "Dynamic scanning and brain angiography in diagnosing occlusive changes in cerebral vascular disease.", "content": "Dynamic scanning and brain angiography in diagnosing occlusive changes in cerebral vascular disease."}
{"id": "2416213", "title": "Experimental chronic cerebrovascular spasm in the monkey: an assessment of the functional changes in the cerebral arteries and their protection by diltiazem.", "content": "Experimental chronic cerebrovascular spasm in the monkey: an assessment of the functional changes in the cerebral arteries and their protection by diltiazem. The structure and function of cerebral arteries obtained from a monkey model of chronic cerebral vascular spasm 5 days after hemorrhage have been examined. Narrowing of the larger cerebral arteries demonstrated by angiography at all sites of measurement seems to be due primarily to an increased wall rigidity associated with cellular damage, the resultant inflammatory response and large, long-lasting spontaneous increases in muscle tone. Changes in agonist sensitivity were extremely variable. The reduction of contractility of the vessel wall to a mean of 30% of control diminished the consequence of any changes in active tone characteristics. Neurogenic control on the side of the lesion was remarkably depressed. When treated with diltiazem, beginning 1 day before induction of hemorrhage and continuing to the time of sacrifice, arterial diameter was reduced at only 1 of the 6 standard sites of measurement and then by only a small amount. Neurologic effects invariably seen in the untreated monkeys were prevented by diltiazem. Many of the changes in the artery wall, including structural alterations, were diminished by the drug. Abnormal spontaneous myogenic tone was present but was less in the diltiazem-treated group; however, nerve damage and its functional consequences were not prevented. It is concluded that diltiazem, presumably by preventing the accumulation of intracellular calcium within the cell, prevents the initial events in the evolution of chronic cerebrovasospasm or narrowing. This is probably achieved by a diminishing of the direct vasoconstrictor effects and the toxicity of putative spasmogens released from blood clots, nerves and the brain on the vascular smooth muscle, thus interrupting the sequence leading to pathologic change."}
{"id": "6741373", "title": "[Vascular factors in the etiology of hemihyperkinesis].", "content": "[Vascular factors in the etiology of hemihyperkinesis]. Pathological conditions of the cerebral vessels and main arteries of the head on the side opposite to the side of the involved limbs are the etiological factors in one third of the patients. Cerebral angiography and computer tomography make it possible to verify vascular lesions of the subcortical structures which could cause the development of hemihyperkinesis . These foci of affection were most frequently located in the striapallidal system of the hemisphere contralateral to the affected limbs."}
{"id": "6740477", "title": "Completely thrombosed giant aneurysm of the angular artery.", "content": "Completely thrombosed giant aneurysm of the angular artery. An unusual case of a completely thrombosed giant aneurysm arising from the angular artery is reported. A 69-year-old women developed a subarachnoid hemorrhage with a large intracranial hematoma. Computed tomography scans and cerebral angiography could not detect the aneurysm. The rarity of aneurysms in this position is stressed and the difficulty of diagnosis in this case is discussed."}
{"id": "6738800", "title": "[Multiple anomalies of cerebral vessels. A case of multiple aneurysms associated with fenestration of the middle cerebral artery and persistent primitive trigeminal artery].", "content": "[Multiple anomalies of cerebral vessels. A case of multiple aneurysms associated with fenestration of the middle cerebral artery and persistent primitive trigeminal artery]. A case of multiple intracranial anomalies was reported. They consisted of fenestration of the middle cerebral artery (MCA), persistent primitive trigeminal artery and four intracranial aneurysms. The patient, 45-year-old male, had an attack of subarachnoid hemorrhage on July 15, 1982. He was transferred and admitted to our Dept. of Neurosurgery on July 27. On admission neurological examinations revealed retinal hemorrhage, bilateral papilledema and abducens nerve paresis on the left. Cerebral angiography demonstrated multiple aneurysms, one in the left vertebral artery, one in the left MCA, one in the right IC-PC junction and one in the fenestrated right MCA and persistent primitive trigeminal artery. Computed tomography (CT) demonstrated high density areas in the basal cistern and bilateral sylvian fissures, and cavum septi pellucidi and cavum Vergae as well. Surgical intervention was done and all aneurysms were clipped or coated successfully. The aneurysm in the fenestrated right MCA had originated from the proximal end of the fenestration of the MCA. The cavum septi pellucidi and cavum Vergae were asymptomatic. The postoperative course was uneventful. The authors discussed the pathogenesis and clinical meanings of fenestration of the MCA and persistent primitive trigeminal artery, and inferred that the genetic abnormality at the stage of development of cerebral vessels could play one part of the formation of intracranial aneurysms, because of the fact that the cerebrovascular anomalies showed high incidence of coexistence of intracranial aneurysms."}
{"id": "6728143", "title": "Can neuropsychological tests detect the sites of cerebrovascular stenoses and occlusions?", "content": "Can neuropsychological tests detect the sites of cerebrovascular stenoses and occlusions? Conventional neuropsychological data may not mirror the site of cerebrovascular stenosis in a patient with mild to moderate symptoms. In this study, three groups of cerebral revascularization candidates failed to differ on an extended Halstead-Reitan battery: patients with symptoms and angiographic results referable to the carotid arterial system, subjects with clinical signs and neuroradiological findings referable to the vertebrobasilar arterial system, and patients with symptoms of cerebral ischemia but negative angiograms. Consistent with previous work, these patients generally were mildly impaired on neuropsychological tests, even though many were not symptomatic at the time of assessment. Neuropsychological tests seem to be sensitive to the presence and severity of cerebral ischemia, but in isolation may not be sufficient to determine the loci of vascular stenoses. The incongruence between angiographic and neuropsychological findings underlines the importance of distinguishing among different levels and types of measurements in defining subgroups of cerebral revascularization candidates. Collaboration among neuroscientists will further our understanding of the interrelationships among neurodiagnostic tests."}
{"id": "6726269", "title": "Recovery from rheumatoid cerebral vasculitis.", "content": "Recovery from rheumatoid cerebral vasculitis. A 48-year-old woman with the classical features of longstanding rheumatoid arthritis acutely developed a diffuse cerebral disease. Angiograms showed extensive cerebral vasculitis, and CT scan demonstrated cerebral oedema and haemorrhage. Her clinical state, EEG and CT scan rapidly returned to normal following treatment with corticosteroids."}
{"id": "6721349", "title": "Pupillary sparing oculomotor palsy from acute subdural hematoma.", "content": "Pupillary sparing oculomotor palsy from acute subdural hematoma. An acute subdural hematoma presented as a partial third nerve palsy with complete pupillary sparing. The patient was alert and oriented, and except for a subtle hemisensory hypalgesia, there were no other neurologic signs. Preoperative diagnosis was made by CT scan and cerebral angiography. The patient underwent successful craniotomy and within six weeks after surgery, her third nerve palsy had completely resolved."}
{"id": "6717796", "title": "Clinico-radiological spectrum of giant supraclinoid internal carotid artery aneurysms. Observations in 93 cases.", "content": "Clinico-radiological spectrum of giant supraclinoid internal carotid artery aneurysms. Observations in 93 cases. A review of a series of 312 giant intracranial aneurysms treated at University Hospital in London, Ontario, showed that 93 of those aneurysms were located between the intracavernous portion and the bifurcation of the internal carotid artery. Sixty-five of those aneurysms were carotid ophthalmic, 12 were located in the internal carotid-posterior communicating-anterior choroidal artery regions and 16 involved the internal carotid artery bifurcation. For the majority, clinical presentation was related to the mass of the aneurysms and compression of surrounding structures such as visual pathways, ocular motor cranial nerves, the fifth nerve, and hypothalamic-pituitary axis. Fourteen patients presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography, computed tomography and xenon inhalation studies of cerebral blood flow were the tools used to study the morphology of the aneurysm and dynamics of the circle of Willis."}
{"id": "6696653", "title": "Cerebral amyloid angiopathy manifesting as recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Cerebral amyloid angiopathy manifesting as recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage. Over a period of eight years, a normotensive woman experienced eight strokelike episodes. Computed tomographic (CT) scans obtained during each of the last seven episodes demonstrated intracerebral lobar hemorrhage. Cerebral angiography and contrast-enhanced CT scans demonstrated no underlying abnormality. Our patient had recurrent intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) with no predisposing factors or dementia. The clinical diagnosis was primary cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). Brain biopsy specimens demonstrated light microscopic and ultrastructural evidence of amyloid in cerebral arterioles. We believe that the combined clinical, CT, and ultrastructural changes in this case are unique. Recurrent ICH visualized by CT scanning has diagnostic value in CAA."}
{"id": "6595871", "title": "[Noninvasive measurement of cerebrovascular circulation with the scintillation camera. A neurologic nuclear medicine study].", "content": "[Noninvasive measurement of cerebrovascular circulation with the scintillation camera. A neurologic nuclear medicine study]. Repeated CBF-measurements can be performed after inhalation or intravenous injection of 133Xe. After the development of a bicompartmental model by Obrist et al. in 1975 atraumatic CBF-measurements became widely used but there were still some difficulties concerning the sensitivity of different flow-indices towards CBF changes in normals under test conditions or ischemia in stroke patients. Due to the \"slippage phenomenon\" mostly noncompartmental flow-indices are used for the detection of ischemic brain areas. In this study a scintillation camera, that is usually available in every nuclear medicine department, was used for atraumatic CBF-studies. A collimator consisting of hexagonal lead tubes (septa 0.2 mm thick; FWHM 1.7 cm in 10 cm) was constructed for this purpose. The obtained counting rate varied between 2432 and 9081 cps over the whole hemisphere and 116-1094 cps in regions of approximately 2.5 X 2.5 cm. In 31 patients with CVD CBF was measured with the intracarotid (i.c.) technique and 1 hour later after i.v. 133Xe-injection. Intravenous flow values were comparable to those obtained after i.c. 133Xe injection (fB X MFr = 0.904; p less than 0.001). In 12 of the used 13 regions also significant correlation coefficients were found. In order to estimate the reproducibility of the intravenous injection method CBF-measurements were performed in both hemispheres of 10 patients on two consecutive days. Highly significant correlation coefficients were found for hemispheric blood flow (r = 0.933; p less than 0.001) and temporal, frontotemporal, temporoparietal and praecentral regions, while in the high parietal, frontal and occipital region lower reporducibility was found. Normal CBF-values were obtained from 12 healthy volunteers (MF right hemisphere: 50.7 +/- 4.6 ml/100 g/min; MF left hemisphere: 50.6 +/- 4.6 ml/100 g/min). MF did not show any hyperfrontality, while F1 and the ISI gave highest flow values in frontal regions. The clinical status of 76 patients suffering from cerebral ischemia (68 with flow disturbances in one hemisphere, 8 with vertebrobasilar insufficiency) was estimated by a semiquantitative scorescale at time of admission and after an observation period lasting from 6 to 35 months. In each case CBF was measured twice: once in the subacute stage after onset of symptoms and once after the observation period. The duration of neurologic symptoms (TIA, RIND, CS) was compared to the obtained flow values. A significant relationship was found between the duration of symptoms and impairment of CBF, thus showing the prognostic value of intravenous CBF measurements.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "6535169", "title": "[Ischemic cerebrovascular accidents in childhood. Problems of neuroradiological diagnosis].", "content": "[Ischemic cerebrovascular accidents in childhood. Problems of neuroradiological diagnosis]. The authors present 19 cases of stroke with subsequent hemiplegia in children from 5 months to 15 years of age. These cases are not strictly correlated with haematologic alterations. The aetiopathogenesis remains uncertain in the most of patients, in which predisposing causes are absent and angiographic pictures do not demonstrate anatomical lesions or occlusions of cerebral vessels. In our series, cerebral angiography was performed in 16 children and showed vascular alterations only in 6 cases. CT scan some time after the acute hemiplegia, demonstrated low-density areas in 12 cases over 17 examined, with the characteristic evolution of ischemic lesions."}
{"id": "6533661", "title": "Quantitative EEG follow-up study after extracranial-intracranial bypass operation for cerebral ischemia.", "content": "Quantitative EEG follow-up study after extracranial-intracranial bypass operation for cerebral ischemia."}
{"id": "6533660", "title": "Non-invasive follow-up studies of stroke patients with STA-MCA anastomosis; computerized topography of EEG and 133-xenon inhalation rCBF measurement.", "content": "Non-invasive follow-up studies of stroke patients with STA-MCA anastomosis; computerized topography of EEG and 133-xenon inhalation rCBF measurement."}
{"id": "6521832", "title": "[A case of moyamoya disease associated with a peripheral artery aneurysm of the thalamus].", "content": "[A case of moyamoya disease associated with a peripheral artery aneurysm of the thalamus]. The authors report a case of moyamoya disease associated with a peripheral artery aneurysm in the thalamus of a 54-year-old woman. Plain CT scans revealed the right thalamic hemorrhage with ventricular penetration. Cerebral angiography demonstrated the characteristic appearance of moyamoya disease with a peripheral artery aneurysm in the territory of the right medial posterior choroidal artery. This aneurysm ruptured three times during 8 days since onset and the thalamic hemorrhage became larger on each occasion. Although the clinical symptoms and signs and plain CT scans disclosed thalamic hemorrhage, it was difficult to explain the cause of the hemorrhage. The authors emphasize that cerebral angiography and enhanced CT scans are quite necessary to clarify the genesis of cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "6504292", "title": "Ipsilateral hemiparesis caused by subarachnoid hemorrhage in a patient with a ruptured middle cerebral artery aneurysm: a case report.", "content": "Ipsilateral hemiparesis caused by subarachnoid hemorrhage in a patient with a ruptured middle cerebral artery aneurysm: a case report. The authors report a patient with a ruptured middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysm who presented with ipsilateral hemiparesis. A computed tomographic (CT) scan and cerebral angiograms suggested that the ipsilateral hemiparesis was most likely due to compression by hematoma of the secondary motor area in the island of Reil. Two other cases that demonstrated ipsilateral motor weakness after rupture of MCA aneurysms have been reported. We emphasize not only the importance of considering dysfunction of the secondary motor area in patients with hemiparesis, but also the difficulty in differentiating ipsilateral secondary motor area dysfunction from contralateral primary motor area dysfunction in certain cases without CT scanning and angiography."}
{"id": "6504258", "title": "[Primary intracranial hypotension associated with chronic subdural hematoma--report of 2 cases].", "content": "[Primary intracranial hypotension associated with chronic subdural hematoma--report of 2 cases]. Low spinal fluid pressure syndrome is characterized by orthostatic headache aggravated in upright position. It is classified into two from etiological standpoint i.e. primary and secondary (most often seen after lumbar puncture). On the other hand, low spinal fluid pressure is one of the promoting factors of chronic subdural hematoma. We report 2 cases of primary low spinal fluid pressure syndrome (primary intracranial hypotension) associated with chronic subdural hematoma. Case 1 is a 47-year-old man who was admitted with disorientation following 2 week history of orthostatic headache. Spinal fluid pressure was 7mmH2O in the lateral recumbent position. CT scan revealed bilateral isodense chronic subdural hematoma. The subdural hematoma reaccumulated 17 days after the first operation. Case 2 is a 31-year-old woman who was admitted with 4 week history of progressive orthostatic headache accompanied by nausea and vomiting. Spinal fluid pressure was 0 mmH2O. CT scan and cerebral angiography showed bilateral chronic subdural hematoma. The hematoma reaccumulated 20 days after the first operation. Six cases including our two cases of primary intracranial hypotention associated with chronic subdural hematoma have been reported. When changes of characters of headache, especially mental symptoms and disturbances of consciousness occurred in patients with chronic orthostatic headache, association of chronic subdural hematoma should be suspected. In cases with chronic subdural hematoma associated with low spinal fluid pressure syndrome, the reaccumulation of hematoma tends to occur after burr hole opening and irrigation of hematoma."}
{"id": "6483105", "title": "[A case of Marfan's syndrome with a ruptured distal middle cerebral aneurysm].", "content": "[A case of Marfan's syndrome with a ruptured distal middle cerebral aneurysm]. A case of ruptured distal middle cerebral aneurysm is reported, A 20-year-old man with Marfan's syndrome suffered from sudden loss of consciousness. A CT scan and cerebral angiogram revealed a distal middle cerebral aneurysm with a large intracerebral hematoma. The aneurysm was clipped and the hematoma was evacuated successfully. This case is presented and the literature related to the aneurysm associated with Marfan's syndrome is reviewed."}
{"id": "6481384", "title": "Intracerebral haemorrhage complicating dural arteriovenous fistula: a report of two cases.", "content": "Intracerebral haemorrhage complicating dural arteriovenous fistula: a report of two cases. Two patients presented with unilateral peri-orbital pain, proptosis, chemosis and external ophthalmoplegia. They were shown to have dural arteriovenous fistulae related to the cavernous sinus. Intracerebral haemorrhage occurred in both patients within 18 months of presentation; this gave rise to focal seizures and signs of unilateral hemisphere dysfunction. The haematomas were in the region drained by the superficial middle cerebral vein ipsilateral to the shunt and are presumed to have been the result of locally raised venous pressure."}
{"id": "6475574", "title": "Review of 1,000 consecutive cases of severe head injury treated before the advent of CT scanning.", "content": "Review of 1,000 consecutive cases of severe head injury treated before the advent of CT scanning. This is a review of 1,000 consecutive cases of severe head injury admitted to our Neurosurgical Department between January 1973 and August 1976, before the advent of CT scanning. All patients were comatose following head injury (GCS less than or equal to 8) and were treated homogeneously by the same neurosurgical team by a protocol that included immediate resuscitation on arrival, diagnosis of intracranial lesions by angiography, early surgery when needed, mechanical ventilation, steroids, and mannitol. Extracranial lesions, even if preponderant, were treated by various specialists in the Neurosurgical Department, which for all practical purposes operated as an Emergency Department. Admission criteria were very broad with no preadmission selection. The overall mortality for this series was 45%. A little less than half the patients made good recoveries or remained moderately disabled (47%); 6% were severely disabled, and 2% survived in a persistent vegetative state. More than two-thirds of the patients were brought to our Neurosurgical Department after a short stay at a general hospital; 72% were admitted within 6 hours of injury; 71% were traffic accident victims; and 34% had significant associated extracranial injuries. Carotid angiography was performed in 78% of the patients and indicated the presence of an intracranial haematoma requiring surgery in 36% of the whole series. Mortality was significantly higher in operated than in unoperated patients (56% versus 39%); those treated surgically, however, were older, in worse clinical condition, and showed a higher incidence of acute subdural haematomas associated with brain contusion. Carotid angiography proved very effective in revealing the presence of an expansive lesion but failed to reflect the severity of brain damage, since the group with \"negative\" angiograms showed a high mortality (52%). Patients with a lucid interval had a higher percentage of surgical lesions than those with immediate coma (58% versus 26%); but fully 42% of them did not require surgery, and 25% had negative angiograms. From the prognostic point of view the clinical data elicited after initial resuscitation were highly predictive of the outcome: some individual neurological signs, such as mydriasis, posturing and eye movements, were not inferior to the GCS score in that respect. Age also proved a strong predictor, since elderly patients are more likely to have severe subdural and parenchymal lesions and their clinical severity is accordingly greater.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "6470783", "title": "Coronal computerized angiotomography for the diagnosis of isodense chronic subdural hematoma.", "content": "Coronal computerized angiotomography for the diagnosis of isodense chronic subdural hematoma. The authors demonstrate the value of coronal computerized angiotomography for the diagnosis of and screening for isodense chronic subdural hematoma. Specific features of coronal computerized angiotomograms include 1) thick lines of high density with slight convexity; 2) lines of high density parallel with the inner table of the skull; or 3) high-density dotted lines away from the inner table. These high-density lines or dots represent the superficial cerebral veins and cortical branches of the middle cerebral artery, which have been displaced by the hematoma. When these characteristic features are revealed on noninvasive coronal computerized angiotomography, cerebral angiography may be unnecessary."}
{"id": "6464383", "title": "[Effect of current methods of roentgenological diagnosis on therapeutic tactics in acute cranio-cerebral trauma].", "content": "[Effect of current methods of roentgenological diagnosis on therapeutic tactics in acute cranio-cerebral trauma]."}
{"id": "6462338", "title": "[Use of real-time ultrasonography in neurosurgical operations].", "content": "[Use of real-time ultrasonography in neurosurgical operations]. The authors' experience with the application of real-time ultrasonography during 29 and after 3 neurosurgical operations is reported. Intraoperative sonography was performed in 29 cases. The neurosurgical operations include aneurysm surgery in 13 cases, removal of intracerebral hematoma in 11 cases, neoplasm surgery in 2 cases, and so on. Moreover, sonographic examination through bone defect was performed in 3 cases after decompression craniectomy. The instrument used was an ATL (Advanced Technology Laboratories, Bellevue, WA, USA) mechanical sector scanner of which scanhead contained transducers of three frequencies: 3, 5 and 7.5 MHz. The scanhead was wrapped with a sterile rubber bag after acoustic coupling gel had been applied to the head's tip. Then the scanhead was placed on the dura and ultrasonic examination was performed. The result was that the lesion was clearly identified and localized in all cases except for three cases of mild subarachnoid hemorrhage. In addition, in the two cases of needle aspiration of cyst or hematoma, the needle was easily identified and needle aspiration was performed safely and accurately. Moreover, during aneurysm surgery, aneurysm itself was detected in two cases by the real-time ultrasonic imaging. Especially, in the case with large aneurysm of the left middle cerebral artery, the findings about the aneurysmal wall, that is to say, which part is thick and which part is thin, could be obtained. Prior to the operation of aneurysm, cerebral angiogram and computerized tomographic scan are always examined thoroughly, but information about aneurysmal wall can be rarely obtained by them.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "6440366", "title": "[Contribution of cerebral angiography to the prognosis of juvenile stroke].", "content": "[Contribution of cerebral angiography to the prognosis of juvenile stroke]. 46 patients (aged 13 to 40 years) suffering from ischaemic cerebrovascular disease were investigated by means of complete 4-vessel angiography. 40 of these patients were re-examined after a mean follow-up period of 57 months. The aim of the study was to investigate possible connections between the angiographic data and the clinical condition some years later. In the 37 patients who were not subjected to surgical treatment prognosis was not significantly different in cases with, and those without stenoses/occlusions in the craniocervical vessels. However, patients suffering from severe stenoses/occlusions had a significantly worse prognosis than patients with stenoses of a mild degree. The clinical course in patients with stenoses/occlusions localized in the vertebro-basilar system was significantly more favourable than the course of the disease in patients with similar changes in the carotid system. There was a trend towards a worse clinical picture at the end of the follow-up period in cases with degenerative alterations in the small intracranial arteries. The difference in prognostic value of cerebral 4-vessel angiography in cases of stroke in the young, as opposed to the findings in older patients is discussed."}
{"id": "6431533", "title": "[Cerebral circulatory disorders--elucidation by intravenous digital subtraction angiography and computed tomography].", "content": "[Cerebral circulatory disorders--elucidation by intravenous digital subtraction angiography and computed tomography]. In 110 patients with signs of cerebral infarct computed tomography (CT) and intravenous digital subtraction angiography (DSA) were performed. With DSA 63 arterial wall lesions could be seen, in CT 27 infarcts were found. In 9 examinations DSA was not diagnostic. Combination of both methods makes it possible to relate vascular lesions with size and localisation of cerebral infarcts."}
{"id": "6426281", "title": "Digital intravenous cerebral angiography in neonates.", "content": "Digital intravenous cerebral angiography in neonates. Digital intravenous cerebral angiography was performed in 13 neonates. Injections were made either centrally into the right atrium or peripherally into a distal vein. Seven infants suffered from anoxia, one infant had clinical brain death, another had focal infarcts, and two had intracranial hemorrhage. One infant had an intracranial tumor and another had a neck tumor. Venous sinus thrombosis was seen in five of the seven anoxic infants. A total absence of intracranial arterial circulation was demonstrated in the clinically brain-dead infant. Vascularity and venous involvement by neoplasm were excellently delineated by this technique."}
{"id": "6397697", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): method and early clinical experiences in diseases of the central nervous system.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): method and early clinical experiences in diseases of the central nervous system. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has undergone a rapid development which is still continuing. In this article a survey is given of the present status of this new diagnostic tool in the evaluation of diseases of the central nervous system. When atoms with uneven numbers of protons or neutrons in a homogeneous magnetic field are tilted against the main vector of this field by a radiofrequency pulse, nuclear magnetic resonance can be observed. During the relaxation of the little dipoles back to the direction of the underlying magnetic field, a resonance signal is generated. The superposition of variable field gradients enables the scanning of sectional images in the axial, frontal and sagittal plane. The variables of H+-magnetic resonance which can be utilized for imaging are: the proton density, the relaxation times T1 (spin-lattice) and T2 (spin-spin) and flow effects. While the proton density in organic tissue fluctuates only by some 10%, the relaxation times may vary by several hundred per cent. Tissue contrast, therefore, is mainly based on relaxation times differences. The image character can also be influenced by variations of imaging parameters (i.e. repetition rate, interpulse delay, read out or echo delay) in different imaging sequences, such as the spin-echo and the inversion recovery technique. Depending on these imaging parameters T1 and T2 will contribute to the signal to a varying degree. This fact is most important for the diagnostic information of MRI. In initial clinical experiences in the diagnosis of diseases of the central nervous system, MRI has demonstrated high sensitivity in the detection of lesions (such as oedema, neoplasms, demyelinating disease), but less significance in lesion discrimination. In spinal disease the direct sagittal imaging of MRI enables MRI-myelography without contrast medium, superior to conventional myelography in many cases. For detailed evaluation of disc disease, however, the spatial resolution still has to be improved. Promising results have been obtained from flow effects. Depending on the flow velocity of blood, vessels appear white with intensive signals (slow flow) or black due to low signal intensities (rapid flow). MRI-angiography including measurement of blood flow seems possible. MRI-contrast media are not yet available for routine clinical use. Promising results have been reported on the basis of rare-earth elements, such as gadolinium Gd3+. These substances decrease T1 and T2 with subsequent increase in signal intensity. Concerning harmful side-effects of MRI, three possible sources have to be considered: the static magnetic field, the changing magnetic field, and radiofrequency heating.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "6392918", "title": "[Digital subtraction angiography of the cerebral vessels by intraarterial injection].", "content": "[Digital subtraction angiography of the cerebral vessels by intraarterial injection]. Three hundred and fifty-seven digital subtraction angiography (DSA) were performed in 184 neurosurgical patients by intraarterial injection. Examinations consisted of 192 carotid angiography, 110 vertebral angiography, 23 aortography, 11 spinal angiography and 21 other angiography. In all examinations, visualization of the vessels was excellent and the complications were never experienced. High contrast sensitivity of DSA resulted in better visualization of tumor stains, phlebogram, and arteries in cerebral arteriovenous malformations with large shunt blood flow than conventional angiography. Selective catheterization into each cerebral arteries was not necessarily demanded for good opacification of the vessels because of high sensitivity. High contrast sensitivity also permitted low concentration of contrast material, small dose of contrast material, and slow injection rate. Low concentration of contrast material reduced pain and heat during injection especially in the external carotid and vertebral angiography. Using slow injection, recoiling of catheter into the aorta was reduced, so that injection from the innominate and subclavian arteries for visualization of origin of the cerebral arteries were always successful. Full study of cerebral arteries by Seldinger's method, if necessary, was easily achieved using DSA even in patient with high age or with severe atherosclerosis. Bolus injection of small dose of contrast material as well as serial imaging was helpful in evaluating hemodynamics in the lesion. Real time display of DSA reduced the time required for angiography and was very convenient for artificial embolization. Besides these advantages, DSA became comparable to conventional angiography in special resolution by use of intraarterial injection and could be a preoperative genuine examination as well as a screening method."}
{"id": "6336217", "title": "Dynamic SPECT with Xe-133: regional cerebral blood flow in patients with unilateral cerebrovascular disease: concise communication.", "content": "Dynamic SPECT with Xe-133: regional cerebral blood flow in patients with unilateral cerebrovascular disease: concise communication. To validate xenon-133 dynamic single photon emission tomography (SPECT) clinically, 74 patients were examined. Strictly unilateral cerebrovascular disease was confirmed in 47 patients by clinical history and by transmission computerized tomography (TCT) and contrast angiography. Twenty-seven were excluded, considered normal. SPECT flow maps were evaluated visually (against TCT) or by automated region of interest (ROI) techniques (12 areas per slice) to measure area flow (AF) (ml/100 g-min) and interhemispherical area flow ratios (AR). These were compared with normal values. Minimum AF in affected hemisphere decreased, and AR-to-normal difference increased, with the severity of the disease. Visually, low-flow areas were detected twice as frequently in SPECT as areas of low density of TCT. In reversible episodes, sensitivity of AF alone ws significantly below the sensitivity of combined evaluation of flow and ratio."}
{"id": "6204665", "title": "[Recovery from aphasia and cerebral blood flow: a comparison between cerebral hemorrhage and cerebral thrombosis].", "content": "[Recovery from aphasia and cerebral blood flow: a comparison between cerebral hemorrhage and cerebral thrombosis]. To compare cerebral circulation in aphasic patients who had cerebral hemorrhage against those who with cerebral thrombosis, we studies 50 patients with hypertensive intracranial (putaminal) hemorrhage and 20 patients with cerebral thrombosis whose diagnoses were confirmed on repeated CT scan and cerebral angiography. The measurements of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) by the 133Xe intraarterial injection method was carried out in 40 patients. The evolution of the aphasic syndrome was analyzed according to Hirano's classification and the patients were divided into two groups: those having a favorable recovery from aphasia; those with a poor recovery. Twelve out of 20 patients with cerebral hemorrhage showed a favorable recovery from aphasia, whose left hemispheric mean blood flow (mCBF) was 33.1 +/- 9.7 ml/100 g/min. The mCBF was 30.8 +/- 10.3 ml/100 g/min in 8 patients with a poor recovery. There was no significant difference in mCBF values between the two groups. The favorable recovery group showed slightly higher regional values in the left frontal and temporal lobes than did the poor recovery group, but no significant difference was found between the two group. Here, rCBF values failed to correlate between the two kinds of recovery from aphasia in patients with cerebral hemorrhage. The marked variability in rCBF values in the acute stage might partly account for the poor correlation in cerebral hemorrhage. In contrast, a series of rCBF studies demonstrated that rCBF values stabilized in the acute and subacute stage in cerebral thrombosis. Nine out of 20 patients with cerebral thrombosis had a favorable recovery from aphasia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "6881442", "title": "A comparison of digital subtraction angiography and noninvasive testing in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "A comparison of digital subtraction angiography and noninvasive testing in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease. Among the 1,892 patients who underwent cerebrovascular digital subtraction angiography at our hospital over the past 18 months, there was a subgroup of 34 patients (65 carotid arteries) for whom noninvasive cerebrovascular test results and standard cerebral arteriograms were also available. These patients were reviewed retrospectively and the ability of both methods to detect hemodynamically significant lesions, defined as a greater than 50 percent reduction in the diameter of the carotid artery, was determined using the arteriograms as the \"gold standard.\" Noninvasive cerebrovascular tests had a sensitivity of 81 percent, a specificity of 95 percent, a positive predictive value of 92 percent, a negative prediction value of 88 percent, and an overall accuracy of 89 percent. Digital subtraction angiography had a sensitivity of 84 percent, a specificity of 92 percent, a positive predictive value of 88 percent, a negative predictive value of 89 percent, and an overall accuracy of 89 percent. If the four cases of hemodynamically significant stenosis of the carotid siphon not detected by digital subtraction angiography had been considered as false-negatives, its sensitivity would have been reduced to 72 percent. In patients with hemispheric cerebral ischemia, we found noninvasive cerebrovascular tests neither necessary nor cost-effective. Digital subtraction angiography, on the other hand, often provided definitive diagnostic information in such patients if the intracranial circulation was well defined and the extracranial lesion corresponded to the patients' symptoms. Noninvasive cerebrovascular testing was the safest and most cost-effective technique for screening patients with asymptomatic bruits, atypical, nonhemispheric cerebral symptoms, and those who have undergone carotid endarterectomy. If the noninvasive cerebrovascular test result was positive or equivocal, digital subtraction angiography was performed to localize the responsible lesion and exclude carotid occlusion."}
{"id": "6878091", "title": "Noninvasive carotid testing in threatened stroke. 2. Predictive performance.", "content": "Noninvasive carotid testing in threatened stroke. 2. Predictive performance. The various noninvasive tests have different inherent limitations, and expectations of the tests must take these limitations into account. The tests' main value lies in cases where indications do not clearly favor surgical management nor do they contraindicate it for prophylaxis of threatened stroke. In such cases, test results may help sway the clinician's decision. Intravenous digital subtraction angiography may affect the application of the traditional noninvasive technologies in the future."}
{"id": "6875673", "title": "[Strategy for exploring constitutional cerebrovascular accidents: justification and prospective evaluation].", "content": "[Strategy for exploring constitutional cerebrovascular accidents: justification and prospective evaluation]."}
{"id": "6870612", "title": "Intracerebral hemorrhage and oral amphetamine.", "content": "Intracerebral hemorrhage and oral amphetamine. Four patients suffered intracerebral hemorrhages following the oral or nasal use of amphetamine or related compounds. Two of these patients had abnormal-appearing cerebral blood vessels on angiography. Review of previously reported cases showed that intracerebral hemorrhage may occur in patients using the drug for the first time and for nonrecreational purposes."}
{"id": "6856822", "title": "Intravenous digital subtraction angiography in the investigation of intracranial disease.", "content": "Intravenous digital subtraction angiography in the investigation of intracranial disease. Eighty-six patients who presented with a variety of intracranial lesions were examined with intravenous digital subtraction angiography (IV-DSA). A grading system was used to evaluate the ability of IV-DSA to answer specific diagnostic questions regarding intracranial tumors, vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage, lesions of the sella, dural sinus occlusion, and post-therapeutic embolization. Eighty-four per cent of the examinations provided clinically useful information. In 15% of the cases limited but useful information was obtained; only 1% of the examinations provided no useful information. We conclude that IV-DSA can routinely provide useful information in the evaluation of the variety of intracranial lesions described above."}
{"id": "6855985", "title": "[Intracerebral hemorrhage].", "content": "[Intracerebral hemorrhage]."}
{"id": "6839323", "title": "Occlusive cerebral arterial disease.", "content": "Occlusive cerebral arterial disease."}
{"id": "6836476", "title": "Extravasation of contrast medium during both computed tomography and cerebral angiography.", "content": "Extravasation of contrast medium during both computed tomography and cerebral angiography."}
{"id": "6835680", "title": "[Clinical and neuroradiological aspects in the infantile form of Moyamoya disease].", "content": "[Clinical and neuroradiological aspects in the infantile form of Moyamoya disease]."}
{"id": "6663351", "title": "Traumatic cerebral aneurysm in pediatric age. Case report.", "content": "Traumatic cerebral aneurysm in pediatric age. Case report. Cerebral aneurysm following head trauma in pediatric age is a rare complication particularly in the absence of skull fractures or penetrating brain wounds as in the present case. In the presence of rapid worsening of neurological conditions after head trauma, one may take into consideration this complication among other possible vascular accidents."}
{"id": "6658903", "title": "Angiographical analysis of acute cerebral infarction followed by \"cascade\"-like deterioration of minor neurological deficits. What is progressing stroke?", "content": "Angiographical analysis of acute cerebral infarction followed by \"cascade\"-like deterioration of minor neurological deficits. What is progressing stroke? In order to understand the mechanism of clinical worsening in patients with cerebral infarction, attention was focused on the changes in cerebral angiograms obtained repeatedly before and after neurological deterioration. Among 212 stroke patients with minor neurological deficits, incomplete hemiparesis progressed to complete hemiplegia in 15 patients several days after the beginning of symptoms. On admission, 3 had internal carotid artery occlusion, 2 had stenosis of the internal carotid artery, 5 had occlusion of the middle cerebral arterial trunk, 2 had occlusion of the middle cerebral arterial branch, and 3 had no angiographically visible occlusion. The changes between the first and the second angiograms were of different varieties: another recurrent occlusion, progression of occlusion, new occlusion in the cerebral arteries opacified through the collateral pathway, recanalization of the initially occluded artery, and no change. Such different patterns of pathophysiological events show that the mechanism of neurological worsening in infarcted patients is not uniform. Based on the results from the present study, several problems which arose during the investigation and the somewhat vague definition of \"progressing stroke\" currently in use are discussed."}
{"id": "6646386", "title": "Bilateral parietal arteriovenous malformations: report of a case.", "content": "Bilateral parietal arteriovenous malformations: report of a case. A patient with bilateral parietal arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) is reported. The clinical presentation included seizures, coma, and signs of tentorial herniation. After the evacuation of a large left intraparietal hematoma, cerebral angiography identified a small left parietal AVM, which was excised. Mass effect and increased intracranial pressure were present at the time of the initial angiography, and the presence of a right parietal AVM was not appreciated. Postoperative cerebral angiography to document excision of the left parietal AVM then disclosed the small right parietal AVM, which was later excised. The patient has recovered very well. The natural history of AVMs and the occurrence of multiple AVMs are discussed."}
{"id": "6640454", "title": "Carotid Doppler evaluation in cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Carotid Doppler evaluation in cerebrovascular disease. The Doppler technique has proven to be a useful noninvasive technique for evaluating the patency of the carotid artery in patients at risk of stroke. The data obtained from 246 carotid Doppler examinations were compared with the angiographic findings in the same patients. The sensitivity, specificity and accuracy were high when the degree of stenosis was greater than 50%, but occlusions were less reliably detected, with 8 (33%) of the 24 being misdiagnosed as high-grade stenoses. Carotid Doppler evaluation guides and accelerates decisions regarding further investigations, such as cerebral angiography. It helps one decide whether a neck bruit is of arterial origin and aids assessment following cerebrovascular surgery. It is not a substitute for cerebral angiography because it poorly visualizes both the posterior and the intracranial circulations and cannot accurately detect low-grade (less than 50%) stenoses or ulcerated arterial plaques. Detection of stenosis in a carotid artery in an otherwise uncertain case is an indication for cerebral angiography, so the Doppler technique will probably increase the number of angiograms performed. However, this technique is also useful in follow-up, being without hazard, and should, therefore, reduce the likelihood of unnecessary angiographic examinations."}
{"id": "6637284", "title": "[Complex ultrasonic scanning, Doppler sonography, telethermography and infrared radiometry in studies of carotid artery circulation].", "content": "[Complex ultrasonic scanning, Doppler sonography, telethermography and infrared radiometry in studies of carotid artery circulation]. The authors first applied a complex of modern noninvasive methods of studying cerebral vascular pathologies, both direct (phonoangiography, echopulso- or echosphygmography, bidimensional scanning) and indirect (telethermography, ultrasound flowmetry, photoplethysmography and ophthalmodynamometry, inhalation radiocirculography) in examining patients with various stages of atherosclerotic carotid impairment and various forms of cerebral vascular pathology (ischemic stroke, transient disorders of the cerebral circulation, initial manifestations of cerebral circulation deficiency) verified by cerebral angiography, surgery or necropsy findings. High informative value of the above methods used combined in cases of circulatory pathology in the carotid bed was shown and the differential evaluation of the importance of every individual method in concrete types of cerebrovascular pathology was carried out. The use of ultrasound and thermovisual methods is considered to be most promising in the diagnosis of vascular cerebral impairments."}
{"id": "6636941", "title": "[Diagnosis and therapy of cerebrovascular ischemia].", "content": "[Diagnosis and therapy of cerebrovascular ischemia]. The pathogenesis and clinical manifestations of complete and focal cerebral ischemia are described. Special attention is paid to the recognition of TIA's, the non-invasive diagnostic possibilities (Doppler ultrasonic imaging, digital subtraction angiography, cranial computerized tomography), the medicamentous and surgical prevention of stroke. Cranial computerized tomography is important for the differential diagnosis of cerebral ischemia/cerebral hemorrhage. The pray and rehabilitation of patients with stroke are discussed. The possibilities of pharmacotherapy are critically reviewed."}
{"id": "6633813", "title": "[Extravasation of contrast media demonstrated during cerebral angiography in the giant aneurysm of the brain].", "content": "[Extravasation of contrast media demonstrated during cerebral angiography in the giant aneurysm of the brain]. The authors report a case of giant aneurysm in which extravasation of contrast medium was demonstrated during cerebral angiography and confirmed by computed tomography. A 33-year-old man suddenly lost consciousness and vomited frequently. Three hours later, he was admitted to our hospital in semicomatose state with left hemiplegia. Within two hours after admission, plain CT scan, enhanced CT scan, left carotid angiography and post-angiographic CT scan were performed. CT scan showed marked subarachnoid hemorrhage, left temporal intracerebral hematoma and oval mass which was remarkably enhanced in the left Sylvian fissure. First left carotid angiogram demonstrated a giant aneurysm of the middle cerebral artery which was measured 4.5 cm in maximum diameter. Second left carotid angiogram demonstrated an extravasation of contrast medium around the aneurysm. The patient immediately underwent CT scan, which showed enlargement of intracerebral hematoma and intraventricular high density area as added lesion. By regulation of window level, the presence of contrast medium due to intra-angiographic rupture of the aneurysm was confirmed. The patient expired fifteen hours after admission. At autopsy, the thrombus in the aneurysmal sac was hardly present and the wall of the sac was made mainly of collagen fibers. From the following two points this case was very interesting. However this aneurysm was very large, the thrombus in the aneurysmal sac was hardly present. Extravasation of contrast medium was clearly demonstrated during cerebral angiography with confirmation by computed tomography in the giant aneurysm."}
{"id": "6624557", "title": "Low flow (cryptic) arteriovenous malformation and spontaneous haematoma.", "content": "Low flow (cryptic) arteriovenous malformation and spontaneous haematoma. The authors emphasize the meticulous search for microangioma under magnification in cases of spontaneous haematoma. Two cases of low flow (cryptic) arteriovenous malformations are described. The CT scan and angiography are non-contributory in detecting such lesions. These small-sized angiomas are buried in the wall of the haematoma cavity. Histologically there is evidence of thrombosis in arteriovenous malformation."}
{"id": "6622958", "title": "[Computed tomography in primary subarachnoid hemorrhage].", "content": "[Computed tomography in primary subarachnoid hemorrhage]. 88 patients in primary subarachnoidal haemorrhage are evaluated with CT and partly with cerebral angiography. The CT shows the successions of the haemorrhage and ischemia, and partly the existence of aneurysms aneurysms. For preoperative clarification, angiography is necessary."}
{"id": "6621785", "title": "[Cerebral blood flow dynamics of spontaneous occlusion of the circle of Willis (Part 1)--comparison between electrophysiological findings and neuroradiological findings].", "content": "[Cerebral blood flow dynamics of spontaneous occlusion of the circle of Willis (Part 1)--comparison between electrophysiological findings and neuroradiological findings]. Four cases (2 children and 2 adults) of spontaneous occlusion of the circle of Willis were studied using EEG, somatosensory evoked potential (SEP), cerebral angiography and CT scan. The following results were obtained. 1) Among the above described parameters, SEP was the most useful to detect the ischemic change in the thalamus when the obstruction of the posterior part of the circle of Willis extends, even before a low density lesion of the thalamus appears on CT. 2) In child cases, a decrease in the amplitude N3 of SEP was observed after hyperventilation. It was speculated that this finding of SEP might be correlated with the mild cortical ischemia due to vasoconstriction and \"rebuild up\" phenomenon in EEG after hyperventilation."}
{"id": "6621749", "title": "[Hemorrhagic cerebral infarcts. Clinical aspects, computer tomography findings. Prognosis].", "content": "[Hemorrhagic cerebral infarcts. Clinical aspects, computer tomography findings. Prognosis]."}
{"id": "6621748", "title": "[Cardiac cerebral embolism].", "content": "[Cardiac cerebral embolism]. 135 cases of cardiogenic emboli to the brain are reported in view of symptoms, diagnosis, prognosis and therapy. Brain embolism occurred most often in ischemic heart disease with atrial fibrillation, followed by valvular heart disease, myocardial infarction and carditis. Usually there was a sudden onset of neurological symptoms during the morning hours. Initial lapses of consciousness were a bad prognostic sign--they appeared as well as seizures more often in embolic than in thrombotic brain infarctions. The clearly higher incidence of emboli to the left cerebral hemisphere has anatomical reasons. Angiographic findings depend on the time of examination; common are occlusions of the supraclinoid portion of the internal carotid artery, media-occlusions at the trifurcation, media-branch-occlusions and disturbed middle cerebral blood flow. CT and lumbar puncture do not support the diagnosis. Cardiologic examination should include X-ray of the chest, long time electrocardiogram and echocardiography. In view of a mortality of 22 per cent and major neurological residual symptoms in 34 percent the prognosis of brain embolism is serious. Early anticoagulant therapy in the absence of brain hemorrhage in CT seems to improve the prognosis by preventing reembolization."}
{"id": "6605348", "title": "CT of the cranium in head injury.", "content": "CT of the cranium in head injury. Computed tomography (CT) allows fast, accurate diagnosis of intracranial bleeding so that the role of cerebral angiography in acute trauma is now quite limited. Management of the patient with multiple injuries including head injury may differ from that of patients with head injury alone. Several different intracranial abnormalities may occur immediately after injury and during the following few days, including intracranial bleeding and edema. CT is of great help in following the clinical course of such patients."}
{"id": "6413319", "title": "Possibilities and limits of computed tomography and angiography in diagnosis of cerebral vascular malformations.", "content": "Possibilities and limits of computed tomography and angiography in diagnosis of cerebral vascular malformations. CT findings in 18 patients with cerebral vascular malformations are presented. The following findings were established: 9 angiomas, 4 spontaneous intracerebral haematomas after angioma rupture, 3 aneurysms, 1 aneurysm of vena magna Galeni and 1 megasinus. Contrast medium was administered during every CT screening. All the CT results were controlled by angiography and 10 patients were surgically treated. The authors point out the limits in possibilities of CT to diagnose cerebral vascular malformations. They also discuss the possible errors during CT procedure and deal with the problems of diagnostic differentiation of results. Discussing some cases of cerebral vascular malformations, the authors are trying to evaluate the reliability of the CT diagnostic method had compare it with angiography."}
{"id": "6410782", "title": "Computed tomographic findings in cerebral arterial ectasia.", "content": "Computed tomographic findings in cerebral arterial ectasia. The computed tomographic findings in 15 patients with angiographically documented cerebral arterial ectasia are reported. In addition to demonstrating the majority of pathologic arterial segments, computed tomography also documents the presence and extent of associated intracranial abnormalities. In this study these included cerebral atrophy (10 patients), infarction (three patients), and subarachnoid hemorrhage (one patient)."}
{"id": "6409734", "title": "[Cerebellar hemorrhage from an arteriovenous angioma during angiography].", "content": "[Cerebellar hemorrhage from an arteriovenous angioma during angiography]. In a 53-year-old man in whom computed tomography and cerebral angiography did not reveal a bleeding source in the initial stage, cerebral angiography was repeated 3 weeks later. After injection of 3 ml contrast medium into the commune carotid artery a mid brain syndrome developed and the patient died on the sequels of brain stem compression. Autopsy revealed a large cerebellar hemorrhage originating from an arteriovenous malformation. In this case the bleeding could not be initiated by increased intravascular pressure due to angiographic injection; the contrast medium itself might have caused increased vessels' permeability as a toxicologic or hemodynamic complication. However, an accidental coincidence of bleeding and angiography must also be taken into consideration."}
{"id": "6362094", "title": "The pathogenesis of strokes from internal carotid artery occlusion. Diagnostic and therapeutical implications.", "content": "The pathogenesis of strokes from internal carotid artery occlusion. Diagnostic and therapeutical implications. In order to relate clinical, angiologic and brain-morphological findings, 107 patients with internal carotid artery occlusion were examined clinically and by Doppler sonography, computerized tomography and cerebral angiography. During computerized tomography, haemodynamically induced infarctions could be differentiated from those, caused by periocclusive embolism towards the major brain arteries. This differentiation was based on an integration of angiological as well as brain-morphological data and implicates some important diagnostic, therapeutic and prognostic consequences. The first group may benefit from immediate surgical restoration of carotid blood flow and have a relatively good prognosis. By contrast, subjects presenting territorial infarctions mostly experience severe and permanent neurological deficits. They should not undergo revascularization since endarterectomy increases the risk of cerebral hemorrhage but cannot cause clinical improvement. In five patients, following special angiographic techniques, the lesions of the internal carotid artery turned out to be pseudoocclusions. This condition threatens the patient considerably but is well accessible to surgical reconstruction. Thus, pseudooclusion seems to be one of the most convincing indication for emergency endarterectomy of the internal carotid artery."}
{"id": "6348218", "title": "Impact of new techniques on the diagnosis and management of cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Impact of new techniques on the diagnosis and management of cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "6322550", "title": "Misdiagnosis of stroke.", "content": "Misdiagnosis of stroke. Between January 1980 and November 1982, of 152 patients admitted with a presumptive diagnosis of stroke to the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, Nigeria, the final diagnosis was not 'stroke' in thirteen (8.6%). The true diagnoses in the thirteen patients were: glioma in three; meningioma, brain abscess, epilepsy and subdural haematoma in two patients each; hepatic coma and syringobulbia in one patient each. Failure to obtain adequate history, carry out thorough physical examination, and recognize valuable clues pointing to a different diagnosis were responsible for the misdiagnoses. Competent clinical acumen and expertise and selective cerebral angiography (in the absence of newer imaging techniques) would have prevented the errors."}
{"id": "6228099", "title": "[Correlations between Doppler velocimetry, arteriography and intraoperative findings in the study of carotid vascular diseases].", "content": "[Correlations between Doppler velocimetry, arteriography and intraoperative findings in the study of carotid vascular diseases]. The present paper reports the results obtained in 54 patients who underwent a non invasive cerebral vascular examination by doppler technique, followed by a cerebral angiography: a total of 86 carotid arteries were compared. An overall accuracy between arteriographic and ultrasonographic results was found in 69 arteries whereas in 15 arteries there was a discordance; and in only 3 cases ultrasonographic findings resulted false negative. The Authors have also considered the emodinamic and anatomo pathological results obtained in 23 carotid arteries operated on, in order to evaluate ophthalmic test accuracy and noninvasive evaluation of Willis's circle. The Authors have reached the conclusion that doppler technique appears to be inadequate in case of turbulent flow due to arterial dilatation or to non significant stenosis. In addition they have noticed a better reliability of emodinamic findings and a poor accuracy of the ophthalmic test."}
{"id": "6196460", "title": "Intraventricular haemorrhage, CT and arteriographic findings in thirty-five patients.", "content": "Intraventricular haemorrhage, CT and arteriographic findings in thirty-five patients. Thirty-five patients with intraventricular haemorrhage shown by CT underwent cerebral arteriography. In 15 patients arteriography showed an occlusion of a carotid or middle cerebral artery. Secondary bleeding into an infarction caused the intraventricular haemorrhage. All 15 patients were aged over 40 years."}
{"id": "7180613", "title": "Computer tomography of ruptured intracranial arteriovenous malformations in the acute stage.", "content": "Computer tomography of ruptured intracranial arteriovenous malformations in the acute stage. We studied the CT findings of 23 AVM cases confirmed by cerebral angiography and their clinical findings, and discussed mainly the lesions of ruptured AVM in the acute stage. The 10 cases, in which CT was performed within 7 days after the onset of a ruptured AVM, presented with blood stained CSF except for two cases. All of the 10 cases showed intracerebral haemorrhages in the CT findings, and four of these cases were associated with ventricular rupture. In the plain CT of these 10 cases, high density in the cerebral cistern, such as seen in the acute stage of ruptured intracranial aneurysms, was not found except for 1 case. In the enhanced CT within 7 days after the onset of ruptured AVM, no enhanced findings were found in eight cases. On the contrary, in 12 cases in which CT was performed later than the 8th day after the onset, enhanced findings were found in 11 cases. It has been previously reported that SAH is seen in the lesion of ruptured AVM in the acute stage. From our CT findings of ruptured AVM in the acute stage, however, it was concluded that the lesion of a ruptured AVM in the acute stage does not cause SAH but an intracerebral haematoma or ventricular rupture and that blood may enter the CSF only secondarily."}
{"id": "7168488", "title": "Neurological complications of sickle cell anemia.", "content": "Neurological complications of sickle cell anemia. A variety of neurological complications occur with sickle cell hemoglobinopathy. The most striking and most common is cerebral infarction. It is also the most devastating. Because of the high recurrence rate in untreated patients, cerebral infarction is the most debilitating neurological complication. The observed frequency varies from 6% to as high as 34% in different reports. The pathogenesis, clinical features, and demography are discussed. Diagnostic procedures should include a spinal tap to rule out potentially treatable lesions. CT scan and cerebral angiography may also be helpful in certain cases. Transfusion therapy remains the mainstay of management in the acute phase of cerebral infarction. There is considerable evidence to indicate that long-term transfusion programs are effective in the prevention of recurrences. Intracranial hemorrhage, spinal cord infarction, isolated neuropathies due to anatomical proximity to infarcted bones, lead neuropathy, auditory problems, and ocular manifestations are other neurological problems which can affect patients with sickle cell disease."}
{"id": "7168178", "title": "[Vascular dementia and livedo reticularis].", "content": "[Vascular dementia and livedo reticularis]. A case of idiopathic livedo reticularis with dementia is described in a 37 year-old women. The symptoms of livedo reticularis preceded the onset of dementia by more than 16 years. Cerebral angiographic examinations gave evidence of cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "7159261", "title": "[Locked-in syndrome. Report of a case and review of the literature].", "content": "[Locked-in syndrome. Report of a case and review of the literature]. The case of a 46 year-old man who had a locked-in syndrome is reported. The patient had a haemorragic vascular accident with tetraplegia, anartria, vertical ocular movements and preservation of the consciousness. The EEG showed a projected disturbance possibly caused by a brain-stem lesion, that was confirmed by the CAT SCAN. Cerebral angiography showed high level of aterosclerosis. The lesion is located in the ventral part of the pons above the nucleus of the abducent nerve, without damaging the substantia reticularis of the mesencephalon and can be caused by thrombosis of the basilar artery and tumor, myastenia gravis, polyneurites, heroin overdose, after swine-flu inoculation and post-infectious polyneurites. The patient is still alive 2 years after the stroke with a good recovery. He can walk and speak fluently, but with cordonal ataxy of the limbs."}
{"id": "7134914", "title": "Site of brain lesion and functional capacity in rehabilitated hemiplegics.", "content": "Site of brain lesion and functional capacity in rehabilitated hemiplegics. Degree of motor impairment, some sensory qualities and self-care ADL were registered in 53 patients with hemisyndrome due to stroke in whom the brain lesion could be visualized by computerized tomography or by cerebral angiography. Central brain damage (internal capsule, basal ganglia, thalamus) resulted in significantly higher degree of motor impairment than neo-cortical damage, while the size of the damage apparently did not influence the motor-function. Self-care ADL was significantly associated with level of motor impairment. Moreover, significantly less final recovery of exteroception and kinesthesia was observed for lesions in the non-dominant than the dominant hemisphere. It is suggested that in patients found suited for admittance to rehabilitation wards visualization of the brain damage may be a useful adjunct when stating the goals for the rehabilitation process."}
{"id": "7133333", "title": "Cerebrovascular Doppler-ultrasound examination in children: principle, indication and findings.", "content": "Cerebrovascular Doppler-ultrasound examination in children: principle, indication and findings. The cerebrovascular Doppler examination (cv-Doppler) is a reliable noninvasive method for the diagnosis of obstructions in the extracranial cerebral arteries, and of major arteriovenous shunts in adult patients. The method was applied in 38 children aged 4 months to 17 years. 25 patients with symptoms of cerebrovascular disease underwent cerebral angiography. Six patients had extracranial arterial obstruction, all correctly diagnosed by Doppler. Six children had obstruction of the middle cerebral artery, four were indirectly predicted by Doppler. Four of these twelve patients had extra-intracranial bypass surgery. The patency of the anastomosis could be documented in all cases by Doppler. Ten children had arterio-venous shunts. Of these, 7 patients with an av-angioma and one patient with a carotid-cavernous-sinus fistula were diagnosed correctly by Doppler, as was the cessation of pathologically increased blood flow in the feeding and draining vessels in the 5 patients who had surgical intervention. cv-Doppler results were normal in 3 cases with normal angiography. These results demonstrate that cv-Doppler examination can be useful also in children for the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease and noninvasive documentation of the hemodynamic effect of neurovascular surgery."}
{"id": "7130122", "title": "C.T. and angiographic similarities of cerebral hematoma and neoplasm.", "content": "C.T. and angiographic similarities of cerebral hematoma and neoplasm."}
{"id": "7121818", "title": "NMR imaging of the brain.", "content": "NMR imaging of the brain. The basic features of an NMR imaging system are outlined and three pulse sequences which produce images with varying dependence on proton density T1 and T2 are described. The first of these sequences, Repeated Free Induction Decay produces images which demonstrate changes in proton density as well as flow effects. The second sequence, Inversion-recovery, produces images which are dependent on T1 and show a high level of grey, white matter contrast giving considerable anatomical detail. In addition pathological processes such as infarction, haemorrhages, demyelination and malignancy, produce changes in T1 enabling lesions to be localised. The third sequence, Spin-echo, produces images which are dependent on T2. These show very little grey, white matter contrast but demonstrate acute and space occupying lesions as well as cerebral oedema. The high level of grey, white matter contrast, lack of bone artefact, variety of sequences, capacity for multiplanar imaging, sensitivity to pathological change and lack of known hazard make NMR an important addition to existing techniques of neurological diagnosis."}
{"id": "7121733", "title": "[Traumatic interhemispheric subdural hematoma--report of a case and analysis of 7 cases].", "content": "[Traumatic interhemispheric subdural hematoma--report of a case and analysis of 7 cases]. A case of traumatic interhemispheric subdural hematoma is reported and 7 cases, including ours, reported in literature are analyzed. A 43-year-old jogger hit his forehead in the traffic accident. After medical care for the wound at the near hospital, he walked to home without any neurological deficits. On the following day, he complained of headache, nausea and slight gait disturbance, so the visited us 5 days after head trauma. On the biplane computed tomograms, interhemispheric subdural hematoma was detected. A distinct avascular space in this portion was found on the right carotid angiograms. Treated conservatively with repeated computed tomography, he recovered completely well about a month after head trauma. Analyzing 7 cases, following comments were obtained; Age distribution was between 23 to 74 and all were male. The mechanism of the hematoma formation in such region remained still unclear, but seemed to be caused partially due to rotational cerebral injuries. Characteristic clinical symptom was hemiparesis, predominantly crural or crural monoparesis. This symptom was found in four of seven cases on the same side of the hematoma, that was supposed due to the compression of the contralateral blood flow the distal anterior cerebral artery. Neuroradiologically, on the angiograms, the internal branches of callosomarginal arteries turned away from the middle parallel to the pericallosal artery stayed in the middle and between them, a distinct avascular space was found. On the biplane computed tomograms, semilunar high density area was identified along the midline, bounded medially by the falx cerebri, laterally by the convex border against the brain parenchyma, inferiorly by the tentorium. Although the anteroposterior extension of the hematoma was recognized on the axial plane, the superoinferior extension, especially in relation to the tentorium, was well shown on the coronal plane. On the electroencephalogram, no characteristic findings were obtained. Abnormalities blood coagulation were found in a case. Five cases were operated on and 2 cases treated conservatively, and the outcome was good in all. The following diseases had to be differentiated: hematomas due to the rupture of peripheral anterior cerebral artery aneurysms, including traumatic ones, blood coagulopathy or medication of anticoagulants. Tumors such as parasagittal or falx meningiomas, subdural abscesses localized in the interhemisphere, infarctions of distal anterior cerebral artery."}
{"id": "7120607", "title": "Winiwarter-Buerger disease ('thromboangiitis obliterans') with cerebral involvement.", "content": "Winiwarter-Buerger disease ('thromboangiitis obliterans') with cerebral involvement. A patient with clinical and radiological manifestations o Winiwarter-Buerger disease (\"thromboangiitis obliterans\") in the extremities had three cerebrovascular events during a five-year follow-up. Changes of infarction were confirmed by computed tomographic brain scan and arteriography, but no clinical or laboratory evidence of vasculitis nor a source of recurrent emboli could be found. He had no atherosclerotic risk factors except being a heavy smoker. Cerebrovascular involvement in Buerger's disease is infrequent, but clinical and pathological demonstration has occasionally been found. The existence of Buerger's disease has been questioned, but there appears to be a distinct syndrome of vascular disease that is not atherosclerotic or vasculitic. Stroke maybe a component of this syndrome and may be a complication preventable by cessation of smoking."}
{"id": "7111998", "title": "[Vascular malformation in cranial computerized tomography (author's transl)].", "content": "[Vascular malformation in cranial computerized tomography (author's transl)]. Aneurysms and vascular hamartomas, unless too small, may be diagnosed by computerized tomography. In particular, larger arteriovenous malformations and venous angiomas present a fairly typical appearance. Smaller angiomas produce mostly atypical findings and require additional cerebral angiography. Spontaneous intracerebral parenchymal or subarachnoidal haemorrhage is mostly caused by arterial hypertension and/or arteriosclerosis. However, vascular malformations are an important additional cause of bleeding. Demonstration of intracranial haemorrhage is a domain of computerized tomography. Occasionally, an angioma may be revealed. However, the source of bleeding can usually be shown more conclusively by cerebral angiography, an invasive method."}
{"id": "7099381", "title": "[Traumatic aneurysm of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (author's transl)].", "content": "[Traumatic aneurysm of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (author's transl)]. The incidence of traumatic intracranial aneurysms are rare. In review of literature, only six cases of traumatic aneurysms in posterior fossa are reported. The patient, 15-year-old girl, was admitted on Dec. 18th, 1979, presented with unconsciousness after a traffic accident. She was developed impaired consciousness and left hemiparesis with right hemotympanum and nasal bleeding. Skull film showed an occipital linear fracture and a laminal fracture of the atlas. CT scan demonstrated traumatic subarachnoid, intraventricular hemorrhage and pneumocephalus. After accident, she regained consciousness with conservative therapy, but she deteriorated on the 10th hospitalized day. On the 17th day, lumbar puncture and CT scan revealed recurrent subarachnoid and intraventricular hemorrhage. The saccular aneurysm on the lateral medullary segment of the right posterior inferior cerebellar artery was obtained by cerebral angiogram on the 35th day. The configuration and size of the aneurysm was easily demonstrated by CT scans and cerebral angigrams. On the 43rd day, the clipping of the common trunk of the right posterior inferior cerebellar artery was employed. Her postoperative course was uneventful and she was discharged on the 97th day in good condition. This aneurysm was suggested to be induced by severe head injury with clinical ad operative findings. With the introduction of CT scan, CT scan is more available diagnostic modality than cerebral angiography in the follow up study with severe head injuries. And in the absence of pathological CT scan findings, suspicion of traumatic cerebrovascular impairments such as aneurysm should be paid. As the conservative management of traumatic intracranial aneurysms carries high mortality rate up to 30-50%, the prompt diagnosis and direct surgical intervention are recommended."}
{"id": "7092431", "title": "Mitral valve prolapse: association with bizarre behavior, a confusional state, and aphasia.", "content": "Mitral valve prolapse: association with bizarre behavior, a confusional state, and aphasia. A 30-year-old man was admitted to the hospital with a history of sudden onset of bizarre behavior and difficulty in speaking that initially was attributed to drug intoxication. Examination disclosed a confused young man with receptive and expressive aphasia. A late systolic murmur was heard in the mitral area and echocardiography confirmed the presence of mitral valve prolapse. A computed tomographic scan of the head and cerebral angiography showed abnormalities consistent with an infarct of the left temporo-occipital region. Since no other predisposing factors were present, this patient's stroke was probably related to mitral valve prolapse."}
{"id": "7064602", "title": "[Technic of ultrasonic dopplerography in the diagnosis of occlusive lesions of the arteries of the base of the brain (doppleroangiographic study)].", "content": "[Technic of ultrasonic dopplerography in the diagnosis of occlusive lesions of the arteries of the base of the brain (doppleroangiographic study)]. Use was made for the first time of the ultrasonic dopplerography method for diagnosing occlusions of the brain base arteries in patients with cerebrovascular diseases. For this purpose a functional-compression examination technique was developed that enabled one to evaluate indirectly the patency of the intracranial arteries. Dopplerographic criteria of occlusions of individual arteries were determined. A comparison of the diagnosis made with the use of the ultrasonic dopplerography with the data of subsequent cerebral angiography showed that the results coincided in 83.3% of occlusions in the basilar arteries; 90% of occlusions in the terminal parts of the vertebral arteries: 90% of occlusions in the anterior and posterior communicating arteries; 86% of occlusions of internal carotid arteries in the siphon region, and 80% of occlusion of the median cerebral arteries. The results obtained give one grounds to recommend the ultrasonic dopplerography for practical use as a simple and sufficiently reliable method for diagnosing occlusions of the brain basin arteries."}
{"id": "7034508", "title": "Digital subtraction angiography of the intracranial vascular system: comparative study in 55 patients.", "content": "Digital subtraction angiography of the intracranial vascular system: comparative study in 55 patients. Intracranial vessels were examined in 55 patients with both conventional selective catheterization and intravenous digital subtraction angiography using a prototype digital subtraction unit. In 65% of the patients, the digital subtraction angiogram was diagnostic, but the overall quality was inferior to conventional selective angiography. In 22%, the digital subtraction angiogram provided diagnostic information, but there was a significant chance of misinterpreting the results of the study. In 13% of cases, the subtraction angiogram was not diagnostic. As now developed, digital subtraction angiography can replace conventional cerebral angiography for preoperative evaluation of the juxtasellar carotid artery prior to transphenoidal surgery because the large intracerebral vessels are consistently well visualized with digital subtraction. The dural sinuses are better visualized with digital subtraction than with conventional angiography because with digital subtraction all the vessels of the brain are opacified, whereas with conventional angiography, there is a mixture of opacified and unopacified blood in the sinuses. Combined with computed tomography, digital subtraction angiography can replace conventional angiography for determining the preoperative extent and vascularity of tumors. It can be used for postoperative evaluation of aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, extracranial to intracranial bypasses, and after the embolization of vascular lesions."}
{"id": "6981869", "title": "Digital subtraction angiography in cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Digital subtraction angiography in cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "6756739", "title": "Assessment of cerebral perfusion in childhood strokes.", "content": "Assessment of cerebral perfusion in childhood strokes. Thirty-three children who had strokes were studied by dynamic and static scintigraphy, 29 by CT scanning, and 10 by cerebral angiography. The accuracy of dynamic scintigraphy in stroke detection during the first week of clinical symptoms was 94% while CT scanning was 60% accurate and static scintigraphy 11% accurate. During the second week the accuracy of CT scanning increased to 100%, but static scintigraphy improved to only 50%. Fifty percent of scintiangiograms performed during the first week showed either luxuriant perfusion or flip-flop patterns. In some patients these two flow patterns changed to that of cerebral hemispheric ischemia after going through a phase during which perfusion appeared to be equal in the two hemispheres. Dynamic scintigraphy is believed to be the test of choice for stroke detection in children during the first week."}
{"id": "6179227", "title": "Non-invasive studies of the extra-cranial cerebral arteries: indication for angiography and operation.", "content": "Non-invasive studies of the extra-cranial cerebral arteries: indication for angiography and operation. During recent years, the risk involved in cerebral angiography has been considerably reduced. However, in our patient group this risk was still almost as high as that involved in operation. Non-invasive examination by means of the ultrasonic Doppler procedure has been improved with a resulting success rate of over 95%. Color coding stored in a computer program with the \"Echoflow\"-procedure allows for demonstration of the neck vessels giving an indication of the degree of stenosis. By this method, pictures of document quality are provided which can also be obtained by inexperienced examiners and interpreted more easily than curve registrations of the acoustic signals. In comparison with angiography, the Echoflow method was less sensitive than the conventional ultrasonic Doppler procedure especially in cases of low-degree stenosis of the internal carotid artery. Nevertheless, in 2.7% of the cases, a correct Echoflow diagnosis could be confirmed during operation where angiography had not shown the changes correctly. As the Echoflow procedure does not give sufficient information on intracranial pathology, we have so far dropped angiography in emergency cases only when establishing the indication for operation; however, in follow-up examinations this method is used exclusively instead of angiography."}
{"id": "7323306", "title": "Clinical applications of cerebral radionuclide angiography.", "content": "Clinical applications of cerebral radionuclide angiography."}
{"id": "7317212", "title": "[Intraventricular hemorrhage in adults -studied for cases with difficult origin (author's transl)].", "content": "[Intraventricular hemorrhage in adults -studied for cases with difficult origin (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "7304126", "title": "[Capsulo-thalamic hemorrhage (author's transl)].", "content": "[Capsulo-thalamic hemorrhage (author's transl)]. The authors report clinical and scanographic findings in 26 cases of capsulo-thalamic hemorrhage. They stress the frequency of arterial hypertension as a pre-disposing factor. The clinical picture is represented by the association of disorders of consciousness (usually obnubilation), contralateral flaccid hemiplegia with hemianesthesia, oculomotor disorders (disturbance of vertical gaze, miosis) and disorders of linguistic and motor behaviour. The paraclinical examination of choice is scanography which enables the site, volume and extent of the hemorrhage to be estimated, together with the mass effect and intraventricular rupture. Clinical and scanographic follow-up indicates a favourable prognosis for capsulo-thalamic hemorrhage (77% survival). Follow-up findings point to several unfavourable prognostic factors: immediate coma, persistent and massive flaccid hemiplegia, hemorrhage size exceeding 3 cm, and severe intraventricular rupture. In the light of the data in the literature, the authors discuss the clinical and scanographic signs of capsulo-thalamic hemorrhage."}
{"id": "7283956", "title": "[X-ray diagnostic procedures in cases involving craniocerebral trauma].", "content": "[X-ray diagnostic procedures in cases involving craniocerebral trauma]. A well working team of examinators is one of the main presummations of getting an optimal diagnostic and treatment of head injuries (examinators of different branches of medicine). The first thing to do is exclude an intracranial bleeding (correct interpretation of clinical and roentgenological findings with an application of a suitable method in time). The cerebral angiography is one of the most effective methods of haemotoma diagnostic. The results using computed tomography can be compared with. Both methods complement themselves. The ultra-sound-diagnostic is useful to exclude haematomas (80 per cent accuracy of fire)."}
{"id": "7283283", "title": "[Intracranial arteriovenous malformations in childhood. A revision of 25 cases (author's transl)].", "content": "[Intracranial arteriovenous malformations in childhood. A revision of 25 cases (author's transl)]. Clinical features of A-V intracranial malformations during infancy, childhood and adolescence are reviewed on this series of 25 less-than-15-years-old patients. Great cirsoid malformations (2 cases) and aneurysms of the vein of Galen (2 cases) may cause diffuse brain-steal-ischaemia, hydrocephalus and congestive heart failure in early ages, event at birth. The clinical manifestations of brain angiomas rather begin from the fifth year of life. Little sized angiomas cause preferentially intracranial haemorrhagic attacks (17 of 21 cases in this series). Middle sized racemic angiomas cause focal seizures and/or focal neurologic signs. In 5 patients an intracranial bruit of a great diagnostic value was present. Combining brain radioisotopic studies, brain C.A.T. and angiography near 100% of intracranial A-V malformations can be diagnosed early after clinical suspicion."}
{"id": "7256114", "title": "Reliability of cerebral radioisotopic angiography and of directional Doppler C.W. in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular insufficiency.", "content": "Reliability of cerebral radioisotopic angiography and of directional Doppler C.W. in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular insufficiency. The diagnostic value of radioisotopic cerebral angioscintigraphy (R.A.) and of Doppler CW (D.C.W.) techniques to identify stenosis of the internal carotid artery in its extracranial course was studied in 97 patients with ischaemic lesions (50 T.I.A. and 47 Complete Stroke). The results of R.A. and D.C.W. were compared with those of contrast carotid-angiography (C.A.). C.A. revealed stenosis above 50% or complete occlusion in 22% of cases, whereas D.C.W. and R.A. showed flow reduction in 27% and 48% of the cases respectively. In T.I.A., C.A. positivity went down to 8%; D.C.W. to 16%; and R.A. to 34%. In \"Complete Stroke\" positivity was 36% for C.A.; 41% for D.C.W.; and 62% for R.A. There was a high number of false positive findings with D.C.W. (8) but even more with R.A. (27). False negative findings occurred only in two cases with R.A. These data confirm the diagnostic value of these two noninvasive techniques to identify haemodynamically carotid stenosis. The use of both methods can reduce error due to false negativity. The rather marked frequency of false positivity, particularly with reference to R.A. doesn't affect the diagnostic value of the two methods."}
{"id": "7231764", "title": "[Cerebral lesions in attacks of transient ischemia. Results of clinical studies of microcirculation with perfusion brain scintigraphy (PBS)].", "content": "[Cerebral lesions in attacks of transient ischemia. Results of clinical studies of microcirculation with perfusion brain scintigraphy (PBS)]. 35 patients with supratentorial ischemic lesions were studied with the Perfusion Brain Scanning; 20 of them suffered for TIAs while 15 had Completed Strokes. In all cases a damage of the arteriolar-capillar bed were demonstrated. These findings favour the thesis that the focal supratentorial ischemic attacks are related to an irreversible lesion of the brain microcircle. The very high sensitivity in the detection of the small cerebral lesions and the diagnostic value of the PBS are underlined."}
{"id": "7222164", "title": "The National Survey of Stroke. Clinical findings.", "content": "The National Survey of Stroke. Clinical findings."}
{"id": "7222156", "title": "Limitations of quantitative oculoplethysmography and of directional Doppler ultrasonography in cerebrovascular diagnosis: assessment of an air-filled OPG system.", "content": "Limitations of quantitative oculoplethysmography and of directional Doppler ultrasonography in cerebrovascular diagnosis: assessment of an air-filled OPG system. 500 consecutive patients were evaluated for extracranial disease of the internal carotid arteries by an automated, air-filled, digital oculoplethysmographic system (OPG) of the Kartchner type (Zira) and by supraorbital (SO) and supratrochlear (ST) directional Doppler ultrasonography. Cerebral arteriograms were performed in 58 patients (110 vessels), and OPG timing criteria for detecting hemodynamically significant carotid artery stenosis (60% or greater diameter reduction) were ascertained. Optimal criteria were a delay of one ocular pulse, relative to the other, of greater than 12 msec; and a delay of an ocular pulse, relative to the earlier ear (external carotid) pulse, of greater than 36 msec. These criteria correctly identified 73% of vessels with 0 to 59% stenosis and 76% of vessels with 60 to 100% stenosis. However, in 26% of the vessels, OPG was either inconclusive or inaccurate. Correct diagnosis of bilateral hemodynamically significant carotid artery stenoses was made by OPG in 6 of 9 affected patients. SO Doppler was normal in 70% of vessels with 0-59% stenosis, and abnormal in 75% of vessels with 60-100% stenosis. Corresponding percentages for ST Doppler were 95% and 44%. Abnormal Doppler responses to compression of contralateral facial branches were predictive of intracranial cross-collateralization in only 25% of patients. These results suggest that both quantitative OPG in its present form and directional Doppler studies have serious limitations as non-invasive diagnostic methods."}
{"id": "7209301", "title": "[Computer tomographic findings in vascular malformations of the cerebral arteries (author's transl)].", "content": "[Computer tomographic findings in vascular malformations of the cerebral arteries (author's transl)]. Basing on a retrospective study of the CT scan findings in vascular malformations of the cerebral arteries, compared with the angiographic findings, the article shows the diagnostic possibilities offered by computed tomography in subarachnoid haemorrhages. Localization of an aneurysm via computed tomography depends on the size of the aneurysm. Proof of an intracerebral haemorrhage is definitely a pointer towards lateral localization of the vascular malformation. This means that in severely ill patients, panangiography need not be effected for the purpose of diagnosis. Attention is drawn to the pathological emergence of the contrast medium after intravenous administration in subarachnoid haemorrhages. The authors considers this a sign of a disturbance of the blood-brain barrier, although the pathogenetic mechanism remains unknown. Computed tomography is a valuable complement to angiography in subarachnoidal haemorrhage. However, it is pointed out by means of a few examples that it may well be that an accurate diagnosis can be arrived at only via biopsy, i.e. by the histological approach only."}
{"id": "7202440", "title": "Cerebral venous angioma, cutaneous angioma, facial asymmetry and recurrent stroke. A case report.", "content": "Cerebral venous angioma, cutaneous angioma, facial asymmetry and recurrent stroke. A case report. The case of an 8-year-old boy presenting diffuse, prevalently right-sided nevus flammeus, venous angioma of the right cerebral hemisphere, right-sided facial hyperplasia, lef-handedness and recurring strokes is reported together with the clinical, angiographic and CT features."}
{"id": "6170740", "title": "Reversal of experimental delayed cerebral vasospasm by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition.", "content": "Reversal of experimental delayed cerebral vasospasm by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition. Delayed cerebral vasospasm is an important determinant of the clinical outcome after subarachnoid hemorrhage, but its prevention and treatment has met with limited success. Since cerebral arteries were found to be sensitive to the vasoconstrictor effect of angiotensin II, the possibility of angiotensin's contribution to this vasospasm was investigated. Delayed cerebral arterial spasm was documented angiographically 72 hours after introduction of blood in the subarachnoid space of dogs. Following injection of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, teprotide, repeat cineangiograms at 30, 60, and 90 minutes demonstrated partial or total release of spasm of the basilar artery and its branches. It is concluded that angiotensin II participates in the delayed cerebral vasospasm after hemorrhage, and that angiotensin inhibition may release the spasm and prevent cerebral ischemia."}
{"id": "7445685", "title": "[Computerized tomography, Doppler sonography and angiography in cerebrovascular disorders].", "content": "[Computerized tomography, Doppler sonography and angiography in cerebrovascular disorders]."}
{"id": "7445684", "title": "[Neuroradiological diagnosis in cerebrovascular diseases].", "content": "[Neuroradiological diagnosis in cerebrovascular diseases]."}
{"id": "7444404", "title": "Subdural hematoma secondary to CSF ventricular shunt.", "content": "Subdural hematoma secondary to CSF ventricular shunt. The article reports on 8 cases of subdural hematoma consequent on 94 extrathecal CSF shunts inserted in 1977. Neuroradiolgical postoperative monitoning was carried out by CAT Scan and, where the neurological symptomatology required, cerebral angiography. The percentage of diagnosed subdural hematomas in relation to opening valve pressure, CSF opening ventricular pressure during surgery, and the hydrocephalus etiology, are discussed."}
{"id": "7435219", "title": "Computer tomography in the evaluation of subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Computer tomography in the evaluation of subarachnoid hemorrhage. Repeat CT scanning and cerebral angiography has been performed in 68 consecutive patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage. Blood in the subarachnoid cisterns could be discerned in 27 of 32 patients provided the examination was performed within 2 days of the bleeding. The distribution of cisternal blood can be identified which, in combination with the localization of a possible intracerebral hematoma, yields a rather good predictability as to the site of the ruptured aneurysm. The subsequent angiography can thus be directed to the relevant vessel in most cases. Repeat CT scanning can replace angiography in the evaluation of patients with deterioration of the clinical condition."}
{"id": "7425568", "title": "Lobar cerebral hemorrhages: acute clinical syndromes in 26 cases.", "content": "Lobar cerebral hemorrhages: acute clinical syndromes in 26 cases. The acute syndromes and CT findings are described in 26 cases of spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage. Occipital hemorrhage (11 cases) caused severe pain around the ipsilateral eye and dense hemianopia. Left temporal hemorrhage (7 cases) began with mild pain in or just anterior to the ear, fluent dysphasia with poor auditory comprehension but relatively good repetition, and a visual deficit subtending less than a hemianopia. Frontal hemorrhage (4 cases) caused a distinctive syndrome beginning with severe contralateral arm weakness, minimal leg and face weakness, and frontal headache. Parietal hemorrhage (3 cases) began with anterior temporal (\"temple\") headache and hemisensory deficit, sometimes involving the trunk to the midline. One patient had a right temporal hemorrhage. Spontaneous lobar hemorrhage and branch artery embolism in the same region produce similar clinical syndromes. Headache is a first and prominent symptom. A rapid but not instantaneous onset over several minutes, when combined with one of the typical syndromes, suggests lobar hemorrhage rather than other types of stroke. Ancillary investigations (including CT scanning, angiography in 11 patients, and autopsy in 4) disclosed 2 patients with bleeding diatheses due to warfarin, 2 with arteriovenous malformations, and 1 with metastatic tumor. Only 8 of the 26 patients had chronic hypertension (blood pressure greater than 130/85 mm Hg), suggesting that hypertension is not an etiological factor in most lobar hemorrhages."}
{"id": "7424619", "title": "Epidural haematoma of the posterior fossa with delayed operation. Report of a \"chronic\" case.", "content": "Epidural haematoma of the posterior fossa with delayed operation. Report of a \"chronic\" case. A case of chronic epidural haematoma of the posterior fossa is reported. The lesion was studed with cerebral angiography and computed tomography. The patient was under observation for two weeks before the extradural clot was removed. The membrane surrounding the haematoma was examined histologically. The importance of computed tomography in the diagnosis of traumatic lesions of the posterior fossa is emphasized."}
{"id": "7423573", "title": "Radionuclide angiography and Doppler sonography to detect patients with cerebrovascular disease. A correlation with radiographic angiography.", "content": "Radionuclide angiography and Doppler sonography to detect patients with cerebrovascular disease. A correlation with radiographic angiography. Cerebral radionuclide angiography with 99mTc pertechnetate (RNA) and directional Doppler sonography (DS) were employed to study patients with cerebrovascular disease (CBVD). The 86 patients investigated were divided following radiographic angiography (RGA) into normals (n = 26) and into patients with intracranial (n = 22) and extracranial (n = 38) vascular lesions. Of the patients with angiographically demonstrated CBVD, RNA detected 90%, DS 53.3%. The combined evaluation had a sensitivity of 93.3%. If intracranial arterial disease was excluded, the sensitivity of the studies was 92.1% for RNA and 84.2% for DS and combined evaluation had a sensitivity of 97.4%. The diagnostic accuracy by combined evaluation was 93.8% for the extracranial arterial lesions if the clinical findings were also used in patients with normal RGA pattern. RNA and DS complement each other as RNA contributes to the detection of intracranial blood flow alterations indicating vascular changes in either the extra- or intra-cranial vessels and helps confirm and complete DS findings."}
{"id": "7415730", "title": "[Ultrasonic dopplerography in the diagnosis of occlusive lesions of the vertebral arteries].", "content": "[Ultrasonic dopplerography in the diagnosis of occlusive lesions of the vertebral arteries]. Examinations of the blood flow in the vertebral arteries were carried out in 105 patients with circulatory disorders in the vertebrobasilary system. For this purpose the method of ultrasonic dopplerography with subsequent bilateral axillar cerebral angiography was used. The examinations were performed by the transcutaneous method in the author's modification. This made it possible to evaluate reliably the hemodynamics in the vertebral arteries in each patient using the asymmetry coefficient related to the linear speed of the blood flow in the vessels. It was found that in increase of the asymmetry coefficient by 50% or more was, as a rule, associated with an occluding process in one of the vertebral arteries. The agreement between the dopplerographic and the angiographic findings was observed in 80% of the cases of occlusions, and in 85,7% of the cases of vertebral artery stenoses. This makes it possible to recommend the ultrasonic dopplerography method for broad use in polyclinic conditions for examining patients with vertebrobasilar pathology, and for screening persons with an increased risk of cerebrovascular diseases."}
{"id": "7413010", "title": "[A case of traumatic intraventricular hemorrhage (author's transl)].", "content": "[A case of traumatic intraventricular hemorrhage (author's transl)]. CT scan is recognized to be a rapid, noninvasive and informative examination in evaluation of the head injured patient. It is also possible to evaluate the presence of the intracerebral hematoma without remarkable mass effect, cerebral contusion, associated cerebral edema and ventricular hemorrhage. We present a case of traumatic intraventricular hemorrhage. The patient was a 40-year-old male admitted to our hospital in a drowsy state following a fall from about one meter high. Craniogram showed in linear fracture in the left paritotemporal regions. In the CT scan, intraventricular hemorrhage associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage without intracerebral hematoma was shown. A symmetrical moderate dilatation of both lateral ventricles was also shown. Cerebral angiography revealed no abnormality. His condition deteriorated progressively, so ventricular drainage was performed, but he expired 5 days later. Considering this case, the mechanisms of pure intraventricular hemorrhage following head injury were discussed."}
{"id": "7394182", "title": "[Diagnosis and differential diagnosis of cerebro-vascular malformations by CT (author's transl)].", "content": "[Diagnosis and differential diagnosis of cerebro-vascular malformations by CT (author's transl)]. In 38 patients, the diagnosis of a cerebrovascular malformation (17 arteriovenous agniomas including one low-flow- and two venous angiomas; 10 aneurysms; 4 arteriovenous fistulae of the cavernous sinus, the tentorium and one of the Great Vein of Galen; 6 megadolical basilar arteries) was initially made by computertomographic (CT) examination, including contrast enhancement. The characteristic and pathognomonic CT findings are described and compared with those of cerebral angiography also done in these cases. The problems of differential diagnosis and the reasons for a false CT diagnosis in 5 other patients with a cerebro-vascular malformation are investigated; and the diagnostic value of cerebral angiography and CT is discussed and their complementary functions are being pointed out."}
{"id": "7354164", "title": "Intraventricular hemorrhage in childhood moyamoya disease.", "content": "Intraventricular hemorrhage in childhood moyamoya disease. A 7-year-old female with computed tomographic evidence of intraventricular hemorrhage was subsequently proven by cerebral angiography to have moyamoya disease. The rarity of this manifestation of moyamoya disease and its cause are discussed. In addition to cerebral atrophy and old focal infarctions, the demonstration of tortuous, irregular vessels in the basal ganglia and poor visualization of the proximal portions of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries should suggest moyamoya disease before cerebral angiography is performed."}
{"id": "7351580", "title": "Efficacy of transfusion therapy for one to two years in patients with sickle cell disease and cerebrovascular accidents.", "content": "Efficacy of transfusion therapy for one to two years in patients with sickle cell disease and cerebrovascular accidents. Since 1974 we have entered 12 children with sickle cell disease and strokes on a transfusion protocol to maintain hemoglobin S less than 20%. Serial arteriography, EEGs, brain or CT scans, and neuropsychologic testing were also obtained. Transfusion has been stopped in ten patients after one to two years. Seven of these ten patients have had second strokes five weeks to 11 months after cessation of transfusion (median three months). Arteriography was normal at the time of the initial stroke in two patients; one of these had a second stroke. Arteriograms did not improve during transfusion therapy. EEGs and brain and CT scans were occasionally useful at the time of the initial stroke but were of little value in following these patients. Neuropsychologic testing indicated severe impairment of sensory-motor and cognitive processes at the time of the initial stroke and was useful in following improvement or deterioration and in designing remedial education programs. We conclude that short-term transfusion therapy will not prevent second strokes once transfusion is stopped and that arteriography is of limited value in these patients."}
{"id": "7291875", "title": "[Our experience with rheoencephalography. Qualitative REG study of 1000 cases of verified chronic cerebrovascular insufficiency].", "content": "[Our experience with rheoencephalography. Qualitative REG study of 1000 cases of verified chronic cerebrovascular insufficiency]. After a detailed review of literature basic and clinical data on rheoencephalography (R.E.G.) the findings of 1000 patients suffering from verified brain blood supply impairment submitted to REG studies are exposed. Following parameters of REG curve have been analysed: sphygmic amplitude, sphygmic interrelations between two homologous brain regions; sphygmic speed, rise time, slope of REG curve, dicrotic incisure, random oscillations of catacrotic phase. A reduction in sphygmic speed has been observed in 70 % of cases, with changes in slope of REG curve in 90 % and reduction or disappearance of catacrotic dicrotism in 93.5 % and progressively less frequent changes in the remaining REG parameters. The obtained data have been submitted to statistical analysis. Significant associations have been observed between two or more pathological REG parameters and between the pathology of REG curve as a whole and the different invasive methods employed for assessing the cerebrovascular insufficiency such as CT, CBF studies and angiographic data. Not significant correlations between the focal REG pathology, and the focal changes of REG or of the invasive methods have been found. The systematic employment of REG study as a non invasive method for the screening of cerebral blood impairment is recommended."}
{"id": "7191951", "title": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage due to a spinal cord hemangioblastoma: case report.", "content": "Subarachnoid hemorrhage due to a spinal cord hemangioblastoma: case report. A case of solitary spinal hemangioblastoma with spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage is presented. There was no features to distinguish the subarachnoid hemorrhage in this case from that due to an intracranial lesion. However, mild sensory symptoms involving the left arm and leg had preceded the hemorrhage by several months. The lesion was detected by cerebral angiography and computed tomographic scanning, and the diagnosis was confirmed at operation. A small syrinx was noted, and the lesion was totally removed without causing any deficit, despite its origin from the dorsum of the spinal cord. The tumor contained a false aneurysm, which had been visualized angiographically."}
{"id": "7008121", "title": "[Correlations between clinical EEG and neuroradiological examinations in cerebrovascular diseases].", "content": "[Correlations between clinical EEG and neuroradiological examinations in cerebrovascular diseases]."}
{"id": "7008035", "title": "[Effectiveness of computer-assisted methods of evaluation of serial cerebral scintigrams (radionuclide angiography) (author's transl)].", "content": "[Effectiveness of computer-assisted methods of evaluation of serial cerebral scintigrams (radionuclide angiography) (author's transl)]. A validation was made of various published methods of computer processing of radionuclide angiography studies of the brain: qualitative and quantitative evaluation of count-rate curves from regular and irregular regions of interest, evaluation of images of the arterial, capillary and venous phase of the tracer transit and the evaluation of function images of the slope, the height of the maximum and the time of the maximum of the regional countrate curves. By logical combination of results from various methods, an attempt was made to improve the final diagnosis in terms of higher sensitivity and simultaneously higher overall accuracy. It was found that the logical \"OR\" combination of slope function images, qualitative comparison of curves from irregular ROIs and quotient of the maxima of these curves is an \"acceptable\" processing method for clinicians with average experience in nuclear medicine. This was demonstrated by a comparison of ROC curves."}
{"id": "6945034", "title": "Recent advances in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Recent advances in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "6247579", "title": "Clinicomorphologic markers for predicting behavior and guiding therapy for brain tumors.", "content": "Clinicomorphologic markers for predicting behavior and guiding therapy for brain tumors. More specific therapy can be achieved for brain tumors by identifying morphologic markers like primitive neuroectodermal tumor cells that tend to be radioresponsive and spread diffusely through the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Utilizing clinical manifestations to suspect and then localize the brain tumor, morphologic markers, that can be appreciated with computerized tomography and cerebral angiography as well as at operation, provide a basis for more aggressive extirpation and the usefulness of radiation and chemotherapy. Metastatic neoplasms possess such markers as tumor hemorrhage and meningeal involvement suggesting specific extraneural sources. In almost half of these patients, cytologic examination of the CSF should help to identify the malignant cells. Although most gliomas do not metastasize either within or outside the central nervous system, the occurrence of primitive neuroectodermal tumor cells (undifferentiated malignant small cells) in about 20% of all glioblastomas implies spread throughout the CSF and some radioresponsiveness. With thorough clinicomorphologic evaluations of all patients with brain tumors in concert with liberal clinical consultations, the aggressive, newer therapeutic modalities can be used more effectively."}
{"id": "762711", "title": "The evaluation of head trauma by computed tomography.", "content": "The evaluation of head trauma by computed tomography. A retrospective study of 133 patients with documented head trauma is presented. Computed tomography (C.T.) has replaced cerebral angiography in the evaluation of these patients at our institutions. C.T. provides a rapid noninvasive diagnosis, plus accurate localization of lesions; it also allows for the assessment of multiple lesions. The authors feel that C.T. should be the first neurological mode of investigation after plain skull radiographs. It is important to obtain good quality scans, and intravenous sedation or general anaesthesia may be required."}
{"id": "571975", "title": "Microangiopathy of the brain and retina.", "content": "Microangiopathy of the brain and retina. Two women (26 and 40 years old) developed an unusual microangiopathy that affected the brain and retina. Psychiatric symptoms initially overshadowed the subacute features of the progressive neurologic disorder. Ophthalmoscopic findings of multifocal branch retinal artery occlusions provided clinical evidence of vasculopathy. Laboratory data did not reveal evidence of the known vasculitides, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and syphilis. Cerebral angiography suggested vasculitis in the younger patient. Brain biopsy in the older patient (after 3 months of steroid therapy) revealed a sclerosis of the small pial and cortical vessels that was consistent with a \"healed\" angitis. Both patients seemed to respond to steroid therapy."}
{"id": "571560", "title": "Noninvasive diagnosis of extracranial cerebrovascular disease: oculoplethysmography-phonoangiography and directional Doppler ultrasonography.", "content": "Noninvasive diagnosis of extracranial cerebrovascular disease: oculoplethysmography-phonoangiography and directional Doppler ultrasonography. The ability of two noninvasive diagnostic methods--oculoplethysmography-carotid phonoangiography (OPG/CPA) and directional Doppler ultrasonography--to detect extracranial cerebrovascular disease was examined in 400 consecutive studies. Cerebral arteriography was performed in 74 patients. Transient ischemic attack was the most common indication for study (30%). The OPG was normal in 95% of cases in which the diameter of the lumen of the internal carotid artery (ICA) was less than 60% reduced; the ocular pulse was delayed in 86% of cases with ICA stenosis of 60% or more. The overall diagnostic accuracy of OPG was 93%; CPA did not enhance the accuracy of OPG alone. Supraorbital Doppler tests detected 88% of cases of ICA stenosis of 60% or more, but there was a 13% false-positive rate with ICA stenosis of less than 60%. Supratrochlear Doppler tests had only a 1% false-positive rate, but detected only 48% of significant ICA stenoses. Doppler studies were most often abnormal in the presence of ICA occlusion. Thus, OPG was as sensitive as supraorbital Doppler and more sensitive than supratrochlear Doppler in detecting hemodynamically significant ICA stenoses, without the unacceptable false-positive rate observed with the supraorbital Doppler test."}
{"id": "555538", "title": "[Study of memory in cerebral damaged patients related to the side of lesion (author's transl].", "content": "[Study of memory in cerebral damaged patients related to the side of lesion (author's transl]. Twenty-four subjects with cerebral lesions, 21 of vascular and 3 of neoplastic origin, have been tested by the Authors with a battery of tests for memory evaluation. They comprehended short term, middle term and long term memory tests. For the last ones, the subjects was requested to recall remote events presented under visual, verbal and auditory modality. For each test, results comparison between left and right hemispheric cerebral damaged patients was performed. The diagnosis of the hemispherical localisation, on the basis of clinical data established, have been confirmed by instrumental exams (EEG, CAT, Angiography). A clear difference in the results between the two groups of patients does not appear except in specific tests related to memory selective types, in which the sensitive modality of tests administration seems to be more closely in relation with the damaged hemispherical functions. Ribot's law on the longer life of old memories has not been confirmed by the long term memory tests in cerebral damaged patients."}
{"id": "547184", "title": "[Results of angiography and computer tomography in cerebral ischemias with and without detectable stenoses and occlusions (author's transl)].", "content": "[Results of angiography and computer tomography in cerebral ischemias with and without detectable stenoses and occlusions (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "547047", "title": "The complementary roles of angiography and CT scanning in cerebral contusion. A survey of 126 cases.", "content": "The complementary roles of angiography and CT scanning in cerebral contusion. A survey of 126 cases."}
{"id": "542451", "title": "New diagnostic methods.", "content": "New diagnostic methods."}
{"id": "506289", "title": "[Occlusive cerebrovascular disease without angiographic evidence of stenosis of cerebral arteries (author's transl)].", "content": "[Occlusive cerebrovascular disease without angiographic evidence of stenosis of cerebral arteries (author's transl)]. The angiographs of patients suffering from transient ischaemic attacks and ischaemic strokes were reviewed. No clinical data were given to the examiners and their diagnoses were then compared with the case histories. In 33 out of 69 patients the angiographs showed no arterial stenosis in the area corresponding to the neurological deficit. However, in this group of patients the incidence of elongation and dilatation of the arteries was significantly higher than in the group with visible stenosis. Among the patients without visible stenoses there was also a significantly higher incidence of hypertension, especially with an elevation of the diastolic blood pressure, and of symptoms related to the brain stem. The possibility is discussed that a special form of occlusive cerebrovascular disease exists, whereby the characteristic angiographic features are not circumscribed stenoses, but a generalized elongation and dilatation of the arteries. Neurological deficits may be caused by occlusion of the minor cerebral vessels which cannot be detected by angiography."}
{"id": "491922", "title": "[Acute and chronic cerebrovascular insufficiency. Diagnosis of cerebrovascular insufficiency by means of apparatus].", "content": "[Acute and chronic cerebrovascular insufficiency. Diagnosis of cerebrovascular insufficiency by means of apparatus]."}
{"id": "484276", "title": "Subarachnoid haemorrhage of unknown aetiology.", "content": "Subarachnoid haemorrhage of unknown aetiology. One hundred and forty consecutive subarachnoid haemorrhages (SAH) which presented either an intracranial vascular malformation (102 cases: aneurysm 80 cases, AVH 22 cases) or remained of \"unknown aetiology\" (38 cases) were studied. SAH caused by other factors (neoplasms, thrombo-embolisms, systemic diseases etc.) were excluded. The 38 cases with bleeding of \"unknown aetiology\" have been studied by complete cerebral angiography, pneumoencephalogram or CT scan, and have been followed for two years. The most important clinical factors in the three groups have been compared by a statistical method to verify the hypothesis that SAH of \"unknown aetiology\" is caused by vascular micromalformations which are angiographically not evident either because of their small size or because of their \"spontaneous\" recovery after bleeding due to thrombosis and disappearance of the malformation. From the data collected it may be concluded that SAH of \"unknown aetiology\" is a benign lesion, typically occurring in middle age, but with no clear characteristics that enable identification of the anatomical substratum from it originates."}
{"id": "479938", "title": "Detection of cryptic vascular malformations by computerized tomography. Report of two cases.", "content": "Detection of cryptic vascular malformations by computerized tomography. Report of two cases. Two cases of cryptic vascular malformation that were not demonstrated by cerebral angiography were detected by computerized tomography. One of these patients had a cavernous angioma in the fourth ventricle with recurrent subarachnoid hemorrhages, and the other harbored a small arteriovenous malformation and intracerebral hematoma. The usefulness and limitations of computerized tomography in the identification of cryptic vascular malformations are discussed."}
{"id": "471721", "title": "[Diagnosis of cerebral hemorrhages. A report of 247 anatomo-pathological cases (author's transl)].", "content": "[Diagnosis of cerebral hemorrhages. A report of 247 anatomo-pathological cases (author's transl)]. A series of 247 cases with simple and apparently primitive cerebral hemorrhages selected from the pathological records of Charles Foix laboratory from 1962 to 1977 is reviewed with regard to the accuracy of the premortem diagnosis as a function of the size, the location and the age of the bleeding, the patient's age, the practices of angiography or lumbar puncture and the considered period of death. The clinical diagnosis of cerebral vascular disease was made in 75% of the cases from that serie but the hemorrhagic mechanism was identified only in 50,6% of cases. The diagnosis accuracy was enhanced in large and recent hemorrhages occuring in patients under 70 years old. It seemed better in cerebellar and intermediate locations. It was enhanced in more recent observations (collected since 1974). The practice of cerebral angiography and lumbar puncture rose up (in a somewhat equivalent way) the proportion of accurate diagnoses. The lumbar puncture practice was not associated with a higher rate of cerebral herniae."}
{"id": "463458", "title": "[Techniques for the diagnosis of cerebral ischemia (author's transl)].", "content": "[Techniques for the diagnosis of cerebral ischemia (author's transl)]. The various techniques for the diagnosis of cerebral ischemia are reviewed. The methods for investigating the large cervical arteries are considered (angiography, ultrasonic D\u00f6ppler technique, carotid compression test) as well as those concerned with intracranial circulation. The latter are divided in \"functional\" methods (Rheoencephalography cerebral blood flow measurements with Xenon or with microspheres) and \"morphological\" methods (Brain scintigraphy and CAT scan). The respective values of the various methods are estimated in a personal series of patients."}
{"id": "463056", "title": "[Diagnosis of cerebral atrophy on the basis of the cerebral angiogram (author's transl)].", "content": "[Diagnosis of cerebral atrophy on the basis of the cerebral angiogram (author's transl)]. An increased distance between the brain surface and the skull causes the appearance of a broad avascular band in the carotid angiogram, which -- apart from other criteria -- has been valued as a sign of cerebral atrophy. 54 patients (60 to 79 years old), suffering from cerebrovascular diseases, were examined. Carotid angiography of the afflicted hemispheres were carried out within 4 to 90 days after the stroke. The initially mentioned distance between the skull and the brain surface, represented by the terminal arterial branches, was measured in frontal and lateral projection. The influence of alterations of the wall of extracranial vessels, of the number of attacks, of the severity of the stroke as well as of the patient's age on the distance was statistically evaluated. The results were compared with those of cranial computerized tomography. Only limited correlations between the mentioned parameters and the distance between the vessels and the skull have been found. Thus the distance is only of limited diagnostic value for the verification of senile cerebral atropy on a vascular basis."}
{"id": "458892", "title": "Intracranial pressure monitoring in the acute neurologic assessment of multi-injured patients.", "content": "Intracranial pressure monitoring in the acute neurologic assessment of multi-injured patients. The trauma victim with a severe closed head injury, who requires general anesthesia for emergency repair of concomitant exigent major injuries, poses a clinical dilemma. During general anesthesia and during the immediate postoperative period, the status of the patient's central nervous system cannot be clinically monitored, and emergency cerebral arteriograms and/or CAT scans are not easily obtained. Under these circumstances, delays in the diagnosis of intracranial blood accumulations frequently occur, and occult cerebral edema often goes untreated. In an attempt to avoid these management problems, we have employed intraoperative intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring in such patients, using a subarachnoid screw. Following placement of this screw, several clinical courses may occur: 1) The patient maintains a normal pressure; thus a significant mass lesion and/or cerebral edema requiring decompression is unlikely. 2) The patient's ICP is elevated but controlled by medical management. 3) The patient's ICP cannot be controlled below 20 to 25 mm Hg using medical management, and exploratory burr holes are made. 4) If intracranial blood is encountered during placement of the ICP monitor, immediate exploratory craniotomy is indicated."}
{"id": "223522", "title": "Glioblastoma multiforme presenting as stroke: an electrophysiological and clinicopathological case report.", "content": "Glioblastoma multiforme presenting as stroke: an electrophysiological and clinicopathological case report. A 55-year-old man having hemiplegia after the sudden onset of a stroke was referred for rehabilitation. Cerebral angiography had demonstrated occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery and steroid therapy had been started. Attempted tapering of the steroid therapy on admission for rehabilitation resulted in the patient having severe headaches and confusion. Blink reflex evaluation, somatosensory cerebral evoked potential determinations and visual evoked responses were all consistent with a widespread process involving the parietal lobe of the patient's left cerebral hemisphere. Computerized axial tomography indicated an abnormality consistent with a space-occupying lesion. Craniotomy revealed the presence of a glioblastoma multiforme in the left cerebral hemisphere. Electrodiagnostic evaluation was entirely consistent with the operative finding of widespread involvement of the patient's left parietal lobe. Stroke patients whose conditions deteriorate over time must be serially evaluated in order to determine possible other causes of their symptoms."}
{"id": "159225", "title": "[A comparison of cerebral angiography and computer tomography in patients with strokes (author's transl].", "content": "[A comparison of cerebral angiography and computer tomography in patients with strokes (author's transl]. The computer tomographic findings in 230 patients with a clinical diagnosis of strokes or cerebral infarcts are described. In 185 of these patients cerebral angiography was performed in addition. The size and localisation of infarcts as shown on the computer tomogram were compared with the changes found in the carotid angiogram and were also related to the localisation of occlusion or stenosis of the corresponding extra- and intracranial vessels. In the presence of a normal carotid angiogram, CT may show infarcts of varying localisation and size; with stenoses or occlusion of the extracranial portion of the internal carotid artery, the infarcts tend to be smaller and that, in the presence of occulsions of the intracranial cerebral vessels, infarcts tend to be more extensive and to correspond to the territory supplied by the occluded vessels. Twenty-eight intracerebral haematomas and nine cerebral tumours were found amongst patients who presented as cerebral infarcts, with little evidence of massive cerebral bleeding; these are discussed separately."}
{"id": "40442", "title": "[Progress of technical medicine within the field of gerontoneurology (author's transl)].", "content": "[Progress of technical medicine within the field of gerontoneurology (author's transl)]. 1938 respectively 1978 are dates for progress of technical medicine concerning gerontoneurology. Following the discussion of the development in technical (apparatus), chemical and immunological diagnostic activities in neurology the applicability in elderly people should be described. On principle there are no methods of investigations which cannot be used in geriatric causes. Main point of interest is the correct indication. Non invasive methods can be used without somatic risk; one has to observe only the fact of psychological stress for the patient; indications of invasive methods (merely angiography of vessels within the brain) must be focused on special diagnosis of the illness. Suspicious facts of space occupying intracranial process almost everytime ask for angiography following EEG and cranial computertomography. In cases of arteriosclerosis in aged people with typical changes within the vessel system of the brain one should only use angiographical investigations if clinical findings (based on noninvasive methods) show indications for surgical treatment in extracranial regions of the brain vessels. It might be the same procedure if shunt-operation between carotis externa and interna circulation system can be expected as curative or prophylactic influence within the neurological condition. In these cases risk of selective angiography of the vessels within the brain (outgoing from arteria femoralis) are much less dangerous than in direct charges. First of all neurological status, general condition and age will be decive for medical indication. One should not use the full range of diagnostic features in gerontoneurology only to satisfy diagnostic appeasement."}
{"id": "740158", "title": "The diagnosis of cerebral atrophy on the basis of cerebral angiogram.", "content": "The diagnosis of cerebral atrophy on the basis of cerebral angiogram. An increased distance between brain surface, represented by the terminal arterial branches, and skull causes the appearance of a broad avascular band in the carotid angiogram, which--apart from other criteria--has been valued as a sign of cerebral atrophy. We investigated 54 patients (ages 60-79 years) suffering from cerebrovascular disease. Carotid angiographies of the afflicted hemispheres were carried out within 4 to 90 days after the stroke. The distance between vessels and skull was measured in frontal and lateral projection. We evaluated statistically the impact on this distance of alterations in extracranial vessel walls, number of attacks, severity of stroke, and patient's age. The results are compared to those of CAT. Only limited correlations have been found between the above-mentioned parameters and the distance between vessels and skull. Thus the distance is only of limited diagnostic value for the verification of senile cerebral atrophy on a vascular basis."}
{"id": "740153", "title": "Cerebrovascular Doppler examination and cerebral angiography--alternative or complementary?", "content": "Cerebrovascular Doppler examination and cerebral angiography--alternative or complementary? Obstructions in the extracranial cerebral arteries can be detected noninvasively by directional Doppler ultrasound technique using 'indirect' and 'direct' criteria. The indirect criteria are based on measurement of flow in the common carotid and in the terminal branches of the ophthalmic artery before and after the common carotid artery and branches of the external carotid artery are compressed. With the direct criteria, internal and external carotid artery are differentiated by diastolic flow, and local inhomogenetics of flow (turbulence) are detected. Flow in the vertebral artery is picked up transorally in the oropharynx. The Doppler examination was used in 2230 patients of whom 436 underwent angiography. The results of Doppler and angiography correlated in more than 90% of the cases."}
{"id": "740145", "title": "Infarction and circulation in cerebrum. Effect of recanalization and/or collateral circulation on the lesion and prognosis.", "content": "Infarction and circulation in cerebrum. Effect of recanalization and/or collateral circulation on the lesion and prognosis. Findings of computed tomography (CT) and angiography in supratentorial cerebral infarction associated with complete stroke were compared with regard to prognosis. It was found that the extent of low-density areas on CT was perfectly in accordance with the areas of occluded arteries on angiograms. However, the low-density areas on CT were always smaller than the areas involved angiographically when early recanalization and/or collateral circulation were carried out within 2 to 3 days of onset. It was also found that smaller low-density areas only had favorable effect. We concluded that the prognosis was better with early recanalization and/or collateral circulation, despite the general acceptance of its poor prognostic implication."}
{"id": "713782", "title": "[Circulation disorders in the region of the basilar artery. Clinical-morphological studies and functional diagnostics based on 2 case reports].", "content": "[Circulation disorders in the region of the basilar artery. Clinical-morphological studies and functional diagnostics based on 2 case reports]."}
{"id": "687187", "title": "Isolated benign cerebral vasculitis.", "content": "Isolated benign cerebral vasculitis. A young woman south medical care for headache, nausea, and evolving focal neurologic signs. The CSF was normal; cerebral angiography showed segmental narrowing and irregularity of intraparenchymal arterioles. Isolated cerebral vasculitis was the clinical diagnosis made by careful exclusion; the illness reponded well to steroids and there was later angiographic evidence of healing."}
{"id": "684331", "title": "[Clinical neuroradiological and tomograhic study of a vascular syndrome of the posterior cerebral artery].", "content": "[Clinical neuroradiological and tomograhic study of a vascular syndrome of the posterior cerebral artery]."}
{"id": "664702", "title": "[The significance of transfemoral cerebral angiography in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular diseases (author's transl)].", "content": "[The significance of transfemoral cerebral angiography in the diagnosis of cerebrovascular diseases (author's transl)]. Comprehensive angiographical investigation is a prerequisite for successful vascular surgery in the region of the head and neck. An examination of the clinically involved region alone is not normally sufficient. The decision to operate can be made only after taking into account the results of cerebral panarteriography, i.e. investigation of the flow areas of both carotid arteries and the vertebral-basilary circulation, together with any comparable method, the advantages and dangers must be flow measurement. Transfemoral cerebral angiography (TCA) is not only the least strenuous method for the patient, butit is also the most effective available, especially as far as assessment of the origins of the four large cranio-cervical vessels is concerned. However, as with any comparable method, the advantages and angers must be weighed up carefully beforehand in each individual case. A definite indication is absolutely necessary. This paper describes the technique, indications and results of investigations in 70 patients suffering from cerebrovascular diseases."}
{"id": "660265", "title": "Occlusive arteriopathy and brain tumor.", "content": "Occlusive arteriopathy and brain tumor. Four cases with the association of occlusive arteriopathy and brain tumor are presented. A clinical analysis of these cases and cases reported in the literature revealed that occlusive arteriopathy at the base of the brain was often associated with a slowly growing basal tumor in children. Possible causes of occlusive arteriopathy in these cases were compression of the circle of Willis by a slowly growing basal tumor, secondary artial occlusive changes by radiation therapy for a basal tumor, or vasculopathy associated with neurocutaneous syndrome. Symptoms of sudden onset or episodic nature suggest the presence of occlusive arteriopathy rather than the mass effect of a tumor. Cerebral angiography is mandatory whenever computerized tomography (CT), performed to rule out recurrence of a basal tumor, shows an ischemic lesion with low-density areas without any evidence of mass effect of the tumor. Cerebral angiography is also necessary when a basal tumor is suspected in children, particularly in cases associated with neurocutaneous syndrome and a basal tumor. Care should be taken not to scarify the abnormal vascular network at the base of the brain at the time of operation, because it is considered to be functioning as collateral circulation. The potential hazards of radiotherapy to radiation-induced occlusive changes of the circle of Willis must be considered in treating a benign basal brain tumor in children. Even in adults, repeated large doses of irradiation could cause occlusive arteriopathy."}
{"id": "628067", "title": "Orbitofacial wounds and cerebral artery injuries caused by umbrella tips.", "content": "Orbitofacial wounds and cerebral artery injuries caused by umbrella tips. Penetrating orbitofacial wounds inflicted by the sharp metal tips of umbrellas may go unrecognized. This type of injury is not generally appreciated as having fatal consequences. Immediate neurologic and radiologic evaluations are diagnostic. The value of computerized tomography and cerebral angiography is stressed."}
{"id": "623534", "title": "Arachnoid cyst and associated subdural hematoma. Observations on conventional roentgenographic and computerized tomographic diagnosis.", "content": "Arachnoid cyst and associated subdural hematoma. Observations on conventional roentgenographic and computerized tomographic diagnosis. Information about computerized tomography (CT) of arachnoid cysts of the middle fossa (ACMF) is increasing, and it appears that certain CT characteristics may be diagnostic. The association of ACMF and subdural hematoma has been emphasized previously but is not common knowledge. We present three new cases of ACMF and associated subdural hematoma studied by plain roentgenograms, EEG, conventional brain scanning, CT scanning, and angiography. The cysts were clearly shown in each case by CT scan, but no subdural hematoma was visualized in our first two cases. Angiography was necessary to establish the associated hematoma. We review and emphasize computerized tomographic characteristics that may be pathognomonic of ACMF. It is suggested that angiography be included in the study of patients symptomatic with ACMF because associated subdural hematoma is not an uncommon lesion and may fail to visualize on CT scan. Angiography still remains the most conclusive study to establish or exclude the diagnosis of subdural hematoma."}
{"id": "415559", "title": "Subdural hematomas due to ruptured cerebral aneurysms: angiographic diagnosis and potential pitfall for CT.", "content": "Subdural hematomas due to ruptured cerebral aneurysms: angiographic diagnosis and potential pitfall for CT. Two patients with subdural hematoma secondary to rupture of intracranial aneurysms are described. Computed tomography and plain skull films are generally the examination of choice for the patient with significant head trauma. In selected patients, however, cerebral angiography in place of, or along with, computed tomography may be necessary to demonstrate an underlying cause for the subdural hematoma."}
{"id": "929652", "title": "Incidence of stroke in Frederiksberg, Denmark.", "content": "Incidence of stroke in Frederiksberg, Denmark. Since 1971, stroke registers in several countries have been cooperating in a study of stroke epidemiology, initiated by WHO. One of the registers covers the population of Frederiksberg, Copenhagen. During the first two years of registration strokes were recorded in 556 Frederiksberg citizens. A certain diagnosis of cerebral hemorrhage--verified by angiography, spinal fluid examination, or autopsy--was made in 10% of the patients; subarachnoid hemorrhage was demonstrated in only 2%; most of the remaining patients probably had cerebral infarction. The overall annual incidence of stroke, when adjusted for age for the Danish population, was 1.9 per 1,000 for males, and 1.6 per 1,000 for females. For every type of stroke, except subarachnoid hemorrhage, the incidence increased markedly with age. The age-specific stroke incidence rates found in the present investigation are much lower than those demonstrated by Aho in a community-based study in Finland. In view of the strict comparability of the two studies, real differences in the risk of stroke may exist between the two communities."}
{"id": "875498", "title": "Impact of new technology: the CT scanner.", "content": "Impact of new technology: the CT scanner."}
{"id": "871004", "title": "Traumatic intracerebral hematoma with stable neurological deficit.", "content": "Traumatic intracerebral hematoma with stable neurological deficit. The possibility of an intracerebral hematoma may be overlooked in the presence of a \"fixed\" neurologic deficit. The clinical complex that is emphasized is composed of (a) ipsilateral cranial trauma, (b) early development of focal neurological deficit, (c) a plateau in the subsequent course of the disease, (d) the delayed appearance of a positive radioactive isotope scan, and (e) a focal area of distorted vessels in angiographic studies. The availability of the computer tomographic scan has made the diagnosis of intracerebral hematomas more certain but it is important that the possibility of a hematoma be considered and pertinent investigations be performed. Even after diagnosis, an operative procedure may be delayed in patients who are neurologically stable. In the five cases presented, the diagnosis of cerebral contusion led to a delay in operative evacuation which was associated with improvement in the previously stable neurological deficit."}
{"id": "831400", "title": "Computerized tomography and intracerebral hemorrhage.", "content": "Computerized tomography and intracerebral hemorrhage."}
{"id": "611230", "title": "[Incomplete hemiplegia of the right side and a loss of consciousness (CT scanning and cerebral angiography): (brain metastasis of esophageal tumor and cerebral hemorrhage)].", "content": "[Incomplete hemiplegia of the right side and a loss of consciousness (CT scanning and cerebral angiography): (brain metastasis of esophageal tumor and cerebral hemorrhage)]."}
{"id": "594883", "title": "Complementary role of computed tomography and other neuroradiologic procedures.", "content": "Complementary role of computed tomography and other neuroradiologic procedures. Although a probable initial diagnosis may be suggested by computed cranial tomography, the diagnostic accuracy is often increased by the complementary use of other neuroradiologic studies. The use of CT scanning is conjunction with other more invasive neuroradiological studies results in improved diagnosis and patient management in almost the entire spectrum of neurosurgical diseases-- subarachnoid hemorrhage due to aneurysm, stroke, trauma, normal pressure hydrocephalus, and especially neoplasms."}
{"id": "560641", "title": "[Computerized tomography (CT), EMI scanner, in the diagnosis of acute traumatic intracranial hematomas (author's transl)].", "content": "[Computerized tomography (CT), EMI scanner, in the diagnosis of acute traumatic intracranial hematomas (author's transl)]. Eighteen examinations of acute head trauma have been performed using computerized tomography (CT), EMI scanner, before and after operation in our department since September, 1975. Diagnostic findings in CT before emergency operations of 5 cases including epidural hematoma (1), subdural hematoma (2), intracerebral hematoma (1), and combined hematoma (1) were presented and the diagnostic value of this new method was compared with that of cerebral angiography. CT was proved to be highly valuable in the diagnosis of not only intracranial hematomas but also cerebral edema, cerebral contusion and other abnormalities of the brain structures in head injury."}
{"id": "414122", "title": "[Apoplexy (author's transl)].", "content": "[Apoplexy (author's transl)]. Apoplexy is a common clinical picture. The clinical diagnosis is unsatisfactory. The procedure hitherto, in which angiographic clarification of the intracranial space-occupying lesions and of the extracranial vascular changes is almost always performed, will change with the introduction of computer tomography in favor of the bloodless method (Doppler echography). Angiography will then only be carried out in proven hemodynamically active stenosis after the neurological symptoms have receded. The treatment of ischemic cerebral disease is a task for the hospital. Transient ischemic attacks also require hospital supervision, preferably under conditions of intensive care. In addition to support from infusions and digitalization, Actovegin infusions are standard therapy."}
{"id": "301652", "title": "[Clinico-ophthalmodynamometric and arteriographic correlations in cerebral circulatory insufficiency in the carotid region].", "content": "[Clinico-ophthalmodynamometric and arteriographic correlations in cerebral circulatory insufficiency in the carotid region]."}
{"id": "201415", "title": "Computed tomography of supratentorial meningioma.", "content": "Computed tomography of supratentorial meningioma. The appearance on C.T. of 28 meningiomas is described. On the plain scan they presented as a rounded, well defined lesion with a high density in 18 cases and a density equal to or lower than brain tissue in 10 cases. The density could be related to certain histologic features as the amount of connective tissue and extracellular water and the presence of psammoma bodies or lipid storage cells. After administration of contrast a homogeneous, markedly increased, sharply marginated density was seen in most meningiomas. Contrast enhancement appeared to be dependent on the vascularity of the tumour. +/- 50% of the cases demonstrated edema grade II or III. On first interpretation 93% of the meningiomas were recognized as a lesion and a tumour (2 false negative) and 79% as a meningioma (2 false negative and 4 incorrect). Only one false positive C.T. scan was encountered. As a screening method R.N. scanning has about the same accuracy as C.T.; in establishing a definite diagnosis angiography equals C.T.; but C.T. is superior as it combines the diagnostic qualities of both methods."}
{"id": "200392", "title": "Computed tomography of extracerebral hematoma.", "content": "Computed tomography of extracerebral hematoma. The appearance on C.T. of 30 extracerebral hematomas is described. Acute subdural hematomas were seen as bandlike lesions with markedly increased, homogenous density. Epidural hematomas demonstrated a high density and a biconvex, lenticular shape. During the process of liquefaction the density decreases and three hematomas appeared as isodense lesions. The majority of chronic subdural hematomas presented a mildly to moderately decreased, nonhomogenous density, the clearly identifiable inner wall of the lesion being either convex or concave. Subdural hygromas showed a homogeneous, markedly decreased density. Almost all the hematomas caused compression of the homolateral lateral ventricle and displacement of midline structures, particularly of the septum pellucidum. In 60% of the hematomas a dilatation of the contralateral lateral ventricle, predominantly of the posterior part was seen. Acute hematomas presented oedema in varying degrees, in chronic hematomas oedema was usually absent. In the original interpretation extracerebral hematomas were recognized as a lesion on C.T. in 97% (1 false negative result), in 90%, the lesion was correctly diagnosed as an extracerebral hematoma (1 false negative and 2 incorrect). The series contained one false positive C.T. scan and 2 intracerebral hematomas were interpreted incorrectly as subdural hematomas. The review C.T. diagnosis proved to be correct in 100%. C.T. and angiography appeared to have about the same diagnostic accuracy. However, C.T. is a non invasive investigation and it provides valuable additional information with regard to all the intracranial contents. Therefore C.T. should be the method of first choice in the diagnosis of extracerebral hematomas."}
{"id": "122463", "title": "[Acute disease pictures of cerebrovascular origin in childhood].", "content": "[Acute disease pictures of cerebrovascular origin in childhood]. To summarize it can be said that an analysis of 1080 cerebral angiographies of children and juveniles up to 16 years of age and an examination of clinical results obtained for a stock of unsifted pediatric and neurosurgical patients allowed as many as 145 cases of vascular processes to be detected in children and juveniles. This number appears to be relatively large even if we consider that we are concerned here with a selected patient stock of a supraregional specialized clinic. If we also consider that the number of angiographies presently performed in cases of vascular disease processes is still comparatively small and that patients have to wait indiscussibly long times before being finally angiographed, then it is obvious that many a vascular disease process still goes undetected or is either misinterpreted or made clear at too late a time. It is here that much remains to be done in order to provide the necessary material basis, for what we still lack is the necessary number of costly diagnostic facilities with highly qualified diagnosticians as well as the necessary follow-up facilities such as, for example, neurosurgical, vasculosurgical, and intensive care units. We therefore welcome recent improvements in this direction, especially since the realization of a large-scale project would make possible an optimum diagnosis and treatment of vascular disease processes in both children and juveniles."}
{"id": "67199", "title": "Two cases of giant intracerebral aneurysm simulating neoplasm on ct scan; one with coexistent chronic subdural hematoma.", "content": "Two cases of giant intracerebral aneurysm simulating neoplasm on ct scan; one with coexistent chronic subdural hematoma. Two cases of giant intracerebral aneurysm are presented. Both exhibit increased absorption values in a circumferential configuration peripherally after the administration of contrast material. In addition, one case demonstrates a coexistent contralateral chronic subdural hematoma. No previous example of intracranial aneurysm exhibiting this configuration on computed tomography has been described in the literature. The operative, computed tomographic, radionuclide and angiographic findings are described and the differential diagnosis discussed."}
{"id": "1256646", "title": "Cerebral cortical arteries in the diagnosis of epidural hematoma.", "content": "Cerebral cortical arteries in the diagnosis of epidural hematoma. Review of cerebral arteriograms of all our patients [19] with epidural hematoma over a 2 year period revealed evidence of localized extrinsic compression of the cerebral cortex in all cases. This finding, although not as specific as those previously described for epidural hematoma, was strongly suggestive. A 2 year prospective study was then initiated employing internal, rather than common carotid arteriography, because opacification of the external carotid artery is not necessary for evaluation of cortical compression. In this study, which consisted of 21 patients, epidural hematoma was correctly diagnosed in all, relying primarily on signs of localized extrinisic cerebral cortical compression. No epidural hematoma was misinterpreted as being a subdural hematoma or an intracerebral injury, and all epidural hematomas that were present were diagnosed correctly. We conclude that internal carotid arteriography is a sensitive method for diagnosing epidural hematoma. The signs of extrinsic cortical compression should be emphasized in the interpretation of arteriograms of patients with head injuries whether the internal or the common carotid artery is injected."}
{"id": "1252166", "title": "Computerized axial tomography of intracerebral hematoma. A clinical and neuropathological study.", "content": "Computerized axial tomography of intracerebral hematoma. A clinical and neuropathological study. Excellent correlation between computerized axial tomographic (CT) scans and the location and extent of pathologically verified intracerebral hematomas was demonstrated in eight patients. Superficial and intraventricular extension, hydrocephalus, and mass effect were easily identified; CT scanning was superior to angiography and radionuclide brain scanning in diagnosing hematoma and in determining its extent and associated ventricular size. Angiography was superior to CT scanning in demonstrating aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations as a cause of intracerebral hematoma. Computerized axial tomographic scanning is also useful in following the resolution of hematomas and in guiding surgical intervention."}
{"id": "1251448", "title": "Sequential change of the pontine shape after cerebrovascular strokes.", "content": "Sequential change of the pontine shape after cerebrovascular strokes. Pontine cross-sectional area (Ap) and its area factor (f) were correlated with the lapse of time from the onset of stroke to death in 77 autopsy cases cerebrovascular strokes. In the cases without pontine hemorrhage, the sequential change of Ap was different from that of f, which indicated that the recovery of shape lagged behind the recovery of size. The result was attributed in part to a plastic property of the edematous brain substance and was considered important in evaluating angiographical changes of the brain and some pressure cones at autopsy."}
{"id": "1244639", "title": "Acute cerebral vascular accident associated with hyperperfusion.", "content": "Acute cerebral vascular accident associated with hyperperfusion. Cerebral radionuclide angiography can demonstrate decreased or normal radioactivity in the affected region during the arterial phase in patients who have sustained a cerebral vascular accident and thus enhances the diagnostic specificity of the static brain image. In an occasional patient, however, a seemingly paradoxical pattern of regional hyperperfusion with a return to normal or subnormal perfusion following the acute phase has been observed. This phenomenon, called \"luxury perfusion,\" has been defined using intra-arterial 133Xe for semiquantitative cerebral blood flow measurements and should be kept in mind as a potentially misleading cerebral imaging pattern."}
{"id": "1027062", "title": "Evaluation of intracranial aneurysms by computed tomography.", "content": "Evaluation of intracranial aneurysms by computed tomography. Useful information has been gained by review of eight cases of intracranial aneurysm demonstrated by computed tomography (CT) and correlation with cerebral angiograms. The angiograms demonstrated one or multiple aneurysms, the precise location of the aneurysm, and presence of arterial spasm. The CT scan can delineate the full size of the aneurysm when the sac has been partially obliterated by thrombus, the presence of hematoma, infarction, hydrocephalus, and intraventricular and subarachnoid hemorrhage. These associated features are more difficult to evaluate by angiography alone."}
{"id": "993837", "title": "An unusual cause of apparent regional hyperperfusion on radionuclide cerebral angiography study: case report.", "content": "An unusual cause of apparent regional hyperperfusion on radionuclide cerebral angiography study: case report. An unusual pattern of radioactivity in the venous phase was noted in the 99mTc-DTPA cerebral angiogram of a patient with persistent headaches. Initially the possibility of a small arteriovenous malformation with large draining veins was considered. However, contrast angiography revealed dilated cerebral veins with significant arteriovenous shunting. The differential diagnosis of regional hyperperfusion on the radioactivity study is discussed."}
{"id": "975680", "title": "The radionuclide cerebral angiogram in stroke diagnosis.", "content": "The radionuclide cerebral angiogram in stroke diagnosis. The radionuclide cerebral angiogram using intravenous radiopertechnetate has been found to be of value in confirming the early diagnosis of stroke. The isotopic perfusion study is of value in detecting ischemic carotid and middle cerebral lesions. It can also provide a rapid means of demonstrating intracerebral hemorrhages. Nuclear angiography is not recommended for detection of vertebrobasilar artery disease unless a posterior cerebral artery occlusion is suspected."}
{"id": "932381", "title": "Internal carotid arterial occlusion simulating extracerebral hematoma: relation to diagnosis of stroke.", "content": "Internal carotid arterial occlusion simulating extracerebral hematoma: relation to diagnosis of stroke. In 2 elderly male patients, a progressive neurologic deficit and alteration of consciousness developed following substantial head trauma succeeded by an asymptomatic \"lucid\" interval. The sequence of events and the associated electroencephalographic, echoencephalographic and cerebrospinal fluid findings strongly suggested the presence of an extracerebral hematoma. The cerebral angiographic study, however, disclosed complete occlusion of the extracranial portion of the internal carotid artery in both patients. This report stresses the diagnostic difficulties sometimes encountered in relation to stroke patients."}
{"id": "207087", "title": "Isotopic and angiographic determination of cerebral blood flow. A correlation in patients with cerebral death.", "content": "Isotopic and angiographic determination of cerebral blood flow. A correlation in patients with cerebral death. Total cerebral angiography has been performed on five patients who were demonstrated to have a cerebral circulatory deficit by the bedside isotope flow determination. In all five instances cerebral angiography confirmed the results of the isotope examination."}
{"id": "1240606", "title": "[Diagnostic value of isocount scanning in cerebrovascular diseases (author's transl)].", "content": "[Diagnostic value of isocount scanning in cerebrovascular diseases (author's transl)]. In the previous report the theoretical background and technical details of the isocount scanning were described. Based on clinical experiences of various brain diseases, the newly developed scanning method was confirmed to be more useful than the conventional scintiscanning. Besides the new scanning method, a new display system was also developed for the sake of more precise analysis of the isocount scanned data. This display method is called multilevel analysis or multilevel slicing of the scanned data. In the present investigation, this method was applied to thirty-two cases of cerebrovascular diseases, including seven cases of cerebral arterio-venous malformation, four cases of hypertensive intracerebral hemorrhage and twenty-one cases of cerebral infarction, positive rates being 86%, 100% and 90% respectively. In case of arterio-venous malformation, minimum size detected by the isocount method was 2 cm in diameter. To twenty one cases of the cerebral infarction, total thirty two scanning examinations were performed, including postictal follow up studies. It is often said that it is two or three weeks after the ictus when the infarcted cerebral lesion is most clearly detectable by the scintigraphic procedures, presumably due to focal neovascularizations which may occur in the lesion most prominently at this postictal stage. Contradicted to the current concept, our experiences show that abnormal dot accumulations are recognized in the scintigrams even at the earlier stage, thus among five cases of cerebral infarction scanned within a week after the ictus positive figures were obtained in four cases, two of which were examined within two days after the ictus. Focal breakdown of blood brain barrier at the acute stage is considered to be responsible for the early positivity in cerebral infarctions. In eight cases among twenty one cerebral infarctions angiographies failed to demonstrate the vessel occluded. The isocount scanning method, however, succeeded in getting positive results in seven of the eight cases. It will be emphasized that the isocount scanning is a preferable diagnostic procedure in the cerebrovascular diseases, especially when the angiography is hesitated to be performed because of the patient severely affected."}
{"id": "1220643", "title": "[Two-dimensional ultrasonic diagnosis of brain tumors and subdural hematomas by electronic sector scanning (author's transl)].", "content": "[Two-dimensional ultrasonic diagnosis of brain tumors and subdural hematomas by electronic sector scanning (author's transl)]. Electronic sector scanning (ESS) is a new two-dimensional ultrasonic technique which provides continuous and instantaneous cross-sections of intracranial structures through the intact skull, including the ventricles and large cerebral arteries, by means of a stationary probe. 2. The efficiency of the ESS in the diagnosis of brain tumors and extracerebral hematomas in 295 neuroradiologically controlled cases out of an unselected number of patients during 1972-1974 is described. 3. Supratentorial brain tumors can be detected directly with the ESS by abnoramal reflections of the tumors as well as indirectly by displacement of intracranial reference structures, mainly the ventricular borders. In 239 cases of suspected brain tumor, 126 were neurodiologically confirmed as supratentorial brain tumors. Among these 126 brain tumors the correct localization was determined by the ESS in 86.5%. 4. The highest reliability of the ESS proved to be the direct demonstration of frontal tumors (93%), whereas space-occupying lesions near the midline could be shown only in 79%. Up to now there have been difficulties in the diagnosis of tumors situated near bony structures, e.g., calvarian meningiomas. 5. Subdural hematomas (56 patients) could be lateralized correctly in 93%. Hwever, direct demonstration of the border of the hematomas could be achieved only in 48,2%. Chronic subdural hematomas in children are easier to recognize and the border could be demonstrated in 18 out of 19 cases. 6. The clinical applicability and diagnostic values of the ESS as a nontraumatic investigation procedure are discussed in comparison to cerebral angiography, pneumoencephalography, brain scintigraphy, and CAT scan. scintigraphy, and CAT scan."}
{"id": "1198631", "title": "The value of brain scanning in the management of strokes.", "content": "The value of brain scanning in the management of strokes. The usefulness of brain scanning in the diagnosis and management of strokes was evaluated in 313 serial cases. Of 38 patients with transient ischemic attacks (TIAs), only one had a positive test. The optimal time for scanning completed strokes was between seven and 14 days after onset. The pattern of uptake was characteristic of a vascular lesion in 76.8%. When uptake was indistinguishable from tumor, follow-up scans were useful. Patients with negative scans in the second week have a significantly better prognosis than the ones with a positive study. Cerebral angiography and brain scan correlated well in 56 patients who had both tests performed. The postmortem findings in 12 cases again emphasize the importance of the correct timing of the study, and the fact that a brain scan does not usually demonstrate lesions smaller than 2 cm in diameter. It is concluded that the brain scan represents a useful tool in the diagnosis of strokes and helps in predicting the degree of recovery following a vascular insult."}
{"id": "1178865", "title": "Vascular displacement diagnosed by cerebral radionuclide angiography.", "content": "Vascular displacement diagnosed by cerebral radionuclide angiography. Findings were reviewed in twelve patients who had contrast and radionuclide cerebral angiograms interpreted as showing displacement of the anterior or middle cerebral arteries on either study. The radionuclide angiogram detected 3 of 8 displacements of the anterior cerebral artery and 9 of 10 displacements of the middle cerebral artery. In two cases the radionuclide study suggested displacement of the middle cerebral artery when in fact it was occluded in one and normal in the other. Radionuclide angiographic detection of major cerebral artery displacement provides valuable interpretative data, particularly when the middle cerebral artery is involved."}
{"id": "1159498", "title": "Intracerebral hemorrhage demonstrated by nuclear cerebral angiogram: case report.", "content": "Intracerebral hemorrhage demonstrated by nuclear cerebral angiogram: case report. Two intracerebral hemorrhages were detected because of vascular displacement on the radionuclide cerebral angiogram. The static brain images in both patients were normal."}
{"id": "1117299", "title": "Non-invasive screening for surgical intracranial lesions.", "content": "Non-invasive screening for surgical intracranial lesions. The value and reliability of the combined results of skull radiographs, electroencephalography, echoencephalography, isotope angiography, and brain scanning in 147 patients suspected of having an intracranial space occupying lesions are analysed. The overall accuracy of the technique was 79%. No false negatives were found. The advantages of adopting the system proposed by the authors in everyday clinical work is discussed."}
{"id": "129384", "title": "[Computerised axial tomography of the head (E.M.I. scan). Clinical experience with a new diagnostic method for examining the brain (author's transl)].", "content": "[Computerised axial tomography of the head (E.M.I. scan). Clinical experience with a new diagnostic method for examining the brain (author's transl)]. Computerised tomography of the head is a unique radiological method with an exceptional ability in demonstrating intracranial lesions. Increasing experience will ensure this method very wide scope in the diagnosis of neurological and neurosurgical diseases; it will make conventional methods, such as angiography, pneumo-encephalography and brain scanning largely superfluous. The frequency of incorrect diagnoses is acceptable and will be further reduced with increasing experience of the method."}
{"id": "4619849", "title": "[25 years of electroencephalography in cerebrovascular disease].", "content": "[25 years of electroencephalography in cerebrovascular disease]. The value of the EEG has not been diminished by the advent of new diagnostic procedures and the improvement of older techniques. For electro-encephalography is in essence a 'clinical' method, reflecting in its own particular way, the variable status of the brain. Moreover, in conjunction with these methods the EEG can provide for better information concerning the brain's condition. Furthermore in particular serio-angiography and C.B.F. measurements can furnish us more detailed insight in the EEG phenomena which may occur in differed types of cerebro-vascular disease. Generally the changes of the local EEG phenomena, which may occur in cerebral ischaemia correlate well with the angiographic and r.C.B.F. data. In cerebral haemorrhage and cerebral tumour however the r.C.B.F. values are commonly more diffusely reduced as could be expected from the extent of the EEG disturbances. Increased r.C.B.F. values may be encountered over meningioma due to increased perfusion of the Xenon133 in this electrically inactive tumour; they can also occur in malign glioblastoma, where direct arterio-venous connections are responsable for the so called shunt peaks. These peaks may also be found in patients with arterio-venous malformations or with acute ischaemia, in the latter case due to marked reduction of the local pH. Remarkable was the discrepancy between the local increase of the C.B.F. and the local deterioration in the EEG following intracarotid injection of HC1 papaverine; the same applied to the reaction of EEG and C.B.F. in case of acute induced hypertension with loss of autoregulation."}
{"id": "4431667", "title": "Brain scanning and cerebral radioisotope angiography (CRA) in children.", "content": "Brain scanning and cerebral radioisotope angiography (CRA) in children."}
{"id": "4371492", "title": "Accuracy of radionuclide cerebral angiograms in the detection of cerebral arteriovenous malformations.", "content": "Accuracy of radionuclide cerebral angiograms in the detection of cerebral arteriovenous malformations."}
{"id": "4719708", "title": "Cranial scintiphotographic blood flow defects in arteriographically proven cerebral vascular disease.", "content": "Cranial scintiphotographic blood flow defects in arteriographically proven cerebral vascular disease."}
{"id": "4713049", "title": "[Calculation of the true dimensions of cerebral vessels from angiograms].", "content": "[Calculation of the true dimensions of cerebral vessels from angiograms]."}
{"id": "4691410", "title": "The effect of injection volume and technique on radionuclide cerebral angiograms.", "content": "The effect of injection volume and technique on radionuclide cerebral angiograms."}
{"id": "4682980", "title": "Nuclear cerebral angiography. Usefulness in the differential diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease and tumor.", "content": "Nuclear cerebral angiography. Usefulness in the differential diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease and tumor."}
{"id": "4143216", "title": "Cerebral microcirculation: studies by fluorescein angiography and local cerebral blood flow measurements by radioisotopes.", "content": "Cerebral microcirculation: studies by fluorescein angiography and local cerebral blood flow measurements by radioisotopes."}
{"id": "5008301", "title": "Evaluation of cerebral vascular disease with radionuclide angiography.", "content": "Evaluation of cerebral vascular disease with radionuclide angiography."}
{"id": "4660116", "title": "Demonstration of impaired autoregulation in tumours and cerebral infarction by angiography.", "content": "Demonstration of impaired autoregulation in tumours and cerebral infarction by angiography."}
{"id": "5172040", "title": "[Surgical treatment of hypertensive cerebral hemorrhage. 3. Angiographic signs of ventricular rupture].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of hypertensive cerebral hemorrhage. 3. Angiographic signs of ventricular rupture]."}
{"id": "5124359", "title": "[Ischemic cerebral accidents; arteriographic finding and surgical indications. Reflections after 2 years of work in the neurological clinic de la Salpetriere].", "content": "[Ischemic cerebral accidents; arteriographic finding and surgical indications. Reflections after 2 years of work in the neurological clinic de la Salpetriere]."}
{"id": "5112703", "title": "[Clinico-angiographic comparisons in disorders of cerebral circulation in the vertebro-basilar system].", "content": "[Clinico-angiographic comparisons in disorders of cerebral circulation in the vertebro-basilar system]."}
{"id": "5097783", "title": "Intravenous and intracarotid radionuclide cerebral angiography.", "content": "Intravenous and intracarotid radionuclide cerebral angiography."}
{"id": "5767613", "title": "Cerebral angiography in ischemic cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Cerebral angiography in ischemic cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "5381268", "title": "[Angiographic and brain scintigraphic findings in cerebral infarction].", "content": "[Angiographic and brain scintigraphic findings in cerebral infarction]."}
{"id": "4902524", "title": "Thermography in vascular disorders affecting the brain.", "content": "Thermography in vascular disorders affecting the brain."}
{"id": "5719266", "title": "[Angiography and echoencephalography in cerebral apoplexy].", "content": "[Angiography and echoencephalography in cerebral apoplexy]."}
{"id": "4898806", "title": "[Clinical use of xenon-133 for determination of regional cerebral blood flow during carotid arteriography].", "content": "[Clinical use of xenon-133 for determination of regional cerebral blood flow during carotid arteriography]."}
{"id": "6012486", "title": "[Indications and adverse effects of cerebral angiography with special reference to acute stroke].", "content": "[Indications and adverse effects of cerebral angiography with special reference to acute stroke]."}
{"id": "5954636", "title": "Anatomical and angiographic findings in the brain in various vascular disorders.", "content": "Anatomical and angiographic findings in the brain in various vascular disorders."}
{"id": "5904306", "title": "Emergency cerebral arteriography in acute head injury.", "content": "Emergency cerebral arteriography in acute head injury."}
{"id": "5834702", "title": "Large vascular malformations of the brain not visualized by serial angiography.", "content": "Large vascular malformations of the brain not visualized by serial angiography."}
{"id": "5834284", "title": "Cerebrovascular occlusive disease. Experience with panarteriography in 300 consecutive cases.", "content": "Cerebrovascular occlusive disease. Experience with panarteriography in 300 consecutive cases. Three hundred patients with cerebrovascular occlusive disease have had cerebral angiographic examination at the Veterans Administration Hospital, San Francisco, in the last five years. The present technique consists of preliminary visualization of the aortic arch and the major extracranial branches, followed by selective study of the subclavian and carotid arteries as necessary for evaluation of the intracranial circulation.Nine major complications occurred (an over-all incidence of 3 per cent). Two patients died after angiography and seven had major neurologic deficits persisting for more than 24 hours. Three of these patients had permanent damage, but four recovered completely.One-third of the patients had extracranial disease and one-third had intracranial disease. No significant lesion was found in the remainder. In the 212 patients with lesions, multiple lesions were common, the average number being three. Six patients had brain tumors and five had aneurysms. The mechanism of the stroke could be ascertained readily in most of the patients, but the extent of the disease and the resulting symptoms varied considerably. Several patients with occlusion of most of the cerebral vessels had minimal symptoms, while others had catastrophic symptoms but only minimal findings at arteriography."}
{"id": "5178335", "title": "[Cerebral angiography in stroke with special reference to its applications and limitations].", "content": "[Cerebral angiography in stroke with special reference to its applications and limitations]."}
{"id": "13912949", "title": "Angiography of ischemic brain disease.", "content": "Angiography of ischemic brain disease."}
{"id": "13776245", "title": "The diagnostic value of cerebral angiography in patients with apoplectic symptoms.", "content": "The diagnostic value of cerebral angiography in patients with apoplectic symptoms."}
{"id": "13701466", "title": "Correlation of clinical electroencephalographic and arteriographic findings in patients with cerebral vascular accident.", "content": "Correlation of clinical electroencephalographic and arteriographic findings in patients with cerebral vascular accident."}
{"id": "13805864", "title": "Observer variation in cerebral angiography: an assessment of the value of minor angiographic changes in the radiological diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Observer variation in cerebral angiography: an assessment of the value of minor angiographic changes in the radiological diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease."}
{"id": "14440220", "title": "[Carotid angiography in cerebral hemorrhage].", "content": "[Carotid angiography in cerebral hemorrhage]."}
{"id": "13631454", "title": "The revolution produced by cerebral angiography in management of the patient with stroke.", "content": "The revolution produced by cerebral angiography in management of the patient with stroke."}
{"id": "13630066", "title": "The arteriographic and electroencephalographic findings in cerebral apoplexy.", "content": "The arteriographic and electroencephalographic findings in cerebral apoplexy."}
{"id": "13555615", "title": "Stroke with special reference to cerebral angiography.", "content": "Stroke with special reference to cerebral angiography."}
{"id": "13429617", "title": "[Semeiological value of cerebral angiography in the diagnosis of intracranial hematomas].", "content": "[Semeiological value of cerebral angiography in the diagnosis of intracranial hematomas]."}
{"id": "13429546", "title": "[35 Intracranial hematomas diagnosed by cerebral angiography].", "content": "[35 Intracranial hematomas diagnosed by cerebral angiography]."}
{"id": "13329365", "title": "Cerebral angiography in a neurosurgical service.", "content": "Cerebral angiography in a neurosurgical service."}
{"id": "13307516", "title": "[Cerebral angiography in intracranial hematoma].", "content": "[Cerebral angiography in intracranial hematoma]."}
{"id": "13204580", "title": "[Cerebral arteriography in study of various vascular diseases].", "content": "[Cerebral arteriography in study of various vascular diseases]."}
{"id": "13193316", "title": "[Cerebral angiography in encephalocranial injuries].", "content": "[Cerebral angiography in encephalocranial injuries]."}
{"id": "13150280", "title": "Cerebral angiography in intracranial haemorrhage.", "content": "Cerebral angiography in intracranial haemorrhage."}
{"id": "13095555", "title": "[The angiography in cerebral seizures].", "content": "[The angiography in cerebral seizures]."}
{"id": "12994443", "title": "[Cerebral angiography].", "content": "[Cerebral angiography]."}
