{"id": "7997808", "title": "Tissue polypeptide-specific antigen and CA 125 as serum tumor markers in ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Tissue polypeptide-specific antigen and CA 125 as serum tumor markers in ovarian carcinoma. The serum levels of tissue polypeptide-specific (TPS) antigen were measured using the M3 monoclonal antibody in an enzyme immunoassay in 33 patients with ovarian cancer, in 26 women with benign pelvic masses and in 26 women with a laparoscopically proven normal pelvis. The results were compared with the serum levels of the CA 125 antigen. At a cutoff level of 135 U/l for TPS and 20 U/l for CA 125 (95th percentile of the healthy controls), the sensitivity of the tests for detecting a malignant tumor was 77% for TPS and 87% for CA 125. The specificities were 85% for TPS and 92% for CA 125. Adding TPS to CA 125 did not increase the diagnostic values compared to using the CA 125 test alone. For both markers, the rate of positivity was higher in advanced stage than in early-stage ovarian cancer. No correlation between marker levels and survival was found. Serial determinations performed with 4 patients during therapy and follow-up showed that both TPS and CA 125 are good predictors of tumor response and recurrence."}
{"id": "23440802", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery for presumed benign ovarian tumor during pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery for presumed benign ovarian tumor during pregnancy. The surgical management of ovarian tumors in pregnancy is similar to that of non-pregnant women. The procedures include resection of the tumor (enucleation), removal of an ovary or ovaries (oophorectomy), or surgical excision of the fallopian tube and ovary (salpingo-oophorectomy). The procedure can be done by open surgery (laparotomy) or keyhole surgery (laparoscopy) technique. The benefits of laparoscopic surgery include shorter hospital stay, earlier return to normal activity, and reduced postoperative pain. However, conventional laparoscopic surgery techniques required the infusion of gas carbon dioxide in the peritoneum to distend the abdomen and displace the bowel upward to create the room for surgical manipulation. Serious complications such as abnormally high levels of carbon dioxide in the circulating blood (hypercarbia) and perforation of internal organs have also been reported. These serious complication may be harmful to the fetus. To compare the effects of using laparoscopic surgery for benign ovarian tumor during pregnancy on maternal and fetal health and the use of healthcare resources. We updated the search of the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register on 11 November 2012. Randomized controlled trials with reported data that compared outcomes of laparoscopic surgery for benign ovarian tumor in pregnancy to conventional laparotomy technique. Two review authors planned to independently assess trial quality and extract data. The updated search did not identify any randomized controlled trials. The practice of laparoscopic surgery for benign ovarian tumour during pregnancy is associated with benefits and harms. However, the evidence for the magnitude of these benefits and harms is drawn from case series studies, associated with potential bias. The results and conclusions of these studies must therefore be interpreted with caution.The available case series studies of laparoscopic surgery for benign ovarian tumour during pregnancy provide limited insight into the potential benefits and harms associated with this new surgical technique in pregnancy. Randomized controlled trials are required to provide the most reliable evidence regarding the benefits and harms of laparoscopic surgery for benign ovarian tumour during pregnancy."}
{"id": "23370655", "title": "Tumoral displacement into fallopian tubes in patients undergoing robotically assisted hysterectomy for newly diagnosed endometrial cancer.", "content": "Tumoral displacement into fallopian tubes in patients undergoing robotically assisted hysterectomy for newly diagnosed endometrial cancer. Robotic surgery is increasingly being performed for endometrial cancer. Robotic hysterectomies (RH), like traditional laparoscopic hysterectomies (LH), involve a significant amount of uterine manipulation. The use of a manipulator is thought to possibly increase the incidence of artifactual tumor displacement beyond the endometrium, including the fallopian tube. The objective of this study was to determine whether there is an association between RH and tumor present in the fallopian tube lumina. All RH and LH cases performed for endometrial cancer from May 2007 to August 2009 were reviewed. Of the cases not converted to laparotomy, 137 RH and 184 LH were identified. Age, body mass index, operative and hysterectomy time, type and grade of tumor, stage, pelvic wash results, and the presence of detached tumor fragments (contaminants) in the lumina of the fallopian tubes were recorded. Appropriate statistical tests were applied. Of the 184 LH, 4 (2.2%) were reported to have detached fragments of tumor in the lumina of the fallopian tubes compared with 16 of the 137 (11.7%) RH cases (P<0.001). The majority of the patients with RH and tumor present in the tubes had Stage I disease (9/16, 56.2%) and Grade 1 tumors (9/16, 56.2%). Four (4/16, 25%) patients had Stage IIIa disease detected by a pelvic wash. Patients with contaminants had a higher body mass index, but the difference was not statistically significant and was possibly due to small numbers. In conclusion, our data demonstrate an association between RH and tubal contamination. The clinical significance of this phenomenon remains to be determined."}
{"id": "23344407", "title": "Utility of antim\u00fcllerian hormone level obtained for infertility assessment for alerting to ovarian tumor.", "content": "Utility of antim\u00fcllerian hormone level obtained for infertility assessment for alerting to ovarian tumor. Antim\u00fcllerian hormone is a marker of ovarian reserve and is now routinely measured in women seeking infertility treatment. A 42-year-old woman, gravida 1, abortus 1, presented with secondary infertility. Obtained originally for assessment of ovarian reserve, an antim\u00fcllerian hormone of more than 160 ng/mL raised suspicion for a granulosa cell tumor. A laparoscopic right salpingo-oophorectomy, pelvic washings, dilation and curettage, and peritoneal and omental biopsies were performed. A well-differentiated granulosa cell tumor confined to the right ovary was consistent with stage 1A disease. As the use of antim\u00fcllerian hormone becomes more common for ovarian reserve testing, providers need to maintain an awareness for neoplastic disease with abnormal values."}
{"id": "23318909", "title": "Laparoscopic management of early-stage malignant nonepithelial ovarian tumors: surgical and survival outcomes.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of early-stage malignant nonepithelial ovarian tumors: surgical and survival outcomes. Laparoscopic management in patients with malignant nonepithelial ovarian tumors (MNEOTs) was unpopular owing to the solid nature and relatively large size of the tumors. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of laparoscopy for MNEOTs. Between January 1989 and September 2010, 28 patients with MNEOTs underwent laparoscopic surgery at our institution. These patients' clinicopathologic data were retrospectively reviewed from medical records. Cases included 20 sex cord-stromal tumors (18 granulosa cell and 2 Sertoli-Leydig cell) and 8 malignant germ cell tumors (4 dysgerminomas, 2 immature teratomas, 1 choriocarcinoma, and 1 yolk sac tumor). The patients' median age was 27 years (range, 16-35 years) for those with malignant germ cell tumors and 42 years (range, 7-57 years) for those with stromal tumors. The median primary tumor diameter was 10.4 cm (range, 3.3-20.8 cm). Laparoscopic pelvic and para-aortic lymph node dissections were performed in 9 cases. Laparoscopic removal of primary tumor and omentectomy were performed in 26 and 6 cases, respectively. Hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery was performed for one huge tumor that could not be entered into the endobag. The median operating time was 102 minutes (range, 45-300 minutes), and the median postoperative hospital stay was 3 days (range, 2-10 days). All patients had stage I disease. Five patients received adjuvant chemotherapy, and the median interval to chemotherapy was 14 days (range, 2-21 days). No intraoperative complication or conversion to laparotomy was observed. Only one postoperative febrile morbidity occurred. The median follow-up was 34.5 months (1-185 months). One patient developed recurrence, which was treated with chemotherapy. No patient died of their disease. This is the first case series report of laparoscopic surgery for MNEOTs. Laparoscopic management seems feasible and safe without compromising survival. With additional evidence, laparoscopic surgery could be a safe therapeutic option for management of early-stage MNEOTs."}
{"id": "23312256", "title": "Extensive postoperative ecchymosis in a patient taking dabigatran.", "content": "Extensive postoperative ecchymosis in a patient taking dabigatran. Herein we present the case of a 71-year-old woman who had a severe postoperative ecchymotic reaction. Our patient had a history of atrial fibrillation, for which she was given dabigatran etexilate mesylate as an anticoagulant. She discontinued her anticoagulant therapy 2 days before undergoing total laparoscopic hysterectomy with pelvic and periaortic lymph node sampling for uterine endometrioid adenocarcinoma. Despite an uneventful surgical procedure, she had widespread ecchymosis, edema, and anemia."}
{"id": "23312253", "title": "Robotic management of major vessel injury during pelvic lymphadenectomy.", "content": "Robotic management of major vessel injury during pelvic lymphadenectomy. Laparoscopic management of major vessel lesion is a challenging task during pelvic lymphadenectomy, and conversion is frequently necessary. Robotic surgery overcomes the limits of laparoscopy in vascular suturing. We describe a case of a 79-year-old woman with stage IB G3 endometrial adenocarcinoma, where an external iliac vein injury occurred during pelvic lymphadenectomy. This is the first case report that describes robotic management of a major vascular injury during pelvic lymphadenectomy by use of endoscopic bulldog clamps and robotic intracorporeal vascular sutures."}
{"id": "23312240", "title": "Narrow-band imaging in laparoscopic management of recurrent platinum sensitive ovarian cancer.", "content": "Narrow-band imaging in laparoscopic management of recurrent platinum sensitive ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "23305931", "title": "[Management of ovarian cysts during pregnancy: Lille's experience and literature review].", "content": "[Management of ovarian cysts during pregnancy: Lille's experience and literature review]. The aim of our study was to evaluate the practice of Lille in the management of ovarian cyst during pregnancy and to compare our results with data from the literature. The study was a retrospective cohort of Lille University Hospital between 1st January 2007 and 31st December 2010. The inclusion was based on the ultrasound diagnosis of an ovarian cyst greater or equal to 30mm during pregnancy. Obstetrical and neonatal data, surgical techniques and indications were analyzed. Seventy-one patients had a diagnosis of ovarian cyst during pregnancy, i.e., 0.35% of pregnancies followed at the University Hospital of Lille during the study period. The diagnosis took place in the first quarter in the majority of cases, at 12.30\u00b16.99 weeks of amenorrhea (WA). Most often, the ovarian cyst is monitored during pregnancy, which has been strictly the case in 63.38% of cysts (45 patients). Fourteen patients had to be operated during pregnancy (19.72%). There were 7 emergency interventions and 7 programmed intrapartum interventions. Five intrapartum laparoscopies were performed at a mean term of 14.75\u00b12.63 WA, and 9 laparotomies were performed at a mean term of 18.88\u00b14.57 WA. Twelve ovarian mass surgeries were performed per caesarean section. Operated cysts are most often organic cysts (74.39%). No malignancies were observed, and 3 cases of borderline tumors were diagnosed. There were no obstetrical or neonatal complications. A simple monitoring is possible if the cyst is benign, less than 6cm and does not change. Surgery is required in an emergency or in case of suspicious signs of complications or malignancy. Laparoscopy can be widely used until the 2nd quarter. Lille's attitude respects the recommendations is consistent with the literature."}
{"id": "23266650", "title": "Effects of uterine manipulation on surgical outcomes in laparoscopic management of endometrial cancer: a prospective randomized clinical trial.", "content": "Effects of uterine manipulation on surgical outcomes in laparoscopic management of endometrial cancer: a prospective randomized clinical trial. This study aimed to evaluate the influence of intrauterine manipulation on the surgical outcome in patients with early-stage endometrial cancer treated with 2 different laparoscopic approaches. In a randomized parallel trial, 110 patients with clinical stage I endometrial cancer were randomly assigned for laparoscopic staging surgery with (group A, 55) or without (group B, 55) the use of a uterine manipulator (RUMI), between June 2009 and June 2011. Two sets of peritoneal washings were obtained, 1 before and 1 after the insertion of the uterine manipulator. Primary end points were the rates of positive cytology and lymphovascular space invasion. No difference was detected in patient characteristics between the groups. Mean operative time, estimated blood loss, and postoperative complications were similar between the groups. Group A had a similar incidence of lymphovascular space invasion compared with group B (12.7% vs 9.1%, respectively; P = 0.761). Four patients (7.3%) in group A had positive peritoneal cytology in the initial washing. One of these patients was classified as stage IIIA. One patient in group B was positive in the second washing. The agreement rate between the 2 sets of washings for both groups was 98.2%. During the median follow-up of 19 months, 6 patients had tumor recurrence without significant difference between the groups. Despite concerns that the use of uterine manipulators may predispose the spread of early-stage disease, insertion of such uterine-manipulating systems did not increase rate of positive peritoneal cytology or lymphovascular space invasion in this study."}
{"id": "23262520", "title": "Nationwide analysis on surgical staging procedures and systemic treatment for patients with endometrial cancer in Germany.", "content": "Nationwide analysis on surgical staging procedures and systemic treatment for patients with endometrial cancer in Germany. In 2009 and 2006, the Arbeitsgemeinschaft Gyn\u00e4kologische Onkologie evaluated therapeutic approaches for endometrial carcinoma (EC) in Germany. A questionnaire was developed and sent to 775 German gynecologic departments in 2009 (500 in 2006). The results of the questionnaires were compared with each other and with the recommendations of the Arbeitsgemeinschaft Gyn\u00e4kologische Onkologie's guideline. Subgroup analyses were performed, dividing the participating centers into small and large centers and into centers with less and more experience with EC. Responses were available in 33.3% in 2009 and 35.8% in 2006. Comparing 2009 with 2006, it became apparent that peritoneal washing cytology was performed in 94.6% versus 86.9% (P = 0.008), pelvic lymphadenectomy (LAN) in 98.3% versus 95.3%, and paraaortic LAN in 90.2% versus 73.8% (P < 0.001) for endometrioid EC, and LAN for histologic high-risk subtypes of EC in 99.6% versus 94.2% (P = 0.001), respectively. In 2009, all these criteria met the recommendation of the guidelines. Reoperation for LAN after postoperative upstaging was performed in 66.1% versus 50.6% (P = 0.002), and adjuvant systemic treatment with chemotherapy and endocrine therapy was performed in 63.7% versus 48.8% (P = 0.003) and 25.7% versus 15.4% (P = 0.014), respectively. This showed nonadherence to the guidelines. Laparoscopic approach was performed in 30.4% versus 19.7% (P = 0.014) of the participating centers, respectively. In subgroup analysis, laparoscopic approach showed a significant difference between small centers (11.5%) and large centers (27.3%) in 2006 (P = 0.012). German hospitals increasingly follow the guidelines concerning LAN and peritoneal washing cytology. However, recommendations concerning reoperating in upstaged patients and adjuvant treatment decisions do not meet the guidelines, thus underlining great uncertainties in this field of gynecologic oncology."}
{"id": "23224440", "title": "Ovary-sparing surgery for teratomas in children.", "content": "Ovary-sparing surgery for teratomas in children. To share our experience in ovary-sparing surgery for teratomas in children. The medical records of nine patients (mean age of 11.2 years, r 6-15 years) who had undergone ovary-sparing surgery for teratoma were analyzed retrospectively. Mean duration for follow-up was 29.5 months (r 15-75 months). Five patients suffered from chronic abdominal pain; two had acute colicky abdominal pain. In two patients, there was no presenting clinical symptom. Two patients were operated on emergency basis due to symptoms related with acute abdomen. On the other hand, seven were operated electively. Ultrasonography was performed in all patients. Additionally, MRI and tumor markers were performed in all but two. Main radiologic findings consisted of heterogenous cystic and solid ovarian masses predictive of teratoma. The definitive diagnosis in emergency cases were as follows: perforated appendicitis plus teratoma [1]; torsion of the ovarian mass with teratoma [1]. The final diagnosis in electively treated seven patients were: unilateral ovarian teratoma [4], bilateral ovarian teratoma [1], bilateral teratoma plus appendiceal inflammatory mass [1], unilateral teratoma and contralateral corpus hemorrhagicum cyst [1]. The operations were performed by open conventional surgery in six and laparoscopy in three patients. The procedures were ovary-sparing surgery in 12 ovaries, appendectomy in 2 patients and detorsion of ovary in 1 patient. The main indication for ovary-sparing surgery was the \"existence of a perfect dissection plane between the tumor margins and healthy ovarian tissue\". The remaining ovarian tissue was evaluated macroscopically for residual lesions. Frozen section was performed in three suspected patients and the ovarian margins were free of any tumor cell. The pathologic diagnosis was: mature cystic teratoma in 10, immature teratoma in 1 and corpus hemorrhagicum cyst in 1. The postoperative outcome and follow-up was uneventful. Heterogenous ovary mass containing solid and cystic portions with echogenic areas on ultrasound imaging is highly suggestive of ovarian teratomas. Emergent surgical intervention is indicated if there is any suspicion of ovarian torsion. Otherwise, MRI is performed for further radiological evaluation. Based on radiologic findings, ovary-sparing surgery can be safely performed if the preoperative diagnosis is teratoma and there is always a plane of dissection between the normal ovary and cyst wall."}
{"id": "23220563", "title": "Can the preoperative HE4 level predict optimal cytoreduction in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma?", "content": "Can the preoperative HE4 level predict optimal cytoreduction in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma? Optimal surgical outcome has been proved to be one of the most powerful survival determinants in the management of ovarian cancer patients. Actually, for ovarian cancer patients there is no general consensus on the preoperatively establishment of cytoreducibility. Between January 2011 and June 2012 patients affected by suspicious advanced ovarian cancer, referred to the Department of Gynecology of Campus Biomedico of Rome were enrolled in the study. All patients had serum CA125 and HE4 measured preoperatively. After a complete laparoscopy to assess the possibility of optimal debulking surgery defined as no visible residual tumor after cytoreduction (RT=0), patients were submitted to primary cytoreductive surgery (Group A) or addressed to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (Group B). After diagnostic open laparoscopy, 36 patients underwent optimal primary cytoreductive surgery (Group A) and 21 patients were addressed to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (Group B). In our population, based on ROC curve, the HE4 value of 262pmol/L is the best cut-off to identify patients candidates to optimal cytoreduction with a sensitivity of 86.1% and a specificity of 89.5% (PPV=93.9% and NPV=77%). In addition, CA125 has a sensitivity of 58.3% and a specificity of 84% at cut-off of 414 UI/mL (AUC is 0.68, 95% C.I.=0.620 to 0.861). Our data indicate that preoperative HE4 is a better predictor for optimal cytoreduction compared to CA125. The best combination in predicting cytoreduction is HE4\u2264262 pmol/L and ascites <500mL with a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 89.5% (PPV=94% and NPV=100%)."}
{"id": "23153077", "title": "Ovarian benign clear cell adenofibroma in a patient with premature ovarian failure after 8-year hormone replacement therapy.", "content": "Ovarian benign clear cell adenofibroma in a patient with premature ovarian failure after 8-year hormone replacement therapy. Ovary benign clear cell adenofibroma (CCAF) is extremely rare. Here, we reported a 38-year-old woman with CCAF who was given sequential cyclic hormone replacement therapy for eight years due to premature ovarian failure (POF). At operation, we found adenofibromas in both ovaries and well encapsulated. The cut surface was cystic and solid in appearance, and multilocular cysts embedded in hard stroma. Determination of sex hormone levels in the fluid of cysts of the ovary showed normal level. Clear cell cystadenofibroma proliferation was found in ovarian stroma while atrophy in ovarian cortex. Histological examination revealed that the glands were lined by 1 or 2 layers of hobnail cells with scant to moderate pale or clear cytoplasm. The nuclei were small uniform, and flat to round. Neither primary follicles nor secondary follicles were observed in ovary cortex. Immunohistochemical results showed that EMA and p53 were positive while Calretinin was negative. In this article, we reviewed literatures and analyzed both clinical and pathological features of ovary benign clear cell adenofibromas."}
{"id": "23153053", "title": "Gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist and levonorgestrel-intrauterine device followed by in vitro fertilization program as management strategy for an infertile endometrial cancer patient: a case report.", "content": "Gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist and levonorgestrel-intrauterine device followed by in vitro fertilization program as management strategy for an infertile endometrial cancer patient: a case report. A progressive delay in the age of first conception results in an increased frequency of endometrial cancer patients in reproductive age and desiring childbearing. A 38-year-old infertile woman with stage I endometrioid adenocarcinoma was treated with gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist (GnRHa) and levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine device (LNG-IUD). After disease remission, she underwent a controlled ovarian stimulation for standard in vitro fertilization (IVF) program and had a pregnancy delivering a healthy male baby. Total laparoscopic hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was performed four months after delivery. The patient is free of disease after 3-year follow-up. GnRHa plus LNG-IUD followed by IVF program is a safe and effective fertility-sparing strategy to manage infertile patients with stage I endometrial cancer."}
{"id": "23142076", "title": "Is perioperative visual estimation of intra-abdominal tumor spread reliable in ovarian cancer surgery after neoadjuvant chemotherapy?", "content": "Is perioperative visual estimation of intra-abdominal tumor spread reliable in ovarian cancer surgery after neoadjuvant chemotherapy? Most cases of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) are diagnosed in an advanced stage. When the disease has spread intra-abdominally, complete surgical tumor debulking is the single most important prognostic factor. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) before surgery can cause fibrosis and adhesions in the peritoneal cavity and may interfere with the perioperative evaluation of tumor spread. In this prospective study, we evaluated whether perioperative visual assessment of tumor dissemination is similar in patients undergoing primary and interval surgery for EOC. Systematic visual evaluation of tumor spread was performed at the start of primary surgery/diagnostic laparoscopy (n=39) or interval surgery (n=16). Peritoneal cavity was divided into 22 anatomical regions. The carefully documented results of the visual assessment were compared with the histopathological analysis of 220 biopsies from primary and 92 biopsies from interval surgery. In primary surgery, perioperative visual estimation of tumor spread showed 98% sensitivity, 76% specificity and 95% accuracy compared to histopathology. The corresponding figures after NACT were 86%, 76% and 84%, respectively. The difference in sensitivity and accuracy in primary and interval operations was statistically significant (p<0.001). In advanced EOC, microscopically carcinomatous areas have a benign visual appearance more often after NACT than at primary surgery. NACT may interfere with the perioperative visual evaluation of tumor spread and thus lead to incomplete resection of tumor in potentially resectable areas."}
{"id": "23099190", "title": "Does the type of surgery for early-stage endometrial cancer affect the rate of reported lymphovascular space invasion in final pathology specimens?", "content": "Does the type of surgery for early-stage endometrial cancer affect the rate of reported lymphovascular space invasion in final pathology specimens? Laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy (LAVH), which usually involves the use of an intrauterine manipulator for optimal surgical control, has been shown to be as effective and safe as conventional total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH) for the staging of endometrial carcinoma. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the use of an intrauterine manipulator was associated with an increase in the pathologic reporting of lymphovascular space invasion (LVSI), which is an important determinant in choosing adjuvant therapy. We hypothesized that intracavitary manipulation and an increase of the intrauterine pressure could cause pseudolymphovascular invasion. We performed a retrospective chart review of endometrial cancer patients treated at our institution from January 1996 through January 2006. Records were reviewed for patient's age, preoperative diagnosis, procedure type, final surgical staging, and final pathology report. Using the 2009 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics staging, we included all patients having stage IA or IB endometrioid-type endometrial cancer who had undergone either a TAH or LAVH with or without pelvic and paraaortic lymph node dissection. The \u03c72 and Fisher exact tests were used to measure the association between risk of positive lymphovascular invasion and surgical groups. Of 568 women identified as having endometrioid-type endometrial cancer, 486 (85.6%) met criteria for stage IA-IB endometrioid histology, grade 1, 2, or 3. LVSI was reported in 553/568 cases, with LVSI positivity in 16.9% (n = 96/568). The mean ages of the LAVH and TAH groups were significantly different (59.4 vs 62.4 years, respectively, P = .0050). Also, mean estimated blood loss and uterine weight significantly varied between TAH and LAVH groups (P = .0001 and .008, respectively). For stage IA, 17/220 (7.7%) who had been treated with LAVH had positive LVSI compared with 20/199 (10.1%) of patients receiving TAH (P = .73). For stage IB, 11/25 (44.0%) of patients treated with LAVH had positive LVSI compared with 10/31 (32.3%) of patients receiving TAH (P = .53). The stage I cancer patients were further subdivided into histological grades 1, 2, and 3, and LVSI was not significantly different between TAH and LAVH groups per grade of cancer. We found no differences between TAH and LAVH in early-stage endometrial cancer (stage IA and IB), with respect to the presence of positive peritoneal washings. In early-stage endometrial cancer (stage IA and IB), there were no differences between TAH and LAVH in the final pathologic report of LVSI. The use of an intrauterine manipulator for LAVH was not associated with an increased detection of LVSI."}
{"id": "23090572", "title": "Definition of patients presenting a high risk of developing peritoneal carcinomatosis after curative surgery for colorectal cancer: a systematic review.", "content": "Definition of patients presenting a high risk of developing peritoneal carcinomatosis after curative surgery for colorectal cancer: a systematic review. In colorectal cancer, complete cytoreductive surgery associated with hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy achieves encouraging results in early peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC), but this early detection can only be accurately accomplished during a systematic second-look surgery. This costly and invasive approach can only be proposed to selected patients. The objective of this study was to identify risk factors predictive of developing PC after curative surgery for colorectal cancer. After a systematic review of the literature published between 1940 and 2011, all clinical studies reporting the incidence of PC after curative surgery for colorectal cancer were searched for factors associated with the primary tumor that were likely to influence the incidence of recurrent PC. Sixteen clinical studies were considered informative, all nonrandomized, three prospective and 13 retrospective, including 4-395 patients. Overall, the methodological quality of the reported studies was low. Data were available for the following factors: synchronous PC, synchronous ovarian metastases, perforated primary tumor, serosal and/or adjacent organ invasion, histological subtype, and positive peritoneal cytology with reported incidences of recurrent PC between 8 and 75%. No study was found that mentioned an impact of lymph node invasion, tumor location, laparoscopy, occlusive tumors, or bleeding tumor on recurrent PC. Evidence regarding the incidence of recurrent PC after curative surgery for colorectal cancer is poor. Emerging data indicate three situations that could result in a real higher risk of recurrent PC: synchronous PC, synchronous isolated ovarian metastases, and a perforated primary tumor."}
{"id": "22987258", "title": "Minimal invasive approaches for large ovarian cysts: a careful choice.", "content": "Minimal invasive approaches for large ovarian cysts: a careful choice."}
{"id": "22889349", "title": "Two cases of paraovarian tumor of borderline malignancy.", "content": "Two cases of paraovarian tumor of borderline malignancy. Paraovarian tumor of borderline malignancy is rare. Only 13 cases in Japan, including the present cases, and 40 cases overseas have been reported. We report two cases of paraovarian tumor of borderline malignancy. Case 1: A 38-year-old woman was found to have a right ovarian cyst. Transvaginal ultrasonography showed a unilocular cystic tumor and a solid part of 8\u2003mm in diameter within the tumor. Malignancy could not be ruled out, therefore the laparotomy was performed. The tumor was paraovarian tumor. Intraoperative rapid histological diagnosis was made and the patient was diagnosed with a serous borderline tumor. There has been no recurrence 1\u2003year after surgery. Case 2: A 30-year-old woman was found to have a right hydrosalpinx, or an ovarian cyst, with a solid part inside. Transvaginal ultrasonography showed the solid part within the tumor was 14\u2003\u00d7\u20039\u2003mm. Laparoscopic surgery was performed and we diagnosed the tumor as paraovarian cyst. Histological diagnosis was mucinous borderline tumor. There has been no recurrence 11\u2003months after surgery."}
{"id": "22817767", "title": "Adnexal torsion in children and adolescents: new trends to conservative surgical approach -- our experience and review of literature.", "content": "Adnexal torsion in children and adolescents: new trends to conservative surgical approach -- our experience and review of literature. The purpose of this study is to discuss the surgical treatment for ovarian torsion in children and adolescents with a focus on the procedures of adnexal conservation surgery and its frequency in the literature of the last 10 years. We retrospectively reviewed the medical charts of 127 operative ovarian lesions including 30 ovarian torsions (23.6%) treated in two pediatric centers over a 10-year period. Age at presentation, presenting symptoms, diagnostic studies, surgical procedure and pathological findings were analyzed. Mean age was 13.7 years. Conservative surgery has been performed in 46.7% of the cases and laparoscopic approach in 40%. Ovarian torsion occurred in 56.7% on ovaries with functional lesion, in 23.3% on normal adnexa and in 20% on ovaries with benign neoplasm. The article includes a literature review (2000-2010) and a statistical analysis which shows a slow increase in conservative surgery from 28 to 45%. Laparoscopic surgery accounts for 23.5%. Literature review shows 40.5% normal adnexa, 33.2% non-neoplastic lesions, 25.3% benign neoplasms and 1% malignant neoplasms. The surgical treatment of children and adolescents presenting adnexal torsion should be practiced as an emergency and it should be more conservative as possible in order to maximize the future reproductive potential."}
{"id": "22744800", "title": "Misdiagnosed ectopic pregnancy mimicking adnexal malignancy: a report of two cases.", "content": "Misdiagnosed ectopic pregnancy mimicking adnexal malignancy: a report of two cases. We present two cases of nulliparous women with no history of amenorrhea who were referred to our unit following finding of a hypervascularized solid adnexal mass. In both cases a malignant tumor of tubal origin was suspected at transvaginal sonography. However, following laparoscopy, histological examination revealed that the masses were the result of an undetected tubal ectopic pregnancy that had failed spontaneously, with massive vasodilatation of pelvic blood vessels surrounding the trophoblastic tissue. We recommend consideration of the potential diagnosis of a previously undetected, failed tubal ectopic pregnancy in fertile women presenting with an adnexal mass, even when there is no history of amenorrhea or a positive pregnancy test."}
{"id": "2952542", "title": "Laparoscopy in staging, follow-up, and restaging of ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Laparoscopy in staging, follow-up, and restaging of ovarian carcinoma. Laparoscopy was systematically employed for the study of 143 cases of primary ovarian tumor in the various phases of staging, treatment, follow-up, and restaging. We found that laparoscopy allowed a more precise staging if used before laparotomy. Verification of response at any time in the course of therapy was readily achieved by laparoscopy."}
{"id": "9175670", "title": "Simple ovarian cysts in premenopausal patients.", "content": "Simple ovarian cysts in premenopausal patients. To compare clinical, ultrasonographical, and cytological findings with the histopathological diagnosis of unilocular, anechoic smooth-walled cystic ovarian tumors ('simple ovarian cysts'). In 140 premenopausal women simple ovarian cysts were removed by laparoscopy following ultrasound evaluation. In this retrospective study the histopathological diagnosis was correlated with clinical data, sonographic characteristics, macroscopic impression and with cytological findings. Histopathology revealed 21 (15.0%) functional cysts, 31 (22.1%) retention cysts, 9 (6.4%) endometriomas, 3 (2.1%) cystic teratomas, 12 (8.6%) undifferentiated cysts and 64 (45.7%) cystadenomas. No mentionable differences were correlated with the patient's age or the size of the cyst as determined by ultrasound. Classically, 'chocolate-like' cystic fluid characterizes endometriomas. However, in the present study cysts with different histopathological classifications exhibited similar fluid characteristics. The cytological diagnosis was correct in only 53 (37.9%) of all 140 cases. In premenopausal women differential diagnosis of ovarian cysts is not possible by clinical characterization, either by ultrasound or cytological evaluation. Simple ovarian cysts should be observed for at least 8 weeks or 2 menstrual cycles, respectively. If persisting over that period, the ovarian cyst should be removed by laparoscopy, but not by cyst aspiration."}
{"id": "7556856", "title": "Transvaginal trucut biopsy in patients with abdominopelvic mass.", "content": "Transvaginal trucut biopsy in patients with abdominopelvic mass. To perform an abdominopelvic or pelvic mass biopsy as an office procedure, as an alternative to laparoscopic biopsy. A transvaginal trucut biopsy using a disposable biopsy needle was carried out in 5 cases. The biopsy gave a clear diagnosis of ovarian cancer in 2 cases, non-tubercular inflammation in 2 cases and tuberculosis in 1 case. In the developing world, transvaginal trucut biopsy is an important method for diagnosis."}
{"id": "6102049", "title": "Unilateral absence of distal tube and ovary with migratory calcified intraperitoneal mass.", "content": "Unilateral absence of distal tube and ovary with migratory calcified intraperitoneal mass. A case of unilateral absence of a distal portion of Fallopian tube and ovary in association with a migratory calcified intraperitoneal mass is described. A review of the literature concerning this rare occurrence is summarized, and a discussion of the etiology of such an entity is presented. The surgical technique for removal of such a pelvic lesion through a posterior colpotomy incision and use of the laparoscope is also described."}
{"id": "7904954", "title": "Cytokines in the peritoneal fluid of patients with endometriosis.", "content": "Cytokines in the peritoneal fluid of patients with endometriosis. To determine which of the various cytokines interleukin-5 (IL-5), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) are important in endometriosis. Peritoneal fluid (PF) samples were taken from 55 women at the time of either laparotomy or laparoscopy, and were examined for the levels of IL-5, IL-6 and IL-1 using each cytokine specific sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Thirty-two patients had pelvic endometriosis, eight post-pelvic inflammatory disease, four advanced cancer, three adenomyosis, three benign ovarian tumor, and other diseases. Statistical analysis was performed with the Mann Whitney test, chi-square test or Fisher's test. Both IL-5 and IL-6 levels in PF specimens with endometriosis tended to be higher than normal, while the same specimens were mostly interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) negative. Of great interest was the negative correlation between log (IL-5) and IL-6 (Fisher's test, P < 0.04). These findings support the concept that IL-5 and IL-6 but not IL-1 are associated with endometriosis."}
{"id": "19892330", "title": "Factors influencing the choice of laparoscopy or laparotomy in pregnant women with presumptive benign ovarian tumors.", "content": "Factors influencing the choice of laparoscopy or laparotomy in pregnant women with presumptive benign ovarian tumors. To evaluate the factors associated with physicians' choice of laparotomy or laparoscopy in pregnant women with presumptive benign ovarian tumors. Retrospective comparative analysis of pregnant women who underwent laparotomy or laparoscopy for ovarian tumors and who delivered at Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Korea, between July 1995 and April 2008. Univariate analysis revealed that the following factors had a significant or a borderline significant association with the choice of operation type: maternal age (P=0.044); surgeon type (professor vs clinical fellow; P=0.094); tumor mass size (P=0.081); gestational age (P=0.035); and time since surgery (P<0.001). Multivariate analysis showed that tumor size (P=0.030), gestational age (P=0.027), and time since surgery (P=0.004) were independent factors associated with physicians' choice of laparoscopy or laparotomy for the management of presumptive benign ovarian tumors during pregnancy. In the latter years of the present study, physicians at the study center preferred the laparoscopic approach for managing presumptive benign ovarian tumors during pregnancy. Furthermore, they preferred this approach to laparotomy for pregnancies at a relatively early gestational age and for treating small tumors."}
{"id": "22652482", "title": "Comparison of PET/CT with other imaging modalities in women with genital tuberculosis.", "content": "Comparison of PET/CT with other imaging modalities in women with genital tuberculosis. To compare findings with 2-deoxy-2-((18)F)fluoro-D-glucose positron emission tomography combined with computed tomography ((18)F-FDG-PET/CT) with findings obtained using ultrasound (US), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and CT in patients with proven tubercular tubo-ovarian masses. Seventeen patients with proven tubercular tubo-ovarian masses underwent (18)F-FDG-PET/CT imaging and the findings were compared with US (for all patients), MRI (for 9 patients), CT (for 4 patients), and laparotomy or laparoscopic findings (for 14 patients). Eleven patients (64.7%) had unilateral tubo-ovarian masses, with activity in 6 masses (35.3%); 4 patients (23.5%) had bilateral tubo-ovarian masses, with activity in all masses; and 2 patients (11.76%) had unilateral space-occupying lesions, with activity in 1 lesion. The detection rates of tubo-ovarian masses with (18)F-FDG-PET/CT were similar to, but the characterization of adnexal masses was less than, those obtained with CT or MRI. Finally, (18)F-FDG-PET/CT was equally accurate as laparoscopy or laparotomy in detecting the presence, laterality, and activity of tubo-ovarian masses. Imaging with (18)F-FDG-PET/CT is noninvasive and appears to be clinically useful for the diagnosis of tubercular tubo-ovarian masses."}
{"id": "17161164", "title": "Quality of life considerations in gynecologic cancer. FIGO 26th Annual Report on the Results of Treatment in Gynecological Cancer.", "content": "Quality of life considerations in gynecologic cancer. FIGO 26th Annual Report on the Results of Treatment in Gynecological Cancer. Quality of life (QOL) is a fundamental consideration for patients with life threatening diseases. Major evolving paradigms are discussed: improved QOL with laparoscopic surgery, the impact on QOL of intraperitoneal chemotherapy for optimally cytoreduced ovarian cancer, combination therapy, sexuality, and survivorship. The goals of treatment for many patients with gynecologic tumors remain largely palliative, and patient reported QOL is the primary outcome determining the utility of treatment. Particularly in this area, QOL endpoints are increasingly important in clinical trials. The QOL issues facing gynecologic cancer patients, the use of validated QOL instruments, recent advances in the evaluation of interventions, and changes in concepts related to QOL are reviewed."}
{"id": "16777110", "title": "Laparoscopy and peritoneal tuberculosis.", "content": "Laparoscopy and peritoneal tuberculosis."}
{"id": "21247567", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings among women with tubercular tubo-ovarian masses.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings among women with tubercular tubo-ovarian masses. To assess the usefulness of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in women with tubercular tubo-ovarian masses. Twenty-four women with a confirmed diagnosis of tubercular tubo-ovarian masses underwent MRI. The findings were compared with laparotomy/laparoscopy results wherever possible. The mean age was 30.7 years and the mean parity was 1.5. The main symptom in 37.5% of patients was infertility. The MRI findings included unilateral definitive tubo-ovarian masses (n=4 [16.7%]); bilateral definitive tubo-ovarian masses (n=4 [16.7%]); unilateral hydrosalpinx (n=8 [33.3%]); bilateral hydrosalpinx (n=4 [16.7%]); unilateral adnexal cyst (n=4 [16.7%]), tuberculous deposits on the liver (n=1 [4.2%]); and cervical growth (n=1 [4.2%]). Other associated findings were endometriosis (n=2 [8.3%]), inclusion cyst (n=1 [4.2%]), subserous fibroid (n=1 [4.2%]), sacroiliac joint arthritis (n=1 [4.2%]), and enteritis (n=1 [4.2%]). MRI seems to be a useful modality for the diagnosis of tubercular tubo-ovarian masses."}
{"id": "8855097", "title": "Elevated CA 125 in advanced abdominal or pelvic tuberculosis.", "content": "Elevated CA 125 in advanced abdominal or pelvic tuberculosis. Three cases with advanced pelvic or abdominal tuberculosis showed marked elevation of CA 125. This observation should help clinicians to entertain a possible diagnosis of abdominopelvic tuberculosis and undertake diagnostic laparoscopy, thus avoiding laparotomy where possible. It is suggested that all women who present with adnexal or abdominopelvic mass and/or ascites be tested for CA 125; raised levels may not be due to ovarian malignancy but could be due to tuberculosis."}
{"id": "21872235", "title": "Management of ovarian carcinoid syndrome.", "content": "Management of ovarian carcinoid syndrome."}
{"id": "8099025", "title": "Surgical treatment and adjunct therapy of endometriosis.", "content": "Surgical treatment and adjunct therapy of endometriosis. Conservative surgery at laparoscopy or laparotomy is effective against stage I-IV endometriosis to relieve pelvic pain and treat infertility. The subsequent average conception rate is 45-65%. Recurrence of endometriosis may occur, although pregnancy may delay this. Hysterectomy is indicated in severe disease, but the ovaries may be preserved if there is no evidence of active disease or significant periovarian adhesion. Combined surgery and pre- or postoperative medical therapy using gonadotropin releasing hormone agonists or danazol is recommended in young non-infertile women and those with extensive or severe disease."}
{"id": "21457974", "title": "Laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy for ovarian ablation in women with hormone-sensitive breast cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy for ovarian ablation in women with hormone-sensitive breast cancer. To evaluate institutional experiences regarding laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy in breast cancer patients and to compare the technique with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogs among premenopausal women with hormone-sensitive breast cancer. Between 2004 and 2009, 103 women with breast cancer underwent laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy at Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK. All relevant medical records-including reasons for salpingo-oophorectomy, peri-operative events, and subsequent follow-up-were reviewed. In the study period, 3 (2.9%) women experienced a recurrence of breast cancer but none had primary peritoneal/ovarian cancer within a median follow-up interval of 34 months (range, 0-70 months). No operative complications were noted among these women and all of them went home on the day of their operation. Laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy seems to be a safe, permanent, and cost-effective method of ovarian ablation compared with the use of GnRH analogs. Salpingo-oophorectomy also considerably reduces the risk of subsequent ovarian/fallopian tube malignancy in this high-risk population."}
{"id": "15617715", "title": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for cystic ovarian teratomas.", "content": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for cystic ovarian teratomas."}
{"id": "10636056", "title": "Laparoscopic approach and color Doppler findings of borderline ovarian tumors.", "content": "Laparoscopic approach and color Doppler findings of borderline ovarian tumors."}
{"id": "7698387", "title": "Preoperative sonography in detecting small benign cystic teratomas.", "content": "Preoperative sonography in detecting small benign cystic teratomas. Identification of small ovarian benign cystic teratomas (dermoid cysts) is difficult and sometimes impossible by clinical findings alone. They may be missed even on direct inspection during laparotomy or laparoscopy. There are several typical ovarian sonographic signs which are known to occur frequently in women with benign ovarian cystic teratomas. High-resolution sonography can identify the cysts based on their typical sonographic signs. Since these very small dermoid cysts are sometimes undetected by the naked eye during the operation, ultrasonography with particular attention to the signs is very important. We present three cases reports that illustrate the problem and stress the contribution of preoperative sonography in the diagnosis and treatment of such cases."}
{"id": "8022735", "title": "[Ovarian metastasis of unrecognized cancer of the pancreas during celioscopic procedure].", "content": "[Ovarian metastasis of unrecognized cancer of the pancreas during celioscopic procedure]."}
{"id": "1836590", "title": "[Dissemination of ovarian cancer during celioscopic surgery: a real danger].", "content": "[Dissemination of ovarian cancer during celioscopic surgery: a real danger]."}
{"id": "11147056", "title": "[Standards, options, and recommendations for initial management of patients with malignant ovarian epithelial tumors].", "content": "[Standards, options, and recommendations for initial management of patients with malignant ovarian epithelial tumors]. Suprapubic and transvaginal pelvic ultrasound exploration is indicated for suspected ovarian tumor (standard). Diagnosis and search for extension require surgery and pathology examination. Systematic preoperative computed tomography is not recommended (standard). Surgery for cancer of the ovary is a specialized procedure requiring skill in cancer, gynecology, visceral surgery and laparoscopic surgery. If the patient is referred to a specialized center after a primary procedure considered to be inadequate, a new procedure is recommended for staging. Residual tumor volume after the primary procedure has prognostic value. Systematic second look procedures are not recommended for routine practice (standard). For patients with grade IA G1 tumors, there is no indication for complementary treatment (standard). For patients with grade IA G2-3 or clear cell tumors, IB, IC, IIA, there is no standard. no complementary treatment, complementary chemotherapy using platinum, complementary external abdominopelvic radiotherapy. A complementary treatment is recommended for grades IC and IIA. Complementary treatment for grades IIB (no residual tissue), IIC (with residual tissue), III (no residual tissue), is based on: complementary chemotherapy with platinium, complementary external abdominopelvic radiotherapy (options). Complementary treatment for advanced forms (IIB (with residual tissue), IIC (with residual tissue), III (with residual tissue) and IV) is based on polychemotherapy with platinium (standard). platinium combined with paclitaxel (intravenous), platinium combined with cyclophosphamide and/or doxorubicin (intravenous) or intraperitoneal cisplatin combined with cyclophosphamide (intravenous). The chemotherapy work-up includes physical examination, assay of serum markers (particularly CA125) and abdominopelvic computed tomography (proof level B) (standard). Physical examination is recommended for monitoring patients in complete remission with no sign of suspected recurrence (standard). This document was reviewed in April 1977. The working group again validated the Standards, OPTIONS and Recommendations, without modifications in June 1999."}
{"id": "8545329", "title": "[Borderline tumors and cancers of the ovary. Laparoscopic-surgical evaluation].", "content": "[Borderline tumors and cancers of the ovary. Laparoscopic-surgical evaluation]. Benign cysts of the ovary can now be correctly treated with laparoscopic surgery, but it is difficult to confirm the benign nature of the suspected formation. Thus, the major risk of the laparoscopic surgery is the dramatic consequences in case of malignancy as reported in several cases in the literature. We conducted a survey to evaluate this risk. A retrospective multicentric survey of laparoscopic procedures performed for a diagnosis of lesions of the annexes or cyst of the ovary was conducted. Forty-four centres reported a total of 7,122 laparoscopic procedures, including 5,307 in which laparoscopic surgery was performed. Laparoscopic treatment included puncture (21.3%), partial exeresis (51.3%) and complete exeresis (25.6%). Conversion to laparotomy was required in 20 cases (25.6%). A complementary surgical procedure was needed after the laparoscopic procedure within a delay of 78 days in 49 cases (58%). Laparoscopy was the only procedure used in 16% of the cases. Pathology reports of the surgical specimen indicated malignant lesions of the ovary in 78/5, 307 cases (1.47%) including 60 borderline tumours and 18 cancers. Among these 78 cases, preoperative work-up and laparoscopy had led to a diagnosis of a benign lesion in 17 (21.8%). Among the 49 cases with secondary surgery, a more advanced FIGO (International Federation of Gynaecology-Obstetrics) stage was observed in 11 (i.e. 8.3% of the 78 malignant cases) compared with the initial assessment. These findings demonstrate that it is not rare to discover the malignant nature of an ovarian tumour after initial laparoscopic treatment of a formation initially diagnosed as benign. Such accidents are the result of insufficient security in risk evaluation before laparoscopy. Whenever there is even a minimal risk of malignancy, laparotomy must be performed as the procedure of choice."}
{"id": "9232059", "title": "[Struma ovarii or malignant ovarian goiter. A case].", "content": "[Struma ovarii or malignant ovarian goiter. A case]. We report a case of follicular struma ovarii observed in an ovary teratoma without metastatic dissemination. A right ovarian tumor was discovered at ultrasound examination in a 31-year-old woman complaining of low abdominal pain. The patient underwent laparoscopic exploration and a 4-cm cystic mass of the right ovary was removed. Microscopic examination showed a malignant struma ovarii of the follicular type with vascular space invasion; other teratomous elements were identified. Immunohistochemical staining for thyroglobulin confirmed the nature of the tumor. The patient was treated by complete right ovariectomy followed by total thyroidectomy and administration of radioactive iodine (99 mCi I-131). Repeat I-131 body scan performed at 6 months was normal. Struma ovarii is a rare type of ovarian teratoma, consisting mainly of thyroid tissue. The incidence of malignant struma ovarii is below 1% and fewer than two dozen cases with distant metastases have been reported. The major problem associated with struma ovarii has been the establishment of criteria for malignancy."}
{"id": "8248064", "title": "[Role of celiosurgery in the diagnosis and the treatment of gynecologic cancers].", "content": "[Role of celiosurgery in the diagnosis and the treatment of gynecologic cancers]."}
{"id": "8177859", "title": "[Tumor dissemination after celioscopic treatment of a tumor of the ovary].", "content": "[Tumor dissemination after celioscopic treatment of a tumor of the ovary]. A 35-year-old woman with a histologically proven T2 N0 M0 adenocarcinoma of the breast was given 4 cycles of neodjuvant chemotherapy then underwent tumourectomy followed by irradiation. Lymph nodes were free from invasion. A 7 cm ovarian cyst developed during follow-up and after a 2 month regimen of lynestrenol, coelioscopy with peritoneal lavage was performed. The pathology diagnosis was papillary cystadenocarcinoma requiring laparotomy which revealed invasion of both ovaries, neoplasic granulations and involvements of the epiloon. Exceresis of the trocar tract also showed tumoural invasion. Pathology examination favoured metastatic extension of the breast cancer. A 6-month chemotherapy was programmed before a second look. This case illustrates the risk of neoplastic dissemination after puncture or rupture of a cyst misdiagnosed as benign. In patients with a history of breast cancer, the risk of discovering a primary malignant ovarian cancer at coelioscopy is 9%. Metastases are found in 15-30% of the cases compared with 0.4 to 1.8% in unselected subjects. Prevention of operative dissemination relies on cystectomy without opening the cyst. This may require transforming the coelioscopy into a laparotomy which should not be considered as an operative failure but as a necessary method of preventing dissemination and clinical aggravation. Careful history taking, a rigorous coelioscopy technique and extension to laparotomy in cases with suspected diffusion should reduce the number of dramatic situations where the malignant process had not been suspected in the precoelioscopic diagnosis."}
{"id": "8302779", "title": "[Risk of systematic celioscopic treatment of ovarian diseases. 2 cases].", "content": "[Risk of systematic celioscopic treatment of ovarian diseases. 2 cases]. We report 2 cases of malignant ovarian tumours. These tumours had been missed at a first laparoscopic examination, and a second examination detected the presence of cancer cells disseminated in the peritoneum and the abdominal wall. The risk of propagation of an overlooked cancer makes it necessary to carry out a preoperative thorough evaluation based on clinical and ultrasonographic data before any attempt at laparoscopic surgery. If a laparoscopic treatment is decided, it must be performed under strict conditions and include meticulous exploration of the abdominal cavity, systematic peritoneal cytology, needle cytology of the cyst, emptying of the cyst in a water-tight manner, extemporaneous biopsy in case of doubt, peritoneal cleansing, and extraction of the cyst or the ovary in a bag. If malignancy is suspected, laparotomy must be performed immediately."}
{"id": "23374386", "title": "[Partial laparoscopic nephrectomy: treatment for hydrocalicosis due to infundibular stenosis].", "content": "[Partial laparoscopic nephrectomy: treatment for hydrocalicosis due to infundibular stenosis]. This report describes a partial nephrectomy with a minimally invasive approach, carried out laparoscopically as a treatment for a hydrocalicosis caused by a congenital infundibular stenosis. The patient presented a clinical background of one year of evolution, manifested as recurrent urinary tract infections caused by urine accumulation in the adjacent collecting tubules which were compressed by the superior hydrocalicosis. This procedure was made using a transperitoneal access, making a superior pole resection of the right kidney and respecting the adrenal gland. In our opinion, to widen the usage of the laparoscopic surgery in urology can benefit patients to reduce post-surgery complications and hospitalization time, with a more comfortable recovery."}
{"id": "23336154", "title": "[Comparison of robotic surgery documentary in gynecological cancer].", "content": "[Comparison of robotic surgery documentary in gynecological cancer]. Robotic surgery is a surgical technique recently introduced, with major expansion and acceptance among the medical community is currently performed in over 1,000 hospitals around the world and in the management of gynecological cancer are being developed comprehensive programs for implementation. The objectives of this paper are to review the scientific literature on robotic surgery and its application in gynecological cancer to verify its safety, feasibility and efficacy when compared with laparoscopic surgery or surgery classical major surgical complications, infections are more common in traditional radical surgery compared with laparoscopic or robotic surgery and with these new techniques surgical and staying hospital are lesser than the former however, the disadvantages are the limited number of robot systems, their high cost and applies only in specialized centers that have with equipment and skilled surgeons. In conclusion robotic surgery represents a major scientific breakthrough and surgical management of gynecological cancer with better results to other types of conventional surgery and is likely in the coming years is become its worldwide."}
{"id": "23329192", "title": "Ovarian intratumoral 21-hydroxylase deficiency in a postmenopausal hirsute woman.", "content": "Ovarian intratumoral 21-hydroxylase deficiency in a postmenopausal hirsute woman. Virilising ovarian tumours are a rare cause of hyperandrogenism in women, accounting for less than 5% of all ovarian neoplasms. It occurs most often in - and postmenopausal women. We report a case of a 64 year-old woman with signs of virilisation that had started 3 years before. Blood hormone analysis revealed increased levels of testosterone, and 17-hydroxyprogesterone. The tetracosactin test revealed 21-hydroxylase deficiency. Radiological imaging demonstrated a nodule in her left ovary. The patient was submitted to bilateral laparoscopic oophorectomy, and histopathological examination revealed a luteoma of the left ovary. Postoperative serum testosterone level and 17-hydroxyprogesterone returned to normal levels in one month. Virilism regressed within six months. Our patient also showed an elevation in 17-OHP serum levels. Normalization of 17-OHP after oophorectomy suggests a case of intratumoral 21-hydroxylase deficiency. To our knowledge, this is the first description of ovarian intratumoral 21-hydroxylase deficiency in a postmenopausal woman."}
{"id": "23288262", "title": "[Inclusion of symptoms in the discrimination between benign and malignant adnexal masses].", "content": "[Inclusion of symptoms in the discrimination between benign and malignant adnexal masses]. To assess the association between clinical symptoms and the diagnosis of malignancy in women with adnexal tumors who underwent surgery. Cross-sectional study, in which 105 women with adnexal tumors and indication for laparotomy/laparoscopy were included. All women were treated at a teaching hospital in the state of S\u00e3o Paulo between November 2009 and March 2011. All patients underwent a structured interview about the occurrence of 18 symptoms associated with ovarian cancer. The interview included the severity, frequency, and duration of these symptoms in the 12 months prior to the first medical consultation. The CA125 levels and the ultrasound classification of the tumors were also evaluated. We calculated for each symptom the prevalence ratio with 95% confidence intervals. The golden-standard was the result of the pathological examination of the surgical specimens. Of the 105 women included, 75 (71.4%) had benign tumors and 30 (28.6%) had malignant ones. In women with malignant tumors, the most frequent symptoms were: abdominal bloating (70%), increased abdominal size (67%), pelvic pain (60%), menstrual irregularity (60%), swelling (53%), abdominal pain (50%), backache (50%), and early repletion (50%). Women with benign tumors showed essentially pelvic pain (61%), menstrual irregularities (61%), and abdominal swelling (47%). Symptoms significantly associated with malignancy were: bloating (PR=2.0; 95%CI 1.01 - 3.94), increased abdominal size (PR=2.16; 95%CI 1.12 - 4.16), backache (RP=1.97; 95%CI 1.09 - 3.55), swelling (PR=2.25; 95%CI 1.25 - 4.07), early repletion (RP=2.06; 95%CI 1.14 - 3.70), abdominal mass (PR=1.83; 95%CI 1.01 - 3.30), eating difficulties (PR=1.98; 95%CI 1.10 - 3.56), and postmenopausal bleeding (PR=2.91; 95%CI 1.55 - 5.44). The presence of pelvic pain, constipation, dyspareunia, fatigue, abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting, menstrual irregularity, weight loss, diarrhea, and bleeding after intercourse was similar in both groups. In women with adnexal tumors including indication of surgical treatment, the preoperative evaluation of symptoms may help predicting malignancy."}
{"id": "23268049", "title": "[Resection of ovarian metastasis of colon cancer to improve quality of life].", "content": "[Resection of ovarian metastasis of colon cancer to improve quality of life]. A 52-year-old woman with multiple liver metastasis of cecal cancer underwent laparoscopic right hemi-colectomy in September 2010. One year of postoperative chemotherapy for liver metastasis achieved good control, but both ovaries enlarged because of metastasis and caused abdominal distension. In order to improve quality of life, we performed ovarian tumor resection in December 2011. After surgery, she was free from abdominal symptoms and continued to receive chemotherapy. We believe that surgical resection is indicated for ovarian metastasis of colorectal cancer with severe abdominal symptoms, even when metastases are present in other organs."}
{"id": "23250246", "title": "Ovarian tumours in children : a review of 18 cases.", "content": "Ovarian tumours in children : a review of 18 cases. To review the experience of Children's Hospital of Rabat in managing ovarian tumours in children. There were 18 patients between 2 and 15 years of age who presented with an ovarian tumour at Children's Hospital of Rabat between January 2000 and December 2008. Data collected from the hospital medical records included age at diagnosis, patient's history, presenting complaints, radiological examination, tumour markers, management, operative procedure, histopathological examination and outcome of the patients. The most common presenting complaint was abdominal pain in 10 (55%) patient. 77% of ovarian tumours were germ cell tumours; 71% of these were teratomas which were benign in 66% of cases. Unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was the most common surgical procedure performed in 15 patients (83%) through laparotomy. Laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy was carried out in 2 (11%) patients with benign cystic teratoma. Of the 7 (39%) patients with malignant tumours, three received postoperative chemotherapy. Outcome was good in most cases. There were no cases of resistance to treatment, or death. Early diagnosis of ovarian tumours in children and adolescents is important. Since most of these tumours are benign, surgical treatment should be conservative to minimise the risk of subsequent infertility, while the treatment of malignant tumours should include complete staging, resection of the tumour, postoperative chemotherapy when indicated, to give the patient a chance for future childbearing."}
{"id": "23234025", "title": "[Laparoscopic hysterectomy--brief history, frequency, indications and contraindications].", "content": "[Laparoscopic hysterectomy--brief history, frequency, indications and contraindications]. Hysterectomy is the most common gynecological operation after Caesarean section and the laparoscopic access to uterus removal is one of the contemporary methods showing slow but steady growth in time. In reference to indications and contraindications for laparoscopic hysterectomy, the following directions emerge as controversial: malignant gynecological tumors, uterus size, and high body mass index. Laparoscopic hysterectomy can be taken into consideration at the first stage of endometrial, cervical and ovarian cancer. If there is doubt about an uterus sarcoma and a laparoscopic access is accomplished, a conversion to abdominal hysterectomy must be done. Obesity and big uteri are not a contrarindication for that minimally-invasive access. Today, laparoscopic hysterectomy is a reasonable alternative to total abdominal and vaginal hysterectomy."}
{"id": "23231836", "title": "Serous cystadenofibroma of the ovary.", "content": "Serous cystadenofibroma of the ovary."}
{"id": "23159202", "title": "[Follow-up and counselling after pelvic inflammatory disease].", "content": "[Follow-up and counselling after pelvic inflammatory disease]. Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) can be responsible for infertility and chronic pelvic pain. Treatment of acute PID is very important as it can reduce the risk of sequelae. However, follow-up, partner treatment and counselling are also useful to reduce the reinfection rate. Few weeks after PID, clinical evaluation as well as transvaginal and transabdominal sonography must be performed. The interest of systematic bacteriological tests is not proved. Hysterosalpingography and second-look laparoscopy should be considered only for women with infertility and severe infection. Use of condom is advisable in this population in order to prevent sexually transmitted diseases (STD) including HIV and to decrease rate of recurrence, associated to contraceptive pill, which is also a good option. In selected cases, intrauterine devices can be used in patients with history of PID if the infection is resolved and no significant risk factors for STD exist. Infertility and chronic pelvic pain are the most common sequelae in the population of young women with severe and recurrent infection. The risk of ectopic pregnancy is higher for these women and must be kept in mind. Counselling and risk-reduction interventions decreased significatively the rate of recurrence and sequelae in PID."}
{"id": "23157324", "title": "Hybrid transvaginal and transumbilical laparoendoscopic adnexal surgery.", "content": "Hybrid transvaginal and transumbilical laparoendoscopic adnexal surgery. Natural orifice translumenal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) is an emerging concept in the recent literature that could lead to potential benefits in clinical applications. The present study describes the initial clinical application in 15 cases of hybrid transvaginal and transumbilical NOTES and discusses the feasibility, safety, and potential benefits of the method. We evaluated the records of 15 patients who underwent hybrid transvaginal and transumbilical laparoendoscopic adnexal surgery between January 2010 and September 2011. Procedures included salpingo-oophorectomy (n=7) and cystectomy (n=3) for ovarian tumors and salpingectomy (n=5) for unruptured tubal pregnancy. The mean operative time was 79 minutes (range, 49-116 minutes). Blood loss was minimal in all cases. All procedures were successfully performed, and there were no conversions to conventional multiport laparoscopy or open surgery. Gynecologic examination after 3 months showed no negative findings, and the cosmetic result was ideal with no visible scar. Hybrid transvaginal and transumbilical NOTES is feasible and safe in select patients, and it provides no visible scar."}
{"id": "23152180", "title": "Successful laparoscopic investigation and resection of solitary colonic metastasis from breast cancer (with video).", "content": "Successful laparoscopic investigation and resection of solitary colonic metastasis from breast cancer (with video). Metastasis to gastrointestinal tract from breast cancer is an uncommon situation. We report a case of a 52-year-old woman who had a mastectomy for solid-tubular carcinoma of the breast 16 years ago and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy for metastatic ovarian tumours 5 years ago, was incidentally found to have colonic metastatic tumour detected by positron emission tomography/CT (PET/CT) during follow-up. After identifying a definite location of the tumour in the ascending colon under laparoscopic investigation, laparoscopy-assisted partial colectomy was successfully performed. Histopathology of the resected specimen showed it to be metastasis from solid-tubular carcinoma of the breast. We should be aware that breast cancer can metastasise to the gastrointestinal tract even after the long interval from initial therapy. An index of high suspicion and detailed assessment is mandatory to make a correct diagnosis and following less invasive surgical treatment."}
{"id": "23141164", "title": "[Relationship of polymorphisms of AhR -1661G/A with GSTP1 -313A/G and susceptibility to endometriosis].", "content": "[Relationship of polymorphisms of AhR -1661G/A with GSTP1 -313A/G and susceptibility to endometriosis]. To investigate the association of polymorphisms of arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR)-1661G/A with glutathione S-transferase pi (GSTP1) -313A/G and the susceptibility to endometriosis in southern Han Chinese. Total of 432 endometriosis patients undergoing laparoscopic or laparotomy surgery matched with 493 patients with fallopian tube ligation, tubal recanalization, laparoscopic hydrotubation, benign ovarian tumor and teratoma surgeries without endometriosis as control group were enrolled in this study. The single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of AhR -1661G/A and GSTP1 -313A/G were detected by using a fluorescent quantitative PCR-based high resolution melting (HRM). The numbers of combined genotypes AhR -1661G/A and GSTP1 -313A/G were 120 patients with AG + AA, 64 patients with AG + AG, 8 patients with AG + GG, 109 patients with GG + AA, 84 patients with GG + AG, 4 patients with GG + GG, 31 patients with AA + AA, 10 patients with AA + AG, 1 patient with AA + GG at endometriosis group and 131 patients with AG + AA, 68 patients with AG + AG, 6 patients with AG + GG, 157 patients with GG + AA, 66 patients with GG + AG, 4 patients with GG + GG, 35 patients with AA + AA, 20 patients with AA + AG, 3 patients with AA + GG at endometriosis group. There was no statistically different frequencies of genotypes between endometriosis group and control group (\u03c7(2) = 12.558, P = 0.128). Compared with genotype GG + AA, the risk of endometriosis with genotype GG + AG was increased 1.833 time (95%CI: 1.233 - 2.274). The combined genotype GG + AG [from AhR -1661G/A (GG) and GSTP1 -313A/G (AG)] might be related with susceptibility to endometriosis."}
{"id": "23067525", "title": "Study of the sentinel node in endometrial cancer at early stages: preliminary results.", "content": "Study of the sentinel node in endometrial cancer at early stages: preliminary results. To investigate the applicability of the sentinel lymph node biopsy technique in early stages of endometrial cancer. A prospective study that included consecutive patients with a histological diagnosis of clinical state I endometrial carcinoma was performed. Two doses of 2 mCi (74 MBq) of (99m)Tc-albumin nanocolloid were injected in the uterine cervix, and planar and SPECT-CT images were obtained at one hour, and at 24 hours if no migration of the tracer was observed. Methylene blue dye was also injected into the cervix immediately prior to the surgery. A gamma probe was used during the surgical procedure for sentinel lymph node identification. In all cases, a hysterectomy, double adnexectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy were performed, carrying out a histological analysis (hematoxylin-eosin) of the sentinel lymph nodes and the lymphadenectomy specimen. We included 19 patients, with a final diagnoses of endometrioid carcinoma (18 cases) and endometrial stromal sarcoma (1 case). At least one sentinel lymph node was identified in 17 of them (89.5% detection rate). Twenty-nine sentinel lymph nodes were identified during surgery, all of them negative for neoplastic infiltration. No metastatic invasion was found in the pelvic lymphadenectomy specimens as well. The sentinel lymph node biopsy technique seems to be a reliable tool in nodal staging of endometrial cancer at early stages, with an acceptable detection rate and high histological correlation. The low prevalence of lymphatic spread in this group of patients and the encouraging results obtained could make the sentinel lymph node an alternative to routine complete lymphadenectomy."}
{"id": "23025112", "title": "Laparoscopic approach to ovarian dermoid cysts.", "content": "Laparoscopic approach to ovarian dermoid cysts. Ovarian dermoid cysts (mature cystic teratomas) are a benign type of germ cell tumours and the most common ovarian neoplasms in women of fertile age. The aim of this study was to analyze the safety of the laparoscopic approach in ovarian dermoid cysts. We performed a prospective study between 2006 and ' 2010 including 38 mature cystic teratomas treated either laparoscopically or by open access. All preoperative and postoperative data were included in an MS Access database and statistically analysed with SPSS v. 17 for Windows. The study group was divided into 2 subgroups according to the approach: laparoscopic (25 cases - 2 conversions) and classic (13 cases). The mean age of the patients was 40.34 years (range 19-74): 36.92 years for laparoscopic group and significantly higher 46.21 years for open approach group. Twelve cases were admitted as emergencies either because of complications (torsion or rupture of the teratoma) (11 cases) or associated with acute appendicitis (one case). The latter did not influence the decision for open or laparoscopic approach. Only 29 out of 38 cases had preoperative measurement of CA 125. CA 19-9 was performed in 27 cases and elevated levels were found in 21 cases (78%). Cysts over 10 cm presented higher values of CA 19-9. The mean cysts diameter was 11.29 cm (range 2-27 cm): 13.93 cm mean cyst diameter for open approach vs 9.75 cm for laparoscopic approach. The specimen removal required aspiration of the content for cysts bigger the 10 cm in laparoscopic approach. Mean hospital stay was 4.05 days (range 2-6 days) for the laparoscopic group, significantly lower when compared with the open approach group: 6.96 days (range 5-16 days). Laparoscopic management of ovarian dermoid tumours is a safe and efficient procedure. It does not increase complications rate in comparison with the open approach, offering a shorter hospital stay, a quick recovery and very important, it allows a conservative treatment, especially in premenopausal women who want to be pregnant."}
{"id": "23024155", "title": "Diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up of borderline ovarian tumors.", "content": "Diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up of borderline ovarian tumors. Borderline ovarian tumors represent a heterogeneous group of noninvasive tumors of uncertain malignant potential with characteristic histology. They occur in younger women, are present at an early stage, and have a favorable prognosis, but symptomatic recurrence and death may be found as long as 20 years after therapy in some patients. The molecular changes in borderline ovarian tumors indicate linkage of this disease to type I ovarian tumors (low-grade ovarian carcinomas). The pathological stage of disease and subclassification of extraovarian disease into invasive and noninvasive implants, together with the presence of postoperative macroscopic residual disease, appear to be the major predictor of recurrence and survival. However, it should be emphasized that the most important negative prognostic factor for recurrence is just the use of conservative surgery, but without any impact on patient survival because most recurrent diseases are of the borderline type-easily curable and with an excellent prognosis. Borderline tumors are difficult masses to correctly preoperatively diagnose using imaging methods because their macroscopic features may overlap with invasive and benign ovarian tumors. Over the past several decades, surgical therapy has shifted from a radical approach to more conservative treatment; however, oncologic safety must always be balanced. Follow-up is essential using routine ultrasound imaging, with special attention paid to the remaining ovary in conservatively treated patients. Current literature on this topic leads to a number of controversies that will be discussed thoroughly in this article, with the aim to provide recommendations for the clinical management of these patients."}
{"id": "22964073", "title": "Determinants of the decision to perform prophylactic oophorectomy in association with a hysterectomy for a benign condition.", "content": "Determinants of the decision to perform prophylactic oophorectomy in association with a hysterectomy for a benign condition. The decision to perform an elective bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) at the time of a hysterectomy for a benign condition is complex. To assess the determinants of the decision to proceed to a prophylactic BSO during a hysterectomy for a benign condition. We collected demographic and clinical data, including age, menopausal status and risk of ovarian cancer. Using a regression model we analysed the decision perform a prophylactic BSO in women successively admitted for a hysterectomy for a benign condition, in relation to the collected demographic and clinical data. Data were collected for 43 women, aged between 37 and 65 years (mean age 48.6 years, SD 6.9), on the day before their hysterectomy. Thirty-six (84%) had a total hysterectomy and 7 (16%) a subtotal hysterectomy; 40 (93%) had a laparoscopic procedure. Prophylactic BSO was significantly associated with age: none of the women aged under 40 years had the procedure, compared with 8% of those aged 41-45 years, 29% of those aged 46-50 years and 83% of those aged 51 years or more (\u03c7(2)=23; P<0.001). Of the postmenopausal women, 67% had a prophylactic BSO, compared with 24% of the premenopausal women (\u03c7(2)=6; P<0.047). In this small series of patients no relationship was found between the decision to perform a BSO and the risk of ovarian cancer. Age was the only significant variable in the regression model (pseudo R(2) Nagelkerke=0.6, P<0.05). The physician's recommendation to perform an elective BSO at the time of a hysterectomy for a benign condition is strongly influenced by the patients' age."}
{"id": "22941352", "title": "Controversies in the management of endometriomas in patients undergoing assisted reproduction.", "content": "Controversies in the management of endometriomas in patients undergoing assisted reproduction. The presence of an endometrioma has been proposed to affect the ovarian function in a negative way. Our aim was to present the key evidence on multiple aspects of endometriomas' management in subfertile couples scheduled for assisted reproduction technologies (ART). A critical review of the existing literature was performed focusing on the need of endometrioma treatment prior to ART, the relevant options, the potentially participating surgeon's characteristics and the socioeconomic perspective. To date, we have no definitive data to suggest whether the damage to the ovaries observed in women with endometriomas may be related to the mere presence of the cyst, the surgical procedure to remove it, the combination of the two, or factors currently unknown. Moreover, there is no conclusive evidence that, for subfertile couples, removal of endometriomas increases the chance of having a baby. The uncertainty regarding the best treatment strategy and factors such as the limited number of tertiary centers for laparoscopic surgery throughout the world seems to further complicate the decision. Until research addresses the current \"grey areas\", the management of endometriomas in patients undergoing ART should be individualized and take into consideration numerous parameters."}
{"id": "22935307", "title": "Early abdominal pregnancy complicated by parasitic dermoid cyst: diagnosis by diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging and management by laparoendoscopic single-site surgery.", "content": "Early abdominal pregnancy complicated by parasitic dermoid cyst: diagnosis by diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging and management by laparoendoscopic single-site surgery. A 26-year-old primigravida patient was referred with suspicion of ectopic pregnancy 39 days after her last menstrual period. Her serum \u03b2-human chorionic gonadotropin value was 3812 mIU/mL. As we suspected the existence of ectopic pregnancy with bilateral dermoid cysts, laparoendoscopic single-site surgery was performed. After dissection of dense pelvic adhesion, cystectomy was performed for a left ovarian dermoid cyst. Although there was a right ovary at the correct position, a parasitic dermoid cyst firmly attached to the peritoneal surface of cul-de-sac was identified. After excision of the parasitic dermoid cyst, early abdominal pregnancy tissue implanted in the peritoneal hollow of right deep pararectal space was identified under the guidance of diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging and was excised. With systemic administration of methotorexate, the postoperative course was uneventful."}
{"id": "22932780", "title": "Robotic surgery for gynaecologic cancer: an overview.", "content": "Robotic surgery for gynaecologic cancer: an overview. After decades of reluctance to change surgical approaches, new technologies have created new perspectives for surgery. Initially, the laparoscopic approach was considered to be only one useful for relatively simple procedures as the design of the instruments and the limited access hampered free movements to perform complicated surgery. Robotic systems overcame this problem and boosted the use of minimally invasive techniques also for radical gynaecological surgery. Robot-assisted laparoscopy can now routinely be used for the surgical treatment of early or downstaged cervical carcinoma, endometrial carcinoma and staging of early ovarian carcinoma. Robot-assisted laparoscopy has proven to be feasible, although the benefits for the patient are less clear than those for the surgeon. The main advantage of robot-assisted laparoscopy over conventional laparoscopy is probably not that it is safer or better, but that it allows more types of radical surgery to be performed and that it prevents the surgeon from developing complaints and muscular conditions that interfere with the ability to perform surgery. New applications have emerged with the introduction of new devices to be used in conjunction with the robotic system as well as with totally new robotic systems. Training in these new tools should be more systematic and structured to allow their safe introduction and use."}
{"id": "22906344", "title": "Laparoscopic removal of a large ovarian mass utilizing planned trocar puncture.", "content": "Laparoscopic removal of a large ovarian mass utilizing planned trocar puncture. Large cystic ovarian masses pose technical challenges to the laparoscopic surgeon. Removing large, potentially malignant specimens must be done with care to avoid the leakage of cyst fluid into the abdominal cavity. We present the case of a large ovarian cystic mass treated laparoscopically with intentional trocar puncture of the mass to drain and remove the mass. Large cystic ovarian masses can be removed laparoscopically with intentional trocar puncture of the mass to facilitate removal without leakage of cyst fluid."}
{"id": "22906334", "title": "Adnexal masses suspected to be benign treated with laparoscopy.", "content": "Adnexal masses suspected to be benign treated with laparoscopy. Guidelines for referring women with pelvic masses suspicious for ovarian cancer to gynecologic oncologists have been developed by the American College of Obstetrician Gynecologists (ACOG). We set out to evaluate the negative predictive value of these guidelines and to assess a modified algorithm involving minimally invasive surgery in the treatment of women with masses suspected to be benign. 257 consecutive patients with adnexal masses of 8cm to 13cm on preoperative ultrasound examination meeting Triage Criteria set forth in ACOG Committee Opinion 280. Patients meeting the selection criteria were scheduled for operative laparoscopy, washings, adnexectomy, bagging, and colpotomy. A total of 240 patients successfully completed intended treatment (93.38%), and 234 of these did not require admission (97.5%). There was a low incidence of significant complications: 97.50% of women were successfully treated as outpatients, 97.92% of surgeries lasted <136 minutes, and <97.08% had blood loss <200mL. The negative predictive value of ACOG Committee Opinion 280 Triage Criteria as a deselector for having invasive ovarian malignancy in our population was 95.57% for premenopausal and 90.91% for postmenopausal women. Laparoscopic adnexectomy, bagging, and colpotomy is a desirable goal for patients with ovarian masses in the 8cm to 13cm range meeting selection criteria affording a minimally invasive approach with attendant benefits including outpatient treatment (97.5%), few complications, low likelihood of iatrogenic rupture of the ovarian capsule (1.25%), and low necessity for reoperation after final pathology is evaluated (6.03%). Negative predictive value of ACOG Committee Opinion 280 is confirmed in a community gynecology practice and is recommended to form the basis of a new treatment algorithm for women with adnexal masses."}
{"id": "22900995", "title": "Pregnancy outcome in women with peritoneal, ovarian and rectovaginal endometriosis: a retrospective cohort study.", "content": "Pregnancy outcome in women with peritoneal, ovarian and rectovaginal endometriosis: a retrospective cohort study. We retrospectively assessed pregnancy outcome in 419 women who achieved a first spontaneous singleton pregnancy after surgery for endometriosis. A miscarriage was observed in 87 of 419 women (20.8%) and an ectopic pregnancy in eight (1.9%). Among the remaining 324 women, 14 (4.3%) experienced gestational hypertension/pre-eclampsia, 38 (11.7%) had a preterm delivery, five (1.5%) had placental abruption and 12 (3.7%) had placenta praevia. The incidence of placenta praevia was 7.6% in 150 women with rectovaginal lesions, 2.1% in 69 with ovarian endometriomas plus peritoneal implants, and 2.4% in 100 women with peritoneal implants only, whereas no case was observed in 100 women with ovarian endometriomas only."}
{"id": "22884658", "title": "Mesial side ovarian incision for laparoscopic dermoid cystectomy: a safe and ovarian tissue-preserving technique.", "content": "Mesial side ovarian incision for laparoscopic dermoid cystectomy: a safe and ovarian tissue-preserving technique. To evaluate safety and efficacy, in terms of spillage risk and ovarian tissue preservation, of mesial incision for laparoscopic dermoid cystectomy. Randomized controlled trial. University. Sixty-seven women with dermoid cysts. Laparoscopic dermoid cystectomy performed by mesial incision (33 patients, study group) or antimesial incision (34 patients, control group). Spillage of intracystic content rate, operative times, chemical peritonitis rate, and intraoperative blood loss (\u0394Hb) as primary outcomes. Postoperative ovarian reserve (\u0394FSH levels, basal antral follicle number, mean ovarian diameter, and peak systolic velocity at 3 and 12 months after surgery) as secondary outcome. Spillage of intracystic content rate and operative time were significantly lower in the study than in the control group. None developed chemical peritonitis. \u0394Hb was higher in the study group but not significantly. During the follow-up, median FSH values were significantly lower in the study group, with no differences in the E(2) levels. Moreover, median basal antral follicle number, median ovarian diameter, and median peak systolic velocity were significantly higher in the study group. Ovarian mesial-side incision appears to be a safe as well as tissue-sparing technique. ."}
{"id": "22880483", "title": "[Features of pubescence in patients with pure gonadal dysgenesis in the course of a hormonally active tumor--case report].", "content": "[Features of pubescence in patients with pure gonadal dysgenesis in the course of a hormonally active tumor--case report]. Germ cell tumors are the most frequent ovarian neoplasms among girls and young women under the age of 25. Female patients with gonadal dysgenesis are at higher risk of germ cell tumors. Two cases of women with pure gonadal dysgenesis were described. A hormonally active tumor secreting estrogens, caused the development of sexual features and genital tract bleeding what imitated premature puberty. It needs to be emphasized that the presence of sexual features does not exclude dysgenesis - a pathology that is connected with an increased risk of gonadal tumors--and that the ultrasound evaluation, during which the presence of follicles in gonads is evaluated, is essential."}
{"id": "22873112", "title": "Endometrioid ovarian cancer arising from an endometriotic cyst in a young patient.", "content": "Endometrioid ovarian cancer arising from an endometriotic cyst in a young patient. To present a case of a young woman with ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma arising from an endometriotic cyst and review of the literature. A 33-year-old woman, gravid 2, para 2 was admitted to our department with a 5 cm adnexal mass. Diagnostic laparoscopy was performed and pathological examination demonstrated an endometriotic cyst with an area of an ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma well differentiated, with no capsular invasion. One month after the operation the patient underwent MRI which revealed a 6 cm mass in the Douglas pouch. The multidisciplinary oncology council decided on exploratory laparotomy, which revealed no pathology. After that the multidisciplinary oncology council decided on adjuvant chemotherapy and the patient received four cycles of carboplatin/taxol. It should always be considered that even when there are no risk factors for malignancy occurrence, a high index of suspicion is necessary and will help to prevent delay in the diagnosis of this rare neoplasm."}
{"id": "22863971", "title": "Granulosa cells in the uterosacral ligament: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Granulosa cells in the uterosacral ligament: case report and review of the literature. Granulosa cells are components of the sex cord-stromal cells in the ovary responsible for steroidogenesis. Uncommonly, extraovarian granulosa cells have been reported to be associated with malignant processes of the ovary. We report a unique case of benign granulosa cells, found during routine laparoscopic evaluation, in the uterosacral ligaments in a 20-year-old patient with chronic pelvic pain and infertility. Possible mechanisms include implantation of released granulosa cells from a normal ovary or arising from a focus of m\u00fcllerianosis. Of note, a focus of endosalpingiosis and endometriosis was also identified within the specimen."}
{"id": "22859813", "title": "Not hysteria: ovarian teratoma-associated anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor encephalitis.", "content": "Not hysteria: ovarian teratoma-associated anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor encephalitis. We report a case of a 33-year-old nulliparous woman who, following a short prodromal illness, experienced a series of psychiatric and behavioural symptoms. These included states of terror, insomnia, delirium, self-harm and suicidal ideation, facial dyskinesias, verbigeration, cognitive impairment, reduced responsiveness, violence and paranoia. A diagnosis of anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDAR) encephalitis was made 50 days after symptom onset. Early tumour removal is associated with an improved prognosis and a laparoscopic oophorectomy was performed following detection of a dermoid cyst. Within 24 hours of the operation there was marked improvement in cognitive function and appetite."}
{"id": "22854062", "title": "Metaplastic carcinoma of the right breast and simultaneous giant ovarian teratoma: a case report.", "content": "Metaplastic carcinoma of the right breast and simultaneous giant ovarian teratoma: a case report. We describe here a female patient who presented with a breast mass and giant abdominal mass. Fine needle aspiration cytology of the breast mass and histological examination after modified radical mastectomy confirmed metaplastic carcinoma of the breast. The epithelial components were formed by infiltrating ductal carcinoma with poor differentiation, and the sarcomatous components were formed by fibrosarcoma and osteosarcoma. Histological examination of the abdominal mass confirmed ovarian teratoma. The patient underwent modified radical mastectomy of the right breast and laparoscopic excision of the abdominal mass in the lower right quadrant. Having underwent six courses of chemotherapy, the patient is now in her tenth month after surgery and under follow-up, and she has no relapsed disease. These two diseases have never seen in one patient before. The case we report here provides some new data for research and clinical experience and it may also provide a new insight into the relationship between metaplastic breast carcinoma and ovarian teratoma."}
{"id": "22838244", "title": "Ectopic gestational trophoblastic disease: a case series review.", "content": "Ectopic gestational trophoblastic disease: a case series review. To highlight the clinical presentation, treatment, histological review and outcome of patients referred to the Sheffield Centre with possible ectopic gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD). A retrospective case note review of patients with possible ectopic GTD referred to the Sheffield Centre between 1997 and 2010 was performed. During the 13 years of this retrospective study 6,708 patients were registered at the Centre with GTD, of whom 42 had possible ectopic GTD. Most patients presented with abdominal pain and/or vaginal bleeding (67%). Ectopic pregnancy was diagnosed by ultrasound scan in 19%. Laparoscopic removal of ectopic pregnancy was carried out in 50% of cases; the rest underwent laparotomy for removal of ectopic conceptus. Histological review of slides was performed in 19 cases for whom there was clinical concern. This resulted in 12 confirmed cases of ectopic GTD: 4 choriocarcinomas, 5 partial moles and 3 complete moles. No evidence of metastasis was recorded in any of the cases. Three patients diagnosed with ectopic choriocarcinoma needed chemotherapy. Two responded to methotrexate and 1 needed second-line chemotherapy. All patients are alive and free of disease. Ectopic GTD is rare and still overdiagnosed. Presentation is the same as for conventional ectopic pregnancy. Central review of the histology should be undertaken, especially in cases where there is clinical, hCG level or histopathologic concern. Conventional chemotherapy for gestational trophoblastic neoplasia is effective. Prognosis remains excellent."}
{"id": "22827612", "title": "A novel approach: transumbilical endoscopic exploration and biopsy for patients with unknown ascites.", "content": "A novel approach: transumbilical endoscopic exploration and biopsy for patients with unknown ascites. The main surgical methods used for the diagnosis of unknown ascites are laparotomy, laparoscopic exploration, and natural orifice translumenal endoscopic surgery (NOTES). This article introduces a novel method: transumbilical endoscopic exploration and biopsy. From September 2009 to January 2012, 11 patients with unknown ascites were scheduled for transumbilical endoscopic exploration and biopsy at the First Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China. After the patient underwent general anesthesia and artificial pneumoperitoneum, a 1.0-cm trocar was placed at the umbilical region. After initial observation of the whole peritoneal cavity with a laparoscope, a sterile endoscope (gastroscope) was put through the trocar. The surgeon regulated the depth of insertion of the endoscope and the direction of the trocar, while the endoscopic physician was in charge of turning the camera lens of the endoscope, controlling the biopsy forceps, irrigation, and suction. After exploration, four to six pieces of tissues were obtained for biopsy. These patients were diagnosed by endoscopic exploration and pathological examination: 3 cases were tuberculous peritonitis, 2 cases were malignant peritoneal mesotheliomas, 2 cases were peritoneal carcinomatosis, 1 case was a small intestinal tumor, 2 cases were advanced ovarian cancer, and 1 case was cirrhosis. Transumbilical endoscopic exploration and biopsy is an easy, practical, and effective method for the diagnosis of unknown ascites."}
{"id": "22819008", "title": "The \"Ruston Stretch\": a simple way to get a large specimen out through a small hole.", "content": "The \"Ruston Stretch\": a simple way to get a large specimen out through a small hole. The balance between port-site size and ease of specimen removal is often a challenge in laparoscopic surgery. Herein we describe a simple technique that circumvents this dilemma by means of port-site dilation using Hegar dilators."}
{"id": "22818540", "title": "Laparoscopy as the most effective tool for management of postmenopausal complex adnexal masses when expectancy is not advisable.", "content": "Laparoscopy as the most effective tool for management of postmenopausal complex adnexal masses when expectancy is not advisable. Postmenopausal women with adnexal masses suspicious for malignancy must undergo surgery for histopathologic confirmation. The low positive predictive value for malignancy of the currently available preoperative examinations results in 5 to 220 surgeries performed for each case of pelvic malignancy detected, depending on the evaluation method and patient selection. Although extensively reviewed as an effective tool for the investigation and treatment of adnexal masses, laparoscopy is still underused for this purpose in postmenopausal women. Some reasons are uncertainty about the incidental diagnosis of a malignant lesion during laparoscopy, concern about the effect of laparoscopy over the course of a pelvic malignant lesion, and inadequate referral of patients at high risk to specialized centers with oncologic gynecologists. Identification of patients at low risk might also be inadequate, causing them to undergo unnecessary laparotomy. Herein we demonstrate through a comprehensive literature review that laparoscopy is a highly effective tool for investigation and treatment of suspected adnexal masses in postmenopausal women, both in general medical settings without oncologic backup and in specialized centers. The indications for laparoscopy in this context can be further expanded without oncologic harm if patients at low and high risk are appropriately selected for surgery at general and specialized settings, respectively."}
{"id": "22815844", "title": "A 46,XY female DSD patient with bilateral gonadoblastoma, a novel SRY missense mutation combined with a WT1 KTS splice-site mutation.", "content": "A 46,XY female DSD patient with bilateral gonadoblastoma, a novel SRY missense mutation combined with a WT1 KTS splice-site mutation. Patients with Disorders of Sex Development (DSD), especially those with gonadal dysgenesis and hypovirilization are at risk of developing malignant type II germ cell tumors/cancer (GCC) (seminoma/dysgerminoma and nonseminoma), with either carcinoma in situ (CIS) or gonadoblastoma (GB) as precursor lesion. In 10-15% of 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis cases (i.e., Swyer syndrome), SRY mutations, residing in the HMG (High Mobility Group) domain, are found to affect nuclear transport or binding to and bending of DNA. Frasier syndrome (FS) is characterized by gonadal dysgenesis with a high risk for development of GB as well as chronic renal failure in early adulthood, and is known to arise from a splice site mutation in intron 9 of the Wilms' tumor 1 gene (WT1). Mutations in SRY as well as WT1 can lead to diminished expression and function of SRY, resulting in sub-optimal SOX9 expression, Sertoli cell formation and subsequent lack of proper testicular development. Embryonic germ cells residing in this unfavourable micro-environment have an increased risk for malignant transformation. Here a unique case of a phenotypically normal female (age 22 years) is reported, presenting with primary amenorrhoea, later diagnosed as hypergonadotropic hypogonadism on the basis of 46,XY gonadal dygenesis with a novel missense mutation in SRY. Functional in vitro studies showed no convincing protein malfunctioning. Laparoscopic examination revealed streak ovaries and a normal, but small, uterus. Pathological examination demonstrated bilateral GB and dysgerminoma, confirmed by immunohistochemistry. Occurrence of a delayed progressive kidney failure (focal segmental glomerular sclerosis) triggered analysis of WT1, revealing a pathogenic splice-site mutation in intron 9. Analysis of the SRY gene in an additional five FS cases did not reveal any mutations. The case presented shows the importance of multi-gene based diagnosis of DSD patients, allowing early diagnosis and treatment, thus preventing putative development of an invasive cancer."}
{"id": "22813793", "title": "Transumbilical 1-port laparoscopic resection of benign ovarian tumor.", "content": "Transumbilical 1-port laparoscopic resection of benign ovarian tumor. We evaluated the effectiveness of transumbilical 1-port laparoscopic resection of benign ovarian tumors in children with limited working space. This study involved 15 children and adolescents with benign ovarian tumors treated from January 2006 to December 2010. Preoperative evaluation included physical findings, tumor markers, and imaging studies. A single surgeon performed the procedure using a 10-mm 0\u00b0 operative laparoscope with a 5-mm working channel. The fallopian tube was suspended with transabdominal suspensory sutures passing through the mesosalpinx to expose the tumor and remove it after aspiration of the contents. The tumor was contained in the endobag and chopped into pieces before removal through the small umbilical wound. The patients' age ranged from 2 to 17 years (mean, 9.7 years). Tumor size ranged from 3.6 to 23 cm. Tumor markers including \u03b1-fetoprotein, \u03b2-human chorionic gonadotropin, cancer antigen 125, and carcinoembryonic antigen were negative. The average operating time was 134 minutes. Except for 1 patient with associated encephalomyelitis, all patients were discharged within 3 days after surgery. Pathologic examination and follow-up studies revealed benign tumors, with no residual lesions in the abdomen or recurrence. Transumbilical 1-port laparoscopic resection is effective for resection of benign ovarian tumors in children, with a satisfactory cosmetic outcome. However, to prevent inadequate resection of a potential malignant lesion, thorough preoperative evaluation with physical signs, tumor markers, and imaging studies, as well as flexible intraoperative tactics, should be adopted."}
{"id": "22791381", "title": "Is tumor size the limiting factor in a laparoscopic management for large ovarian cysts?", "content": "Is tumor size the limiting factor in a laparoscopic management for large ovarian cysts? To assess the feasibility and short-term surgical outcome of laparoscopic surgery among women with large ovarian cysts. We retrospectively evaluated consecutive 81 patients who received laparoscopic management for ovarian cysts with diameter \u2265 10 cm and without radiologic features suggestive of malignancy, from March 2008 to September 2011. Laparoscopic surgery was successful in 77 (95.1 %) of the total patients. The mean (range) operative time, estimated blood loss (EBL) and hospital stay were 107.6 (55-250 min), 226.9 (10-1300 mL) and 6.1 (4-15 days), respectively. The surgical procedures performed included salpingooophorectomy (SO) (n = 44), ovarian cystectomy (OC) (n = 22), adhesiolysis (n = 1), salpingectomy (n = 2) and total laparoscopic hysterectomy (TLH) with SO (n = 8). Conversion to laparotomy occurred with four patients. One patient had postoperative bleeding and one had minor complications associated with wound oozing at the umbilical port site. Histopathological examination revealed benign tumors in 76 patients (93.8 %), borderline ovarian tumor in three patients (3.7 %) and invasive epithelial ovarian cancer in two patients (2.5 %). Clinicopathological variables according to tumor size were not statistically different. Complications did not appear in any patients during the follow-up period. With proper patient selection, laparoscopy is a feasible and safe treatment for women with large ovarian cysts and tumor size did not have effect on laparoscopic management. However, surgeons should carefully consider the potential risk of malignancy in such patients."}
{"id": "22776340", "title": "Coexistent dermoid cysts of the pouch of the Douglas and ovary resected by laparoscopy.", "content": "Coexistent dermoid cysts of the pouch of the Douglas and ovary resected by laparoscopy. Dermoid cysts of the ovary are one of the most common ovarian neoplasms, but parasitic dermoid cysts as well as coexistent dermoid cysts are unusual. Almost all reports of coexistent dermoid cysts involve the omentum and ovary, but our case involved the pouch of Douglas and ovary. We managed this case by laparoscopy."}
{"id": "22764562", "title": "Ovarian cysts in adolescents: medical and surgical management.", "content": "Ovarian cysts in adolescents: medical and surgical management. Contemporary management of ovarian cysts in the adolescent consists of conservative management, whether expectant, medical, or surgical. An understanding of ovarian physiology in the perimenarcheal and postpubertal patient supports ovarian preservation surgery, as the rate of malignancy is low and the alternative can be devastating. The most common ovarian cysts in adolescents are functional and often regress without further treatment. Symptomatic ovarian cysts warrant further investigation. Endometriomas arising from endometriosis are extremely uncommon. Tubo-ovarian abscesses are managed medically and rarely by drainage or surgery. Ovarian torsion is a surgical emergency, and prompt conservative operative management is indicated. Consideration of additional imaging, tumor markers, and surgical management of persistent or complex masses with ultrasound findings suspicious for malignancy is appropriate. This article reviews all these conditions and conservative management using laparoscopy as the preferred method if surgical intervention is needed. Unilateral removal of malignancies is advocated when possible."}
{"id": "22740492", "title": "The sonographic prediction of invasive carcinoma in unilocular-solid ovarian cysts in premenopausal patients: a pilot study.", "content": "The sonographic prediction of invasive carcinoma in unilocular-solid ovarian cysts in premenopausal patients: a pilot study. Unilocular-solid ovarian cysts are a rare but challenging pathology in young women, with a desire to spare their fertility. In these cases, the risks of borderline and invasive disease are around 10 and 20%, respectively. No ultrasound rule has yet demonstrated the ability to discriminate with high accuracy, a borderline tumor from a benign tumor or 'invasive tumor'. The aim of this study was to assess the predictive performance of different ultrasound parameters in differentiating benign and borderline tumors versus invasive malignant tumors in premenopausal patients with unilocular-solid ovarian masses. Women aged \u2264 50 years with unilocular-solid adnexal masses with a maximum diameter \u2264 10 cm, undergoing surgery in our department within 3 months from ultrasound examination, were included in this retrospective study. A standardized ultrasound examination technique and predefined definitions of ultrasound characteristics were used. The results of ultrasound examination using gray scale and color Doppler were compared with the histological examination of the respective surgical specimens. The study included 51 patients. On histological examination, 36 (70%) lesions were classified as benign, 10 (20%) as borderline ovarian tumors and 5 (10%) as invasively malignant tumors. In receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis, the best cut-off for the largest solid component with regard to discriminating non-invasive (benign or borderline) from invasive tumors was 14 mm. A largest solid component >14 mm, the presence of papillation blood flow and the combination of the two parameters provided a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 63, 63 and 80%, respectively. Transvaginal ultrasound examination seems to be able to discriminate between invasive and non-invasive tumors in the premenopausal patients with unilocular-solid adnexal masses. Because of the retrospective nature of the study, further prospective clinical trials are needed to confirm the accuracy of the selected sonographic parameters in discriminating the invasive and non-invasive adnexal tumors."}
{"id": "22729094", "title": "Ovarian remnant syndrome: etiology, diagnosis, treatment and impact of endometriosis.", "content": "Ovarian remnant syndrome: etiology, diagnosis, treatment and impact of endometriosis. Ovarian remnant syndrome (ORS), a rare condition in which remnant ovarian tissue presents as a pelvic mass and/or pain after previous oophorectomy, poses a diagnostic and treatment challenge. This study reviews the recent studies in the past 5 years on the subject. Incomplete removal of ovarian tissue at the time of initial oophorectomy from inability to obtain adequate surgical margins or inappropriate extraction from the pelvic cavity during laparoscopy can cause ORS. Excision of ovarian remnant tissue is increasingly approached minimally invasively. Cases of malignant involvement of the remnant ovary have been reported. Endometriosis, recently suggested to increase the risk for ovarian cancer, predisposes to ORS and is associated with 50% of patients with ovarian carcinoma in ORS patients. Surgical excision remains the treatment of choice in ORS as malignancy can be associated with the remnant tissue. In cases of endometriosis, complete excision of endometriosis and ovarian tissue at the time of initial surgery prevents recurrence of endometriosis, subsequent development of ORS and possible ovarian malignant transformation."}
{"id": "22702068", "title": "[Ovarian tissue cryopreservation in cancer patients--six years of clinical experience].", "content": "[Ovarian tissue cryopreservation in cancer patients--six years of clinical experience]. Presentation of clinical results and experience with this technique during past six years. Original paper. Gynekologicko-porodnick\u00e1 klinika LF MU a FN Brno, Intern\u00ed hemato-onkologick\u00e1 klinika LF MU a FN Brno, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Hadassah University Hospital Ein-Karem, Jerusalem, Izrael. Ovarian tissue cryopreservation (OTC) and its future auto-transplantation becomes an alternative for patients to prevent serious damage of ovarian function by oncology treatment. Patient is indicated to OTC in case of high risk of ovarian failure due to planned chemotherapy and impossibility to use other oncofertility techniques. Ovarian tissue harvesting is done by laparoscopy in short-term general anesthesia. After tissue processing the samples are cryopreserved in programmable automatic freezer or by vitrification. The auto-transplantation of ovarian tissue is planned after the complete cure of patient's malignancy. Our workplace doesn't have own experience with tissue transplantation - until now cryopreserved tissue has not yet been utilized by the patients. Clinical experience with this technique gained by our team during academic stay in abroad Israeli clinic is presented. During the years of 2005-2011 the OTC was performed in 19 cancer patients before chemotherapy. In majority of cases, patients suffered from blood or lymph node systemic malignancy (84%). Average age of women was 26 years. The patient set consisted of mostly nulliparous women (88%). Patient's average body mass index was 23,9 kg/m2. The length of systemic chemotherapy averaged 7.1 months. Time from fertility preservation counseling to chemotherapy was not exceeding one week (7.2 days on average). Ovarian tissue harvesting was conducted by laparoscopic surgery in all cases. The length of surgery did not exceed 60 minutes and no surgical complications were observed. The case of ovarian tissue transplantation performed on abroad university settings is discussed. In the consensus of with international guidelines OTC is offered to patients with high risk of ovarian failure doe to cytotoxic oncology treatment. Research in the field of oncofertility is focused on the techniques of in-vitro folliculogenesis in retrieved ovarian tissue."}
{"id": "22682753", "title": "Unilateral follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma with unique KRAS mutation in struma ovarii in bilateral ovarian teratoma: a rare case report.", "content": "Unilateral follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma with unique KRAS mutation in struma ovarii in bilateral ovarian teratoma: a rare case report. Struma ovarii (SO) is a rare form of ovarian mature teratoma in which thyroid tissue is the predominant element. Because of its rarity, the differential diagnosis between benign and malignant SO has not been clearly defined. It is believed that malignant transformation of SO has similar molecular features with and its prognosis corresponds to that of malignant tumors originating in the thyroid. We report 35-year-old woman with bilateral ovarian cysts incidentally detected by ultrasound during the first trimester of pregnancy. Four months after delivery of a healthy child without complication she was admitted to the hospital for acute abdominal pain. Laparoscopic left adnexectomy was performed initially in a regional hospital; right cystectomy was done later in a specialized clinic. Intraoperative frozen section and a final pathology revealed that the cyst from the left ovary was composed of mature teratomatous elements, normal thyroid tissue (>50%) and a non-encapsulated focus of follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC).Normal and cancerous thyroid tissues were tested for BRAF and RAS mutations by direct sequencing, and for RET/PTC rearrangements by RT-PCR/Southern blotting. A KRAS codon 12 mutation, the GGT \u2192 GTT transversion, corresponding to the Gly \u2192 Val amino acid change was identified in the absence of other genetic alterations commonly found in PTC. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time this mutation is described in a papillary thyroid carcinoma arising in struma in the ovarii. This finding provides further evidence that even rare mutations specific for PTC may occur in such tumors. Molecular testing may be a useful adjunct to common differential diagnostic methods of thyroid malignancy in SO."}
{"id": "22669919", "title": "A pelvic mass on ultrasonography and high human chorionic gonadotropin level: not always an ectopic pregnancy.", "content": "A pelvic mass on ultrasonography and high human chorionic gonadotropin level: not always an ectopic pregnancy. A 24-year-old patient with 7-week amenorrhoea consulted for vaginal bleeding without abdominal pain. Ultrasonography revealed a 7 \u00d7 4 cm solid right pelvic mass. There was no visible intrauterine gestational sac. The serum \u03b2-human chorionic gonadotropin (\u03b2-hCG) level was 11 998 IU/l. Emergency laparoscopy was performed for a presumptive diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy. At laparoscopy, the right ovary was enlarged with a non-haemorrhagic 7 \u00d7 4 cm solid lesion, which was resected. The histological diagnosis was a dysgerminoma with immunohistochemistry showing nests of syncytiotrophoblastic cells, which were the origin of the hCG production. There was no pregnancy, either intrauterine or ectopic. There was no evidence of metastasis from the dysgerminoma on the positron-emission tomography scanner. The patient underwent a second procedure for surgical staging of this ovarian germ-cell tumour. This ovarian dysgerminoma was staged FIGO 1A, and the patient did not receive adjuvant therapy. There was no recurrence at the last 8-month follow-up."}
{"id": "22669303", "title": "Management of postmenopausal virilization.", "content": "Management of postmenopausal virilization. Mild clinical signs of hyperandrogenism such as hirsutism may appear during the menopausal transition as part of the normal aging process, but the development of frank virilization suggests a specific source of androgen excess, including androgen-secreting tumors. A 68-yr-old postmenopausal woman was referred because of a history of progressive development of hirsutism and frontal balding for the previous 8 yr, together with moderate hyperandrogenemia. Initial imaging procedures depicted a 2-cm solid nodule in the right adrenal gland and normal appearance of both ovaries. To confirm the source of androgen excess, we conducted simultaneous selective venous sampling of adrenals and ovaries. Sampling was consistent with an ovarian source. After bilateral laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy, the patient was diagnosed with bilateral ovarian hyperthecosis. Three weeks after surgery, her androgen levels had decreased to the normal female range. Diagnosis of hyperandrogenism in postmenopausal women is challenging. Postmenopausal virilization may be associated with adrenal or ovarian androgen-secreting tumors or with benign conditions. A detailed clinical history is critical to differentiate the progressive development of virilization that characterizes benign causes from the rapid progression that characterizes malignant tumors. Imaging techniques do not always reveal the cause of hyperandrogenism and may even be misleading. Although technically difficult, combined adrenal and ovarian venous sampling may be required to confirm the source of androgen excess before the best surgical approach is determined."}
{"id": "22647749", "title": "Gynecological pelvic infection: what is the role of imaging?", "content": "Gynecological pelvic infection: what is the role of imaging? The diagnosis of pelvic infection is most often made clinically, based on a combination of pelvic pain and fever, and possibly a foul discharge. The patient is referred to radiology in two very different circumstances: either in the acute phase where the challenge is to differentiate a pelvic infection from appendicitis, urinary tract infection, and complications of a hemorrhagic luteal cyst; or some time after the infectious episode, which may have gone unnoticed, and the patient presents with an undetermined pelvic mass that needs to be characterized, where the challenge in that situation is not to confuse it with ovarian cancer. The signs and symptoms on the pelvic ultrasound, CT scan, and MRI suggest the correct diagnosis."}
{"id": "22613353", "title": "Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) evaluation of intrathoracic disease in patients with FIGO III and IV stage ovarian cancer.", "content": "Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) evaluation of intrathoracic disease in patients with FIGO III and IV stage ovarian cancer. The aim of this study was to assess the influence of video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) on our treatment decisions in FIGO III and IV ovarian cancer patients. Patients with ovarian cancer and suspected supra-diaphragmatic involvement (pleural effusions, pleural carcinomatosis, lung metastasis, or enlarged supra-diaphragmatic lymph nodes) at chest computer tomography (CT) scan underwent VATS with or without laparoscopy (LSC) to decide for primary cytoreduction or neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Operation time, VATS complications (intrapleural hematoma, secondary hemorrhage with intervention, pneumonia and empyema) and shift in the therapeutic strategy due to VATS were evaluated. 17 patients were included into this study (1 patient with FIGO stage IIIb, 1 with IIIc and 15 with stage IV). The median operation time for VATS only was 46.5 min (range: 20-50 min, n=3). Perioperatively, no complications occurred. After surgical staging, the tumor was confined to the abdomen in four patients in whom primary cytoreduction was attempted. All other 13 patients underwent neoadjuvant chemotherapy. VATS altered the therapeutic management in 6/17 ovarian cancer patients (3 times upstaging, 3 times downstaging). Negative predictive values (NPV) for local and diffuse pleural carcinomatosis ranged between 0.5 and 0.71. In this case series, VATS in addition to LSC showed negligible morbidity related to surgery and a short operation time. We were able to improve the accuracy of the FIGO staging and assessed operability more reliably in these patients than through imaging techniques alone."}
{"id": "22611958", "title": "Laparoscopic management of unexpected borderline ovarian tumors in women of reproductive age.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of unexpected borderline ovarian tumors in women of reproductive age. The aim of this study was to review the clinical features of women with unexpected borderline ovarian tumours. Between October 1992 and December 2010, 1332 out of 4016 laparoscopies were performed for adnexal masses in women of reproductive age and 1838 cysts were removed. When ultrasonographic findings did not meet the criteria for low risk malignancy, tumour markers, colour Doppler and MRI/CT were applied. At laparoscopy any solid component or papilla was sent for rapid frozen section. Borderline ovarian tumours were found in eight (0.6%) out of 1332 patients, two of which were bilateral. The mean age was 28.75 +/- 9.27 years and the mean diameter of the cysts was 5.1 +/- 1.7 cm. In two cases unexpected malignancy was discovered during the diagnostic and in six cases during the operative phase of the intervention. Risk of failure to diagnose cancer could be minimised with careful patient selection preoperatively. Adequate training on laparoscopic oncology is the necessary prerequisite for a safe laparoscopic approach."}
{"id": "22595711", "title": "Teratomas and ovarian lesions in children.", "content": "Teratomas and ovarian lesions in children. Ovarian pathology in children is common and the pathology can be quite diverse. The most common benign ovarian tumor in childhood is a teratoma. In this article, we discuss the origin of these germ cell tumors followed by a complete discussion of ovarian pathology."}
{"id": "22581356", "title": "Robotic surgery in gynecologic oncology.", "content": "Robotic surgery in gynecologic oncology. The objective of this article is to review the recently published literature on the use of robotic surgery in the management of gynecologic malignancies. Retrospective data collected from many institutions support the use of robotic surgery in the management of cervical, endometrial, and early-stage ovarian cancer. Benefits to robotic surgery include decreased blood loss, fewer perioperative complications, and decreased length of hospital stay, especially when compared to an open cohort. Disadvantages include costs associated with the robotic system and disposable equipment, accessibility to robotic surgical systems, loss of haptic sensation with the device, and lack of prospective trials validating its use in gynecologic oncology. Current evidence establishes a role for the use of robotic surgery in the treatment of gynecologic malignancies. Further research should be implemented to validate the use of robotic surgery in gynecologic malignancies and to compare its outcomes to those of open and laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "22572861", "title": "Same-day discharge in clinical stage I endometrial cancer patients treated with total laparoscopic hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy.", "content": "Same-day discharge in clinical stage I endometrial cancer patients treated with total laparoscopic hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy. The purpose of this retrospective study was to evaluate the capacity for same-day discharge in clinical stage I endometrial cancer (EC) patients treated with total laparoscopic hysterectomy (TLH), bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) and bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection (BPLND). We retrospectively reviewed the charts of stage I EC patients who were treated with TLH, BSO and BPLND and discharged on the same day. The intra- and postoperative clinical variables (e.g., age, complications, surgery time, patient hospital stay) were evaluated in an attempt to discern which factors may predispose a patient to same-day discharge. Twenty-one patients were successfully discharged on the same day of surgery. Mean operative time was 1.48 h and length of hospital stay was 6.35 h. There were no intraoperative complications or hospital readmissions. We present a single, institutional experience solely assessing the capacity for same-day discharge in clinical stage I EC patients treated with TLH, BSO and BPLND. Since the postoperative complication rate was minimal with no hospital readmissions, we suggest that particularly selected stage I EC patients are amenable to outpatient management."}
{"id": "22560042", "title": "Adnexal masses in pregnancy: fetomaternal blood flow indices during laparoscopic surgery.", "content": "Adnexal masses in pregnancy: fetomaternal blood flow indices during laparoscopic surgery. To assess changes in uterine and umbilical arteries during laparoscopy in human pregnancy. Case series (Canadian Task Force classification III). University tertiary care referral center for high-risk pregnancy and minimally invasive surgery. Nine pregnant women who underwent first- and second-trimester laparoscopic surgery because of an adnexal mass. Laparoscopic cyst enucleation or annessiectomy. No maternal complications and no miscarriages or adverse pregnancy outcome occurred. Mean (SD) gestational age at delivery was 39.1 (0.7) weeks, birth weight was 3390 (298) g, and Apgar score at 5 minutes was 9.6 (0.5). Mean uterine resistance index, umbilical artery pulsatility index, and fetal heart rate were measured using transvaginal ultrasonography at various times during surgery. Mean uterine resistance index and umbilical artery pulsatility index values remained constant during laparoscopy. Fetal heart rate was maintained in the normal range (120-160 bpm) but progressively decreased during the surgical procedure. In human pregnancy, laparoscopic techniques do not seem to modify uteroplacental perfusion evaluated using noninvasive ultrasonography."}
{"id": "22548292", "title": "The preoperative assessment of deep myometrial invasion by three-dimensional ultrasound versus MRI in endometrial carcinoma.", "content": "The preoperative assessment of deep myometrial invasion by three-dimensional ultrasound versus MRI in endometrial carcinoma. To evaluate the usefulness of three-dimensional ultrasound (3D US), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and three-dimensional power Doppler angiography (3D-PDA) in the preoperative assessment of myometrial invasion in endometrial carcinoma. A prospective observational study. University hospital. Twenty consecutive patients diagnosed with endometrial carcinoma. Preoperative 3 T MRI and 3D US examinations were performed, and the depth of myometrial invasion was assessed. The vascularity indices, vascularization index, flow index and vascularization flow index, were calculated by 3D-PDA. The results were compared with the final histopathology report after a surgical staging. In detecting deep myometrial invasion, the sensitivity of 3D US, MRI and their combination was 50, 91.7 and 100%, respectively. The specificity was 87.5, 50 and 50%, respectively. There were no significant differences in the 3D-PDA vascularity indices between the two groups. MRI appears to be more sensitive than 3D US in detecting deep invasion, while 3D US has a better specificity."}
{"id": "22543911", "title": "Inherited risk of ovarian cancer and the implications for screening.", "content": "Inherited risk of ovarian cancer and the implications for screening. Epithelial ovarian cancer is a disease normally diagnosed at late stages, when survival rates are particularly poor. Diagnostic screening strategies are currently ineffective at detecting diseases at the earliest most treatable stages. This is confounded by the relative rarity of the disease. Stratifying the population according to genetic, lifestyle, and/or epidemiological risk factors could improve early-stage screening approaches by enriching the population for individuals at greatest disease risk. If lifetime risks are substantial, surgical interventions such as laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy could be offered to women to eliminate altogether their risks of primary cancer of the ovary. There have been significant recent advances in characterizing genetic risk factors for a multitude of cancers, including ovarian cancer. This research has been driven by technological advances that enable very high throughput DNA scanning approaches in tens of thousands of subjects. This article summarizes the progress in identifying genetic alleles for ovarian cancer in the population and the implications for clinical intervention strategies based on identifying the proportion of the population at greatest risk of disease."}
{"id": "22522189", "title": "Surgical management of a suspicious adnexal mass: a systematic review.", "content": "Surgical management of a suspicious adnexal mass: a systematic review. To systematically review the existing literature in order to determine the optimal recommended protocols for the surgical management of adnexal masses suspicious for apparent early stage malignancy. A review of all systematic reviews and guidelines published between 1999 and 2009 was conducted as a first step. After the identification of two systematic reviews on the topic, searches of MEDLINE for studies published since 2004 were also conducted to update and supplement the evidentiary base. The updated literature search identified 31 studies that met the inclusion criteria. A bivariate random effects analysis of 15 frozen section diagnosis studies yielded an overall sensitivity of 89.2% (95% CI, 86.3 to 91.5%) and specificity of 97.9% (95% CI, 96.6 to 98.7%). The surgical evidence suggests that systematic lymphadenectomy and proper surgical staging improve survival. Conservative fertility-preserving surgical approaches are an acceptable option in women with low malignant potential tumours. The accuracy and the adequacy of surgical staging by laparotomy or laparoscopic approaches appear to be comparable, with neither approach conferring a survival advantage. Intraoperative tumour rupture was indeed reported to occur more frequently in patients undergoing laparoscopy versus laparotomy in two retrospective cohort studies. The best available evidence was collected and included in this rigorous systematic review. The abundant evidentiary base provided the context and direction for the surgical management of adnexal masses suspicious for apparent early stage malignancy."}
{"id": "22512967", "title": "Transperitoneal laparoscopic radical nephrectomy after multiple previous abdominal surgeries and intraperitoneal hyperthermic chemotherapy: a case report.", "content": "Transperitoneal laparoscopic radical nephrectomy after multiple previous abdominal surgeries and intraperitoneal hyperthermic chemotherapy: a case report. Laparoscopic indications are still growing due to the acquisition and development of new skills and expertise in the laparoscopic field. We report the first case of a successful transperitoneal right radical nephrectomy after intraperitoneal hyperthermic chemotherapy in a 56-year-old female who previously underwent multiple abdominal surgeries for appendicular adenocarcinoma with pseudomyxoma peritonei. In patients with multiples previous abdominal surgeries and intraperitoneal chemotherapy, transperitoneal laparoscopic surgeries are feasible in experienced hands. However, patient safety is paramount and conversion to open surgery should always be considered in case of complications."}
{"id": "22503435", "title": "Fertility-preserving surgical procedures, techniques.", "content": "Fertility-preserving surgical procedures, techniques. As a result of the trend toward late childbearing, fertility preservation has become a major issue in young women with gynaecological cancer. Fertility-sparing treatments have been successfully attempted in selected cases of cervical, endometrial and ovarian cancer, and gynaecologists should be familiar with fertility-preserving options in women with gynaecological malignancies. Options to preserve fertility include shielding to reduce radiation damage, fertility preservation when undergoing cytotoxic treatments, cryopreservation, assisted reproduction techniques, and fertility-sparing surgical procedures. Radical vaginal trachelectomy with laparoscopic lymphadenectomy is an oncologically safe, fertility-preserving procedure. It has been accepted worldwide as a surgical treatment of small early stage cervical cancers. Selected cases of early stage ovarian cancer can be treated by unilateral salpingo-ophorectomy and surgical staging. Hysteroscopic resection and progesterone treatment are used in young women who have endometrial cancer to maintain fertility and avoid surgical menopause. Appropriate patient selection, and careful oncologic, psychologic, reproductive and obstetric counselling, is mandatory."}
{"id": "22487546", "title": "Cost-benefit analysis of laparoscopic surgery versus laparotomy for patients with endometrioid endometrial cancer: experience from an institute in China.", "content": "Cost-benefit analysis of laparoscopic surgery versus laparotomy for patients with endometrioid endometrial cancer: experience from an institute in China. To compare the clinical outcomes and associated costs between laparoscopic and abdominal surgery for patients with endometrioid endometrial cancer. From 2003 to 2008, 115 patients who underwent laparoscopically-assisted surgery for endometrioid endometrial cancers were enrolled in this retrospective study. Another 123 patients who had abdominal surgery for the same histological type of endometrial cancer were included as the control group. The clinico-pathological variables, surgical outcome, costs, death and case recurrence of the two groups were compared. There was no difference in the patients' age, body mass index, FIGO stage, histological grade or surgical types between the two groups. The patients in the laparoscopy group had less blood loss (P = 0.010), a shorter hospital stay (P < 0.001), less postoperative pain (P < 0.001) and lower complication rates (P < 0.001) than those treated by laparotomy. The total costs in the laparoscopy group were higher than that in the laparotomy group ($2073 vs $1638, P < 0.001). Patients in the laparoscopy group returned to usual activity more quickly (P = 0.001) and went back to work earlier (P = 0.013) than those in laparotomy group. With a median follow-up of 42 months for the laparoscopy group and 40 months for the laparotomy group, there was no significant difference in the number of cases with respect to death (P = 1.000) or recurrence (P = 1.000). Laparoscopically-assisted surgery is as effective as the laparotomy approach for the treatment of early-stage and advanced-stage endometrial cancer. The relatively higher cost of the laparoscopic surgery may be compensated by its benefits. In developing countries such as China, laparoscopically-assisted surgery is also an attractive alternative for selected patients with endometrial cancer."}
{"id": "22482992", "title": "Ovarian cancer presenting as an acute abdomen was successfully diagnosed and managed by laparoscopy.", "content": "Ovarian cancer presenting as an acute abdomen was successfully diagnosed and managed by laparoscopy."}
{"id": "22469706", "title": "Laparoscopic HIPEC in the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic HIPEC in the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer. HIPEC has been recently recommended as the 'new standard of care' for advanced ovarian cancer patients to treat residual disease, a recommendation based on the good results reported by many single institution studies. This study aims to elucidate whether cyto-reductive surgery for advanced stage IV ovarian cancer combined with laparoscopic HIPEC has any value in the management of advanced ovarian cancer. From January 2007 to October 2011, 31 patients with stage IV ovarian cancer were enrolled. The inclusion criteria were stage IV epithelial ovarian cancer, with no evidence of extra-abdominal metastasis, and without previous systemic chemotherapy. Patients were randomly divided into two groups, group A and group B, which consisted of 12 patients who received laparoscopic HIPEC in a neo-adjuvant setting, and 19 patients who received laparoscopic HIPEC in an adjuvant setting, respectively. Overall response rate after Laparoscopic HIPEC (neo-adjuvant and adjuvant) was 100%. Macroscopic images recorded during initial laparoscopy and subsequent laparoscopies revealed a dramatic decrease in the size of the neoplastic deposits accompanied with a decrease in their absolute number. The results of this study indicate that laparoscopic HIPEC preceding multi-organ radical surgery has been seen to be associated with optimal short and long-term results, and promising OS and DFS. They also demonstrate the therapeutical advantage of neo-adjuvant initial approach over adjuvant approach."}
{"id": "22455740", "title": "[Clinical study of gasless laparoscopy in the treatment of benign ovarian tumor in 10 pregnant women].", "content": "[Clinical study of gasless laparoscopy in the treatment of benign ovarian tumor in 10 pregnant women]. To investigate the feasibility, safety and effect of gasless laparoscopic surgery used in patients at the second trimester. From Aug. 2006 to Aug. 2008, the data of 10 cases at gestational 15 - 24 weeks complicated by ovary benign tumors (the diameters more than 5 cm) undergoing gasless laparoscopic surgery were studied retrospectively. Operation time, bleeding loss, period of hospitalization, the status of fetus and newborn babies, and peri-operative or postoperative complications were observed. All 10 cases were treated by gasless laparoscopic surgery, including 4 cases with mature teratoma, 5 cases with epithelial tumors and 1 case with ovarian endometrioma. The mean time of surgery was (30 \u00b1 5) minutes, the mean bleeding in the surgery was (30 \u00b1 8) ml, the mean period of in hospitalization was (6 \u00b1 2) days. The blood gas (pH: 7.42 \u00b1 0.11, 7.41 \u00b1 0.18, 7.42 \u00b1 0.12), blood pressure [mean arterial pressure (MAP): (90.4 \u00b1 3.1), (90.6 \u00b1 0.7), (89.7 \u00b1 0.8) mm Hg (1 mm Hg = 0.133 kPa)] and heart rates [(84.0 \u00b1 1.6), (84.3 \u00b1 1.7), (82.7 \u00b1 1.1) bpm] in all cases at pre, peri and postoperative time did not show statistical difference (P all > 0.05). The fetal hearts were all in the normal range preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative time (P > 0.05). No perioperative and postoperative complications were observed. All the cases underwent term delivery. Fetal weight and Apgar score did not show abnormality. Gasless laparoscopic surgery at the second trimester is feasible and safe to mother and fetus."}
{"id": "22439415", "title": "Desmoplastic small round cell tumor (DSRCT) arising in the ovary: report of a case diagnosed at an early stage and review of the literature.", "content": "Desmoplastic small round cell tumor (DSRCT) arising in the ovary: report of a case diagnosed at an early stage and review of the literature. Desmoplastic small round cell tumor (DSRCT) is a rare sarcoma tumor affecting mainly young adult males. It rarely has an ovarian involvement. A 29-year-old woman presented to her gynecologist for amenorrhoea. The laboratory results demonstrated a menopausal status and the ultrasound revealed a large mass of the right ovary. The right ovary was completely removed by laparoscopy. Pathology, cytology and immunochemistry revealed a DSRCT. In January 2009 a left salpingo-oophorectomy and a right salpingectomy were performed via laparoscopy. After 35 months from diagnosis there was no clinical evidence of disease recurrence. DSRCT is a rare ovarian tumor in adolescence with a general poor outcome. Every ovarian mass regardless of age should be approached with caution."}
{"id": "22431247", "title": "Intra-abdominal Kaposiform hemangioendothelioma and the benefits of laparoscopic surveillance.", "content": "Intra-abdominal Kaposiform hemangioendothelioma and the benefits of laparoscopic surveillance. We report a case of a neonate presenting with the rare vascular tumor, Kaposiform hemangioendothelioma. She had a lesion arising from the left ovary with multiple intraperitoneal metastases causing small bowel obstruction. We managed this case with primary surgical resection followed by laparoscopic surveillance of the peritoneal cavity and metastectomy. The child is fit and well and free of tumor after 32 months. Neither this presentation of this tumor nor this management approach has been previously described in the literature."}
{"id": "22425355", "title": "[Peritoneal pseudomyxoma presenting as ascites in a patient with cirrhosis].", "content": "[Peritoneal pseudomyxoma presenting as ascites in a patient with cirrhosis]. We present the case of a cirrhotic patient with ascites and an albumin gradient of less than 1.1 g/dl. After endoscopic tests, including upper gastrointestinal endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration, exploratory laparoscopy was performed to provide the diagnosis, revealing mucin throughout the peritoneal cavity and nodules on the parietal and visceral peritoneum. Histopathological analysis established the diagnosis as peritoneal pseudomyxoma. This uncommon entity, which has a poor prognosis without treatment, is most frequently associated with mucinous tumors of the appendix, and secondly, with tumors of the ovary."}
{"id": "22425142", "title": "Transvaginal natural-orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) in adnexal procedures.", "content": "Transvaginal natural-orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) in adnexal procedures. From August 2010 to June 2011, 10 consecutive patients underwent transvaginal NOTES of the adnexa, including tubal sterilization in 3, salpingectomy because of ectopic pregnancy in 3, and ovarian tumor enucleation in 4. The mean (SD; 95% CI) age of the patients was 34.8 (9.7; 27.9-41.8) years, and their body mass index was 21.6 (2.8; 19.4-23.8). In 9 of the 10 patients, the procedure was completed. The 3 tubal sterilization procedures were completed in 18 to 30 minutes, with negligible blood loss. Operative time for the 3 salpingectomies because of ectopic pregnancy was 62 to 116 minutes. One of these procedures included management of 2000 mL hemoperitoneum. Three of the 4 attempts at ovarian enucleation were successfully completed within 64 to 162 minutes, with estimated blood loss \u2264 50 mL. One NOTES procedure failed because of a misdiagnosed peritoneal mucinous tumor located anterior to the uterus and inaccessible, leading to subsequent conversion to transabdominal laparoscopy. Our preliminary results show that purely transvaginal NOTES is feasible and safe for use in performing uterine adnexal procedures in selected patients. However, the procedure cannot be used in patients with cul-de-sac disease, and could have limited use in treating lesions located anterior to the uterus."}
{"id": "22424356", "title": "Morphological study of the residual ovarian tissue removed by laparoscopy or laparotomy in adolescents with benign ovarian cysts.", "content": "Morphological study of the residual ovarian tissue removed by laparoscopy or laparotomy in adolescents with benign ovarian cysts. The stripping of benign ovarian cysts has been reported to be preferable to cyst wall ablation. The procedure can be performed via either an open or laparoscopic approach. The aim of our study was to evaluate the efficacy of the technique of stripping performed by laparoscopy and laparotomy in the treatment of benign ovarian masses in the pediatric age group with respect to healthy ovarian tissue. This retrospective study evaluated all the pediatric or adolescent patients admitted during a 5-year period (2006-2010) for a suspected benign ovarian cyst treated with a laparoscopic technique or traditional open surgery to remove the cyst. The morphological characteristics of the tissue were graded on a semiquantitative scale from 0 to 4. Thirty patients were treated and divided in 2 groups: group A laparoscopy (18 patients) and group B open (12 patients). The median age was 9.1 years. No ovarian tissue could be observed in 26 cases (86.7%). In the 4 remaining (2 laparoscopic and 2 open) cases (13.3%), ovarian tissue was found, but never more than 1 mm in thickness. This finding was always in endometriotic cysts. We demonstrated that, in the pediatric population, no ovarian tissue is removed together with the cyst if this is nonendometriotic. The type of surgical procedure does not influence the removal of ovarian tissue. Laparoscopic stripping of ovarian cysts is the preferable surgical procedure in patients with prospective potential fertility because of their young age."}
{"id": "22397744", "title": "Peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian cancer.", "content": "Peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian cancer. To evaluate the characteristics of 20 patients diagnosed as tuberculous peritonitis (TBP) mimicking ovarian cancer during a 10-year period at a single center. Among 612 operations for ovarian malignancy we retrospectively reviewed the surgical and pathological reports of 20 patients suspected preoperatively as having ovarian malignancy but whose pathological results revealed TBP, between 2000 and 2011 in a university clinic. Demographic characteristics, physical and pelvic examination, laboratory investigations and radiological imaging of the patients were evaluated retrospectively. Diagnostic laparotomy, laparoscopy and ultrasound guided tru-cut biopsy were performed in 11, 2 and 7 of the 20 patients, respectively. The mean age of the patients was 37.5 \u00b1 17.3 years (range 16-70 years). The most common symptoms were abdominal pain (n=14%, 70%) and abdominal distension (n=13%, 65%). Serum CA 125 was elevated in 16 (80%) cases and the average CA 125 level was 289 \u00b1 186.2 IU/ml. During ultrasonographic imaging and CT scans, ascites and a pelvic mass were detected in 19 (85%) and 12 (60%) patients respectively. TBP was suspected in 7 (35%) patients and ultrasound guided tru-cut biopsy was preferred as a first-line approach. Surgery was performed in 11 patients (55%) and during exploration widespread miliary nodules (n=9%, 81%), widespread adhesion (n=5%, 45%), adnexal mass (n=8%, 72%) and caseous necrotic substance (n=4%, 36%) were observed. Patients underwent unilateral (n=3% 27%) or bilateral (n=4%, 36%) salpingo-oophorectomy in seven (63%) cases. Since ovarian cancer is a serious condition and preoperative diagnosis of TBP is difficult, laparotomy is usually mandatory to distinguish these two entities. Ultrasound guided tru-cut biopsy is useful in selected patients and frozen section analysis avoids hazardous radical surgery at operation."}
{"id": "22381975", "title": "Treatment of fallopian tube metastasis in cervical cancer after laparoscopic ovarian transposition.", "content": "Treatment of fallopian tube metastasis in cervical cancer after laparoscopic ovarian transposition. A 40-year-old woman, gravida 2, para 2, with squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix, stage IIB, underwent ovarian transposition. Bilateral salpingectomy was performed as part of the operative technique. Histopathologic analysis revealed mucosal spread of the tumor to one of the fallopian tubes. The patient underwent radiation of the ovaries in their new location in addition to standard chemoradiotherapy to the pelvis. There has been no evidence of disease for more than 5 years. Inasmuch as performance of bilateral salpingectomy in ovarian transposition is not standard practice, the finding of fallopian tube metastasis presented a dilemma to the clinician. It remains to be proved whether the finding of metastasis to the fallopian tubes can be evidence for ovarian metastasis in grossly normal-appearing ovaries to validate this practice. Literature review demonstrates that fallopian tube metastasis is usually associated with endometrial involvement."}
{"id": "22381964", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery for isolated nodal recurrence: appropriate for all patients or only a select few?", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery for isolated nodal recurrence: appropriate for all patients or only a select few?"}
{"id": "22371368", "title": "Laparoscopic management of large ovarian cysts.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of large ovarian cysts. The aim of this study was to describe a new technique for laparoscopic removal of large ovarian cystic masses. The authors performed a retrospective study during the period January 2008 to December 2009 in the Second Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of Aretaieion University Hospital; 19 women with large ovarian cysts were included in the study. During the study period, 53 women underwent laparoscopic excision of ovarian cysts. Among them, 19 had very large complex ovarian cysts with a mean diameter of 8.4 cm. The mean age of the patients was 32.1 years. Ultrasound examination revealed findings suggestive of benign disease in all patients. In 8 out of 19 patients CA-125 levels were elevated, ranging from 40.5 to 194.7 IU/mL. A 5-mm suprapubic trocar was directly inserted into the cyst and fluid contents aspirated, so the decompressed cyst could fit in a 5-cm laparoscopic bag. The cyst wall was carefully detached from the healthy ovarian tissue and placed in the bag without any spillage. The remaining cyst wall was removed from the peritoneal cavity with the laparoscopic bag. The mean operative time was 45 minutes. No operative or postoperative complications were noted. There was no conversion to laparotomy. Mean hospital stay was 1 day. Pathology revealed 7 endometriomas, 3 mucinous cystadenomas, 3 serous cystadenomas, 3 serous cysts, and 3 teratomas. Direct trocar insertion within the ovarian cyst followed by aspiration of the fluid contents is a safe and feasible method for the laparoscopic management of large ovarian cysts."}
{"id": "22367325", "title": "Two-port access versus conventional staging laparoscopy for endometrial cancer.", "content": "Two-port access versus conventional staging laparoscopy for endometrial cancer. The purpose of this study was to compare surgical outcomes of 2-port access (TPA) and conventional laparoscopy in staging operations for endometrial cancer. The ultimate goal of TPA system was to perform proper cancer operation with less invasive access and to complement technical limitations of minimally invasive surgery. The TPA system consisted of a single multi-channel port system at the umbilicus and an ancillary 5-mm trocar in the suprapubic area. Twenty-one consecutive patients who underwent TPA staging laparoscopy for endometrial cancers were enrolled in the study. Data coming from this group of patients were prospectively collected and compared with those coming from 42 consecutive patients who underwent conventional staging laparoscopy for the same period. The selected patients were matched (1:2 ratio) to control patients based on age (\u00b1 5 years), body mass index, and tumor stage. Patient status was estimated in operative morbidity and surgical outcomes. All operations were completed laparoscopically, with no conversion to laparotomy. The TPA group had a significantly longer operating time (238 \u00b1 51 minutes vs 188 \u00b1 65 minutes; P = 0.001), more retrieved para-aortic lymph nodes (13 vs 5; P < 0.001), shorter postoperative hospital stay (5 vs 8 days; P = 0.001), and less postoperative pain (P = 0.045). There were no postoperative complications requiring further management. Two-port access staging laparoscopy using a single multi-channel port system could be a feasible procedure in selected patients with endometrial cancer with only minimal skin incisions. Prospective randomized trials will permit the evaluation of potential benefits of this minimally invasive surgical technique."}
{"id": "22367321", "title": "Laparoscopic versus abdominal approach to endometrial cancer: a 10-year retrospective multicenter analysis.", "content": "Laparoscopic versus abdominal approach to endometrial cancer: a 10-year retrospective multicenter analysis. The objective of this study was to give a reality-based picture of the use of laparoscopic surgery for staging endometrial cancer patients out of the experimental setting. Consecutive data of patients with endometrial cancer who underwent laparoscopic or abdominal surgical staging in 6 Italian centers were recorded. Baseline patients and tumors characteristics, surgery performed, and safety data were collected and analyzed. A total of 1012 subjects (403 and 609 treated by laparoscopy and laparotomy, respectively) who received surgical stadiation for endometrial cancer were included in the final analysis. The laparoscopic approach to endometrial cancer was more commonly performed in younger and nonobese patients who had received less previous surgeries, whereas the abdominal approach was preferred for the advanced stages and rare histotypes. Irrespectively to stage, the operative time was higher for the laparoscopy than laparotomy, whereas blood loss and postoperative complications were lower in the laparoscopy group than in the laparotomy group. No difference between surgical approaches was observed in complication rates in stage I endometrial cancers, whereas they were worst in higher stages. The site, but not the incidence, of recurrences differed only for advanced stage endometrial cancers. No differences in overall, disease-free, and cancer-related survival rates were also observed. In the clinical practice, heterogeneous criteria are adopted to recur to laparoscopy for staging endometrial cancer. The safety and the feasibility of the laparoscopy are confirmed for stage I endometrial cancers, whereas they appear suboptimal for the advanced stages."}
{"id": "22367320", "title": "Role of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the management of stage IIIC-IV ovarian cancer: survey results from the members of the European Society of Gynecological Oncology.", "content": "Role of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the management of stage IIIC-IV ovarian cancer: survey results from the members of the European Society of Gynecological Oncology. The aim of this study is to evaluate the current opinion of the members of the European Society of Gynecological Oncology (ESGO) on the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) in stage IIIC and IV ovarian cancer. A link to a 21-item questionnaire, with questions about the management of patients with stage IIIC and IV ovarian cancer, was sent 3 times to the ESGO members (N = 1177). Of the 469 (40%) responding members, 70.2% believe there is sufficient evidence to use NACT followed by interval debulking for the treatment of stage IIIC and IV ovarian cancer. On the basis of a multivariable logistic regression analysis, no relationships between the belief in evidence for NACT and practice type (P = 0.15) or level of experience (P = 0.41) were observed. Only 5.3% of respondents never use NACT, and 30% uses NACT in less than 10% of their patients. Optimal debulking, defined as \"no macroscopic residual tumor,\" is reported in more than 60% of the patients by 20% of the respondents at primary debulking, and by 34.6% of the respondents when interval debulking is performed. Whether a patient can be optimally primarily debulked is impossible to determine preoperatively according to 51.1% of the respondents. Computed tomographic scan (79.4%) and clinical examination (72.5%) are regarded as the most important modalities to predict operability. Diagnostic laparoscopy is used by 46.3% of the respondents. The most important reasons for choosing NACT are bulky disease in the upper abdomen (64.7%) and stage IV disease (58.7%). Of the responding ESGO members, 70% believe there is sufficient evidence to treat patients with stage IIIC-IV ovarian cancer with NACT, and 30% uses NACT in less than 10% of their patients."}
{"id": "22353442", "title": "Study of the correlation between tumor size and cyst rupture in laparotomy and laparoscopy for benign ovarian tumor: is 10 cm the limit for laparoscopy?", "content": "Study of the correlation between tumor size and cyst rupture in laparotomy and laparoscopy for benign ovarian tumor: is 10 cm the limit for laparoscopy? Laparoscopy is the gold standard for treatment of benign ovarian cysts, although there is a risk of intraoperative cyst rupture if the lesion is cancerous. This study is aimed at comparing the incidence of cyst rupture to tumor size in both laparotomy and laparoscopy in order to select the optimum surgical procedure for ovarian cysts. A total of 1483 cases of benign ovarian cysts were surgically treated at our center between 1995 and 2010. These cases were divided into three groups according to the maximum diameter of the ovarian tumors: <5 cm, \u22655 cm but <10 cm, and \u226510 cm. The incidence of cyst rupture was compared between laparotomy and laparoscopy according to the size of the tumor in ovarian tumorectomy and adnexectomy. The incidence of cyst rupture was significantly higher in ovarian tumorectomy by laparoscopy than by laparotomy. Cyst rupture occurred independent of the tumor size in both laparoscopy and laparotomy. For adnexectomy for tumors smaller than 10 cm, there was no significant difference by tumor size in the incidence of cyst rupture between laparoscopy and laparotomy; however, the incidence of cyst rupture was significantly higher in laparoscopy of tumors sized 10 cm or larger than in the laparotomy of tumors of similar size; the incidence was also greater than laparoscopy of tumors smaller than 10 cm. Laparotomy, rather than laparoscopy, is recommended in cases of ovarian cysts with any finding suggestive of malignancy."}
{"id": "22348496", "title": "Pediatric ovarian torsion in a medical center in Taiwan: case analysis.", "content": "Pediatric ovarian torsion in a medical center in Taiwan: case analysis. Abdominal pain is one of the most common complaints made by patients visiting emergency departments; however, ovarian torsion is an uncommon cause of abdominal pain, especially in young children. Early diagnosis is essential in order to salvage the ovaries. We performed a retrospective analysis of patients under 18 years of age who visited Changhua Christian Hospital with adnexal torsion between June 2003 and June 2010. Medical records were reviewed for age, associated symptoms, past and present medical histories, physical findings, diagnostic tests performed, clinical course, pathological findings, and diagnoses. A total of 21 patients were identified and included in the analysis; their mean (SD) age was 13.62 (3.75) years. Abdominal pain was the universal symptom. Vomiting or nausea was the second most common symptom (33.3%). The average period between symptom onset and diagnosis was 3.29 (6.39) days. Right-side adnexal torsion occurred in 14 patients, and left-side torsion in seven patients. Ovarian cysts, most often dermoid cysts (e.g., teratomas), were found in 16 patients (76%). Except for one conservatively treated case and one malignant case (adult granulose cell tumor), the other results of the pathological examination were as follows: eight dermoid cysts, two cystadenomas, one follicular cyst, and eight simple cysts. Although it is uncommon, adnexal torsion should be included in the differential diagnosis of lower abdominal pain in all girls, regardless of age. Sonography is helpful for making such a diagnosis. Time is a critical factor, and early laparoscopy or laparotomy may save a viable ovary."}
{"id": "22343231", "title": "Surgical management of epithelial ovarian cancer.", "content": "Surgical management of epithelial ovarian cancer. Ovarian cancer affects approximately 21,880 women and accounts for over 13,000 deaths annually in the United States. Although survival rates have improved over the past several decades, directly as a result of advances in chemotherapy and surgery, ovarian cancer continues to have high mortality rates. Understanding the multiple roles of surgery throughout the disease course is the focus of this review."}
{"id": "22325661", "title": "Gynaecological cancers in pregnancy.", "content": "Gynaecological cancers in pregnancy. Cervical and ovarian cancers are the most common gynaecological cancers diagnosed during pregnancy. In early-stage cervical cancer during the first and at the beginning of the second trimester, the two main considerations for management of the patient are the tumour size (and stage) and nodal staging. MRI and laparoscopic lymphadenectomy are useful for clinicians planning a potentially conservative approach. The management of patients with locally advanced cervical disease is controversial and should be discussed on a case-by-case basis according to the tumour size, radiological findings, the term of pregnancy, and the patient's wishes. Different histological types of malignant ovarian diseases arise during pregnancy and their management depends on the diagnosis (histological subtypes, tumour differentiation, and nodal status), the tumour stage, and the trimester of the pregnancy. In patients with peritoneal spread or high-risk early-stage disease, neoadjuvant chemotherapy with pregnancy preservation could be appropriate."}
{"id": "22322957", "title": "The role of tumor markers in the surgical approach of ovarian masses in pediatric age: a 10-year study and a literature review.", "content": "The role of tumor markers in the surgical approach of ovarian masses in pediatric age: a 10-year study and a literature review. The purpose of this study was to detect the role of serum tumor markers in the differential diagnosis and in the choice of the surgical treatment of ovarian lesions in pediatric age. We retrospectively reviewed medical charts of all pediatric girls operated in two pediatric centers during a 10-year period. The following features were analyzed: age at the moment of presentation, symptoms, diagnostic studies, surgical approach, pathological findings, and, in particular, serum tumor markers. Also, a literature review and statistical analysis (\u03c7(2) test) concerning the increase of different tumor markers in benign and malignant ovarian lesions were related to the study. A total of 120 children with 127 ovarian masses (7 with bilateral pathologies) were reviewed. Pathology showed 61 nonneoplastic lesions (48%), 54 benign tumors (42.5%), 5 malignant tumors (4%), and 7 torsed normal ovaries (5.5%). The evaluation of serum tumor markers was performed in 106 cases and was positive in 16 (15.1%): in all of the 5 cases (100%) of malignant neoplastic lesions and in 11 (20.4%) benign neoplastic ones. The literature review confirmed these data, and statistical analysis highlighted them as significant values. The role of tumor markers is still controversial. This is the reason why, before considering a radical treatment, we suggest caution to optimize future fertility."}
{"id": "22322155", "title": "Learning curves for single-site laparoscopic ovarian surgery.", "content": "Learning curves for single-site laparoscopic ovarian surgery. To compare learning curves for laparoendoscopic single-site surgery (LESS) for ovarian tumors according to the type of procedure (oophorectomy vs cystectomy). A prospective cohort study. (Canadian Task Force Classification II-2). University hospital. One hundred fifteen patients who planned to undergo LESS for ovarian tumors by a surgeon between May 2008 and August 2010. LESS. The learning curve was assessed through the graph between the operative time and sequence of cases. Proficiency, defined as the point at which the slope of the learning curve became less steep, and surgical outcome were compared between the two surgery groups. LESS was successfully completed in 103 of 115 patients (94.8%). Learning curve for oophorectomies (n = 59) showed a continued slow slope with no apparent proficiency, suggesting oophorectomies did not pose an initial technical challenge. However, proficiency in cystectomies (n = 56) was evident at the thirty-third case. Furthermore, the oophorectomy group had a shorter operative time and less need for additional ports than the cystectomy group (69.4 minutes vs 100.1 minutes; 5.1% vs 14.3%). Oophorectomy rather than cystectomy is recommended as the initial procedure to start with LESS for ovarian tumors."}
{"id": "22321906", "title": "Borderline ovarian tumours.", "content": "Borderline ovarian tumours. Borderline ovarian tumours account for 10-20% of all epithelial ovarian cancer. Historically, standard primary surgery has included borderline ovarian tumours, omentectomy, peritoneal washing and multiple biopsies. As one-third of borderline ovarian tumours are diagnosed in women under the age of 40 years, fertility-sparing treatment has been more frequently used in the past 10 years. Fertility drugs are well tolerated in women with infertility after fertility-sparing surgery. Careful selection of candidates is necessary. Laparoscopic techniques can be used, but should be reserved for oncologic surgeons. This conservative treatment increases the rate of recurrence, albeit with no effect on survival. The pregnancy rate is nearly 50%, and most are achieved spontaneously. These women should be closely followed up. The question is whether this is acceptable from a gynaecologic oncologic point of view. For this reason, we will discuss recently published studies and gynaecologic oncologic concerns about the mode of fertility-sparing surgery and its consequences."}
{"id": "22318068", "title": "One port laparoscopic technique for interval placement of intraperitoneal chemotherapy port under direct visualization.", "content": "One port laparoscopic technique for interval placement of intraperitoneal chemotherapy port under direct visualization. In an effort to minimize catheter-related complications we present a 1-port laparoscopic procedure for interval placement of an intraperitoneal chemotherapy catheter under direct visualization. A single 5-mm laparoscopic port is placed in the umbilicus. A 5-cm incision is made in the midaxillary line and a pocket is created to hold the intraperitoneal chemotherapy port. The introducer is then tunneled from the pocket towards the umbilicus and is used to pierce the fascia under direct visualization. It is then tunneled towards the camera and removed through the umbilical port. The catheter is cut and allowed to fall back into the abdomen under direct visualization. No patient had their chemotherapy regimen altered because of catheter-related complications. Specifically, there were no other infections, leakage, blockage, or access problems. In selected patients, this may be considered as a new minimally invasive option."}
{"id": "22313651", "title": "Pelvic-peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian cancer.", "content": "Pelvic-peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian cancer. Pelvic-peritoneal tuberculosis is a common extrapulmonary site in young females mimicking an advanced ovarian malignancy. We present 2 cases with the classical triad of advanced-stage ovarian carcinoma-ascites, abdominopelvic masses and elevated serum CA-125 levels. Laparoscopic examination revealed peritoneal nodules which on biopsy showed granulomatous inflammation and no malignant cells. Patients were started on anti-tuberculous therapy and on follow-up their symptoms as well as CA-125 levels normalized. Medical awareness of peritoneal tuberculosis is lacking and many young women with this disease undergo unnecessary extended surgery. Diagnostic laparoscopy combined with peritoneal biopsy seems to be a sufficient and safe method to provide a definitive diagnosis for this curable infection. If left untreated, the disease may disseminate and result in significant organ dysfunctions particularly infertility."}
{"id": "22283565", "title": "Laparoscopic resection of massive ovarian mucinous cystadenoma.", "content": "Laparoscopic resection of massive ovarian mucinous cystadenoma. Benign mucinous cystadenoma of the ovary is extremely rare in children and adolescents. Because of the benign, slow-growing nature, they can be extremely large at the point of presentation. These large abdominal tumors present a challenging opportunity for the application of minimally invasive techniques. The authors present a case of an extraordinarily large childhood mucinous cystadenoma removed laparoscopically."}
{"id": "22270278", "title": "Access to conservative surgical therapy for adolescents with benign ovarian masses.", "content": "Access to conservative surgical therapy for adolescents with benign ovarian masses. To perform a population-based analysis to determine possible factors associated with use of laparoscopy and ovarian-conserving cystectomy. Women and girls aged 18 years or younger with benign ovarian masses who underwent surgery from 2000 to 2010 and were recorded in a commercial database were analyzed. Patients were classified based on the surgical approach (open compared with laparoscopy) and procedure (oophorectomy compared with cystectomy). Use of laparoscopy and performance of cystectomy were characterized using multivariable logistic regression models accounting for patient, surgeon, and hospital characteristics. A total of 2,126 patients, including 1,425 (67.0%) who underwent laparotomy and 701 (33.0%) who had laparoscopy, were identified. Laparoscopy increased from 32.1% in 2000 to 57.9% by 2010. In a multivariable model, African American women and girls (odds ratio [OR] 0.49, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.37-0.65) and patients in the Northeast (OR 0.65, 95% CI 0.46-0.94) were less likely to undergo laparoscopy, whereas treatment at a high-volume hospital (OR 1.35, 95% CI 1.04-1.75) was associated with use of laparoscopy. Cystectomy was performed in 57.1% in 2000 and increased to 61.4% in 2010. The only significant predictors of cystectomy were age and the specialty of the treating physician; patients aged 13-16 years (OR 1.34, 95% CI 1.03-1.75) were more likely to undergo cystectomy than were younger patients, whereas patients treated by surgeons (OR 0.51, 95% CI 0.38-0.68) were less likely to undergo cystectomy than were those treated by gynecologists. The treatment of adolescents with benign ovarian masses is highly variable. In addition to patient characteristics, both physician and hospital factors strongly influenced treatment. II."}
{"id": "22264278", "title": "Laparoscopy to predict the result of primary cytoreductive surgery in advanced ovarian cancer patients (LapOvCa-trial): a multicentre randomized controlled study.", "content": "Laparoscopy to predict the result of primary cytoreductive surgery in advanced ovarian cancer patients (LapOvCa-trial): a multicentre randomized controlled study. Standard treatment of advanced ovarian cancer is surgery and chemotherapy. The goal of surgery is to remove all macroscopic tumour, as the amount of residual tumour is the most important prognostic factor for survival. When removal off all tumour is considered not feasible, neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) in combination with interval debulking surgery (IDS) is performed. Current methods of staging are not always accurate in predicting surgical outcome, since approximately 40% of patients will have more than 1 cm residual tumour after primary debulking surgery (PDS). In this study we aim to assess whether adding laparoscopy to the diagnostic work-up of patients suspected of advanced ovarian carcinoma may prevent unsuccessful primary debulking surgery for ovarian cancer. Multicentre randomized controlled trial, including all gynaecologic oncologic centres in the Netherlands and their affiliated hospitals. Patients are eligible when they are planned for PDS after conventional staging. Participants are randomized between direct PDS or additional diagnostic laparoscopy. Depending on the result of laparoscopy patients are treated by PDS within three weeks, followed by six courses of platinum based chemotherapy or with NACT and IDS 3-4 weeks after three courses of chemotherapy, followed by another three courses of chemotherapy. Primary outcome measure is the proportion of PDS's leaving more than one centimetre tumour residual in each arm. In total 200 patients will be randomized. Data will be analysed according to intention to treat. Patients who have disease considered to be resectable to less than one centimetre should undergo PDS to improve prognosis. However, there is a need for better diagnostic procedures because the current number of debulking surgeries leaving more than one centimetre residual tumour is still high. Laparoscopy before starting treatment for ovarian cancer can be an additional diagnostic tool to predict the outcome of PDS. Despite the absence of strong evidence and despite the possible complications, laparoscopy is already implemented in many countries. We propose a randomized multicentre trial to provide evidence on the effectiveness of laparoscopy before primary surgery for advanced stage ovarian cancer patients. Netherlands Trial Register number NTR2644."}
{"id": "22258988", "title": "Robotic assisted surgery for gynaecological cancer.", "content": "Robotic assisted surgery for gynaecological cancer. Robotic surgery is the latest innovation in the field of minimally invasive surgery. Robotic surgical systems have been used to perform surgery for endometrial, cervical cancer and ovarian cancer. There is mounting evidence which demonstrates the feasibility and safety of robotic surgery for gynaecological oncology. To evaluate the evidence for and against robotic assisted surgery in gynaecological cancer. We searched the Cochrane Gynaecological Cancer Review Group Trials Register, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2010, Issue 2), MEDLINE and EMBASE (up to July 2010) and citation lists of relevant publications. All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing robotic assisted surgery for gynaecological cancer to laparoscopic or open surgical procedures as well as RCTs comparing different types of robotic assistants. Two review authors independently screened studies for inclusion. No RCTs were identified, therefore data collection and analysis could not be performed. No studies were found that met the inclusion criteria. Controlled clinical trials (CCTs) are summarised and analysed, but are not discussed in the main body of the review as they present a high risk of bias. Well-designed RCTs are required as only low quality evidence from CCTs is available. These studies support the use of robotic assisted surgery for endometrial cancer and cervical cancer, but these findings present a high risk of bias."}
{"id": "22233724", "title": "[Peritoneal tuberculosis in a patient with suspected disseminated ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Peritoneal tuberculosis in a patient with suspected disseminated ovarian cancer]. We present a case study of a 43 year-old female immigrant from Turkey with abdominal pain, ascites and elevated cancer antigen 125. The symptoms were similar to those of ovarian cancer, and imaging (computed tomography (CT), positron emission tomography/computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging) supported this suspicion. Peritoneal biopsy from laparoscopy showed granulomas with central necrosis. Microscopy, culture and polymerase chain reaction from biopsy samples were negative for Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Follow-up with a CT scan after six months of full tuberculosis treatment showed normal conditions. Peritoneal tuberculosis is a diagnostic challenge, but should be considered in case of immigrants from high-risk areas."}
{"id": "22193712", "title": "Fooled by the film: delayed diagnosis of incarcerated small-bowel hernia after laparoscopic surgery for endometrial cancer.", "content": "Fooled by the film: delayed diagnosis of incarcerated small-bowel hernia after laparoscopic surgery for endometrial cancer. Prompt recognition of laparoscopic surgical complications is vital. We present a case highlighting the dangers of relying on plain radiography for exclusion of bowel herniation through a port site. Early recourse to cross-sectional imaging is recommended to avoid such pitfalls."}
{"id": "22189619", "title": "Unexpected ovarian malignancy after conservative laparoscopic surgery: five case series in a half decade of experience.", "content": "Unexpected ovarian malignancy after conservative laparoscopic surgery: five case series in a half decade of experience. To analyse and describe cases of unexpected ovarian malignancy after conservative laparoscopic surgery for an apparent benign ovarian mass at our centre. This retrospective study was performed by collecting data from records of premenopausal women who underwent conservative laparoscopic surgery for benign ovarian mass at Siriraj Hospital over a 5 year period from 2006 to 2010. The rate of unexpected malignancy, histopathological type of the ovarian neoplasm and follow-up after surgery were reviewed. During the study period, 1,161 patients underwent conservative laparoscopic surgery. Of these, five (0.43%) had ovarian malignancy which were diagnosed after reviewing histopathological report postoperatively. The histopathological diagnosis was borderline tumour in two patients, clear cell carcinoma, granulosa cell tumour and mucinous cell adenocarcinoma in the other three patients. All patients are alive after a mean follow-up of 9-60 months with two patients developed recurrence. The main concern for laparoscopic management of ovarian masses is unexpected malignancy. However, with careful patient selection, proper technique and an experienced operator, laparoscopic treatment of ovarian masses is the best approach and should be implemented, with low risk of unexpected malignancy and recurrence."}
{"id": "22176995", "title": "Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy for isolated lymph node recurrence in gynecologic malignancies.", "content": "Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy for isolated lymph node recurrence in gynecologic malignancies. To assess the feasibility and efficacy of laparoscopic lymphadenectomy in patients with isolated lymph node recurrences (ILNR) who underwent initial surgery because of gynecologic malignancy. Retrospective study (Canadian Task Force classification II-3). University teaching hospital. Six patients with ILNR (1 cervical, 4 ovarian, and 1 peritoneal) diagnosed between March 2003 and July 2010. Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy. Median (range) patient age was 59.5 (24-70) years, and body mass index was 21.7 (21.0-24.6). There was no unplanned conversion to laparotomy. Operating time was 337.5 (200-400) minutes, hemoglobin change was 0.9 (0.4-2.6) g/dL, and hospital stay was 8.5 (5-19) days. The number of harvested lymph nodes was 20 (5-27), and of positive lymph nodes was 4 (1-24). One patient had common iliac vein laceration, with complete hemostasis achieved using intracorporeal suture. Postoperative lymphedema occurred in 1 patient, and was managed conservatively. All patients received adjuvant chemotherapy after laparoscopic lymphadenectomy. Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy in patients with ILNR is feasible and might be an alternative therapeutic strategy."}
{"id": "22136884", "title": "Laparoscopically guided minilaparotomy: a minimally invasive approach for the treatment of gynaecologic diseases in morbidly obese patients.", "content": "Laparoscopically guided minilaparotomy: a minimally invasive approach for the treatment of gynaecologic diseases in morbidly obese patients. Obese patients are at greater risk of gynaecologic surgery. Laparotomy is generally performed, even though this approach is regarded as highly invasive, whereas laparoscopy, though minimally invasive, is relatively contraindicated because of the high conversion rates to laparotomy. In light of this, we propose laparoscopically guided transverse minilaparotomy (LGTM) as a minimally invasive alternative technique. The rationale of diagnostic laparoscopy is to evaluate the feasibility of a minimally invasive approach. We have evaluated the feasibility and compared the outcomes with a historical group treated with laparotomy (LPTM), in morbidly obese patients (MOP) subjected to gynaecologic surgery. From November 2004, MOPs with body mass index (BMI) \u2265 40 kg/m\u00b2 and admitted for gynaecologic surgery (early stage endometrial cancer and benign disease) were enrolled in this observational study and submitted to LGTM. Patients with a uterine size greater than the umbilical transverse line and with indication for vaginal surgery were excluded operative data and outcome were prospectively recorded. LGTM was feasible in 34 cases (87%) out of 39. In two women, the procedure was aborted due to intraperitoneal and ovarian malignant disease spread diagnosed at laparoscopy. In three cases, conversion was necessary due to severe adhesions in one case; laparoscopically unrecognized disease spread in the parametria in the second, and in the remaining case a right common iliac vein injury during lymphadenectomy. When compared to LPTM, haemoglobin drop and postoperative stay were significantly reduced with LGTM. Complications were higher in the control group: due to a significantly higher incidence of wound dehiscence (OR 0.27, 95% CI 0.05-1.32, p<0.05). LGTM is feasible in the vast majority of MOPs and achieves significantly better results when compared to the standard approach."}
{"id": "22131044", "title": "Ovarian tumors in pregnancy: diagnosis and management.", "content": "Ovarian tumors in pregnancy: diagnosis and management. Ovarian tumors first diagnosed during pregnancy often present a challenge for both the obstetrician and gynecologists providing pregnancy care and for the consulting subspecialists. Although the vast majority of these tumors is benign, on rare occasions, patients present with tumors that turn out to be malignant requiring more comprehensive and extensive surgical procedures that are more likely to lead to pregnancy loss. Hence accurate knowledge of tumor characteristics, especially the ultrasound appearance and gestational age at diagnosis, are key prerequisite for establishing the most effective management plan not just for the index but also for future pregnancies. The primary objective of the current review is to provide practical guidelines for the evaluation and management of ovarian tumors first diagnosed during pregnancy."}
{"id": "22123220", "title": "Robotic surgery in gynecologic cancer.", "content": "Robotic surgery in gynecologic cancer. The development of robotic technology has facilitated the application of minimally invasive techniques for complex operations in gynecologic oncology. The objective of this article is to review the published literature regarding robotic surgery and its application to gynecologic cancer. To date, 20 articles addressing radical hysterectomy, six articles of radical trachelectomy, seven articles of surgical procedure in advanced or recurrent cervical cancer, 14 articles of endometrial cancer staging, and two articles solely on ovarian cancer all performed robotically are published in the literature. The majority of publications on robotic surgery are still retrospective or descriptive in nature. However, the data for gynecologic cancer show comparable results of robotic surgery compared with laparoscopy or laparotomy in terms of blood loss, length of hospital stay, and complications. Computer-enhanced technology with its associated benefits appears to facilitate the surgical approach for technically challenging operations performed to treat selected cases of cervical, endometrial, and ovarian cancer as evidenced by the current literature. Continued research and clinical trials are needed to further elucidate the equivalence or superiority of robot-assisted surgery to conventional methods in terms of oncologic outcome and patients' quality of life."}
{"id": "22114111", "title": "Possible improvements in human ovarian grafting by various host and graft treatments.", "content": "Possible improvements in human ovarian grafting by various host and graft treatments. Anticancer treatment poses a high risk of ovarian failure. In many cases cryopreservation of ovarian tissue is the only option for fertility preservation. Although autologous transplantation of cryopreserved-thawed ovarian tissue has resulted in live births, slow graft revascularization and ischemia after transplantation leads to substantial follicular loss. Therefore, methods to improve and hasten graft vascularization are needed. The aim of the study was to examine the benefits of host and graft treatments with melatonin, hyaluronan (HA), vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) and vitamin E with regard to the outcome of human ovarian tissue grafting. Five young cancer patients who underwent laparoscopic ovarian surgery for fertility preservation donated ovarian tissue. Thawed ovarian samples were transplanted into immunodeficient mice divided into seven groups: (A) no treatment; (B) host treatment with melatonin before and after grafting; (C) graft incubation with HA-rich biological glue before transplantation; (D) host as in (B), graft as in (C); (E) host as in (B), graft incubation with VEGF-A and vitamin E; (F) graft as in (C) combined with VEGF-A and vitamin E; (G) host as in (B), graft as in (F). Graft survival was assessed by follicle counts, apoptosis assay and immunohistochemical staining for proliferating cell nuclear antigen and VEGF-A expression. Only grafts implanted in melatonin-treated hosts and grafts incubated with HA-rich biological glue retained their original size. Apoptosis was significantly lower after host treatment with melatonin and graft incubation with HA-rich biological glue plus VEGF-A and vitamin E than in untreated grafts; apoptosis was specifically low in Group G. There were significantly more atretic follicles in the untreated group than in most treated groups. The findings suggest that host treatment with melatonin or graft incubation with HA-rich biological glue, especially when combined with VEGF-A and vitamin E improves graft survival. This protocol can be applied and holds promise in ovarian autotransplantation for fertility restoration."}
{"id": "22091751", "title": "Laparotomy versus laparoscopy for the treatment of adnexal masses during pregnancy.", "content": "Laparotomy versus laparoscopy for the treatment of adnexal masses during pregnancy. Laparoscopy has been highlighted as an effective surgical modality for diverse pelvic organ diseases. However, its surgical and obstetric efficacy has not been fully confirmed in pregnant women because of the absence of a large comparative study. The objective of this study was to compare outcomes between laparotomy and laparoscopic surgery for adnexal masses during pregnancy. A retrospective analysis of 262 pregnant women who underwent laparotomy or laparoscopic surgery for adnexal masses between 2000 and 2009 was performed. Of the 262 women, 174 (66.4%) underwent laparotomy and 88 (33.6%) underwent laparoscopic surgery for adnexal masses. The laparoscopy group had a significantly shorter mean operative time (60.7 \u00b1 27.1 vs 69.7 \u00b1 24.4 min, P = 0.002) and mean hospital stay (4.7 \u00b1 1.7 vs 6.6 \u00b1 1.3 days, P < 0.001) than the laparotomy group. In multivariate analysis, there was no significant difference between laparoscopy and laparotomy group in obstetric outcomes, including preterm delivery and miscarriage rate, after adjusting for confounding factors, such as gestational age at surgery, emergency surgery and mass size. The laparoscopic approach appears to offer a suitable alternative to laparotomy, which, in our setting, was associated with shorter operative times and hospital stays than laparotomy."}
{"id": "22086443", "title": "Laparoscopic staging of early ovarian cancer: results of a multi-institutional cohort study.", "content": "Laparoscopic staging of early ovarian cancer: results of a multi-institutional cohort study. Minimal access surgery to stage early ovarian cancer (EOC) is still regarded as investigational among many gynecologic oncologists. Reporting outcome data from large cohorts is currently the only practical way to further define the appropriateness of minimally invasive surgery for EOC patients. We sought to investigate the safety, adequacy, and outcome of laparoscopic staging of EOC by using a multi-institutional sample. Prospectively collected data in three gynecologic oncology service databases were searched for EOC patients undergoing laparoscopic staging. Surgical, pathologic, and oncologic outcome data were analyzed. The study cohort consisted of 82 women. The mean operative time was 263 \u00b1 81 minutes. The median estimated blood loss was 100 (range 20-3000) ml. The median number of pelvic and para-aortic lymph nodes collected was 23 (3-39) and 13 (3-43), respectively. The disease was reclassified to a higher stage in 21 women (25.6%). No conversion to laparotomy occurred, and one patient had intraoperative hemorrhage requiring blood transfusion. Thirteen patients (15.8%) experienced postoperative complications. The median follow-up period was 28.5 (range 3-86) months. Overall survival and disease-free survival for the entire cohort were 98.8% and 95.1%, respectively. In the subgroup of patients who had reached or exceeded 3 years' follow-up (n = 34), 3-year overall survival and 3-year disease-free survival were 97% and 91.2%, respectively. When performed by appropriately skilled surgeons, laparoscopic comprehensive staging of EOC seems feasible and adequate, with surgicopathologic results that are reproducible in different practice settings."}
{"id": "22070471", "title": "Laparoscopic management of large ovarian tumors: clinical tips for overcoming common concerns.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of large ovarian tumors: clinical tips for overcoming common concerns. This study was performed to assess the feasibility and efficacy of laparoscopic management for patients with large ovarian tumors. A retrospective analysis was performed of the medical records of 52 women who underwent laparoscopic surgery for large ovarian tumors whose maximum diameter was \u226515cm and a low possibility of malignancy. The median age of patients was 35years (range 18-84), median body mass index was 22.4kg/m(2) (range 12.4-31.5) and 18 patients had previous operative history. The median tumor diameter was 17cm (range 15-40). There were no conversions to laparotomy and perioperative complications. The median operating time, estimated blood loss, and hospital stay were 80min (range 25-225), 100mL (range 50-500) and 3days (range 2-14), respectively. The operative procedures performed were salpingo-oophorectomy (n=26), ovarian cystectomy (n=16), laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy with unilateral or bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (n=9), and laparoscopically assisted staging surgery (n=1). The histopathological results were mucinous cystadenoma (n=25), mature cystic teratoma (n=9), serous cystadenoma (n=6), endometrioma (n=5), mucinous borderline tumor (n=4), follicular cyst (n=2), and clear cell carcinoma (n=1). Laparoscopic management of large ovarian tumors is feasible and efficient with appropriate patient selection and experience of surgeons."}
{"id": "22063459", "title": "Symptom triggered screening for ovarian cancer: a pilot study of feasibility and acceptability.", "content": "Symptom triggered screening for ovarian cancer: a pilot study of feasibility and acceptability. Our goal was to determine if symptom-based ovarian cancer screening was feasible in a primary care clinic and acceptable to women and practitioners. In addition, we wanted to describe the outcomes for a pilot group of screened women. A prospective study of 2262 women over age 40 with at least one ovary participated in symptom-based screening using a symptom index (SI). The first 1001 were in a non-intervention study arm and 1261 were screened for symptoms and referred on to testing with CA125 and transvaginal ultrasound (TVS) if the SI result was positive. Patients and practitioners were surveyed about acceptability of study procedures. All patients were linked to the Western Washington SEER Cancer Registry to determine if ovarian cancer was diagnosed in any women. Of the eligible women visiting the clinic, 72.5% were interested in participating, and the participation rate was 62.1%. Of the 1261 who participated in the screening arm 51 (4%) were SI positive and 47 participated in CA125 (45/47 normal) and TVS (32/47 normal). Two endometrial biopsies and one hysteroscopy D&C were performed secondary to study enrollment (pathology negative). No laparotomies or laparoscopies were performed secondary to study involvement. A survey of patient acceptability, on a scale of 1-5, revealed a mean score of 4.8 for the acceptability of SI screening and 4.7 for TVS and CA125 testing among SI positive women. Providers also rated the SI procedures highly acceptable with a mean score of 4.8. Two participating patients were diagnosed with ovarian cancer; one had a true positive SI in the non-intervention arm and one had a false negative SI in the screened arm. While our pilot study is not large enough to assess sensitivity or specificity of a symptom-based screening approach, we did find that this type of screening was feasible and acceptable at the time of a primary care visit and referred approximately 4% of women for additional diagnostic testing. Symptom-based screening also resulted in minimal additional procedures."}
{"id": "22020676", "title": "Leak-proof extracorporeal drainage for management of large ovarian tumors.", "content": "Leak-proof extracorporeal drainage for management of large ovarian tumors. To describe our experience with leak-proof extracorporeal drainage through a minilaparotomy for management of large ovarian tumors. Twenty patients who had presumed benign ovarian tumors larger than 10 cm were selected to undergo this technique. A 4 cm skin incision was made transversely above the symphysis pubis. After application of a self-retaining wound retractor, a polyurethane membrane was firmly affixed to the tumor surface by 2-octylcyanoacrylate adhesive. Most cyst contents were aspirated by a suction tube and the deflated ovary was exteriorized and excised extracorporeally. The median age and median BMI of the patients were 34 years and 23.2, respectively. The maximum tumor diameter varied from 10 to 26 cm (median 15 cm). This technique was successfully administered to 18 patients. The incision was extended to 7 cm in the most obese patient. The procedure was converted to a laparotomy in one patient with severe pelvic adhesion. The median aspiration volume was 800 mL and the median operative time was 80 min. There was no intra-abdominal leakage of tumor contents in all patients. The procedure was converted to laparoscopic fertility-preserving staging operation in two patients with borderline ovarian tumors. The other pathologic diagnoses were six mucinous cystadenomas, six dermoid cysts, three serous cystadenomas, one simple cyst, one corpus luteal cyst, and one endometrioma. Minilaparotomy with leak-proof extracorporeal drainage using cyanoacrylate adhesive and polyurethane membrane is reliable, safe, and feasible for management of large ovarian tumors with low probability of malignancy in selected patients."}
{"id": "21889231", "title": "[Peritoneal strumosis: an extension study with (99m)Tc-pertecnectate].", "content": "[Peritoneal strumosis: an extension study with (99m)Tc-pertecnectate]. We report the case of a 35-year-old nulliparous woman, with a previous history of ovarian cystectomy diagnosed 3 years earlier due a struma ovarii type of monodermal teratoma in the right ovary and a hemorrhagic cyst in the left ovary. Progressive growth of the left adnexal mass was observed in the periodic medical check-ups. Due to this, a second laparoscopy was performed and, based on the findings, a left ovarian cystectomy, right salpingectomy and resection of multiple peritoneal implants were carried out. The pathology diagnosis was left struma ovarii and peritoneal strumosis. A whole body and SPECT/CT scan with (99m)Tc-pertechnetate was performed to detect possible peritoneal implants. This study helped to make the therapeutic decision."}
{"id": "21830006", "title": "Intraoperative ultrasound for benign cystic teratoma. Report of two cases.", "content": "Intraoperative ultrasound for benign cystic teratoma. Report of two cases. Teratoma is one of the most common ovarian neoplasms and frequently leads to laparoscopic surgical procedure. When this tumor is small and the ovarian surface seems regular during the surgery, it is difficult to localize the tumor. We used a standard transvaginal ultrasound probe during the procedure and filled the pelvic cavity with saline solution of 0.9% in order to create an interface between the saline solution and the surgical instruments. We could localize the teratoma with confidence and precision, allowing to perform a sparing surgery. This is a simple, secure and efficient technique that can be performed in most of the institutions."}
{"id": "20339953", "title": "Papillary type thyroid carcinoma in an ovarian struma.", "content": "Papillary type thyroid carcinoma in an ovarian struma. Struma Ovarii are mature teratomas. In rare circumstances thyroid tissue is found as part of the histopathological makeup. Malignant transformation may occur in 1-2% of these rare cases. To report a rare case of malignant thyroid carcinoma within a struma ovarii. A 22-year-old lady presented with a right pelvic mass. A right-sided laparoscopic salpingo-oophrectomy was performed which revealed a malignant struma ovarii neoplasm. A total thyroidectomy was performed with adjuvant I(131) therapy. This is a rare tumour which necessitates surgical extirpation and removal of a normal thyroid gland to facilitate thyroglobulin monitoring."}
{"id": "23155631", "title": "[Ovarian cryopreservation in girls with cancer: new challenges].", "content": "[Ovarian cryopreservation in girls with cancer: new challenges]. Ovarian cortex cryopreservation (OCC) for future autotransplant represents a treatment alternative for those paediatric cancer survivors affected of ovarian failure and fertility disorders. Patients with high gonadotoxic risk are included in the Oncology Paediatric Fertility Preservation Programme: those receiving pelvic radiotherapy, bone marrow transplantation, high doses of cranial radiotherapy or alquilating agents, or those with bilateral ovarian pathology. Prior to the oncological treatment, the ovarian tissue is harvested laparoscopically. At the same time, other invasive procedures are done. Once malignancy is ruled out of the specimen and the presence of primordial follicles is confirmed, the multidisciplinary team of oncologist, paediatric surgeon and fertility specialist coordinate the processing and delivery of the ovarian cortex to the Comunidad Valenciana Tissue Bank. From July 2008 to May 2010 eight patients have been included in the programme, aged between 8-18 years old and with diagnosis of: Hodgkin's lymphoma (n= 2), Acute Myeloblastic and Lymphoblastic leukaemia (n= 2), pelvic Ewing's sarcoma, bilateral ovarian Teratoma and Meduloblastoma. Five patients underwent non gonadotoxic chemotherapy before OCC. Six additional procedures were done using the same anaesthetic event. Partial oophorectomy was performed in half the cases, total oophorectomy in the rest of them, and an ovarian pexia was once associated. All taken samples were found to be valid. OCC of selected patients was performed safely, with neither postoperative complications nor delay of the oncological treatment. Therefore, the first national experience in this procedure has been satisfactorily achieved."}
{"id": "22776228", "title": "A case of thyroid-type papillary carcinoma derived from ovarian mature cystic teratoma, resected by laparoscopic surgery.", "content": "A case of thyroid-type papillary carcinoma derived from ovarian mature cystic teratoma, resected by laparoscopic surgery. Follicular variant thyroid-type papillary carcinoma (FVTPC) arising from thyroid tissue in mature cystic teratoma of the left ovary is extremely rare, and it is not easy to diagnose preoperatively. However, with reports of an early postoperative death, we must prudently select the strategy for this lesion. A 50-year-old woman had a uterine fibroid with hypermenorrhea and a left ovarian tumor measuring approximately 8 cm diameter. Serum thyroid-stimulating hormone level was within the normal limit. A laparoscopic hysterectomy and left salpingo-oophorectomy were performed. During surgery, there were no signs of invasion or metastasis, and there was no spillage in the abdomen. On histopathological examination of the left ovary, we diagnosed FVTPC arising from thyroid tissue in mature cystic teratoma of the left ovary. FVTPC in ovarian struma is a rare malignant transformation. We must be aware of the possibility of such a rare malignant disease when treating teratoma laparoscopically."}
{"id": "22699468", "title": "Appearance of anti-NMDAR antibodies after plasma exchange and total removal of malignant ovarian teratoma in a patient with paraneoplastic limbic encephalopathy.", "content": "Appearance of anti-NMDAR antibodies after plasma exchange and total removal of malignant ovarian teratoma in a patient with paraneoplastic limbic encephalopathy. A 29-year-old female was admitted under section 2 of the mental health act with an acute psychosis. Her condition deteriorated as she developed a fever and worsening hallucinations. Brain imaging was normal but a lumbar puncture revealed a reactive cerebrospinal fluid. A transvaginal ultrasound revealed a left ovarian mass suggestive of a teratoma. A diagnosis of anti-N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor (NMDAR) limbic encephalitis was made but the anti-NMDAR antibody was found to be negative. The patient proceeded to a laparoscopic oopherectomy and a 5-day course of plasma exchange. The patient has made a gradual improvement and the anti-NMDAR antibody has since become positive."}
{"id": "22643497", "title": "Laparoscopic major gynecologic surgery in patients with prior laparotomy bowel resection.", "content": "Laparoscopic major gynecologic surgery in patients with prior laparotomy bowel resection. To review the success and morbidity of laparoscopic major gynecologic surgery in patients with prior laparotomy bowel resection. Review of a prospective surgical database of all cases of laparoscopic major gynecologic surgery in patients with prior laparotomy bowel resection. No cases were excluded. Bowel diagnoses and procedures were total colectomy for inflammatory bowel disease (4), partial colectomy for colon cancer (6), partial small bowel resection for obstruction (1), and Whipple for pancreatic cancer (2). Two patients had 3 prior laparotomies, 8 patients had 2 prior laparotomies, and 3 patients had 1 prior laparotomy. All prior abdominal incisions were midline. Gynecologic diagnoses and procedures were laparoscopic cytoreduction for ovarian cancer (1), lsh/bso/staging for ovarian cancer (1), lavh/bso/lymphadenectomy for endometrial cancer (4), and lavh/bso, lsh/bso, or bso for large ovarian mass (7). Median patient age was 57 years, median BMI was 31kg/m(2), and all patients had medical comorbidities. All 13 laparoscopic gynecologic surgeries were successful without trocar insertion injury, conversion to laparotomy, and without enterotomy. Abdominal adhesions were present in all cases. Median operative time was 2 hours, median blood loss was 100cc, and median hospital stay was 1 day. There were no postoperative complications. Laparoscopic major gynecologic surgery in patients with prior laparotomy bowel resection is feasible for experienced laparoscopic surgeons."}
{"id": "22356011", "title": "Acute abdomen secondary to torsion of Krukenberg tumour.", "content": "Acute abdomen secondary to torsion of Krukenberg tumour. Krukenberg tumour is a rare clinical entity. We report an unusual case of acute abdomen due to right sided adnexal torsion in a 23 year old nulliparous girl with bilateral Krukenberg tumour and primary gastric carcinoma. Possibility of Krukenberg tumour should always be kept in mind while managing ovarian tumours."}
{"id": "22333231", "title": "[Expressions and roles of TGF\u03b2/Smad signal pathway in peritoneum of endometriosis].", "content": "[Expressions and roles of TGF\u03b2/Smad signal pathway in peritoneum of endometriosis]. To investigate the expression of transforming growth factor (TGF)-\u03b2 and Smad pathway expressed in adhesion peritoneums in patients with endometriosis (EM). From Dec. 2009 to Mar. 2010, 11 patients with EM [including 3 patients treated by gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist (GnRH-a) treatment] underwent laparoscopy surgery in Peking Union Medical College Hospital. In the mean time, 9 patients with benign ovarian tumor without EM and peritoneum adhesion were chosen as control. Peritoneum from lateral peritoneal cavity, adjacent from lesion and grossly normal was obtained during surgery. Microstructure of peritoneums was observed by HE staining and Masson staining. The expression of TGF-\u03b21, TGF-\u03b23, Smad 3 and Smad 7 in peritoneums were measured by immunohistochemistry staining and real-time PCR. The effect of GnRH-a on expressions of these markers were also analyzed. (1) Microstructures of peritoneum: enlargement of nucleus of peritoneal mesothelial cells, thickening of connective tissue, distributive disorder of fiber, increasing numbers of fibroblast and inflammatory cells in EM were significantly different from those in control group. (2) The expression of TGF-\u03b21 and 3 in peritoneum were 0.170 \u00b1 0.020 and 0.110 \u00b1 0.010 in EM group, which were significantly higher than 0.070 \u00b1 0.010 and 0.050 \u00b1 0.020 in control group. TGF-\u03b21 was downregulated to 0.130 \u00b1 0.030 and TGF-\u03b23 was upregulated to 0.490 \u00b1 0.090 by GnRH-a. (3) The expression of Smad 3 and 7 were 0.140 \u00b1 0.020 and 0.110 \u00b1 0.020 in peritoneum in EM group, which were significantly higher than 0.024 \u00b1 0.004 and 0.014 \u00b1 0.007 in control group. GnRH-a could upregualted the expression of smad 7 (0.040 \u00b1 0.020), however, but no significant effect was observed on regulating Smad3 expression. The changes of microstructure and the alteration of TGF-\u03b2/Smad expression in peritoneum of endometriosis were observed. GnRH-a could regulate the expression of TGF-\u03b2 and Smad."}
{"id": "22333227", "title": "[Clinicopathological characteristics of recurrent endometriosis and the outcomes of secondary surgery].", "content": "[Clinicopathological characteristics of recurrent endometriosis and the outcomes of secondary surgery]. To investigate clinicopathological characteristics of recurrent endometriosis and outcomes of secondary surgery. From Jan. 2003 to Dec. 2008, 69 cases with recurrent endometriosis operated by the same senior gynecologist in Peking Union Medical College Hospital were studied retrospectively in order to summarize clinicopathological characteristics and clinical outcomes. In prior surgery, both ovaries were involved in 29 cases (42%, 29/69), and unilateral ovarian endometriomas were found in 40 cases (58%, 40/69), including 19 cases (48%, 19/40) with left lesions and 21 cases (52%, 21/40) with right lesions. After first surgery, 57 cases presented recurrent pelvic cystic masses and 12 cases presented moderate to severe pain without pelvic mass. The median recurrence interval was 38 (1 - 144) months. Among 57 cases with recurrent pelvic masses, bilateral ovarian endometiomas recurred in 24 cases at median recurrence interval of 31 months. Unilateral ovarian endometrioma recurred in 33 cases at recurrence interval of 39 months. There was no significant different recurrence period between bilateral and unilateral recurrent ovarian mass (P = 0.452). The recurrent rate of left and right side ovarian lesion was 77% (37/48) and 68% (34/50 cases), respectively, which did not reach statistical difference (P = 0.396). Among 12 recurrent cases with pure pelvic pain, 10 cases were founded combined with adenomyosis (AM), of which 4 cases had deep infiltrated endometriosis (DIE). Compared with the 40 cases of simple ovarian endometriomas, 29 cases complicated by DIE and (or) AM had longer operation time (75.1 min vs. 49.9 min, P = 0.017) and more blood loss (114.9 ml vs. 38.4 ml, P < 0.05). In those 69 recurrent endometriosis patients, the median period of following-up was 32 months (3 months to 8 years). Six cases showed recurrent disease again at median recurrence interval of 3 years (6 months-6 years). Thirty-eight cases had expecting childbearing, however, only 4 women underwent childbirth. The rate of clinical diagnosis of recurrent endometriosis is quite high. Pain is mostly associated with AM. The major difficulty and challenge of secondary surgery was ovarian endometrioma combined with DIE or AM. Prognosis of recurrent endometriosis is not optimistic after secondary surgery."}
{"id": "22212335", "title": "Laparoscopic diagnosis of tuberculous peritonitis mimicking ovarian malignancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic diagnosis of tuberculous peritonitis mimicking ovarian malignancy."}
{"id": "22212317", "title": "Surgical intervention for maternal ovarian torsion in pregnancy.", "content": "Surgical intervention for maternal ovarian torsion in pregnancy. Maternal ovarian torsion in pregnancy is a rare complication. This study was conducted to review the clinical manifestations, and to compare the outcome between laparoscopy and laparotomy in women undergoing surgery for ovarian torsion (OT) during pregnancy. Using the International Classification of Disease, Ninth Revision, and Clinical Modification, we reviewed the clinical records of patients with OT during pregnancy between 1997 and 2008 at a university hospital. Twenty pregnant women were identified with surgically proven OT, 10 in the first trimester, eight in the second, and two in the third. Thirteen (65%) cases were suspected before operation to be adnexal torsion. The most common symptom and sign were pelvic pain (95%) and an adnexal or pelvic mass (95%), followed by nausea and vomiting (65%), elevated white blood cell count >12\u00d710(9)/L (45%), and fever (10%). Most patients in the first trimester (75%) and a minority in the second and third trimesters (37.5%) received management via laparoscopy. Patients undergoing laparoscopy treatment had smaller ovarian masses and a shorter postoperative hospital stay than those receiving laparotomy. None of these patients had significant complications during or after surgery. However, the outcomes of pregnancy varied: 12 (60%) term deliveries, three (15%) preterm deliveries at over 31 gestational weeks, one missed abortion and four elective abortions in the first trimester. The diagnosis of OT during pregnancy is often missed due to nonspecific clinical features and uncommon objective findings. Detorsion only or detorsion plus ancillary procedures via laparoscopy is recommended to treat pregnant women suffering from OT, owing to the advantages of a shorter hospital stay and favorable surgical and pregnancy outcomes."}
{"id": "22200722", "title": "[Synchronous primary endometrial and fallopian tube cancers: one case report].", "content": "[Synchronous primary endometrial and fallopian tube cancers: one case report]. A patient was admitted for menopause for 2 years and abnormal vaginal bleeding and abdominal pain for 2 months. Gynecological examination revealed uterine atrophy without abnormal findings in the bilateral adnexa. CA125 and CEA levels were normal. The patient underwent laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Pathological examination of the surgical specimens revealed synchronous primary cancers stage Ia in both the endometrium and the right fallopian tube. The patient then received 6 cycles of chemotherapy with oxaliplatin combined with docetaxel given intravenously and remained alive without evidence of recurrence. Synchronous primary endometrial and fallopian tube cancer is a rare clinical entity, and laparoscopic surgery with postoperative chemotherapy can be considered for stage I patients."}
{"id": "22199317", "title": "External validation of a laparoscopic-based score to evaluate resectability for patients with advanced ovarian cancer undergoing interval debulking surgery.", "content": "External validation of a laparoscopic-based score to evaluate resectability for patients with advanced ovarian cancer undergoing interval debulking surgery. To evaluate the relevance of laparoscopic index of Fagotti et al during staging laparoscopy (S-LPS) to predict optimal cytoreduction during interval debulking surgery (IDS) after neoadjuvant chemotherapy for ovarian cancer. Fifty-two patients with stage III-IV ovarian cancer were retrospectively analyzed. We evaluated discrimination with a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis and calibration of Fagotti et al's model among our population and compared this performance with their data. A score >4 was associated with optimal resection with sensitivity and positive predictive value (PPV) of 95% and 82% respectively. The ROC curve analysis gave an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.72 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.65-0.80) for our population compared to 0.88 (95% CI 0.84-0.91) in Fagotti et al's population. Percentages predicted in our population were unsatisfactory (p<0.01), illustrating the different rates of optimal cytoreduction between the centers (average error of 25%). The laparoscopic index of Fagotti et al is relevant in prediction of optimal cytoreduction among women undergoing IDS."}
{"id": "22180395", "title": "To predict or not to predict? The dilemma of predicting the risk of suboptimal cytoreduction in ovarian cancer.", "content": "To predict or not to predict? The dilemma of predicting the risk of suboptimal cytoreduction in ovarian cancer. Although maximal cytoreduction is the cornerstone of current treatment for patients with advanced ovarian cancer, optimal cytoreduction is not always achievable in the clinic. Therefore, using clinical characteristics, diagnostic imaging, serum biomarkers or laparoscopic findings, many studies have attempted to find models for predicting surgical resectability. However, most of these prediction models showed limited effectiveness and have not been properly validated. To establish a reliable prediction model, several requirements should be met. First, the goal of surgical cytoreduction should be adequately defined. Second, the desired accuracy for making the model clinically useful should be defined. Third, the model should test all relevant predictors, including clinical, radiological and biochemical predictors, and be developed using a large dataset that provides a sufficient number of events. Fourth, any prediction model should be validated with a relevant external dataset. Lastly, the prediction model should be able to aid decision making and, thereby, improve the outcome of patients. Therefore, randomized clinical trials with decision making based on prediction models are urgently required."}
{"id": "22161881", "title": "[Cystic adnexal mass].", "content": "[Cystic adnexal mass]. Confirmation and clarification of an adnexal mass is a domain of transvaginal ultrasound. The highest hit ratio is achieved by experienced sonographers relying on a dedicated set of sonomorphologic criteria. Less experienced may consult validated scores, colour doppler findings and the tumor marker CA125. The assignment to one of the three groups simple cyst, benign tumor, malign tumor should lead to an adequate procedure (control, laparoscopy, laparotomy). Whenever possible to avoid unnecessary surgical interventions, simple cysts should be treated conservatively. Also in postmenopausal woman 50% of them resolve spontaneously in 60 days. Ovarian cancer screening is still an unsolved problem. Nearly all established methods fail because of the low prevalence of ovarian cancer at around 0.4%."}
{"id": "22134021", "title": "Laparoscopy in pregnancy and the pediatric patient.", "content": "Laparoscopy in pregnancy and the pediatric patient. Minimally invasive surgery is now standard of care for many procedures in pediatric gynecology. Laparoscopy has been well documented to produce faster recovery,decreased postoperative pain, and because of smaller incisions, a better cosmetic result. These are important when considering an active pediatric patient. Although a laparoscopic approach to endometriosis, adnexal masses, and ovarian torsion are well supported in the literature in the pediatric patient, more data are needed with regard to SILS in younger patients. Laparoscopy seems to be a better approach to oopheropexy in children undergoing radiation, and in resection of certain mullerian anomalies; however, the numbers are low.Similarly in pregnant patients, laparoscopy provides for shorter recovery times,decrease analgesic use and shorter hospital stays. Concerns about poor fetal outcomes in surgery during pregnancy for non gynecologic problems have been brought to light; however, the evidence indicates that these outcomes can be attributed to the nature of the underlying disease and not the surgical approach. With regard to pneumoperitoneum the effect of CO2 insufflation on fetal physiology and long-term outcomes remains unclear, and will continue to be an issue of controversy until larger studies are published.With both the pediatric and pregnant populations, laparoscopic complications can be diminished when performed by skilled surgeons with strict adherence to good technical principles. The advantages of laparoscopy are great, and this approach should be considered in pediatric and pregnant patients."}
{"id": "22134015", "title": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses. With the continued expansion of endoscopic techniques and instruments, laparoscopy and minimally invasive techniques are quickly emerging as a feasible alternative to laparotomy in managing adnexal masses and ovarian cancer.Laparoscopy has the potential to completely and successfully treat both benign and malignant adnexal pathology while decreasing unnecessary morbidity among patients. Further advances in technology, techniques, and instruments can only increase this potential."}
{"id": "22117832", "title": "Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts is a safe procedure.", "content": "Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts is a safe procedure. Experienced laparoscopic surgeons should consider laparoscopy as an alternative to laparotomy in management of ovarian dermoid cysts in selected cases. The aim of this study was to analyze the safety of laparoscopy in ovarian dermoid cysts treatment and risk of chemical peritonitis. We report 63 cases of patients (mean age of 37) with ovarian dermoid cysts originating from the ovary, treated from 2002 to 2010. Most of the patients underwent cysts removal. In 7 patients salpingo-oophorectomy was performed. We used 15 mm trocars for removing specimens. In patients with dermoid cyst rupture peritoneal cavity was washed out thoroughly with Ringer lactate and drained for 24-48 hours. All the material extracted was sent for a histopathology examination. The diagnosis of mature ovarian dermoid cysts was confirmed in 58 (92.63%) of cases and immature ovarian dermoid cysts in 5 (7.37%) cases. Dermoid cysts were composed of tissue developed from three germinative layers in 31 (49%) patients, from two germinative layers in 25 (40%), and in 7 (11%) patients from one germinative layer. No intra or postoperative complications occurred. No signs or symptoms of chemical peritonitis were observed regardless of cystic spillage or not. We conclude that the risk of chemical peritonitis can be minimized when undertaking laparoscopic removal of ovarian dermoid cysts if the peritoneal cavity is washed out thoroughly from spillage of cyst contents. Drainage of peritoneal cavity should be performed in the patients with the ruptured dermoid cysts."}
{"id": "22105256", "title": "Trends in bilateral oophorectomy at the time of hysterectomy for benign disease.", "content": "Trends in bilateral oophorectomy at the time of hysterectomy for benign disease. To identify patient characteristics associated with bilateral oophorectomy or removal of remaining ovary at the time of benign hysterectomy, and to estimate trends in the performance of oophorectomy from 2001 to 2006. This was a cross-sectional analysis using the New York State Department of Health Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System. Women aged 18 years or older undergoing hysterectomies for benign gynecologic conditions were included. We evaluated factors associated with oophorectomy on both univariable and multivariable analyses and assessed for changes in performance of oophorectomy over the course of the study. Forty-seven percent of 144,877 hysterectomies included oophorectomy. Women who underwent oophorectomy were older and were more likely to have a family history of breast or ovarian cancer, a personal history of breast cancer, ovarian cysts, or endometriosis. Women who underwent vaginal or laparoscopic hysterectomy or had uterine prolapse were less likely to undergo oophorectomy. Both race and insurance status were associated with performance of oophorectomy. From 2001 to 2006, there was an 8% absolute decrease in the performance of oophorectomy at the time of benign hysterectomy for women of all ages, with a 10.4% decrease in women aged younger than 55 (P for trend <.001). Age, route of hysterectomy, and concomitant gynecologic diagnoses influence oophorectomy rate. From 2001 to 2006, a significant decrease in the performance of oophorectomy at the time of benign hysterectomy was noted in women aged younger than 55 years. Recent studies of complications of hormone therapy and prophylactic oophorectomy may have influenced patients' and physicians' decision-making, leading to lower oophorectomy rates. II."}
{"id": "22053663", "title": "Right colon laparoscopic resection with three-trocar access and associated gynecological procedures in patients with colorectal cancer and ovarian metastases.", "content": "Right colon laparoscopic resection with three-trocar access and associated gynecological procedures in patients with colorectal cancer and ovarian metastases. Right laparoscopic colectomy was introduced to colorectal surgery later than the left colon procedure. Three-trocar laparoscopy has already been used successfully in the treatment of gynecological cancers. In the present study, we aimed to analyze the feasibility of performing an associated gynecological procedure following abdominal laparoscopic exploration and to evaluate the suitability of laparoscopic right colectomy for treating elderly patients. We conducted a review of prospectively collected data on 100 consecutive patients who were treated with right laparoscopic colectomy using three trocars from January 2005 to April 2010. We recorded the patients' age (<70 or > 70 years), ASA status, body mass index (BMI), pain on postoperative days 1 and 2 (POD 1, 2), nodes retrieved, laparotomic conversion, mean operative time, time to intestinal recovery, and length of postoperative stay. All subjects were treated for cancer. Conversion to the laparotomic procedure was performed in 13/100, with no difference in terms of age. Operative time was longer for laparotomic conversion (p <0.05), with a longer postoperative stay. Elderly patients had higher ASA scores (p < 0.005); age did not influence the conversion rate or BMI status. Pain on POD 1 and 2 differed between the laparotomic and laparoscopic groups (p <0.0001). Associated procedures were performed in five subjects (3 oophorectomy and 2 cholecystectomy). Laparoscopy using the three-trocar technique is a safe procedure for treating colon cancer, including in elderly patients, and enables associated gynecological laparoscopic procedures to be performed."}
{"id": "22032815", "title": "Abnormal streak gonads in 46,XY complete gonadal dysgenesis.", "content": "Abnormal streak gonads in 46,XY complete gonadal dysgenesis. To describe the surgical findings in two adolescents with 46,XY complete gonadal dysgenesis. Report of two cases. University teaching hospital. Two adolescents with 46,XY complete gonadal dysgenesis who underwent laparoscopic bilateral gonadectomy. Laparoscopic bilateral gonadectomy. Removal of dysgenetic gonads. One benign fibrothecoma and one gonadoblastoma were identified upon pathologic evaluation of the streak gonads. Individuals with 46,XY complete gonadal dysgenesis are at risk for malignant transformation of the dysgenetic gonads. Because the risk of malignancy is approximately 30%, prompt gonadectomy should be performed after diagnosis of 46,XY complete gonadal dysgenesis."}
{"id": "22031252", "title": "Surgery in the pregnant patient.", "content": "Surgery in the pregnant patient. The key pregnancy-related physiological maternal and fetal changes that occur and the modifications to standard surgical approaches that can impact surgical outcomes are important to recognize. Surgery during pregnancy can be safe and effective. Laparoscopy has become an acceptable alternative to the standard laparotomy and should be considered when surgeons with appropriate skills and experience are available. Care of these patients should always involve a multidisciplinary team with the goal to optimize outcomes for both the mother and the fetus."}
{"id": "22030044", "title": "Long-term follow-up of patients surgically treated for ruptured ovarian endometriotic cysts.", "content": "Long-term follow-up of patients surgically treated for ruptured ovarian endometriotic cysts. Approximately 4% of women are admitted to hospitals because of ovarian cyst rupture, hemorrhage, or torsion. Endometriotic cyst rupture is a rare surgical emergency associated with severe peritonitis and pelvic adhesion, and we aimed to determine its prognosis and long-term outcome. We reviewed and analyzed the medical records of 11 patients (mean age, 31.8 \u00b1 7.2 years) with ruptured endometrioma and a history of dysmenorrhea (4.9 \u00b1 2.3 of maximum 10) who were surgically treated, and then regularly followed-up for more than 3 years (range, 35-261 months). Previous ultrasound examinations revealed pelvic cysts in seven patients. Three patients had a history of endometrioma surgery. In the emergency room, eight patients complained of uterine motion tenderness. Sonography revealed residual ovarian tumors (size range, 4.2-10.4 cm), with or without fluid accumulation in the cul-de-sac. Surgical enucleation by laparoscopy or laparotomy revealed high revised American Fertility Society endometriosis scores (78 \u00b1 20.1) as well as high adhesion scores (48.7 \u00b1 11.3). In the postoperative period, four patients had recurrent ovarian tumors that were related to elevated serum cancer antigen 125 levels and high postoperative pain scores. In contrast, three patients who became pregnant during the postoperative period had low serum cancer antigen 125 levels and pain scores. Endometrioma rupture should be considered in females presenting with sudden lower abdominal pain, associated with a history of dysmenorrhea and preexisting pelvic cysts. Emergency surgical intervention may lead to a better prognosis, particularly in patients without a history of previous endometrioma surgery."}
{"id": "22030041", "title": "Disseminated peritoneal tuberculosis simulating advanced ovarian cancer: a retrospective study of 17 cases.", "content": "Disseminated peritoneal tuberculosis simulating advanced ovarian cancer: a retrospective study of 17 cases. The abdominopelvic cavity is one of the common sites for extrapulmonary tubercular infections. The rate of preoperative misdiagnoses between peritoneal tuberculosis (TB) and ovarian cancer is high because of overlapping nonspecific signs and symptoms. We attempted to analyze the experience within our hospital so as to establish the best means of discriminating between peritoneal TB and advanced ovarian cancer. Seventeen patients diagnosed as having peritoneal TB between July 1986 and December 2008 at the Obstetrics and Gynecology Department of our hospital with the initial presentation simulating advanced ovarian cancer were retrospectively reviewed and evaluated. Patients' ages ranged from 24 years to 87 years (median, 38 years). Ten of 17 patients (60%) were younger than 40 years. All patients except one had elevated serum cancer antigen-125 levels with a mean of 358.8 U/mL (range, 12-733 U/mL). Computed tomographic (CT) scans showed ascites with mesenteric or omental stranding in all (100%), enlarged retroperitoneal lymph nodes in six (35.3%), and an adnexal mass in three (17.6%). Abdominal paracentesis was performed in seven cases, in which the findings revealed lymphocyte-dominant ascites without malignant cells. Surgical intervention by laparotomy was performed in 13 cases (76%) and by laparoscopy in three cases (18%), and a CT-guided peritoneal biopsy was performed in one case (6%). A frozen section was taken from 16 patients but not the patient who received a CT-guided peritoneal biopsy, and all revealed granulomatous inflammation. A final pathological examination confirmed a diagnosis of peritoneal TB. All patients responded to anti-TB treatment. In view of these data, a clinical diagnosis of peritoneal TB should be considered in a relatively young female with nonspecific symptoms of abdominal distension and wasting, as well as lymphocytic ascites without malignant cells. Laparoscopy or a minilaparotomy to obtain tissue samples for frozen-section analysis may be the most direct and least-invasive approach for a diagnosis, thus avoiding unnecessary extended surgery in these patients."}
{"id": "22020691", "title": "Flexible-tip laparo-endoscopic surgery: a bridge to single port appendicectomy in children.", "content": "Flexible-tip laparo-endoscopic surgery: a bridge to single port appendicectomy in children. Single port surgery (SPS) has been demonstrated to have some advantages over conventional laparoscopy. However, currently available port sizes may limit the application in younger children or those with a small umbilicus. Moreover, the consultant learning curve required to master single port surgery may have a negative impact on surgical training. We report the first series of children who were treated with a reduced incision technique for appendicectomy using flexible-tip laparo-endoscopic surgery (FLES). FLES was set up using one 11-mm and 2 \u00d7 5-mm bladeless ports (Ethicon XCEL\u2122) via umbilical and low left iliac fossa incisions. A 10-mm flexible-tip laparo-endoscope was utilized. Tip angulation ensured visibility while minimising instrument clashing. A database of children undergoing FLES was kept prospectively. Demographic and peri-operative information and complications were recorded. Data are presented as medians with ranges. Between March and June 2010, 5 children (4 females) aged 9 (4-13) years underwent FLES for right iliac fossa pain. 2 procedures were performed by the admitting consultant, 3 by a supervised inexperienced laparoscopic trainee. 4 children had acute appendicitis including 1 with an inflammatory mass. Another had a haemorrhagic ovarian cyst. Appendicectomy was performed in all. The duration of surgery was 104 (93-130) min, and postoperative hospital stay was 2 (1-6) days. At 7 (5-8) months' follow-up no complications have been recorded. At follow-up, the cosmetic results were judged to be excellent in all by the children, their parents and the reviewing surgeon. FLES is an alternative to standard laparoscopy and SPS in children, and be performed effectively and safely by junior trainees. Cosmetic results are excellent. It may represent a bridge technology, particularly for younger children, until single port products and techniques more suitable for appendicectomy in this age group are available. Finally, flexible-tip technology may play a useful role as SPS evolves."}
{"id": "21996462", "title": "Coexisting peritoneal tuberculosis and endometriosis masquerading as advanced stage ovarian cancer in a postpartum woman: a case report and review of literature.", "content": "Coexisting peritoneal tuberculosis and endometriosis masquerading as advanced stage ovarian cancer in a postpartum woman: a case report and review of literature."}
{"id": "21991871", "title": "[Radiofrequency ablation for liver metastases--mini invasive therapeutic option for patients with unresecable tumors].", "content": "[Radiofrequency ablation for liver metastases--mini invasive therapeutic option for patients with unresecable tumors]. Radiofrequency ablations (RFA), a new therapeutic option for liver metastases, proceeded by open surgery or laparoscopic approach, provide an acceptable control of local tumor process, involved lower risks than resection surgery. We analyzed this procedure, for classic indication in hepatic metastatic tumors, based on four years experience, focused on perioperative complications, recurrence rate and long distant evolution. Between December 2006 and December 2010, 61 patients with liver metastases underwent RFA; 46 cases had metastatic lesions from colo-rectal cancer, 9 cases from breast cancer, 4 cases from gastric cancer and 2 cases from ovarian cancer. RFA was performed in 55 patients via open surgery and laparoscopic approach in 6 patients. Postoperative course was followed with CT scan at 1 month, and then at 3 month interval, in correlation with tumor markers level. Perioperative complications occurred in 8 cases, consist of prolonged fever, severe hepatic cytolysis, without other complications such, biliary tract injury, hemorrhage, and peritonitis; no mortality caused by RFA procedure. 10 cases had local recurrence, at 6 and 25 month after post RFA procedure. Initial experience shows that RFA is a safe procedure for treatment of liver metastases, with low rate of morbidity and local recurrence, indicated for patients with unresecable lesions or high risks for surgical resection."}
{"id": "21985734", "title": "Laparoscopic management of chemical peritonitis caused by dermoid cyst spillage.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of chemical peritonitis caused by dermoid cyst spillage. Dermoid cyst is the most frequent benign ovarian tumor. Spillage of cyst contents during surgery is common and can rarely lead to chemical peritonitis. A patient presented 3 days after attempted laparoscopic removal of bilateral dermoid cysts. On examination, she had a low-grade fever, rebound tenderness with guarding, and a markedly elevated white blood cell count. A decision was made to proceed with laparoscopy with the presumptive diagnosis of chemical peritonitis. Laparoscopic findings included residual dermoid cyst contents and extensive filmy adhesions of the bowel and omentum to the peritoneal surface. The chemical peritonitis resolved after laparoscopic removal of residual dermoid cyst content including bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and copious irrigation. Early recognition and prompt treatment by repeat laparoscopic surgery with removal of the remaining cyst contents and peritoneal lavage can be a successful method for treating chemical peritonitis."}
{"id": "21968159", "title": "The use of magnets with single-site umbilical laparoscopic surgery.", "content": "The use of magnets with single-site umbilical laparoscopic surgery. Single-site umbilical incision laparoscopic surgery (SSULS) is increasingly being used to treat a variety of childhood surgical diseases. Existing SSULS approaches have inefficient triangulation and poor ergonomics. In an effort to overcome these shortcomings, magnet-assisted laparoscopy was developed. Specialized magnetic graspers are introduced through a standard 12-mm port and are controlled by a powerful external magnet. This study is a retrospective analysis of all magnet-assisted laparoscopic operations performed at the Fundacion Hospitalaria Private Children's Hospital from September 2009 to January 2011. Outcomes include demographics, diagnosis, operative time, intraoperative complications, and conversion rates. Forty-four magnet-assisted laparoscopic operations were performed. The operations included 23 appendectomies, 8 cholecystectomies, 3 Nissen fundoplications, 2 gastrojejunostomies, 2 splenectomies, 2 ovarian tumor/cyst resections, 1 retroperitoneal lymphangioma resection, 1 left adrenalectomy, 1 total abdominal colectomy and 1 pulmonary wedge resection. The mean operative times for the most commonly performed operations were 61 minutes for appendectomy and 93 minutes for cholecystectomy. The operations were classified as follows: Group I, adjunct to conventional laparoscopy (5 operations); Group II, adjunct to multiple-access umbilical laparoscopy (11 operations); and Group III, true single-port laparoscopy (28 operations). Among Group II/III operations, 6 operations required 1 additional port outside the umbilicus. No operations required more that 1 additional port, and no operations were converted to the open technique. There were no intraoperative complications. Magnet-assisted laparoscopic surgery is safe and effective in children. The use of magnetic graspers improves triangulation and ergonomics while reducing the number and size of abdominal incisions."}
{"id": "21967041", "title": "Gestational surrogacy after intra-operative oocyte collection in a hysterectomised woman diagnosed with endometrial cancer.", "content": "Gestational surrogacy after intra-operative oocyte collection in a hysterectomised woman diagnosed with endometrial cancer."}
{"id": "21966778", "title": "[Hormone therapy effect in postmenopausal women with history of endometrial cancer].", "content": "[Hormone therapy effect in postmenopausal women with history of endometrial cancer]. The increase of endometrial cancer survivors' incidence let the question if the management of postmenopausal hormone therapy will increase the risk of carcinogenesis. To determine the recurrence rate, in postmenopausal patients managed with hormonal therapy (HT) compared with patients without HT treated in El Instituto Nacional de Perinatologia Isidro Espinosa de los Reyes. Retrospective, analytical, historical cohort. We analyzed 29 patients who met the inclusion criteria from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2008 RESULTS: The average age for diagnosis of endometrial cancer was 45 years. 100% of the patients had surgical treatment (82.8% routine endometrial open approach, laparoscopic 17.2%). The 93% of patients had criteria to begin HT, however, was administered alone to 37% due to medical criteria, 36% received tibolona, 64% received estrogen with an average administration time of 39 and 54 months for each one without affecting disease-free period. Patients who received hormonal therapy had no recurrence of disease-free period of 58 months. There was only one patient with recurrence for which no hormonal therapy was administered. Patients who were under hormonal therapy did not modify the rate of endometrial cancer recurrence compared with those without HT. Although we cannot conclude irrefutably the safety of hormone therapy, based on biological knowledge and the results of this study, hormone therapy can be safely administered in stage I and II."}
{"id": "21960341", "title": "Clinical outcomes of fertility-sparing treatments in young patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Clinical outcomes of fertility-sparing treatments in young patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma. To assess the clinical outcomes of fertility-sparing treatments in young patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma (EOC). A retrospective study of young EOC inpatients (\u226440 years old) was performed during January 1994 and December 2010 in eight institutions. Data were analyzed from 94 patients treated with fertility-sparing surgery with a median follow-up time of 58.7 months. As histologic grade increased, overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) of patients receiving fertility-sparing surgery declined. Neither staging surgery nor laparoscopy of early stage EOC with conservative surgery had a significant effect on OS or DFS. Normal menstruation recommenced after chemotherapy in 89% of the fertility-sparing group. Seventeen pregnancies among twelve patients were achieved by the end of the follow-ups. Fertility-sparing treatment for patients with EOC Stage I Grade 1 could be cautiously considered for young patients. The surgical procedure and surgical route might not significantly influence the prognosis. Standard chemotherapy is not likely to have an evident impact on ovarian function or fertility in young patients."}
{"id": "21948683", "title": "[Prospective study of the correlation of ultrasonography and CA125 in the management of ovarian cysts: a study of 77 cases].", "content": "[Prospective study of the correlation of ultrasonography and CA125 in the management of ovarian cysts: a study of 77 cases]. To study the correlation between ultrasound, Doppler,measurement of CA 125 and histology in the preoperative diagnosis of ovarian cysts. Prospective and analytical study about 77 patients in whom we analyzed the contribution of ultrasound, the assay of CA125, the couple CA125 ultrasonography and laparoscopy in the diagnosis and management of cysts the ovary. The value of CA125 was considered pathological like the one adopted by our biochemistry laboratory of the CHU Habib Bourguiba, Sfax (> 35 UI / ml). The mean age was 35.6 years. On the whole, ultrasound has a sensitivity of 71.41% and a specificity of 80%. The positive predictive value was 35.71% and negative predictive value was 96.55%. The sensitivity of CA125 to detect malignant lesions among ovarian cysts was 85.71% and a specificity of 85.93%. The PPV was low (42.85%). The combination Ultrasound-CA125 had a sensitivity of 85.7%, a specificity of 82.8%, a PPV and NPV respectively 35.3% and 98.1%. The concordance between the macroscopic perlaparoscopic and histological diagnosis of different tumors was 83.3% for functional cysts, 77.7% for serous cysts, and 100% for dermoid cysts, endometriosis and bleeding. The contribution of Doppler ultrasound and tumor markers is essential in the diagnosis of ovarian cysts."}
{"id": "21944035", "title": "Primary surgery or neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery in advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Primary surgery or neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery in advanced ovarian cancer. Advanced ovarian cancer has a poor prognosis. De-bulking surgery and platinum-based chemotherapy are the cornerstones of the treatment. Primary debulking surgery has been the standard of care in advanced ovarian cancer. Recently a new strategy with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery has been developed. In a recently published randomised trial of the EORTC-NCIC (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer - National Cancer Institute Canada) in patients with extensive stage IIIc and IV ovarian cancer it was shown that the survival was similar for patients randomised to neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking compared to primary debulking surgery, followed by chemotherapy. The post-operative complications and mortality rates were lower after interval debulking than after primary debulking surgery. The most important independent prognostic factor for overall survival was no residual tumour after primary or interval debulking surgery. In some patients obtaining the goal of no residual tumour at interval debulking is difficult due to chemotherapy-induced fibrosis. On the other hand the patients randomised had very extensive stage IIIc and IV disease and in patients with metastases smaller than 5 cm the survival tended to be better after primary debulking surgery. Hence, selection of the correct patients with stage IIIc or IV ovarian cancer for primary debulking or neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery is important. Besides imaging with CT, diffusion MRI and/or PET-CT, also laparoscopy can play an important role in the selection of patients. It should be emphasised that the group of patients included in this study had extensive stage IIIc or IV disease. Surgical skills, especially in the upper abdomen, remain pivotal in the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer. However, very aggressive surgery should be tailored according to the general condition and extent of the disease of the patients. Otherwise, this type of aggressive surgery will result in unnecessary postoperative morbidity and mortality without improving survival. Hence, neoadjuvant chemotherapy should not be an easy way out, but is in some patients with stage IIIc or IV ovarian cancer a better alternative treatment option than primary debulking. According to the current treatment algorithm at the University Hospitals Leuven about 50% of the patients with stage IIIc or IV ovarian cancer are selected for neoadjuvant chemotherapy."}
{"id": "21941978", "title": "Adenomyoma associated with high level of CA 125 and CA 19-9: case report.", "content": "Adenomyoma associated with high level of CA 125 and CA 19-9: case report. A rare case of increasing CA 125 and CA 19-9 levels increasing in a woman with adenomyoma is described. A 39-year-old nullipara woman with CA 125 = 1,796 U/ml and CA 19-9 = 177 U/ml was submitted to abdominal and pelvic MRI, gastric endoscopy, colonoscopy, hysteroscopy, pelvic Doppler and PET scan. None of the exams revealed any apparent malignant disease. Six months of gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist treatment reduced CA 125 and CA 19-9 levels. However, after contraceptive pill use the markers were again elevated, and a laparoscopic hysterectomy was performed, and normal CA 125 and CA 19-9 levels were achieved. Adenomyoma may be associated with high levels of CA 125 and CA 19-9."}
{"id": "21941970", "title": "Pitfall in the diagnosis of endometrial cancer: case report of an endometrioid adenocarcinoma arising from uterine adenomyosis.", "content": "Pitfall in the diagnosis of endometrial cancer: case report of an endometrioid adenocarcinoma arising from uterine adenomyosis. The development of cancer from adenomyotic foci is a rare occurrence. The diagnosis is frequently delayed because of the absence of tumor in the eutopic endometrium. We present a case of a 64-year-old postmenopausal woman with irregular vaginal bleeding and dull abdominal pain. Hysteroscopy was negative and hormonal treatment was continued. Nine months later, persisting symptoms necessitated endometrial biopsy revealing an atrophic endometrium. Hydrosonography suggested an endometrial polyp of 14 x 7 mm with a surrounding regular thin endometrium and a diffusely inhomogeneous ultrasonographic pattern throughout the myometrium. Hysteroscopic excision of the endometrial polyp was performed. Biopsies obtained during operative hysteroscopy showed a well differentiated endometrioid endometrial carcinoma. A laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, pelvic lymphadenectomy and peritoneal cytology was performed. Pathologic examination revealed an atrophic endometrium and a Stage IB (FIGO 2009) well differentiated endometrioid endometrial carcinoma with prominent squamous differentiation originating from nodular adenomyosis. This ectopic localization of the endometrioid carcinoma added to a diagnostic delay of 12 months. Endometrial cancer arising from uterine adenomyosis may be difficult to diagnose. Awareness of this entity and careful ultrasonography are likely to reduce diagnostic delay."}
{"id": "21941968", "title": "Primary ovarian choriocarcinoma presenting with acute abdomen mimicking an ectopic pregnancy.", "content": "Primary ovarian choriocarcinoma presenting with acute abdomen mimicking an ectopic pregnancy. A young lady presented with signs and symptoms of ectopic pregnancy. Initial BhCG was 1110.5 IU/l dropped to 18.5 IU/l postoperatively. Ovarian biopsy taken at the time of laparoscopy confirmed the diagnosis of ovarian choriocarcinoma."}
{"id": "21923991", "title": "Characteristics and management of adnexal masses in a canadian pediatric and adolescent population.", "content": "Characteristics and management of adnexal masses in a canadian pediatric and adolescent population. To determine whether there were differences in presentation, imaging, and tumour markers between pediatric and adolescent gynaecology patients with adnexal masses managed expectantly and those managed surgically. We conducted a retrospective review of patients who presented to the pediatric and adolescent gynaecology service with adnexal masses between January 2003 and January 2006 at Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children. We used t tests, chi-square, and Pearson correlation tests for analysis. We identified 114 patients with an adnexal mass. Fifty-nine percent had surgery (laparotomy 41.8%, laparoscopy 58.2%) and 41% were managed conservatively. The mean age of patients was 12.7 years (range 7 days to 18 years) and there was no difference in age between management groups (P = 0.59). The most common presenting symptom was abdominal pain (72.8%). Increased abdominal girth was found only in the surgical group (P < 0.01). Size of the mass was the only feature on imaging that differed between groups (11.1 cm surgical vs. 5.3 cm observed, P < 0.001). CT scans were performed in 35 patients, 94.3% of whom had surgery (P < 0.001). Tumour markers were drawn in 41.2% of patients, more often in surgical patients (P < 0.001), and 27% were abnormal, all in the surgical group. Surgical approaches included cystectomy, oophorectomy, or detorsion. Twelve percent of surgeries were for malignancies, representing 7.0% of all adnexal masses, and malignant masses were larger than benign masses (16.1 cm vs. 10.5 cm, P < 0.05). In cases that required only expectant management with serial ultrasound, both simple and complex masses resolved, with or without hormonal suppression. Larger masses and masses associated with increased abdominal girth or abnormal tumour markers were more likely to be managed by surgical intervention. Surgically managed patients had more investigations. Forty-one percent of masses in patients referred to pediatric and adolescent gynaecology specialists resolved with expectant management."}
{"id": "21921381", "title": "A woman with salt-wasting congenital adrenal hyperplasia presenting with a mucinous ovarian cystadenoma during pregnancy.", "content": "A woman with salt-wasting congenital adrenal hyperplasia presenting with a mucinous ovarian cystadenoma during pregnancy. Women with congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) caused by steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency show reduced fertility, especially with the salt-wasting form. A 27-year-old pregnant woman with this disease underwent laparotomy and oophorectomy to remove a multilocular ovarian tumor at 14 weeks of pregnancy. This proved to be a mucinous cystadenoma. Toward the third trimester, she presented with marked elevations of 17\u03b1-hydroxyprogesterone and plasma renin activity. Careful management of endocrine and body fluid homeostasis allowed her to give birth to a healthy female infant with normal external genitalia. This case illustrates endocrinological parameters during pregnancy in a woman with classical salt-wasting CAH."}
{"id": "21917305", "title": "Micropapillary pattern in serous borderline ovarian tumors: does it matter?", "content": "Micropapillary pattern in serous borderline ovarian tumors: does it matter? To evaluate the clinical and prognostic impact of micropapillary pattern in patients with serous borderline ovarian tumors (SBOT). We retrospectively assessed 130 consecutive patients with typical (n=97, 74.6%) or micropapillary (n=33, 25.4%) SBOT. Clinicopathologic factors and outcomes were compared between these two groups. There were no significant between-group differences in age, menopausal status, parity, body mass index, cancer antigen 125 concentration, tumor size, tumor rupture, positive cytology, ovarian surface involvement, retrieved lymph nodes, use of laparoscopy, fertility-sparing and ovary-sparing procedures, complete staging and restaging, and adjuvant chemotherapy. However, the incidences of advanced stage (II-III) tumors (10.3% vs 36.4%, P=0.001), microinvasion (2.1% vs 15.2%, P=0.012), peritoneal implants (8.3% vs 33.4%, P<0.001), and lymph node involvement (0% vs 21.2%, P<0.001) were significantly higher in patients with micropapillary than with typical SBOT. Five patients with typical (5.2%) and three with micropapillary (9.1%) SBOT had recurrent disease (P=0.418), and one patient (3%) in micropapillary SBOT group died due to the disease (P=0.254). The 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) rates for patients with typical and micropapillary SBOT were 96% and 86%, respectively (P=0.148). All three patients with micropapillary SBOT who had recurrence had peritoneal implants (one noninvasive and two invasive). Multivariate analysis showed that peritoneal implant was the only significant factor related to DFS (P=0.002). Because micropapillary SBOT was significantly associated with peritoneal implants, especially invasive implants, and lymph node involvement, complete staging procedures, including lymph node dissection, are recommended. However, micropapillary SBOT itself was not significantly associated with DFS. Peritoneal implant was the only factor independently associated with tumor recurrence."}
{"id": "21912057", "title": "Differentiation of tuberculous peritonitis from peritonitis carcinomatosa without surgical intervention.", "content": "Differentiation of tuberculous peritonitis from peritonitis carcinomatosa without surgical intervention. Ascites of tuberculous peritonitis (TBP) is an exudative type and may well be misdiagnosed as carcinomatous peritonitis, especially in the elderly. The aim of this study was to identify independent predictors that can differentiate TBP from peritonitis carcinomatosa without surgical intervention. This prospective cohort study was performed on 75 subjects in the following groups: TBP (n=27) (TBP group), ovarian cancer complicated with ascites (n=24) (Ov Ca group), and gastric cancer complicated with ascites (n=24) (Ga Ca group). The frequency of clinical symptoms, laboratory parameters, and serum tumor markers levels were compared. In univariate analysis; fever, night sweats, and abdominal pain were significantly more frequent in the TBP group compared to those in the Ov Ca group (P < 0.001, P < 0.001, and P = 0.035, respectively) and the Ga Ca group (P < 0.001, P < 0.001, and P = 0.015, respectively). Serum CA 19-9 and carcino embryonic antigen (CEA) levels were significantly lower in the TBP and Ov Ca group compared to the Ga Ca group (P < 0.001 and P < 0.001, respectively). Elevated serum CA 125 level was found in all patients with TBP and Ov Ca and in 86.6% of patients with Ga Ca. In the multivariate analysis, presence of fever (P < 0.001), night sweats (P < 0.001), age under 40 years (P = 0.008), and normal serum CA 19-9 level (P = 0.044) were independent predictor of diagnosis of TBP. The presence of fever, elevated serum CA 125 level, normal serum CA 19-9, and CEA associated with lymphocyte predominant benign ascites may establish the diagnosis of TBP."}
{"id": "21902992", "title": "Postpartum ovarian vein thrombosis.", "content": "Postpartum ovarian vein thrombosis. Ovarian vein thrombosis (OVT) is a rare but potentially serious postpartum complication, which occurs in 0.05% to 0.18% of pregnancies and is diagnosed on the right side in 80% to 90% of the cases. A 32-year-old woman presented at 15 days postpartum to our emergency department with severe abdominal pain, fever, and abdominal distension. Abdominal examination revealed right lower quadrant pain with rebound tenderness. The plain abdominal radiography evidenced a diffuse fecal stasis; abdominal ultrasound showed the presence of free fluid in the Douglas' pouch and between small bowel loops. Diagnosis of acute appendicitis was made. The patient immediately underwent explorative laparoscopy; at surgery, a woody tumoration consistent with right ovarian vein thrombosis was found. Laparoscopic ultrasound confirmed the diagnosis. Anticoagulation therapy and antibiotics were instituted. CT-scan confirmed the presence of thrombosis up to the vena cava. The patient was discharged on postoperative day 4. At 1-month follow-up, she remained stable and symptom free. Even though postpartum ovarian vein thrombosis is rare, recognition and treatment is needed to institute adequate therapy and avoid potential serious sequelae. The diagnosis can be established by ultrasound, CT scan, and MRI examinations, although, as in the case described, the limitation of ultrasound includes obscuration of the gonadic vein by overlying bowel gas. OVT should be considered in any woman in the postpartum period with lower abdominal pain, fever, and leucocytosis."}
{"id": "21902980", "title": "Single-port transumbilical laparoscopic-assisted adnexal surgery.", "content": "Single-port transumbilical laparoscopic-assisted adnexal surgery. To evaluate the efficiency and feasibility of single-port access transumbilical laparoscopic-assisted surgery in patients with large (>8cm) adnexal tumors and to present our initial experience. Twenty-two patients with presumably benign adnexal tumors who have undergone single-port access transumbilical laparoscopic-assisted surgery were enrolled. The procedure was performed using the method of exteriorization and extracorporeal surgery of adnexal tumors outside the abdominal cavity under laparoscopic guidance with preservation of as much ovarian tissue as possible. In each case, a homemade single-port device was inserted into the abdomen through a 2-cm umbilical incision. The clinical characteristics and operative outcomes of these patients were reviewed. Twenty of 22 cases were completed successfully. The one failed case required an additional trocar for adequate adhesiolysis, and the other case needed intraperitoneal drainage. The median operating time was 50 minutes (range, 35 to 120), and the estimated blood loss was 38mL (range, 10 to 300). Cyst rupture occurred in 2 cases, but there were no major postoperative complications. Single-port access transumbilical laparoscopic-assisted surgery for benign and relatively large adnexal tumors is feasible and could be an alternative to convention open laparotomy or laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "21902936", "title": "Laparoscopic surgical management and clinical characteristics of ovarian fibromas.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgical management and clinical characteristics of ovarian fibromas. This study aims to analyze the clinical characteristics and diagnostic features of ovarian fibromas and to evaluate the efficacy and safety of laparoscopic surgery for ovarian fibromas. We reviewed the records of 47 consecutive women who underwent laparoscopic or laparotomic surgeries and whose final histopathological diagnoses were ovarian fibroma, cellular fibroma, or fibrothecoma from January 1999 to August 2010. During the study period, 49 tumors were removed from 47 women including 27 ovarian fibromas, 19 fibrothecomas, and 3 cellular fibromas. The preoperative diagnoses were ovarian fibroma in 25 women (53.2%) and uterine myoma in 16 women (34.0%). A high serum CA 125 level (>35U/mL) was observed in 15 women, and serum CA 125 level was significantly higher in women with ascites (P=<0.001). The tumors were removed surgically in all women, using the laparotomic approach in 16 women (34.0%) and the laparoscopic approach in 31 women (66.0%). The laparoscopic surgery had the advantages of shorter hospital stay and faster return of bowel activities compared to laparotomy. Ovarian fibromas are often misdiagnosed as uterine myomas, and sometimes mistaken for a malignant tumor of the ovary preoperatively. Laparoscopic surgery can be an effective and safe surgical approach for managing ovarian fibromas."}
{"id": "21880280", "title": "Lymphatic spread of endometriosis to pelvic sentinel lymph nodes: a prospective clinical study.", "content": "Lymphatic spread of endometriosis to pelvic sentinel lymph nodes: a prospective clinical study. To establish the prevalence of endometriosis metastatic to pelvic sentinel lymph nodes (PSLN) in women with ovarian and/or peritoneal endometriosis. Prospective clinical study. Academic research institution. Women with a laparoscopic diagnosis of ovarian and/or peritoneal endometriosis verified by intraoperative frozen section analysis. Resection of endometriotic lesions and PSLN after cervical blue dye injection. Histologic analysis of PSLN for the presence of endometriosis and immunohistochemical analysis of estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), cytokeratin (CK), and CD-10 expression. The study enrolled 26 women with suspected endometriosis; endometriosis was confirmed in 23 women, and a PSLN was identified in 19 women. A total of 37 (right side: 20; left side: 17) lymph nodes were removed. The prevalence of endometriotic lesions in PSLN was 11% (2 of 19). Both lesions were positive for ER, PR, CK, and CD-10. Isolated endometriotic-like cells (IELCs) staining positive for ER and PR were identified in the peripheral sinus of 16 (80%) of 20 and 14 (70%) of 20 PSLN, respectively. All IELCs lacked CK staining, whereas CD-10 staining was present in 16 (80%) of 20 cases, indicating a stromal origin of IELCs. Intraoperative and/or postoperative complications were observed in 1 (5%) of 19 women. Spread of IELCs to PSLN is common in ovarian and/or peritoneal endometriosis. Metastatic lesions in PSLN are present in 11% of women. Further studies to evaluate the prognostic and predictive value of endometriotic spread to PSLN are warranted."}
{"id": "21870731", "title": "[Laparoscopic approach of the ovarian cyst tumors].", "content": "[Laparoscopic approach of the ovarian cyst tumors]. Given the continuous technical upgrade and increased surgical expertise, laparoscopy is replacing laparotomy in day-to-day gynecological surgical practice. Laparoscopic management offers many advantages for the patient: accurate diagnosis, minimal bleeding, reduced need for analgesia, less adhesion formation, fast recovery, better cosmetic results, shorter hospital stays (one day surgery in selected cases), and reduced costs for the patient and hospital."}
{"id": "21841489", "title": "Feasibility and surgical outcomes of laparoscopic metastasectomy in the treatment of ovarian metastases from gastric cancer.", "content": "Feasibility and surgical outcomes of laparoscopic metastasectomy in the treatment of ovarian metastases from gastric cancer. This study aimed to evaluate the feasibility of laparoscopic metastasectomy (LM) in the treatment of ovarian metastases from gastric cancer and to compare the surgical outcomes with patients who underwent open metastasectomy (OM). The cases of 73 patients who underwent LM (n = 16) or OM (n = 57) were retrospectively reviewed. All patients were diagnosed with gastric cancer and, subsequently, underwent a metastasectomy at Yonsei University Health System between December 2002 and March 2011. Sixteen operations were completed laparoscopically with no conversion to laparotomy. Complete cytoreduction surgery was achievable in 13 patients (81.3%). Operating time, complete cytoreduction, and occurrence of perioperative complications were comparable between the 2 groups. The LM group had less blood loss (25 vs 400 mL, P < 0.0001), earlier return to a general diet (3 vs 4 days, P = 0.005), shorter postoperative hospital stay (4.5 vs 7 days, P < 0.0001), and lower postoperative pain scores after 6, 24, and 48 hours than those in the OM group. There were no operative complications in the LM group. As a surgical treatment for ovarian metastases from gastric cancer, LM is feasible and provides benefits to patients without detrimental effects on the clinical outcomes for selected patients."}
{"id": "21840583", "title": "It's not just for laparoscopy anymore: use of insufflation under ultrasound and fluoroscopic guidance by Interventional Radiologists for percutaneous placement of intraperitoneal chemotherapy catheters.", "content": "It's not just for laparoscopy anymore: use of insufflation under ultrasound and fluoroscopic guidance by Interventional Radiologists for percutaneous placement of intraperitoneal chemotherapy catheters. While intraperitoneal (IP) chemotherapy has shown significant survival benefits, the ability to successfully deliver IP chemotherapy has been limited. In GOG 172, surgically-placed IP catheters had a reported complication rate of 34%. In addition, IP catheters have to be placed surgically. We have developed a novel percutaneous placement technique for IP catheters in patients without ascites. This study was a retrospective analysis of all patients receiving percutaneously-placed IP catheters from 12/2008 to present. Catheters were placed using a two-step technique under conscious sedation. IP access was gained using ultrasound-guided peritoneal puncture over the right lobe of the liver. A 5 Fr catheter was placed into the peritoneal cavity and the abdomen insufflated with carbon dioxide (CO(2)). Access was gained in the RLQ once distention separated the bowel from the abdominal wall. A 14.5 Fr multi-side hole catheter was coiled in the pelvis, and a reservoir tunneled onto the lower anterior chest wall. For this analysis, abstracted data included patient demographics, indication for catheter placement, complications (procedural and with chemotherapy delivery), fluoroscopy time, and timing/indication of catheter removal. Eleven patients received IP catheters. The mean age was 58 years, mean body mass index was 27.1, and mean number of days from surgical debulking was 38. There were two stage 2, and eight stage 3 patients. Two patients had fallopian tube, and nine patients had ovarian cancer. All patients had an optimal debulking procedure. Seven of 11 patients also obtained central intravenous access when the IP port was placed. Follow-up data were as follows: Average fluoroscopy time was 9 min. One patient (9%) had an intra-procedural complication but the catheter was successfully placed. Zero patients had catheter-related complications in the course of receiving chemotherapy. Five of the 11 patients (45%) completed the planned IP chemotherapy treatments, with three additional patients (27%) currently receiving therapy. The remaining three patients (27%) discontinued chemotherapy for reasons unrelated to IP catheter function: two due to chemotherapy side effects, and one with sepsis from a perforated diverticulum. Thus far, our experience with percutaneous placement of IP catheters is associated with a low risk of catheter-related complications and high technical success rates. CO(2) insufflation may make peritoneal puncture easier and potentially safer. This procedure offers an alternative to surgical placement, even in patients without clinically significant ascites."}
{"id": "21806569", "title": "Laparoscopy or laparotomy for endometrial cancer? A review of three prospective randomised trials.", "content": "Laparoscopy or laparotomy for endometrial cancer? A review of three prospective randomised trials. The incidence of endometrial cancer is increasing throughout the world, and an appropriate safe and cost-effective surgical management is debated between traditional laparotomy and laparoscopy. Recently, three large prospective randomised controlled trials have been published comparing both modalities. The inclusion criteria for these studies are quite different, and whilst many of the outcomes reported are similar, some such as blood loss, complications, length of stay and quality of life (QoL) may have suffered as a result of selection bias. Some of these biases include differences in the stage of patients included, tumour grade, tumour histology, performance status, the requirement to undertake and complete surgical staging and the methodology of QoL assessment. An overall analysis of these studies shows that whilst there are advantages (and disadvantages) to both surgical approaches, overall there is no convincing evidence of the superiority of one surgical approach over the other. What is probably more important for the individual surgeon consenting a patient for surgery is to offer an approach consistent with good oncological outcomes."}
{"id": "21803662", "title": "Laparoscopic intraperitoneal port placement for optimally cytoreduced advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic intraperitoneal port placement for optimally cytoreduced advanced ovarian cancer. To evaluate complications of intraperitoneal ports placed laparoscopically as a separate procedure after initial debulking surgery for ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. A retrospective case series (Canadian Task Force Classification III). Inpatient, academic teaching institution. Female patients of any age, at a single institution, undergoing laparoscopically-assisted intraperitoneal port placement after initial surgery for ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer from January 2001 through December 2009. Laparoscopically assisted intra-peritoneal port placement. Thirty-three ports were successfully placed, with no conversions to laparotomy. Only 2 patients were unable to receive intraperitoneal chemotherapy, and there was 1 major complication (enterotomy) related to port placement. There were 6 cases of port dysfunction (17%); however, in 3 cases the port was replaced and subsequently functioned well. There were 2 cases of port infection necessitating port removal. The majority (81.8%) of patients were able to complete all planned cycles of intraperitoneal chemotherapy. Based on the data from our institution, laparoscopic placement of an intraperitoneal port may be safely performed as a second procedure after initial surgery for stage III ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer and provides access for post-operative therapy."}
{"id": "21797127", "title": "Laparoscopic total fallopian tube removal at the time of bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy in BRCA2 positive women.", "content": "Laparoscopic total fallopian tube removal at the time of bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy in BRCA2 positive women. About 10% of all serous ovarian cancer has BRCA1 and/or BRCA2 mutations. Recent data showed that following the SEE FIM protocol it is possible to evidence more fimbriae cancers. Due to those studies, fallopian tube cancer in recent years has become the predominant site of cancer in BRCA1 and/or 2 mutation carriers. The pathological study of the fallopian tube is not complete during salpingo-oophorectomy because a small part (intramural site) is situated inside the uterus. In this case report we demonstrate how it is possible to remove the tubes entirely for pathological analysis without hysterectomy by laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "21793996", "title": "Primary transitional cell carcinoma of the fallopian tube.", "content": "Primary transitional cell carcinoma of the fallopian tube. The fallopian tube is the least common site for origin of malignancy in the female genital tract. Most primary fallopian tube malignancies are adenocarcinomas. Primary transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the fallopian tube is an extremely rare tumor with a small number of cases reported in the literature. We present a 67-year-old woman who was found incidentally to have a left adnexal mass on a screening pelvic ultrasound. Subsequently the patient underwent laparoscopic left salpingo-oophorectomy and the specimen was submitted for intraoperative frozen section, which revealed a high-grade carcinoma; therefore, she underwent a laparotomy and total abdominal hysterectomy, right salpingo-oophorectomy and omentectomy. Histopathology revealed high-grade transitional cell carcinoma in the left fallopian tube. Post-surgery she was treated with four cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy with carboplatin and paclitaxel with no complications. Our patient had a family history of malignancy, so genetic testing for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations was undertaken and did not reveal any mutation or unclassified variants. Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) was normal."}
{"id": "21791318", "title": "Disseminated granulosa cell tumor of pelvis.", "content": "Disseminated granulosa cell tumor of pelvis."}
{"id": "21777843", "title": "Ovarian neurofibroma: a rare visceral occurrence of type 1 neurofibromatosis and an unusual cause of chronic pelvic pain.", "content": "Ovarian neurofibroma: a rare visceral occurrence of type 1 neurofibromatosis and an unusual cause of chronic pelvic pain. Neurofibromatosis type 1 is a dominantly inherited neurologic disorder that affects primarily the skin, bones, and peripheral nervous system. The disorder may be associated with a variety of clinical manifestations including both superficial and deep-seated lesions such as caf\u00e9-au-lait spots, skinfold freckling, Lisch nodules, and cutaneous, deeper, and visceral neurofibromas, Visceral involvement, in particular, rarely affects the genital tract, and isolated ovarian neurofibromas are extremely rare. Herein is reported a case of a solitary neurofibroma of the left ovary in a 24-year-old woman with chronic pelvic pain. The tumor was excised at laparoscopy, with complete resolution of symptoms. After 3 years of follow-up, the patient remains asymptomatic and free of any further visceral involvement."}
{"id": "21751454", "title": "The approach to ovarian dermoids in adolescents and young women.", "content": "The approach to ovarian dermoids in adolescents and young women. Mature cystic teratomas (MCTs) are the most common ovarian neoplastic lesions found in adolescents. MCTs are usually asymptomatic and are often discovered incidentally on exam or imaging. The recurrence rate of MCTs following cystectomy is 3-4% and incidence of malignant transformation is estimated to be 0.17-2%. Given the accuracy with which MCTs can be diagnosed preoperatively studies suggest that these lesions can be treated surgically using laparoscopic techniques. The management of MCTs in the adolescent population poses unique challenges given the potential impact on sexual development and fertility. A 17-year-old female was found to have bilateral adnexal masses consistent in appearance with MCTs on computed tomography after a motor vehicle accident. She underwent exploratory laparotomy with pathology confirming the presence of bilateral ovarian MCTs. Three years later she returned to the office with occasional abdominopelvic pain. Ultrasound revealed bilateral complex cysts suggestive of recurrent MCTs. She was expectantly managed with serial ultrasounds and after 24 months, slow but visible growth of the MCTs was confirmed. The patient is now 22 years old and asymptomatic. What is the most appropriate management? The risks of expectant management in women like the one presented are small. This suggests that although the traditional treatment for MCTs is laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy, in children and adolescents with MCTs we should consider close follow-up without intervention to preserve ovarian function and future fertility."}
{"id": "21741079", "title": "Laparoscopic-assisted cytoreduction for primary advanced ovarian cancer: success, morbidity and survival.", "content": "Laparoscopic-assisted cytoreduction for primary advanced ovarian cancer: success, morbidity and survival. The purpose of this paper is to evaluate laparoscopic-assisted cytoreduction for primary advanced ovarian cancer: feasibility, morbidity, response to chemotherapy and survival. All patients with presumed stage 3/4 primary ovarian cancer underwent attempted laparoscopic cytoreduction. All patients had CT evidence of omental metastasis and ascites. A five port (5-mm) transperitoneal approach was used. A bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, supracervical hysterectomy and omentectomy were performed with the PlasmaKinetic (PK) cutting forceps. A laparoscopic 5-mm Argon-Beam Coagulator was used to coagulate tumor in the pelvis, abdominal peritoneum, intestinal mesentery, and diaphragm. Twenty-three cases (92%) were successfully cytoreduced laparoscopically without conversion to laparotomy. Median operative time was 2.3h and median blood loss was 340 cc. All tumors were debulked to less than 2 cm and 36% had no residual disease. Median length of stay was 1 day. Median VAS pain score was 4-discomforting. Six patients (24%) had post-operative complications, none grades 3-4. Median overall survival is 3.5 years. Laparoscopic-assisted cytoreduction for primary advanced ovarian cancer was successful, resulting in minimal morbidity, and acceptable survival."}
{"id": "21715192", "title": "Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian cysts in adolescents and young adults.", "content": "Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian cysts in adolescents and young adults. To investigate the laparoscopic management of ovarian cysts in adolescents and young adults. A retrospective chart review study. Zekai Tahir Burak Women's Health Research and Education Hospital. A total of 282 females aged 25 years or younger underwent laparoscopic surgery for a presumed benign ovarian cyst. Patients were grouped as adolescents (ages 12-19, n = 79) or young adults (ages 20-25, n = 203). Surgical approach, operative findings and the correlation of intraoperative diagnosis with the definitive pathological reports. The mean age of the patients was 21.2 years. At laparoscopic surgery, 89 patients (31.6%) had endometriomas, 47 (16.7%) had dermoid cysts, and 37 (13.1%) had paraovarian cysts. Ninety-seven patients (34.4%) had simple ovarian cysts. Pathological reports revealed that young adults were more likely to have endometriomas (34.0% vs 7.6%, P < 0.01), but dermoid cysts and simple ovarian cysts were more frequent (20.3% vs 15.3%, P < 0.01 and 60.7% vs 40.9%, P < 0.01, respectively).in adolescents. Eleven of the cases (3.9%) were found to have mucinous cystadenomas and fourteen (5.0%) to have serous cystadenomas. Four cysts were malignant (1.4%). Cystectomy was performed in 205 cases (72.7%), fenestration of cyst wall was performed in 53 cases (18.8%), and aspiration was applied in 22 cases (7.8%). The types of operation were not significantly different among adolescents and young adults (P > 0.05). The operative diagnosis was highly correlated with the final pathological reports (kappa value= 0.901, P < 0.001). There were no operative and postoperative complications in our series. With a careful preoperative screening, the laparoscopic surgery of ovarian cyst is an efficient and safe treatment for adolescents and young adults."}
{"id": "21707553", "title": "Learning curve and pitfalls of a laparoscopic score to describe peritoneal carcinosis in advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Learning curve and pitfalls of a laparoscopic score to describe peritoneal carcinosis in advanced ovarian cancer. To prospectively estimate the agreement between a fellow in training in gynecologic oncology and a senior surgeon performing a laparoscopic score to describe peritoneal carcinosis diffusion in patients with advanced ovarian cancer. Single-institutional non-inferiority trial. University hospital tertiary care center. Ninety consecutive patients with primary advanced ovarian cancer. The patients underwent staging-laparoscopy by a fellow in gynecologic oncology and a senior surgeon, sequentially and blindly. Single laparoscopic parameters (omental cake, peritoneal and diaphragmatic carcinosis, mesenteric retraction, bowel stomach infiltration, superficial liver metastasis) and a comprehensive laparoscopic score (PIV) were assessed in each procedure and registered. No differences in the score discriminating performance for predicting optimal cytoreduction were observed between fellows' and seniors' evaluations. The median number of staging laparoscopies performed by each fellow was 30 (range 28-32). The median score was 6 (0-10) for the fellows and 6 (0-14) for senior surgeons (p=ns). Results were superimposable in 57 of 90 patients (63.3%). Dividing the study period into two blocks, cases 1-45 and cases 46-90, differences were equally distributed over time (16.6 vs. 20%; p=0.9). The area under the curve of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves for the score of fellows and seniors was 0.86 and 0.89, respectively (p=ns). The laparoscopic assessment of peritoneal cancer diffusion according to a laparoscopic score can reliably be carried out by a fellow in gynecologic oncology after 12 months' experience without significant differences from a senior surgeon's assessment."}
{"id": "21699024", "title": "Adnexal masses in postmenopausal and reproductive age women.", "content": "Adnexal masses in postmenopausal and reproductive age women. We aimed to evaluate and compare the management and clinical characteristics of adnexal masses in postmenopausal and reproductive age women. This prospective study was performed at Dicle University, School of Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, from January 2007 to June 2009.The data were collected from hospital records and patients files, descriptively. The cases were divided into two groups as cases with adnexal masses in postmenopausal age women (Group 1, n = 40), and reproductive age (Group 2, n = 40). All of the cases operated for benign adnexal masses. Statistical analyses were carried out by using the statistical packages for SPSS 15.0 for Windows (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). The demographic characteristics of the cases that were enrolled in our study are depicted in Table 1.The initial compliant of the cases were abdominal pain in 62 (77.5%) of the cases and 8 (20%) vaginal bleeding and 10 (12.5%) were asymptomatic. The initial diagnose of the cases were; pelvic mass in 34 (75%) of the cases, ovarian cyst 26 (32.5%), dermoid cyst 10 (12.5%), endometrioma 7 (8.75%) and postmenopausal bleeding 4 (5%). The tumor markers were evaluated. All of the cases were subjected to laparotomy or laparoscopy. The frozen section diagnose were made by the pathology department. The postoperative characteristics of the masses were also evaluated. The adnexal masses in postmenopausal woman with benign characteristics can be followed conservatively, without surgery. Surgery may be indicated to women with family history of cancer, a mass that appears enlarging and symptomatic."}
{"id": "21695966", "title": "[Novel technologies in surgical treatment of cholelithiasis and benign ovarial tumours in ovarial polycystic syndrome using generator of automatic welding of the soft tissues].", "content": "[Novel technologies in surgical treatment of cholelithiasis and benign ovarial tumours in ovarial polycystic syndrome using generator of automatic welding of the soft tissues]. The results of operative treatment of 162 women, including 45 - for biliary calculous disease and 117 - for benign ovarial tumours with ovarial polycystosis syndrome, were analyzed. In 60 (20%) patients (control group) the operative interventions were performed, using monopolar and bipolar electrocoagulation, while in 102 (80%) patients (main group) - a generator of automatic biologic welding of soft tissues. While application of generator for biologic welding of soft tissues the hepatic tissue or ovarial follicular apparatus damage was noted, witnessing the ovarial reserve secure."}
{"id": "21679474", "title": "Ovarian endometriomas and IVF: a retrospective case-control study.", "content": "Ovarian endometriomas and IVF: a retrospective case-control study. We performed this retrospective case-control study analyzing 428 first-attempt in vitro fertilization (IVF) cycles, among which 254 involved women with a previous or present diagnosis of ovarian endometriosis. First, the results of these 254 cycles were compared with 174 cycles involving patients with proven non-endometriotic tubal infertility having similar age and body mass index. Women with ovarian endometriosis had a significantly higher cancellation rate, but similar pregnancy, implantation and delivery rates as patients with tubal infertility. Second, among the women with ovarian endometriosis, the women with a history of laparoscopic surgery for ovarian endometriomas prior to IVF and no visual endometriosis at ovum pick-up (n = 112) were compared with the non-operated women and visual endometriomas at ovum pick-up (n = 142). Patients who underwent ovarian surgery before IVF had significantly shorter period, lower antral follicle count and required higher gonadotropin doses than patients with non-operated endometriomas. The two groups of women with a previous or present ovarian endometriosis did, however, have similar pregnancy, implantation and live birth rates. In conclusion, ovarian endometriosis does not reduce IVF outcome compared with tubal factor. Furthermore, laparoscopic removal of endometriomas does not improve IVF results, but may cause a decrease of ovarian responsiveness to gonadotropins."}
{"id": "21668318", "title": "Leydig cell tumour of the ovary localised with positron emission tomography/computed tomography.", "content": "Leydig cell tumour of the ovary localised with positron emission tomography/computed tomography. Androgen-producing ovarian tumours can lead to assessment difficulties because of their small size. We present a case of virilising steroid cell ovarian tumour in a 41-year-old woman localised with Fluorine-18-Deoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography ((18)FDG-PET/CT). Although the biochemical evaluation pointed to an ovarian source of androgen, diagnostic attempts to localise the source of hyperandrogenism with transvaginal ultrasound (US), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of pelvis failed. Additional evaluation with (18)FDG-PET/CT showed an increased uptake in the right ovary. A laparoscopic right oophorectomy was performed and histopathology examination revealed a 1.2-cm Leydig cell tumour. The patient showed regression of clinical signs."}
{"id": "21666466", "title": "Minimally invasive gynecologic procedures.", "content": "Minimally invasive gynecologic procedures. To evaluate different surgical options for the treatment of endometriomas. A heated debate is currently under way between advocates of excisional surgery and the ablative approach. With papers increasingly focusing on ovarian reserve after endometrioma surgery, a review was mandatory. Excisional and ablative surgery are well known procedures. This paper describes a combined technique that allows preservation of ovarian volume and antral follicle count. The question of postoperative ovarian reserve is widely discussed and the risk of malignancy is addressed. Some previously published reviews have probably too hastily concluded that excision is a better option than ablation. They failed to analyze the ovarian reserve, which is often significantly decreased after excisional surgery.This manuscript clearly explains the crucial importance of preserving the ovarian blood supply, as well as the ovarian cortex containing all primordial follicles, during surgery."}
{"id": "21656182", "title": "Successful extracorporeal mature oocyte harvesting after laparoscopic oophorectomy following controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for the purpose of fertility preservation in a patient with borderline ovarian tumor.", "content": "Successful extracorporeal mature oocyte harvesting after laparoscopic oophorectomy following controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for the purpose of fertility preservation in a patient with borderline ovarian tumor. To report the successful extracorporeal recovery of mature oocytes after laparoscopic oophorectomy following ovarian hyperstimulation for the purpose of fertility preservation in a patient with recurrent serous borderline ovarian tumor. A 25-year-old nulligravida woman presented with recurrence of a borderline serous adenocarcinoma in the right ovary after been treated conservatively with left oophorectomy for the same. The patient underwent ovarian stimulation followed by a laparoscopic oophorectomy and ex-vivo retrieval of oocytes. Twenty two oocytes were recovered: fourteen metaphases II, two metaphases I, five prophases I and one degenerate. Mature oocytes were successfully retrieved ex-vivo from the hyperstimulated ovary recovered via laparoscopy. The procedure can be performed in a quick manner, with standard equipment, without damaging the ovary, the follicles or the oocytes, and without the risk of cancer cell spillage associated with the standard transvaginal oocyte retrieval if there is concern of ovarian surface/peritoneal metastatic disease."}
{"id": "21633306", "title": "Rate of port-site metastasis is uncommon in patients undergoing robotic surgery for gynecological malignancies.", "content": "Rate of port-site metastasis is uncommon in patients undergoing robotic surgery for gynecological malignancies. To describe the rate of port-site metastasis in patients who underwent robotic surgery for suspected gynecological malignancy. Using a prospective database, we identified all patients who underwent robotic surgery performed by the Gynecologic Oncology service at 1 institution between December 2006 and March 2010. Records of patients with confirmed malignancy were reviewed for clinicopathological data and information about port-site metastasis. One hundred eighty-one patients met the inclusion criteria. The median age was 55.4 years (range, 19-82 years), and the median body mass index was 29.6 kg/m\u00b2 (range, 17.9-70.7 kg/m\u00b2). Port-site metastases were detected in 2 patients (1.1%) at 3 weeks (patient 1) and 11 months (patient 2) after surgery. Patient 1 underwent surgery for an adnexal mass, and pathological examination revealed gallbladder adenocarcinoma metastatic to the ovary. She had a recurrence in the right lateral abdominal wall robotic trocar site with concurrent metastases in the gallbladder fossa and liver. Patient 2 was diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of unclear (cervical vs endometrial) origin. Imaging showed metastases in pelvic and para-aortic lymph nodes. She underwent laparoscopy and was found intraoperatively to have gross disease on the right ovary. The patient underwent right salpingo-oophorectomy and chemoradiation. She had residual disease in the cervix and subsequently underwent robotic hysterectomy and left salpingo-oophorectomy. Pathological examination revealed endometrial cancer. She had a recurrence at the transumbilical trocar site concurrent with retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy and carcinomatosis. There were no cases of isolated port-site metastasis. The rate of port-site metastasis after robotic surgery in women with gynecological cancer is low and similar to the rate for laparoscopic procedures."}
{"id": "21633305", "title": "Preoperative bowel preparation in gynecologic oncology: a review of practice patterns and an impetus to change.", "content": "Preoperative bowel preparation in gynecologic oncology: a review of practice patterns and an impetus to change. Preoperative mechanical bowel preparation (MBP) is commonly used in gynecologic oncology (GO). We wished to assess the practice patterns and beliefs within the Society of Gynecologic Oncologists of Canada (GOC), review the literature on MBP as applicable to GO surgeries, and construct recommendations specific to our subspecialty. A 23-question, 10-minute Internet survey was sent to 110 GOC members regarding their use, rationale, and understanding of the literature pertaining to MBP for GO surgeries. The historical justifications for using MBP before pelvic and abdominal surgery were identified through literature review. Half of respondents (48%) routinely order MBP despite acknowledgment in 77% that there was no good evidence to support its use. Use encompassed all cancer sites (53% ovary, 32% endometrial, 27% cervical, and 8% vulvar) and approaches (43% laparotomy and 29% laparoscopy/robotics). The most common reasons cited for ordering MBP were to decrease risk of anastomotic leak and improve visualization. In the last 5 years, use of MBP has decreased in most (77%) GOC respondents. Of all respondents, 71% felt that formal recommendations specific to the field of GO would be helpful. None of the arguments for using MBP could be justified in the literature. In contrast, common and often serious sequelae from MBP are frequently described. Admitted use of bowel preparation in other surgical specialties was even higher (53%-99%) than within the GOC. There is no literature to support the routine use of MBP in GO. Published recommendations (herein) should support and guide change in practice."}
{"id": "21632097", "title": "Feasibility of laparoscopic extraperitoneal pelvic lymphadenectomy in gynecologic malignancies.", "content": "Feasibility of laparoscopic extraperitoneal pelvic lymphadenectomy in gynecologic malignancies. The aim of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of laparoscopic extraperitoneal pelvic lymphadenectomy (LEPL) in gynecologic malignancies. Twenty-nine women with cervical, ovarian or endometrial cancer underwent laparoscopic extraperitoneal pelvic lymphadenectomy between July 2008 and December 2010. The operating time, nodal yield, blood loss and complications were recorded. The number of patients with cervical, ovarian and endometrial carcinoma was 14, 3 and 12, respectively. The median age of patients was 48.9\u00b112.6 years. The median body mass index was 25.6\u00b14.8. Conversion to the transperitoneal laparoscopic approach was necessary in 6 patients for peritoneal tears causing CO(2) gas leakage. Among the remaining 23 patients, the median operating time for laparoscopic extraperitoneal pelvic lymphadenectomy was 69 min (range 50-126 min), and the median estimated blood loss was 20 ml (range 5-105 ml). The median total number of resected nodes was 26 (range 14-42), and complications related to the procedure were rare. Laparoscopic extraperitoneal pelvic lymphadenectomy is a feasible and safe procedure. It can be used in gynecologic malignancies."}
{"id": "21620559", "title": "Laparoendoscopic single-site surgery (LESS) for adnexal tumors: one surgeon's initial experience over a one-year period.", "content": "Laparoendoscopic single-site surgery (LESS) for adnexal tumors: one surgeon's initial experience over a one-year period. In this article, we present our initial experience with laparoendoscopic single-site surgery (LESS) for adnexal tumors and report on the safety and feasibility of this technique. We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of the first 94 consecutive patients who underwent LESS for adnexal tumors at Cheil General Hospital and Women's Healthcare Center, Seoul, Korea between March 2009 and July 2010. Our retrospective chart review was approved by our local Institutional Review Board (IRB). We used a homemade wound retractor and surgical glove as the single-port device. All LESS procedures were performed by a single surgeon. Of 94 patients, 90 (95.7%) successfully underwent LESS for the treatment of an adnexal tumor. The mean age of the patients was 38.51 \u00b1 11.65 years, and the mean body mass index was 21.22 \u00b1 2.79 kg/m(2). The mean operative time was 50.33 \u00b1 13.26 min, and the mean diameter of the adnexal tumors was 6.26 \u00b1 3.19 cm. The procedures included enucleation of an ovarian cyst (n=56), salpingo-oophorectomy (n=32), and salpingectomy (n=4). Two cases with suspicion for malignancy underwent conversion to laparotomy (2.1%), and frozen sections revealed serous ovarian adenocarcinoma (n=1) and chronic inflammation (n=1). Except for those two cases, the pathologic diagnoses were confirmed as mature cystic teratoma (n=30), endometriosis (n=24), mucinous cystadenoma (n=14), serous cystadenoma (n=14), borderline ovarian tumor (n=4), hydrosalpinx (n=4), serous adenocarcinoma of the salpinx (n=1), and ectopic pregnancy (n=1). Two cases required an additional trocar for adhesiolysis of severe pelvic adhesion. No major intraoperative or postoperative complications occurred. Our results suggest that LESS is a safe and feasible alternative to conventional laparoscopic surgery for the treatment of adnexal tumors."}
{"id": "21614927", "title": "Diffuse intraabdominal fibrosis and inflammation mimicking peritoneal carcinomatosis recurred after surgery for borderline ovarian tumor misdiagnosed by 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography.", "content": "Diffuse intraabdominal fibrosis and inflammation mimicking peritoneal carcinomatosis recurred after surgery for borderline ovarian tumor misdiagnosed by 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography. 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) adds to conventional imaging in the detection and staging of peritoneal carcinomatosis. Herein we report a 27-year-old woman with multiple intraperitoneal masses detected by 18F-FDG-PET, suggesting peritoneal carcinomatosis. She had undergone laparoscopic unilateral oophorectomy for a left ovarian mucinous borderline tumor approximately five years before. Based on imaging and intraoperative findings, multiple intraabdominal masses strongly suggested peritoneal recurrence from a previous ovarian borderline tumor, but it finally proved to be inflammation and fibrosis on histopathologic examination. Although 18F-FDG-PET is well known to be a highly sensitive imaging tool for identification of peritoneal carcinomatosis, FDG uptake is not tumor-specific. Therefore, the possibility of a false-positive diagnosis due to benign conditions, such as inflammation, should always be taken into consideration."}
{"id": "21614917", "title": "Borderline mucinous tumor arising in a paratubal cyst: a case report.", "content": "Borderline mucinous tumor arising in a paratubal cyst: a case report. Paratubal borderline tumors (PBTs) are found incidentally at frozen section or permanant pathology, and are extremely rare. We describe the first case of a paratubal borderline mucinous tumor (PBMT). A 20-year-old woman was referred with a complex right adnexal mass on pelvic sonogram. She underwent laparoscopic paratubal cyst enucleation. We used an endobag for cyst extraction. Cyst rupture or tearing of the endobag in the laparoscopic field was absent. Frozen section analysis was reported as a borderline mucinous tumor of low malignant potential. Currently, she has had no evidence of disease recurrence after a laparoscopic fertility-sparing staging procedure. A proper preoperative differential diagnosis of an adnexal mass is difficult. Thus, laparoscopy is needed in large or symptomatic cysts. Although growth, torsion and malignancy are rare in paratubal cysts, the possibility of tumor seeding should be excluded with use of an endobag."}
{"id": "21614915", "title": "Peptide YY producing strumal carcinoid tumor of the ovary.", "content": "Peptide YY producing strumal carcinoid tumor of the ovary. Primary ovarian carcinoid tumor is uncommon and represents less than 0.1% of ovarian malignancies. The strumal carcinoid may be complicated by carcinoid syndrome induced by peptide YY (PYY). We describe a 45-year-old woman with a bilateral ovarian tumor diagnosed through periodical gynecological examination. She presented with severe constipation. Right ovarian cyst laparoscopically resected was diagnosed as a strumal carcinoid tumor; the left one was mature cystic teratoma. No metastatic findings were seen macroscopically on the ovarian surface and pelvic peritoneum. Constipation was drastically improved by resecting the tumor. The carcinoid tumor cells were positive for tumor-producing PYY by mRNA analysis. It is important to be aware of this entity in the pathological diagnosis of ovarian tumors, in the presence of any clinical indicator of carcinoid tumor/syndrome, as it carries a markedly better prognosis and clinical outcome in comparison with most other malignant ovarian tumors."}
{"id": "21614520", "title": "Identification of common mechanisms between endometriosis and ovarian cancer.", "content": "Identification of common mechanisms between endometriosis and ovarian cancer. To determine common molecular markers between endometriosis and ovarian cancer. Patients included women who underwent laparoscopic excision of ovarian endometriotic lesions (n = 7), healthy non-pregnant women with normal pelvises, who underwent excision of normal peritoneum (n = 7). Two epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) cell lines were also utilized. Expression of transforming growth factor (TGF)-\u03b21, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), estrogen receptor (ER)-1\u03b1, progesterone receptor (PR), androgen receptor (AR), and aromatase was evaluated by real-time RT-PCR. Endometriosis and EOC cells manifested significantly higher mRNA levels of TGF-\u03b21, COX-2, VEGF, ER-1\u03b1, AR, and aromatase, while they expressed significantly lower mRNA levels of PR. Increased TGF-\u03b21, COX-2, VEGF, ER-1\u03b1, AR, and aromatase and decreased PR in endometriotic as well as EOC cells suggests a potential association between these two disease processes. This association is important, as it may reveal common mechanisms for both diseases."}
{"id": "21571247", "title": "Evaluation and management of adnexal mass in pregnancy.", "content": "Evaluation and management of adnexal mass in pregnancy. With widespread use of ultrasound in early pregnancy, incidental adnexal masses are detected frequently. This article reviews the differential diagnosis, appropriate evaluation, and current treatment options for adnexal masses in pregnancy. With the increased sophistication of ultrasound, observation has become a more viable option. However, for those masses suspicious for malignancy, at risk for torsion, or clinically symptomatic, surgical management is warranted. With increasing numbers of successful laparoscopic procedures reported in pregnancy, laparoscopy appears to be a safe option with trained and experienced providers."}
{"id": "21566518", "title": "Lymph node counts in endometrial cancer: expectations versus reality.", "content": "Lymph node counts in endometrial cancer: expectations versus reality. It has been proposed that an adequate lymph node (LN) dissection in cases of endometrial carcinoma (CA) should contain a determined number of pelvic (P) and/or para-aortic (PA) LNs. As a result, our surgeons have certain expectations regarding the number of PLNs and PALNs reported per case. Failure to meet these expectations has become a challenge in our practice. In an attempt to solve this problem, we wanted to ascertain whether a pathology factor such as disregarding small LNs not detected on gross examination was responsible for any discrepancy between expected and reported LN counts. To achieve this goal, we evaluated the impact of the microscopic examination of residual adipose tissue (AT) after the routine processing of LN dissections performed as part of the staging procedure for patients with endometrial CA (endometrioid, serous, and clear cell CA) on the LN counts and status for hysterectomies performed from 2006 to the present. In addition, we assessed whether other factors such as surgical procedure type, operating surgeon, histologic subtype of CA, depth of myometrial invasion, or body mass index had an impact on the number of LNs obtained. The number of PLNs and PALNs were recorded. All LN specimens were processed by dissecting LNs from the surrounding AT. The number of LNs submitted per cassette was recorded in the section code. In cases in which residual AT was submitted, hematoxylin and eosin-stained slides of the additional tissue were reviewed to determine the number and size of any additional LNs and their status. Two hundred fifty-eight patients had a median of 11 PLNs (range, 1 to 38) and 6 PALNs (range, 1 to 25). Fifty of 78 cases (64%) in which residual AT was submitted had additional LNs (median size, 4.0 mm): median 2 PLNs and 3 PALNs. There was no significant association between the number of LNs obtained and whether the residual AT was submitted (PLN, P=0.2; PALN, P=0.78). There were no cases in which metastatic endometrial CA was present exclusively in the additional LNs. Compared with open hysterectomy, laparoscopically and robotically obtained lymphadenectomy specimens had an average of 3 and 0.8 more PALNs, respectively (P=0.002). No similar association was found for PLNs or total LNs. Evidence for some difference in LN counts between surgeons was observed. No evidence of an association between body mass index, histologic subtype of endometrial CA or depth of myometrial invasion and LN count was identified. In our experience, the standard processing of lymphadenectomy specimens adequately reflects the actual numbers of LNs obtained in cases of endometrial CA. Submitting the residual AT does not increase the number of reported LNs or the detection of positive LNs. Additional studies are required to determine the actual numbers of PLNs and PALNs present and to determine whether a revision of the number of LNs required to consider a lymphadenectomy as adequate is necessary."}
{"id": "21559924", "title": "[Radiological diagnostics of ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Radiological diagnostics of ovarian cancer]. Ovarian cancer is diagnosed in stages FIGO III/IV in up to 75% of cases. Despite medical advances the 5-year survival rate has only been moderately increased to 44% during recent years. The initial evaluation is performed using transvaginal ultrasound (US) (sensitivity 90-96%, specificity 98-99% for detection of ovarian lesions). Probably benign findings will be followed-up sonographically or will be laparoscopically excised. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) allows a definitive diagnosis in more than 90% of sonographically indeterminate lesions. Malignant lesions require computer tomography (CT) staging and treatment in gynecology centers in a multidisciplinary setting. Peritoneal implants larger than 1 cm are detected equally by CT and MRI. Detection of ascites which is associated with peritoneal carcinomatosis in up to 80% of cases is equally feasible by US, CT and MRI."}
{"id": "21554851", "title": "[Inguinal endometriosis. Case report and review of the literature].", "content": "[Inguinal endometriosis. Case report and review of the literature]. Endometriosis is a common gynaecological condition which affects women during their reproductive years. It is characterized by ectopic endometrial tissue responding to hormonal changes associated with menstrual cycle. Aetiology is unknown and symptoms are quite aspecific (dysmenorrhoea, pelvic pain, infertility or pelvic mass). Ultrasonography (US) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) are accurate diagnostic exams but laparoscopy represents the gold standard in diagnosis and therapy (excision or ablation). Medical treatment pre or postoperatively may be useful prolonging the symptom free interval. In this paper we report the case of a young woman affected by an inguinal mass: diagnostic examinations and histological specimen revealed to be an endometrial focus. We review the literature focusing the diagnostic techniques and relationships between endometriosis and ovarian cancer (endometrioid and clear cell subtypes)."}
{"id": "21545961", "title": "Laparoscopic adnexectomy of suspect ovarian masses: surgical technique used to avert spillage.", "content": "Laparoscopic adnexectomy of suspect ovarian masses: surgical technique used to avert spillage. Herein is described and evaluated a safe laparoscopic adnexectomy technique for retroperitoneal dissection of suspect ovarian masses including the underlying peritoneum fixed to the ovary. Adopting this technique in cases of suspect adnexal masses enables the reduction of spilling and ensures an intact specimen. Twenty-two consecutive patients with suspect adnexal masses 10 cm or smaller underwent laparoscopic adnexectomy. Patients with bilateral suspect ovarian masses that required bilateral adnexectomy were enrolled only if they were no longer of childbearing age. Laparoscopy was feasible in all patients. No tumor spillage occurred. In 5 patients (23.6%), minilaparotomy was required to extract the specimen. Mean (SD) operating time was 80 (35-160) minutes, and estimated blood loss was 50 (10-100) mL. No major intraoperative complications occurred. Median (range) postoperative stay was 1 (1-3) day. Definitive pathologic analysis revealed benign pathologic conditions in 18 patients (81.8%), an ovarian tumor with low malignant potential in 3 patients (13.7%), and ovarian cancer in 1 patient (4.5%) in whom findings at frozen-section analysis were inconclusive. Median (range) follow-up of malignant ovarian tumors and of tumors with low malignant potential was 27 (21-29) months. No recurrence or port-site metastasis developed during follow-up. The data are encouraging for adoption of this technique to avert spillage during laparoscopic management of suspect adnexal masses, especially those firmly adherent to the peritoneum. However, the procedure must be validated in a larger series of patients to standardize the technique."}
{"id": "21543929", "title": "Fertility-sparing surgery for borderline ovarian tumors: oncologic safety and reproductive outcomes.", "content": "Fertility-sparing surgery for borderline ovarian tumors: oncologic safety and reproductive outcomes. To evaluate the oncological safety and reproductive outcomes of patients with borderline ovarian tumors (BOTs) treated with fertility-sparing surgery. Patients with BOTs who underwent radical or fertility-sparing surgery between 1997 and 2009 were identified from an institutional database. The recurrence rates were compared between the 2 surgery groups. To compare the reproductive outcomes, all patients who underwent fertility-sparing surgery were interviewed by telephone. One hundred forty-three patients underwent radical surgery, and 155 patients underwent fertility-sparing surgery. After a median interval of 38 months from the initial surgery (range, 10-77 months), 19 patients had a recurrence. The recurrence rate was similar in the radical and fertility-sparing surgery groups (4.9% and 7.7%, respectively; P = 0.280). In the fertility-sparing surgery group, however, the main site of recurrence was the remaining ovary that was successfully salvaged with a second round of fertility-sparing surgery. Of 51 patients who attempted to conceive, 45 patients (88.2%) were successful and resulted in 54 term deliveries. Fertility-sparing surgery for BOTs is safe and can result in future pregnancies, suggesting that such surgery should be considered for young patients who desire preservation of fertility."}
{"id": "21503633", "title": "Role of minimally invasive surgery in staging of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Role of minimally invasive surgery in staging of ovarian cancer. Since the introduction of laparoscopy and robotic surgery in gynecologic practice in the last several decades, use of these minimally invasive surgical techniques has increased dramatically. The role of minimally invasive surgical techniques continues to expand because they offer reduced intraoperative and postoperative complications, less intraoperative blood loss, and a shorter postoperative recovery. Despite initial concerns about the use of minimally invasive surgery in gynecologic oncology, this approach has been shown to be safe and effective in the management of uterine and cervical cancer, and minimally invasive surgical management of these malignancies is now commonplace. Concerns remain regarding the use of minimally invasive surgery for the staging and management of ovarian cancer, including concerns regarding the adequacy of abdominal exploration and staging with minimally invasive approaches compared to traditional laparotomy and the risks and implications of intra-operative tumor cyst rupture and port-site metastases. However, several case series, retrospective reviews, and case-control studies have demonstrated that minimally invasive surgery is both safe and effective for the staging of borderline ovarian tumors and early-stage epithelial ovarian cancer when performed by a trained gynecologic oncologist. Data to support the role of minimally invasive surgery for advanced epithelial ovarian cancer are scant and use of minimally invasive surgery in this setting is not recommended."}
{"id": "21499894", "title": "Neoadjuvant intraperitoneal chemotherapy with paclitaxel for the radical surgical treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis in ovarian cancer: a prospective pilot study.", "content": "Neoadjuvant intraperitoneal chemotherapy with paclitaxel for the radical surgical treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis in ovarian cancer: a prospective pilot study. The admitted benefits of intraperitoneal chemotherapy during postoperative administration for the treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis from ovarian origin are limited by their associated morbidity and restricted diffusion by the presence of multiple intra-abdominal adherences. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the security, effectiveness, and cytoreduction optimization of intraperitoneal paclitaxel administration previously to radical surgery/peritonectomy/HIPEC (hyperthermic intraoperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy) either in monotherapy or combined with intravenous carboplatin. Prospective pilot study of 10 patients with ovarian peritoneal carcinomatosis in stage IIIc-FIGO without previous treatment. After staging of the diseases by laparoscopy, five patients received paclitaxel by weekly intraperitoneal administration (60\u00a0mg/m(2), 10 cycles), and other five patients additionally received intravenous carboplatin every 21\u00a0days (AUC 6, 4 cycles). Subsequently radical surgery/peritonectomy with HIPEC was performed. The presence of moderate abdominal pain was the most common (70%) side effect associated with neoadjuvant paclitaxel intraperitoneal administration. The intravenous carboplatin administration was not associated with significant increase in adverse effects. It boosted intraperitoneal paclitaxel-associated antitumoral activity with a high average decrease in Index Cancer Peritoneal (21.2 vs. 14.4, P\u00a0=\u00a00.066) and CA 125(1,053 vs. 346, P\u00a0=\u00a00.043). All the patients who received combined neoadjuvant chemotherapy obtained R0 cytoreduction. Five-year overall survival was 62%. The intraperitoneal paclitaxel weekly administration combined with intravenous carboplatin administration prior to radical surgery/peritonectomy with HIPEC is a safe and effective option in the treatment of ovarian peritoneal carcinomatosis. This study shows the possibility to investigate other forms of intraperitoneal chemotherapy and their combinations thoroughly."}
{"id": "21495801", "title": "Unusually rapid growth of bilateral endometriomas and acute bilateral hydronephrosis.", "content": "Unusually rapid growth of bilateral endometriomas and acute bilateral hydronephrosis. Ultrasonography can detect ovarian endometriomas, but negative findings cannot exclude other localizations of endometriosis, especially in symptomatic patients. We describe a case of sudden development of large bilateral endometriomas after a series of negative ultrasound scans, causing bilateral hydronephrosis. Our patient is a 32-year-old nulligravida with long-lasting dysmenorrhea, urinary symptoms, and familiarity for endometriosis, who had voluntarily discontinued oral contraceptives. Various pelvic scans had not shown pathological findings. Five months following the last negative scan, she presented with pain and increase of abdominal girth. Ultrasonography and computed tomography showed large ovarian cysts (16 cm right - 10 cm left) and hydronephrosis bilaterally. She underwent conservative surgery followed by GnRH analogs. At a 6-months follow-up, she was symptom-free and ultrasonography showed no recurrence. Endometriosis has still an unknown mechanism of proliferation and its clinical behavior or progression is highly unpredictable. Severe uropathy is commonly related to direct ureteral involvement, but can also depend on an ab-extrinseco compression by large, rapidly growing endometriomas. Women at risk of endometriosis, who are not receiving empirical medical treatment, should be adequately and regularly assessed via pelvic ultrasonography and/or submitted to diagnostic laparoscopy in order to prevent serious consequences such as silent renal loss."}
{"id": "21465605", "title": "GI-RADS reporting system for ultrasound evaluation of adnexal masses in clinical practice: a prospective multicenter study.", "content": "GI-RADS reporting system for ultrasound evaluation of adnexal masses in clinical practice: a prospective multicenter study. To assess the clinical usefulness of a structured reporting system based on ultrasound findings for management of adnexal masses. This was a prospective multicenter study comprising 432 adnexal masses in 372 women (mean age, 44.0 (range, 13-78) years) over a 36-month period. Ninety-three (25%) women were postmenopausal and 279 (75%) women were premenopausal. Patients were evaluated with transvaginal ultrasound by one of three examiners expert in gynecological ultrasound. Reporting was provided to referring clinicians according to the Gynecologic Imaging Report and Data System (GI-RADS) classification. A predetermined management protocol was offered to referral clinicians. It was suggested that patients classified as GI-RADS 2 be managed with follow-up scan, patients classified as GI-RADS 3 undergo laparoscopic surgery and patients classified as GI-RADS 4 or 5 be referred to a gynecologic oncologist. Definitive histologic diagnosis was available in 370 cases and 62 additional cases were considered as benign because of spontaneous resolution during follow-up. These outcomes were used as the gold standard for calculating the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV), positive likelihood ratio (LR+) and negative likelihood ratio (LR-) of GI-RADS classification for identifying adnexal masses at high risk of malignancy, considering GI-RADS 4 and 5 as being malignant. Of the 432 tumors, 112 were malignant and 320 benign. The GI-RADS classification rate was as follows: GI-RADS 2, 92 (21%) cases; GI-RADS 3, 184 (43%) cases; GI-RADS 4, 40 (9%) cases; GI-RADS 5, (27%) 116 cases. Sensitivity for this system was 99.1% (95% CI, 95.1-99.8%), specificity was 85.9% (95% CI, 81.7-89.3%), LR+ was 7.05 (95% CI, 5.37-9.45) and LR- was 0.01 (95% CI, 0.001-0.07). PPV and NPV were 71.1% and 99.6%, respectively. The GI-RADS reporting system performed well in identifying adnexal masses at high risk of malignancy and seems to be useful for clinical decision-making."}
{"id": "21463889", "title": "Intraoperative fluorescence imaging of peritoneal dissemination of ovarian carcinomas. A preclinical study.", "content": "Intraoperative fluorescence imaging of peritoneal dissemination of ovarian carcinomas. A preclinical study. Improvement of the management and outcome of ovarian cancers may require intraoperative detection and therapeutic intervention to treat minimal residual disease after complete surgery. The aim of this study was to validate the importance of fluorescence in the peroperative detection of human ovarian adenocarcinoma cells and to determine its efficiency in detecting infra millimetric tumor metastases. A fluorescent RAFT-(cRGD)\u2084 tracer molecule (AngioStamp\u00ae) was used. The tracer is based on a biomarker, which has a very high affinity for the \u03b1(v)\u03b2\u2083 integrin, which is overexpressed in a large ratio of cancer cells and neovessel endothelial cells during angiogenesis. Infrared fluorescence was visualized with Fluobeam\u00ae, an open fluorescent imaging system that could potentially be used in peroperative conditions in the future. This novel technique allowed the specific detection of residual tumor deposits and inframillimetric metastases, smaller than 500\u03bcm, which were resected under fluorescent guidance. AngioStamp\u00ae was able to detect all types of cell lines, derived from human ovarian adenocarcinomas, before or after chemotherapy treatment in animals. The effectiveness of AngioStamp\u00ae for the detection of various human ovarian adenocarcinomas was assessed on 10 different fragments of tumor, implanted subcutaneously in nude mice. All implanted tumor fragments were visualized by AngioStamp\u00ae. The high rate of recurrence after apparently complete surgery and/or complete clinical response to chemotherapy implies that most patients have undetected minimal residual disease. Novel techniques such as laparoscopic or laparotomic fluorescence may prove to be crucial in reassessing the definition of primary outcome in ovarian cancer management."}
{"id": "21450415", "title": "[Laparoscopy for surgical treatment for uterine and ovarian cancer in France: a national practice survey].", "content": "[Laparoscopy for surgical treatment for uterine and ovarian cancer in France: a national practice survey]. The aim of this study was to describe the use of laparoscopy in gynecologic malignancies (cervical, endometrial and ovarian cancer, borderline included) in France during year 2005. We have carried out a retrospective national practice survey during 12 months. Each university hospital (45 centers) and each cancer center (20 centers) received a questionnaire to evaluate their practice in laparoscopy. Centers performing less than ten cases per year in this indication were excluded. Among 65 centers, 31 answered and 19 were included. A total of 1397 surgical procedures for gynaecologic cancer was analysed. Laparoscopy was performed in 714 cases. In these cases, 51.1% (675 cases) of patients were treated by laparoscopy in France during year 2005. Seventy-four surgical procedures for cancer were performed each year per center and among them 38 by laparoscopy. The average cases number is 9.4 per surgeon. We found that 51.1% of cases of gynaecologic cancer surgery were performed by laparoscopy in France during 2005, representing 38 cases per centers and 9.4 per surgeon per year. This suggests that access to training for surgeons and care for patients is difficult."}
{"id": "21450024", "title": "Underuse of ovarian transposition in reproductive-aged cancer patients treated by primary or adjuvant pelvic irradiation.", "content": "Underuse of ovarian transposition in reproductive-aged cancer patients treated by primary or adjuvant pelvic irradiation. To investigate the application status of ovarian transposition (OT) in reproductive-aged cancer patients undergoing radiation therapy. Between November 1999 and December 2008, 2524 patients had received pelvic irradiation at Seoul National University Hospital. We filtered the patients with the indications of (i) within 12 to 40 years of age, and (ii) receiving primary or adjuvant pelvic irradiation. There were 241 patients within 12 to 40 years of age. After excluding 133 patients with metastatic disease or under palliative radiation treatment, 108 patients were discovered appropriate for OT. We analyzed the application status of OT, surgical types of OT, cancer types and radiation types in those 108 patients. Cervical cancer was the major indication (n = 68, 62.9%). Another 37.1% of indicated disease were composed of rectal cancer (n = 19), vulvo-vaginal cancer (n = 4), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (n = 3), and other pelvic tumors (n = 14). Among the 108 patients, only 31 (28.7%) patients had received OT before pelvic irradiation. Most of the operations were applied on cervical cancer patients (n = 29) and only two procedures on rectal and endometrial cancer, respectively. OT had been mostly performed during laparotomy. Laparoscopic procedure was applied in only one case with advanced cervical cancer. Although OT could be a preventive measure of premature ovarian failure from radiation therapy, this procedure has been considerably underused at our institution. This procedure should be applied more widely to preserve the fertility and improve the quality of life in reproductive-aged cancer patients."}
{"id": "21429426", "title": "[Argument about the management and prognostic factors of borderline ovarian tumor].", "content": "[Argument about the management and prognostic factors of borderline ovarian tumor]."}
{"id": "21429425", "title": "[Correct understanding and management of preinvasive diseases and borderline tumors in gynecology].", "content": "[Correct understanding and management of preinvasive diseases and borderline tumors in gynecology]."}
{"id": "21424549", "title": "Accessory ovary in the utero-ovarian ligament: an incidental finding.", "content": "Accessory ovary in the utero-ovarian ligament: an incidental finding. So far, only 21 descriptions of accessory ovary have been reported since 1959. However, the true incidence of this condition is probably underestimated because the pathologic forms (ovarian tumors and endometriosis) are probably more often diagnosed and reported. We report the incident discovery of one right accessory ovary during a laparoscopic tubal sterilization. This accessory ovary was asymptomatic and structurally normal. It was connected serial to the right utero-ovarian ligament and left in situ. There was no other anomaly. Gynaecologic surgeons must be aware of this possibility when removal of the whole ovarian tissue is needed."}
{"id": "21413836", "title": "Laparoscopic second look operation for ovarian cancer: single center experiences.", "content": "Laparoscopic second look operation for ovarian cancer: single center experiences. We compared the clinical outcomes of laparoscopic surgery with those of laparotomy in second-look operations for ovarian cancer. We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 35 patients treated between January 2000 and December 2005. They were categorized into two groups: Laparoscopy versus laparotomy group. Among 35 patients, 18 patients (51.4%) were treated with laparoscopy, and 17 patients (48.6%) were treated with laparotomy. There were no statistically significant differences except for hospital stay (laparoscopy vs. laparotomy five days vs. nine days, p < 0.05). Eight patients (44.4%) in the laparoscopy group and six (35.3%) in the laparotomy group were found to be pathologically positive after the second look operation. There were two recurrences (20.0%) in the laparoscopy group and four (36.4%) in the laparotomy group pathologically negative in the second-look operation (p = 0.557). There were no differences in disease-free survival rates (p = 0.705) between the two groups. The second look operation is an ideal method for histologic comfirmation of recurrent or persistent ovarian cancer. Laparoscopic surgery seems a safe and accurate method for the second-look examination, and can also reduce patient discomfort, hospital stay and morbidity associated with laparotomy."}
{"id": "21411127", "title": "Radical fimbriectomy: a reasonable temporary risk-reducing surgery for selected women with a germ line mutation of BRCA 1 or 2 genes? Rationale and preliminary development.", "content": "Radical fimbriectomy: a reasonable temporary risk-reducing surgery for selected women with a germ line mutation of BRCA 1 or 2 genes? Rationale and preliminary development. Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) is the gold standard prophylactic surgery for BRCA1 or 2 mutation carriers. However, due to the resulting early menopause and fertility desires, young women are reluctant to undergo this procedure. In view of the recent literature on ovarian carcinogenesis, we wish to report a novel conceptual surgical procedure we called \"radical fimbriectomy.\" This procedure is aimed to protect this subset of high-risk women from high-grade serous pelvic carcinoma, while preserving their ovarian function. Women with BRCA mutation, who were scheduled for BSO, were informed of the procedure approved by our local review board. Radical fimbriectomy consists of removing all the tube and the fimbrio-ovarian junction, step immediately followed in this developmental phase by completion oophorectomy. Four methods of partial ovarian transsection were prospectively compared: sharp division, stapler, bipolar division and harmonic scalpel. Surgical safety and pathological alterations were assessed. All specimens underwent extensive pathological evaluation using both SEE-FIM protocol and serial sections. Fourteen women were enrolled in the study. Sharp and EndoGIA\u00ae appeared to be the safest methods of ovarian resection providing the best specimen quality for pathological examination. We believe this technique could be suggested to young mutation carriers reluctant to undergo BSO. This approach is preferable to no prophylactic surgery at all. However, until the safety and validity of this procedure is confirmed by a multi-institutional study, women who undergo radical fimbriectomy should continue to receive regular multimodal evaluation and be advised of the risks involved until they finally accept secondary castration."}
{"id": "21392246", "title": "Outcome of risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy in BRCA carriers and women of unknown mutation status.", "content": "Outcome of risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy in BRCA carriers and women of unknown mutation status. To compare surgical outcomes and occult cancer rates at risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy in BRCA carriers and high-risk women who had not undergone genetic testing. Prospective cohort study. Tertiary high-risk familial gynaecological cancer clinic. Women undergoing risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy between January 2005 and November 2009. Women at high-risk of ovarian/tubal cancer were identified on the basis of the inclusion criteria for the UK Familial Ovarian Cancer Screening Study. Risk management options discussed with 1456 high-risk women included risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy. A strict histopathological protocol with serial slicing was used to assess tubes and ovaries. In total, 308 high-risk women (191 with unknown mutation status; 117 known BRCA1/BRCA2 carriers) chose risk-reducing surgery; 94.5% of procedures were performed laparoscopically. The surgical complication rate was 3.9% (95% CI 2.0-6.7). Four ovarian and ten tubal occult invasive/in situ cancers were found. The overall occult invasive cancer rate was 5.1% (95% CI 1.9-10.83) in BRCA1/BRCA2 carriers and 1.05% (95% CI 0.13-3.73) in untested women. When tubal in situ cancers were included, the overall rate was 4.55% (95% CI 2.5-7.5). Two untested women with tubal carcinoma in situ were subsequently found to be BRCA carriers. The median ages of BRCA carriers (58 years; IQR 13.4 years) and untested women (49.5 years; IQR 20.6 years) with occult invasive/in situ cancer were not significantly different (P = 0.454). Both high-risk women of unknown mutation status and BRCA carriers have a significant (although higher in the latter group) rate of occult invasive/in situ tubal/ovarian cancer, with a similar age distribution at detection. The data has important implications for counselling high-risk women on the likelihood of occult malignancy and perioperative complications at risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy. Women with occult disease should be offered genetic testing."}
{"id": "21391829", "title": "Laparoscopic or laparoscopic-assisted pelvic surgery in small infants: our experience.", "content": "Laparoscopic or laparoscopic-assisted pelvic surgery in small infants: our experience. The objective of this study was to review our experience of laparoscopic (LA) or laparoscopic-assisted pelvic surgery (LAPS) in small infants. The medical records of 35 patients who underwent an LA or LAPS between January 2007 and June 2010 were studied and 21 patients who were younger than 1 year or whose weight was less than 10 \u2009kg were included. Indications, procedures, results, and complications were analyzed. The indications of surgery and procedures done were impalpable undescended testes (7 cases--3 single-stage orchidopexy and 4 Fowler Stephen stage I ligation of testicular vessels), Hirschsprung's disease (HD; 5 cases--all laparoscopic-assisted transanal pull-through), anorectal malformation (ARM; 3 cases--all laparoscopic-assisted pull-through), disorders of sexual differentiation (3 cases--1 herniotomy and 2 gonadal biopsy), sacrococcygeal teratoma (1 case--laparoscopic mobilization of pelvic component and posterior sagittal excision), and ovarian mass (2 cases; laparoscopic oophorectomy). There were 14 males, 4 females, and 3 of indeterminate sex. All procedures could be successfully completed without conversion. There was no anesthesia-related complication or need for postoperative ventilatory support. There were no immediate procedure-related complications. One female child with ARM had rectal mucosal prolapse; 1 HD case had rectovaginal fistula that healed following fecal diversion. The major advantages of laparoscopy in different indications were magnified access into the depth of pelvis and early frozen section biopsies in HD, accurate placement of neoanus in the center of muscle complex in ARM, early ligation of vessels and avoidance of laparotomy in sacrococcygeal teratoma, ease of decision making and better mobilization of vessels in undescended testes, and diagnostic accuracy and therapeutic procedure in ambiguous genitalia. Laparoscopic pelvic surgery in small infants is a safe procedure with advantage of magnification, access, and cosmesis."}
{"id": "21377389", "title": "[Spontaneous ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome in a pregnancy with hypothyroidism].", "content": "[Spontaneous ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome in a pregnancy with hypothyroidism]. We report the management of spontaneous ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome in a 23-year-old patient, diagnosed at 8 gestational weeks, in a context of moderate hypothyroidism. The etiology of spontaneous ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome should seek hypersecretion of glycoprotein hormones (hCG, TSH, FSH and LH) and/or mutation of FSH and LH receptors. It will eliminate an incipient ovarian neoplasia. The laparoscopic exploration can be done if diagnosis doubt persists. A diagnostic algorithm can be proposed."}
{"id": "21368476", "title": "[A case of emergency operation for pedicle torsion of ovarian tumor during bevacizumab therapy].", "content": "[A case of emergency operation for pedicle torsion of ovarian tumor during bevacizumab therapy]. We report a case of torsion of ovarian carcinoma pedicle during chemotherapy with bevacizumab and FOLFIRI. A 47-year-old-female who had undergone laparoscopic-assisted sigmoidectomy for sigmoid cancer with multiple metastatic liver tumors, was treated with 3 courses of FOLFOX4 and 9 courses of FOLFIRI. Bevacizumab (BV) was started to administer with FOLFIRI since a CT scan had revealed that metastatic liver tumors had enlarged . Four days after final administration of BV (13th course), she presented lower abdominal pain. CT scan showed an enlarged right ovary sized 20 cm, but no findings suggesting bowel perforation; therefore we assumed her pain was due to enlarged ovarian tumor, which might be metastasis from sigmoid cancer. Increased oral morphine could not relieve her pain. Then, along with sufficient information about the risks of the operation caused by BV, we proposed an operation to remove her enlarged ovary. Day 16 after final administration of BV, we undertook a laparotomy by lower median incision, and found a twisted right adnex with large necrotic ovarian tumor. Pathologists diagnosed the ovarian tumor as primary ovarian cancer. No complication related to BV occurred, and she was moved to the ward for internal medicine 13 days after operation."}
{"id": "21362294", "title": "Endometriosis coexisting with dermoid cyst in a single ovary: a case report.", "content": "Endometriosis coexisting with dermoid cyst in a single ovary: a case report. Endometriosis coexisting with a dermoid cyst of the ovary is extraordinarily rare, although both these benign conditions are said to be common in women in the reproductive age group. There are only two previous case reports,which is evident from our literature review from January 1960 through January 2010. Acute abdomen is one of the greatest diagnostic challenges and easily ignored by the clinicians to exclude the possibility of gynecologic illness. A 35-year-old woman was referred by the doctor in Family clinic. She experienced a three-day period of severe right lower abdominal pain and intermittent vomiting. Ultrasonography identified a bilocular, cystic, hypoechoic, and hyperechoic tumor, 7 cm \u00d7 6 cm \u00d7 6 cm in the right adnexal region. Laparoscopic cystectomy was performed under the impression of ovarian cyst with torsion or hemorrhage. The frozen section was benign and appendiceal status was adequate. Histopathologic examination described an ovarian cyst composed of endometrial-type lining with stromacells (endometriosis) and benign teratoma tissue with plenty of skin appendages and sebaceous glands. We report this unusual and interesting ovarian mass to remind physicians that the usage of the Endobag after cystectomy, the benefits on minimizing operative time, spilled opportunity, and postoperative complications. Laparoscopic techniques for large ovarian masses might be considered. The experience of the surgeon is also very important to prevent misdiagnosis or complication. Further follow up is mandatory for this simultaneous finding of ovarian endometriosis with coincidental dermoid cyst as a separate pathology in single ovary of such a nature. It also presents a challenge to the clinicians and to the pathologists."}
{"id": "21354065", "title": "Minimally invasive staging of endometrial cancer is feasible and safe in elderly women.", "content": "Minimally invasive staging of endometrial cancer is feasible and safe in elderly women. To compare the surgical outcome of elderly and younger patients undergoing laparoscopic or robotic surgical staging of endometrial cancer. Retrospective analysis (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). University-affiliated hospital. One hundred twenty-nine patients comprised the study group. Sixty patients were aged 65 years or older (elderly group), and 69 patients were younger than 65 years (younger group). Abdominal, laparoscopic, or robotic hysterectomy. Among the 109 patients who underwent laparoscopic or robotic staging, there were no differences in estimated blood loss, lymph node count, surgical time, complications, rate of blood transfusion, conversion to laparotomy, and mean postoperative stay between elderly and younger patients. Minimally invasive surgical staging for endometrial cancer is both feasible and safe in the elderly population and offers similar outcomes as in younger patients."}
{"id": "21349125", "title": "Efficacy of laparoscopic stripping for ovarian cysts: histological and clinical findings.", "content": "Efficacy of laparoscopic stripping for ovarian cysts: histological and clinical findings. The aim of our study was to evaluate the efficacy of the laparoscopic stripping technique on benign ovarian masses with respect to healthy ovarian tissue. Seventy-six patients between 14 and 40 years of age were enrolled after receiving a diagnosis of mono-lateral ovarian cyst and underwent laparoscopic surgery for cyst excision with the stripping technique. Histological observations of these specimens were then performed and graded on a semiquantitative scale. The 76 samples included 36 endometriotic cysts, 18 dermoid cysts, 12 serous cysts, and 10 mucinous cysts. Only 26 of the endometriomas showed histological evidence of healthy ovarian tissue that, however, differed morphologically from normal ovarian tissue. The laparoscopic stripping technique used for the excision of different ovarian cysts is a practice that safeguards the organ."}
{"id": "21298536", "title": "Needle oophoropexy: a new simple technique for ovarian transposition prior to pelvic irradiation.", "content": "Needle oophoropexy: a new simple technique for ovarian transposition prior to pelvic irradiation. Irradiation of the pelvis in the treatment of cancers will result in ovarian failure unless the ovaries are shielded adequately. To protect the ovaries, an oophoropexy may be performed. Our aim was to evaluate the feasibility, morbidity, and efficacy of laparoscopic ovarian transposition using a simple percutaneous needle technique. Fifteen patients (ten with rectal cancer and five with Hodgkin's disease) underwent the new laparoscopic oophoropexy technique. Laparoscopic releasing of the ovary was performed by cutting the utero-ovarian ligament followed by placing the ovaries on the anterior abdominal wall. A percutaneous straight needle was introduced through a 2-mm skin incision at the site of fixation. Repositioning of the ovaries was done on an outpatient basis without the need for readmission to the operating theatre. The technique was effective, reliable, and simple with no morbidities. Repositioning was performed simply in the outpatient clinic. At follow-up, 11 patients had evidence of ovarian function. Percutaneous needle transposition of the ovaries is a simple, effective, reliable, and easy-to-perform technique. It has short learning curve and can be done by less experienced laparoscopic surgeons."}
{"id": "21273344", "title": "Should diagnostic laparoscopy be conducted before hormonal treatment in early-stage endometrial cancer?", "content": "Should diagnostic laparoscopy be conducted before hormonal treatment in early-stage endometrial cancer?"}
{"id": "21272147", "title": "Solitary metastasis of a clear cell ovarian adenocarcinoma to the small bowel mucosa.", "content": "Solitary metastasis of a clear cell ovarian adenocarcinoma to the small bowel mucosa. Metastasis of ovarian carcinoma to the small bowel parenchyma without peritoneal dissemination is uncommon. A 63-year-old woman underwent surgery for a clear cell adenocarcinoma of the ovary and received adjuvant chemotherapy. Eighteen months after the operation, she presented with recurrent occult bowel hemorrhage without evidence of an abdominal mass. Nine months later, a rapidly growing abdominal mass was detected. Laparoscopy revealed a solitary tumor of the ileum covered with an intact serosal layer. Partial ileectomy was performed for tumor resection. Histological examination revealed cells resembling the primary ovarian tumor in the mucosal surface of the small bowel along with an intact serosa. The tumor cells were positive for cytokeratin 7 and negative for cytokeratin 20, suggesting an ovarian origin. This is the first report of solitary metastasis of an ovarian carcinoma to the small bowel parenchyma without peritoneal dissemination. Metastasis to the small bowel should be considered in ovarian carcinoma patients with occult gastrointestinal hemorrhage."}
{"id": "21270608", "title": "Comparisons of surgical outcomes, complications, and costs between laparotomy and laparoscopy in early-stage ovarian cancer.", "content": "Comparisons of surgical outcomes, complications, and costs between laparotomy and laparoscopy in early-stage ovarian cancer. The purpose of this study was to compare the surgical outcomes, complications, and costs between laparoscopic staging and laparotomic staging for early-stage ovarian cancer. We evaluated 113 patients who underwent laparoscopy (n = 26) or laparotomy (n = 87) for staging. We retrospectively analyzed patients' demographics and operative variables, including operative time, estimated blood loss, lymph node count, hospital stay, complications, postoperative pain, and return to normal activity. In addition, costs for laparoscopy and laparotomy groups were also compared. The mean operation time was longer in laparoscopy group compared to laparotomy group (227.6 minutes vs 184.6 minutes, P = 0.016). The laparoscopy group had less intraoperative blood loss, less transfusion requirement, shorter postoperative hospital stay, earlier general diet intake, shorter time to adjuvant chemotherapy, and lower postoperative pain score after 6, 24, and 48 hours compared with the laparotomy group. The mean number of lymph node retrievals was comparable between the groups. The incidence of operative complications was lower in the laparoscopy group (7.7%) relative to the laparotomy group (23.0%). The total average cost for staging completed via laparotomy was $1237 and that via laparoscopy was $1998, with significant difference. Complete surgical staging by laparoscopy was achieved in all cases with comparable operative time and less operative complications compared with laparotomy for selected patients with early-stage ovarian cancer. However, the operation costs for laparoscopy were significantly higher than the operation costs for laparotomic staging surgery."}
{"id": "21269890", "title": "Total laparoscopic hysterectomy in early-stage endometrial cancer using an intrauterine manipulator: is it a bias for frozen section analysis? Case-control study.", "content": "Total laparoscopic hysterectomy in early-stage endometrial cancer using an intrauterine manipulator: is it a bias for frozen section analysis? Case-control study. To evaluate whether the systematic use of an intrauterine manipulator influences the accuracy of frozen section analysis in early-stage endometrial cancer. Case-control study (Canadian Task Force classification II-1). Three hundred fourteen consecutive women with early-stage endometrial cancer. Between January 2004 and December 2009, 314 women with early-stage endometrial cancer underwent staging at laparoscopy (case group) or laparotomy (control group). All women in the case group underwent total laparoscopic hysterectomy using an intrauterine manipulator. The positive predictive value of frozen section analysis for myometrial infiltration, histotype, and grade of differentiation was 97.2%, 100%, and 97.2%, respectively. The correct diagnosis rate was of 85.7%. The accuracy of frozen section analysis, rate of correct diagnosis, and rate of tumor vascular invasion did not seem to be significantly modified by systematic use of an intrauterine manipulator for total laparoscopic hysterectomy compared with total abdominal hysterectomy in early-stage endometrial cancer staging. Frozen section analysis of early-stage endometrial cancer is highly accurate, and systematic use of an intrauterine manipulator does not represent a bias for correct evaluation of the specimen."}
{"id": "21269611", "title": "Laparoscopic excision of malignant struma ovarii and 1 year follow-up without further treatment.", "content": "Laparoscopic excision of malignant struma ovarii and 1 year follow-up without further treatment. To report the case of a patient with malignant struma ovarii, which was excised endoscopically. Case study and literature review. Hospital outpatient clinic with subsequent hospitalization. A 40-year-old gravida 5, para 3 with an incidental ultrasonographic finding of a solid right adnexal mass. Endoscopic resection and 1-year follow-up. Treatment options and differential diagnosis. The tumor was excised endoscopically. Malignant struma ovarii is a very rare, highly specialized form of mature ovarian teratoma, in which thyroid tissue is the predominant element. Because of the nonspecific symptoms and a lack of specific features in imaging studies, preoperative diagnosis is very difficult, and there is no standard treatment. Struma ovarii, which is potentially malignant, should be included in the differential diagnosis of an ovarian mass with cystic, solid, or mixed cystic and solid structure. Standardized treatment of malignant struma ovarii still remains undefined; currently the laparoscopic removal of the tumor may be a treatment option, and thyroidectomy and radiotherapy with 131I should be offered."}
{"id": "21266814", "title": "Clinical outcome and clinicopathological characteristics of recurrence after laparoscopic gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer.", "content": "Clinical outcome and clinicopathological characteristics of recurrence after laparoscopic gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer. Although laparoscopic gastrectomy has been recognized as a treatment of early gastric cancer, the indication for laparoscopic gastrectomy with D2 lymph node dissection has remained controversial. D2 lymph node dissection is considered to be feasible for advanced gastric cancer in some high-volume institutions specifically trained for the laparoscopic procedure. This study was undertaken to determine the clinical outcome and clinicopathological characteristics of patients who showed recurrence following laparoscopic gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer. From August 1999 through February 2009, among 805 patients who underwent laparoscopic gastrectomy associated with regional lymph node dissection, a total of 209 patients undergoing gastrectomy associated with lymph node dissection who consequently obtained complete resection for advanced gastric cancer were subjected to the retrospective analysis to evaluate clinical outcome. The mean period of postoperative observation was 1,068 days. The final stages of the 209 cases were as follows: 83 in IB, 56 in II, 46 in IIIA, and 24 in IIIB. The 5-year survival rate was 89.1% in stage IB, 93.1% in stage II, 52.5% in stage IIIA, and 46.5% in stage IIIB, respectively. A total of 27 patients (12.9%) had recurrence. Postoperative recurrence of gastric carcinoma occurred in peritoneal dissemination in 13 patients, liver in 7, distant lymph nodes in 6, ovary in 3, lung in 2, skin in 1, and meninges in 1 patient. There were neither port-site metastases nor locoregional recurrence. The characteristics and the rate of postoperative recurrence after laparoscopic gastrectomy for advanced gastric cancer were not greatly different from those of the open conventional procedure. Although further observation is required to finally conclude long-term survival, laparoscopic radical gastrectomy may possibly be indicated for patients with advanced gastric cancer."}
{"id": "21259415", "title": "Robotic-assisted surgical removal of pelvic schwannoma: a novel approach to a rare variant.", "content": "Robotic-assisted surgical removal of pelvic schwannoma: a novel approach to a rare variant. Robotic-assisted excision of a pelvic schwannoma is presented. A 27 year-old female presented with occasional numbness of the right thigh. Imaging studies revealed a large mass adjacent to the right ovary. Robotic surgery with adjunctive electrophysiological monitoring was performed. The mass was adhered to the L4, L5 roots and was displacing the iliac vessels and the ureter. The tumour bulk was decompressed and total excision was facilitated. Pathology revealed a neoplasm consisting of spindle cells. Immunochemistry revealed S-100(+) and a growth index Ki-67 < 1%. These findings were consistent with the diagnosis of ancient schwannoma. The intraoperative time was comparable to laparoscopy and the patient had an uneventful recovery. Ancient schwannoma is often diagnosed only when it is large enough to produce symptoms. Robotic surgery with adjunctive electrophysiological monitoring is a safe technique for the removal of large pelvic neurinomas."}
{"id": "21252795", "title": "Torsion of a tumor within an accessory ovary.", "content": "Torsion of a tumor within an accessory ovary. An accessory ovary is a rare congenital anomaly of the female reproductive tract. This report illustrates a case of a cyst arising from an accessory ovary complicated by torsion. A 39-year-old nulliparous woman presented with lower abdominal pain and was found on physical examination to have an 8-cm mass anterior to the uterus. Ultrasonography of the pelvis showed a 9.3\u00d76.7 cm cystic lesion with a solid component anterior to the uterus suggestive of a left ovarian cyst. Laparoscopy was performed for presumed ovarian torsion. Torsion of a tumor arising from an accessory ovary was found intraoperatively. Patients suspected to have ovarian torsion should have emergency surgery for diagnosis and attempted ovarian preservation. Physicians should consider complications of paraovarian anomalies in the differential diagnosis."}
{"id": "21233249", "title": "Indications for minimally invasive surgery for ovarian cancer.", "content": "Indications for minimally invasive surgery for ovarian cancer. Epithelial ovarian cancer is often diagnosed in advanced stages and typically managed with surgical debulking followed by chemotherapy. For patients with presumed early-stage ovarian cancer, comprehensive surgical staging is essential for management, because 31% are upstaged. Over the past 15 years, minimally invasive techniques have improved and are increasingly being used to treat patients with ovarian cancer. Currently, only retrospective data support laparoscopic staging of patients with a suspicious adnexal mass or those surgically diagnosed with presumed early-stage ovarian cancer. Laparoscopy is also used in patients undergoing second-look procedures and to help evaluate whether patients should undergo optimal tumor debulking procedures or be initially managed with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Randomized clinical studies are needed to further support the role of minimally invasive surgery in the treatment of ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "21215439", "title": "Cost effectiveness of laparoscopy versus laparotomy in early stage endometrial cancer: a randomised trial.", "content": "Cost effectiveness of laparoscopy versus laparotomy in early stage endometrial cancer: a randomised trial. To determine the cost effectiveness of total laparoscopic hysterectomy (TLH) versus total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH) in early stage endometrial cancer alongside a multicenter randomised controlled trial (RCT). An economic analysis was conducted in 279 patients (TLH n=185; TAH n=94) with early stage endometrial cancer from a societal perspective, including all relevant costs over a three month time horizon. Health outcomes were expressed in terms of major complication-free rate and in terms of utility based on women's response to the EQ-5D. Comparisons of costs per major complication-free patient gained and costs with utility gain and costs were made, using incremental cost effectiveness ratios. The mean major complication-free rate and median utility scores were comparable between TLH and TAH at three months. TLH is more costly intraoperatively (\u0394$1.129) and less costly postoperatively in-hospital (\u0394$-1.350) compared to TAH. Incremental costs per major complication-free patient were $-52. Higher cost ($249) were generated while no gains in utility (-0.02) were observed for TLH compared to TAH. Analysing utility at six weeks, incremental costs per additional point on the EQ-5D scale were $1.617. TLH is cost effective compared to TAH, based on major complication-free rate as measure of effect. Along with future cost saving strategies in laparoscopy, TLH is assumed to be cost effective for both effect measures. Therefore and due to comparable safety, TLH should be recommended as a standard-of-care surgical procedure in early endometrial cancer."}
{"id": "21195970", "title": "Laparoscopic cystectomy of ovarian teratoma in anti-NMDAR encephalitis: 2 case reports.", "content": "Laparoscopic cystectomy of ovarian teratoma in anti-NMDAR encephalitis: 2 case reports. We present 2 case reports of anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis that was successfully treated via laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy. In both cases, resection of an ovarian teratoma resulted in eventual full recovery. Although adnexectomy has been reported for tumor resection in anti-NMDAR encephalitis, we chose ovarian cystectomy to preserve ovarian function. The efficacy of cystectomy is equivalent to that of adnexectomy. This suggests that ovarian adnexectomy may not be necessary in anti-NMDAR encephalitis with ovarian teratoma."}
{"id": "21194826", "title": "Ovarian tumours in pregnancy: a literature review.", "content": "Ovarian tumours in pregnancy: a literature review. Ovarian tumours in pregnancy are a diagnostic and management challenge that is increasingly being faced by the clinician. While most masses are benign and resolve spontaneously, there are others that persist and indicate the need for surgical management. Ultrasound not only detects asymptomatic masses but also helps to guide their management based on presence or absence of features suspicious of malignancy. The role of tumour markers in pregnancy is limited due to their non-specific nature. Most masses treated in pregnancy are benign (most commonly dermoids), and most malignancies are either of low malignant potential or germ cell tumours, usually early stage disease. Surgical management is indicated for symptomatic masses or those with increasing size or complexity indicating possible malignancy. Both laparoscopy and laparotomy have similar results with regard to obstetric outcome. Conservative management is preferred in the remainder. MRI may help in better characterization of doubtful masses. National tumour registries can help to establish guidelines."}
{"id": "21194736", "title": "Robotic approach for ovarian cancer: perioperative and survival results and comparison with laparoscopy and laparotomy.", "content": "Robotic approach for ovarian cancer: perioperative and survival results and comparison with laparoscopy and laparotomy. Comparison of perioperative outcomes and survival of patients undergoing primary surgical treatment for epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) by a robotic, laparoscopy, or laparotomy approach. Retrospective case-control analysis of 25 patients with EOC undergoing robotic surgical treatment between March 2004 and December 2008. Comparison was made with similar patients treated by laparoscopy and laparotomy and matched by age, body mass index (BMI), and type of procedures between January 1999 and December 2006. The mean operating times were 314.8, 253.8 and 260.7 min for robotic, laparoscopy and laparotomy patients, respectively (p<0.05); the mean blood loss was 164.0, 266.7, and 1307.0 ml, respectively (p=0.001); the mean length of hospital stay was 4.2, 3.2, and 9.4 days, respectively (p=0.001). The overall survival (OS) for robotics, laparoscopy and laparotomy patients was 67.1%, 75.6% and 66.0%, respectively (p=0.08). Patients were subdivided and compared according to the extent of surgery by the type and number of major procedures. Type I and II debulking patients operated by robotics and laparoscopy had improved perioperative outcomes as compared to laparotomy. For patients undergoing a type III debulking, robotic outcomes were not improved over laparotomy. Laparoscopy and robotics are preferable to laparotomy for patients with ovarian cancer requiring primary tumor excision alone or with one additional major procedure. Laparotomy is preferable for patients requiring two or more additional major procedures. Survival is not affected by the type of surgical approach."}
{"id": "21183177", "title": "Cervical endometriosis associated with malignant pleural mesothelioma mimicking cervical cancer--Occam's razor or the \"third man\".", "content": "Cervical endometriosis associated with malignant pleural mesothelioma mimicking cervical cancer--Occam's razor or the \"third man\". To illustrate pitfalls in the diagnosis of endometriosis and cervical cancer. Case report. University hospital, department of obstetrics and gynecology. A 45-year-old woman with menorrhagia, pelvic mass, right-sided hydronephrosis, and unexplained weight loss. Cervical biopsies were suggestive of cervical endometriosis. Laparoscopy confirmed endometriosis. Associated pleural effusion, without cytologic signs of malignancy, was interpreted as caused by thoracic endometriosis. The patient had a transabdominal hysterectomy and unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Histopathologic examination confirmed endometriosis and revealed a residual tubo-ovarian abscess. After surgery, the patient developed spontaneous seropneumothorax. Pleural biopsies revealed a well-differentiated epithelial malignant pleural mesothelioma. The patient underwent hypofractionated radiation of drain sites. She is now observed in our outpatient clinic. Steps to the correct diagnosis. The patient had an association of cervical and pelvic endometriosis, residual tubo-ovarian abscess, and malignant pleural mesothelioma. Usually, the simplest diagnosis explaining a complex of symptoms and clinical and diagnostic findings is the one most likely to be correct. This is an application of Occam's razor to medicine. Our case illustrates that occasionally the simplest and therefore most probable diagnosis can be wrong, and on these occasions one should consider a \"third man.\""}
{"id": "21168196", "title": "Hospital costs associated with adverse events in gynecological oncology.", "content": "Hospital costs associated with adverse events in gynecological oncology. Treatment for gynecological malignancies is complex and may cause unintended or accidental adverse events (AE). We evaluated the costs of hospitalization associated with those AEs among patients who had an abdominal or laparoscopic procedure for proven or suspected gynecological cancer at a tertiary gynecological cancer center in Australia. Data on AEs were prospectively collected and matched with cost data (AU$ 2008) from the hospital's clinical costing unit and linked to demographical, clinical and histopathological data. Total costs were adjusted for various clinical factors and estimated using log-transformed ordinary least squared regression. Back-transformation was achieved using smearing factors. From epidemiological data, we also estimated the costs of AEs Australia-wide and undertook scenario and probabilistic sensitivity analyses to investigate the potential cost impact of reducing AEs. A total of 369 patients had surgical procedures of which 95 patients (26%) had at least one AE. Patients with AEs incurred an extra AU$12,780 on average, adjusted for age, co-morbidities, ovarian cancer, major or minor complications, surgical complexity, presence of malignancy and abdominal surgery. Mean adjusted costs (95% CI) for patients with intra-operative, minor post-operative and major post-operative AEs were AU$40,746 (11,582-71,859) AU$18,459 (17,270-19,713) and AU$67,656 (5324-131,761), respectively. Up to an estimated AU$20.6 million/year could be saved if the AEs were reduced by 40%. Adverse events are associated with significantly increased hospitalization costs and appropriate evidence-based interventions are justified to minimize AEs."}
{"id": "21160172", "title": "Surgery of ovarian tumors in children.", "content": "Surgery of ovarian tumors in children. Surgery of ovarian tumors in children requires a good knowledge of these lesions. Complete resection is mandatory for malignant lesions, and in the case of benign tumors preservation of healthy ovarian tissue is crucial. Diagnosis is based on clinical features (age and hormonal status), imaging and tumor marker levels. Laparoscopy is of great help in making a diagnosis and staging when the lesion is malignant. Laparotomy by a supra-pubic approach is, however, the only way to ensure a safe treatment of the lesion by avoiding any risk of tumor spillage, which constitutes a chance loss. Surgical treatment consists of complete ovariectomy for a malignant tumor and partial ovariectomy when the lesion is surely benign. Preservation of fertility is based on conservative surgery for uni- or bilateral benign lesions, and may be discussed in some selected cases of bilateral malignant tumors. When the remaining ovarian tissue predicts precocious ovarian failure, ovarian tissue or oocyte cryopreservation may be proposed to patients and their families."}
{"id": "21155918", "title": "Cost-benefit of laparoscopic versus medical ovarian suppression in premenopausal breast cancer.", "content": "Cost-benefit of laparoscopic versus medical ovarian suppression in premenopausal breast cancer."}
{"id": "21130426", "title": "Ex-vivo oocyte retrieval for fertility preservation.", "content": "Ex-vivo oocyte retrieval for fertility preservation. To report a novel fertility preservation strategy in a woman with recurrent serous borderline ovarian tumor in the conserved ovary involving ex-vivo retrieval of in vivo matured oocytes and subsequent embryo cryopreservation. Case report. Tertiary infertility care unit. A 27-year-old woman presented for follow-up visit with a history of borderline serous adenocarcinoma treated conservatively with left oophorectomy and fertility-sparing laparoscopic staging. Ultrasound scan revealed a recurrent disease in the right ovary. Ex-vivo retrieval of mature oocytes after ovarian stimulation. Fertility preservation. The patient underwent ovarian stimulation followed by a laparotomy and oophorectomy on the day of oocyte retrieval. A puncture of the follicles was performed in the operating theatre with a maximum ischemia time of 14 minutes. Eleven mature oocytes were aspirating, resulting in seven zygotes for cryopreservation. Mature oocytes can be successfully retrieved ex-vivo from the oophorectomy specimen after a controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) protocol. This method provides a possible strategy for fertility preservation in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer without the risk of cancer cells spillage associated with the standard transvaginal oocyte retrieval."}
{"id": "21116640", "title": "Laparoscopical management ovarian early sex cord-stromal tumors in postmenopausal women: a proposal method.", "content": "Laparoscopical management ovarian early sex cord-stromal tumors in postmenopausal women: a proposal method. Ovarian sex-cord stromal tumor (SCST) comprises 5% of the ovarian neoplasm; it occurs as an ovarian mass or hemoperitoneum, and the surgical management of SCST is not well defined at early stage and in adult patients. The authors tested to test the total not radical laparoscopic management of SCST in postmenopausal women at early stage. Three postmenopausal women were admitted in University-affiliated hospitals for pelvic pain, ovarian complex mass and genital bleeding. Preoperative clinical and instrumental examination suspected an ovarian tumor; therefore, a total laparoscopic approach was attempted. All patients underwent laparoscopic oophorectomy with the frozen section, who suggested for ovarian SCST; one woman received a total laparoscopic hysterectomy plus other oophorectomy, two received only the complementary oophorectomy, all without intensive surgical staging by with pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy, appendectomy, peritoneal biopsies, and omentectomy. All patients completed surgery without intrasurgical and postsurgical complications, with a fast dismissal. They are, currently, in long-term follow-up, with a 100% of survival after 3 years and with none morbility and morbidity. In order to fast restore and preserve women's integrity, total laparoscopic approach of early SCST in adult age, without intensive radical staging, could be an appropriate clinical choice, since these tumors at slow growth, recurring locally and only a long time after initial treatment. This minimally invasive management could be suggested in association with a long-term follow-up, as possible \"wait and see\" postoperative option."}
{"id": "21082898", "title": "An easy new approach to the laparoscopic treatment of large adnexal cysts.", "content": "An easy new approach to the laparoscopic treatment of large adnexal cysts. We describe a technique for laparoscopically assisted extracorporeal cystectomy or adnexectomy of large adnexal cysts without spillage of the cyst contents. At open laparoscopy, a suction tube decompressed the adnexal cyst from the 2-cm umbilical incision and the puncture hole was closed by the purse string tie, which was followed by extra-corporeal excision of the cyst. With this method, we prevent cyst spillage in three ways. Firstly, the cyst is aspirated extracorporeally. Secondly, when the cyst is totally collapsed, the puncture point is closed with a 1-o Vicryl purse suture and pulled to the umbilicus. Thirdly, as soon as a part of the mass is delivered from the abdomen, it is lined with moist gauze. This method provides excellent visualization and control of the penetration site during aspiration, and minimizes the chances of the cyst contents leaking into the peritoneal cavity. This method was successfully used with 12 patients, including four cystadenomas, one serous cystadenoma, three dermoid cysts (with one pregnant woman who successfully spontaneously delivered a normal baby at term), two low malignant potential ovarian tumors and one grade I endometrioid adenocarcinoma. The cancer patient has shown no recurrence after a follow-up of three years."}
{"id": "21054763", "title": "Utility of peritoneal lavage cytology during laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy: a retrospective analysis.", "content": "Utility of peritoneal lavage cytology during laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy: a retrospective analysis. To assess the significance of peritoneal washing cytology at the time of laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy. Retrospective study. Cambridge University Hospital. Four hundred and nine women who underwent laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy by the gynaecology oncology team between 2004 and December 2009 were included. One hundred and thirteen women had risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy, 103 women had salpingo-oophorectomy as part of breast cancer management, 59 had simple ovarian cysts, 111 had complex ovarian cysts and 23 had the procedure done for other reasons. Histology and cytology results were reviewed and all hospital records were checked for subsequent malignancy. Sensitivity and specificity of peritoneal washing cytology was calculated. Malignant peritoneal cytology in the absence of cancer on histopathology. Eleven of the 409 women in our study had occult malignancy on histopathological examination and three of them had positive peritoneal washings. One woman had positive washings from metastatic breast cancer. Thirteen women developed different malignancies subsequently but none had primary peritoneal or ovarian cancer within a median follow-up interval of 34 months. Peritoneal lavage cytology did not pick up any additional malignancy in the study population. Based on the evidence presented, we suggest that peritoneal washing cytology during laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy is of limited value and should not be practised routinely."}
{"id": "20976490", "title": "Use of laparoscopic surgical resection for pediatric malignant solid tumors: a case series.", "content": "Use of laparoscopic surgical resection for pediatric malignant solid tumors: a case series. Minimally invasive surgery for malignant pediatric tumors remains controversial, and few cases have been published. The present study reports on our initial experiences of laparoscopic surgical resection for selected pediatric malignant solid tumors. We retrospectively analyzed data from ten pediatric patients who underwent laparoscopic surgical resection for malignant solid tumors at our institute between April 2005 and January 2010. There were four boys and six girls, including one neonate and four infants. The mean age at surgery was 23.3 months (range, 13 days-69 months). Six patients underwent laparoscopic adrenalectomy for neuroblastoma (n=5) or adrenocortical carcinoma (n=1). Two patients underwent laparoscopic partial hepatectomy for hepatoblastoma, one patient underwent a laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy for yolk sac tumor, and one a laparoscopic tumor excision for rhabdomyosarcoma in the pelvis. Complete tumor resection was performed in all cases. Tumors ranged from 2.5 to 5.3 cm maximum diameter. Tumors were placed inside endobags and removed safely without spillage. The mean operation time was 132 (range, 65-250) min. There were no open conversions and no postoperative complications. The mean postoperative hospital stay was 4.9 (range, 2-7) days, and all surgical wounds showed good cosmetic results. There were no local tumor recurrences during the 17.3-month median follow-up period. Laparoscopic surgical resection for selected pediatric malignant solid tumors was found to be feasible and safe. Long-term follow-up data are essential to confirm oncologic safety."}
{"id": "20947074", "title": "Ovarian leiomyoma as a potential cause of compromised fertility.", "content": "Ovarian leiomyoma as a potential cause of compromised fertility. To analyze cases of ovarian leiomyomas and to discuss the proper surgical management. A case series and discussion. General university hospital and healthcare center. Nine patients who were diagnosed with ovarian leiomyomas after surgery between 1993 and 2009. None. A preoperative diagnosis that was matched to the postoperative diagnosis and the type of surgery. In all cases, ovarian leiomyoma was misdiagnosed preoperatively as pedunculated uterine myoma, ovarian fibroma, or even ovarian endometrioma. Seven (77.8%) of the nine patients underwent a salpingo-oophorectomy or an oophorectomy with or without hysterectomy, and only two (22.2%) patients were submitted to an ovary-preserving surgery (i.e., a cystectomy or ovarian wedge resection). Because of their extreme rarity, ovarian leiomyomas are seldom suspected intraoperatively or preoperatively. However, most of these tumors appear at reproductive age and have a benign nature, similar to uterine myomas. Therefore, surgeons should perform ovary-preserving management, especially in young patients."}
{"id": "20943259", "title": "Robotic-assisted resection of liver and diaphragm recurrent ovarian carcinoma: description of technique.", "content": "Robotic-assisted resection of liver and diaphragm recurrent ovarian carcinoma: description of technique. To describe port placement and operative technique for resection of right hepatic and full-thickness diaphragm metastatic ovarian carcinoma in a patient with recurrent disease using the da Vinci\u00ae Surgical System. A 60-year-old female with recurrent platinum sensitive ovarian cancer presented with disease confined to the liver by PET-CT scan. The lesion measured 3.4 cm on the dome of the right hepatic lobe. After two attempts at intra-hepatic arterial chemo-embolization the lesion remained stable. She subsequently agreed to robotic-assisted resection of the right lobe liver mass after refusing laparotomy for 9 months. Pnuemoperitoneum was established in the left upper quadrant by directly inserting a 5-mm laparoscope. There were no midline adhesions. The 12-mm camera port was placed in the midclavicular line on the right 10 cm off the costal margin with the right and left operative arms 10 cm from the camera near the costal margin, and the third arm in the right flank. The robot was docked from the right shoulder. Resection was accomplished with a monopolar spatula in the right, fenestrated bipolar grasper in the left, and double fenestrated grasper in the third operative arm. Adhesions between diaphragm and liver were separated, the liver lesion was excised, the diaphragm lesion was resected full thickness, and diaphragm was closed with running prolene. Surgicel\u00ae was placed on the liver for hemostasis. Console time was 82 min and the patient discharged on day-5 after drainage of a cytology negative pleural effusion day-4. Robotic resection of liver and full-thickness diaphragm lesions is possible. The port placement used in this patient was efficient and without operative arm collisions. Patients with isolated upper-abdominal recurrence are candidates for robotic secondary cytoreduction."}
{"id": "20931212", "title": "Pelvic mass-like florid cystic endosalpingiosis of the uterus: a case report and a review of literature.", "content": "Pelvic mass-like florid cystic endosalpingiosis of the uterus: a case report and a review of literature. Endosalpingiosis is a disorder of Mullerian system characterized by benign glands lined by tubal type epithelium and involves the peritoneum, subperitoneal tissues, and retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Endosalpingiosis is almost an incidental finding on microscopic examination. Seldom it appears as a cyst and it can be confused clinically for an ovarian tumor. A case report and a systematic review about pelvic mass-like florid endosalpingiosis of the uterus from PUB MED database were performed. We describe a case report of a 50-year-old woman with a pedunculated uterine neoformation, for which the preoperative exams could be compatible with an adnexal mass. Twelve patients with similar clinical history were discussed in the review. Laparoscopy with radical exeresis was performed. Microscopic exam revealed florid cystic endosalpingiosis of the uterus. Endosalpingiosis is a rare mullerian disorder and the main problem is that the symptomatology is not specific and it may be initially misinterpreted. In relation to the papillary aspect of the lesion and focal calcifications, the histological differential diagnosis could include serous adenocarcinoma, but the lack of cellular stratification in absence of mitotic activity, and the presence of slight nuclear atypia contradict the diagnosis of carcinoma. The differential diagnosis for endosalpingiosis also includes multiple peritoneal inclusion cysts (benign cystic mesothelioma). The aim of this case report has not been only to describe the rarity of this pathology, but it contributes to consider endosalpingiosis as a possible diagnostic hypothesis for which may be indicated a conservative surgical treatment."}
{"id": "20922399", "title": "Management and outcomes of adnexal torsion: a 5-year experience.", "content": "Management and outcomes of adnexal torsion: a 5-year experience. To discuss the surgical results of patients with diagnosis of adnexal torsion. One hundred and fifty patients with diagnosis of adnexal torsion who presented to our clinic between January 2005 and December 2009 were included in this retrospective analysis. Data regarding age, gravidity, parity, size of mass, operation time, and duration of hospitalization were recorded and compared between the patients who had laparoscopy to those who had laparotomy. The pathological results of patients were also recorded. Fifty-eight patients were treated laparoscopically while 92 patients had laparotomy. The most frequent presenting symptom was pelvic pain (96%). Laparoscopy group consisted of young patients with low parity; operation and hospital stay time was shorter in laparoscopy group. Velocity loss in Doppler ultrasonography was noted in 81.3% of the patients. Of the laparotomy group 35 postmenopausal patients had hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oopherectomy, and staging surgery was done for 16 of them. The pathological finding was found to be malignant in four and borderline serous tumor in four patients. Laparoscopy is preferred for young patients who want to preserve their fertility. Because of high risk of malignancy in postmenopausal ovarian masses presenting with torsion; frozen section should be used. If not possible or not conclusive, staging surgery is more appropriate especially if there is suspicion of malignancy."}
{"id": "20817576", "title": "Ovarian fibromas in pediatric patients with basal cell nevus (Gorlin) syndrome.", "content": "Ovarian fibromas in pediatric patients with basal cell nevus (Gorlin) syndrome. Gorlin syndrome is a rare genetic condition consisting of multiple basal cell nevi associated with other entities such as medulloblastoma, skeletal abnormalities, and ovarian fibromas. A 15-year-old girl presented with abdominal discomfort. Magnetic resonance imaging showed multiple bilateral solid adnexal masses, the largest measuring 5.5 cm \u00d7 6.1 cm \u00d7 5.6 cm. At laparoscopy, 10 ovarian fibromas, ranging from 3 mm to 7 cm in size, were removed from each ovary. Concurrent with her gynecologic course, she was found to have maxillary sinus cysts and multiple basal cell nevi. The patient's history was also significant for a medulloblastoma as an infant. Given this constellation of findings, a diagnosis of Gorlin syndrome was made. The development of ovarian fibromas in the pediatric population is rare. When diagnosed, the possibility of Gorlin syndrome must be considered. Furthermore, females with Gorlin syndrome would benefit from regular gynecologic surveillance."}
{"id": "20801440", "title": "Detection of Hodgkin lymphoma within ovarian tissue.", "content": "Detection of Hodgkin lymphoma within ovarian tissue. To describe the detection of Hodgkin lymphoma within ovarian tissue taken at the time of harvest for cryopreservation. Case report. University-affiliated women's hospital. A 19-year-old woman diagnosed with Hodgkin lymphoma. Laparoscopic removal of ovarian tissue for cryopreservation. Histologic and immunohistochemical evaluation of ovarian tissue harvested for fertility preservation. Histologic and immunohistochemical identification of Hodgkin lymphoma within ovarian tissue harvested for cryopreservation. Ovarian cryopreservation and subsequent autografting is a procedure still in an experimental phase that has yielded promising findings. This option is frequently offered to young women with neoplasms such as Hodgkin lymphoma. Although the risk of Hodgkin lymphoma infiltration into the ovary may be low, the identification of lymphoma in this case emphasizes the importance of histologic examination of ovarian tissue before freezing and indicates that there is a possibility of reintroducing tumor."}
{"id": "20709583", "title": "Ovarian tumors in children and adolescents--a clinical study of 52 patients in a university hospital.", "content": "Ovarian tumors in children and adolescents--a clinical study of 52 patients in a university hospital. To review the clinical presentation of ovarian tumors in children and adolescents treated at the University of Dammam and King Fahad University Hospital. Data of the patients was noted retrospectively from the hospital medical records regarding age, presentation, diagnosis, treatment, and outcome. The study was carried out in the Ob/Gyn department at King Fahad Hospital of Dammam University, Saudi Arabia between January 1985 and December 2009. There were 52 patients between 6 and 20 years of age who presented with an ovarian tumor during the study period. Preoperative diagnostic approach included history, physical examination, ultrasonography, radiological examination, tumor markers, operative treatment, and histopathological examination of the tumor. Chemotherapy was given to patients where indicated. The main presenting symptom was abdominal pain in 30 (58%) patients. Of the neoplastic tumors, 87% were germ cell tumors, of which 73% were benign while 13% were malignant. Operative procedures included 48 (92%) exploratory laparotomies and 4 (8%) laparoscopic resections. Ovarian cystectomy was done in 23 (44%) patients and salpingoophorectomy in 28 (54%) patients. Of the 7 (13%) patients with malignant tumors, five received postoperative chemotherapy. Three patients with malignancy died in the series. Early diagnosis of ovarian masses in young girls is important. Since most of these masses are benign, operation should be designed to optimize future fertility, while the treatment of malignant tumors would involve complete staging, resection of the tumor, postoperative chemotherapy when indicated, to give the patient a chance for future childbearing."}
{"id": "20688446", "title": "FDG-PET/CT in advanced ovarian cancer staging: value and pitfalls in detecting lesions in different abdominal and pelvic quadrants compared with laparoscopy.", "content": "FDG-PET/CT in advanced ovarian cancer staging: value and pitfalls in detecting lesions in different abdominal and pelvic quadrants compared with laparoscopy. Ovarian carcinoma (OC) is a common cancer in the Western Countries, and an important cause of death in patients suffering with gynaecologic malignancies. The majority of patients present with advanced disease at the time of diagnosis. Treatment with debulking surgery followed by chemotherapy is the standard approach while chemotherapy is contemplated when surgery is not possible. A correct pre-operative staging is important to ensure a most appropriate management. Laparoscopy (LPS) is the standard diagnostic tool for the assessment of intraperitoneal infiltration but is invasive and requires general anaesthesia. FDG-PET/CT is increasingly used for staging different types of cancer, and the aim of this study is to assess the value of FDG-PET/CT in staging advanced OC and its sensitivity to detect lesions in different quadrants of the abdominal-pelvic area compared to laparoscopy. From September 2004 till April 2008, 40 patients with high suspicion of OC were referred to our hospital for diagnostic LPS to explore the possibility of optimal debulking surgery. Those who were not suitable for surgery were referred for chemotherapy. Before chemotherapy, the patients underwent an FDG-PET/CT scan. The findings in 9 quadrants of abdominal-pelvic area (total 360 quadrants) for PET/CT and LPS were recorded and compared. In 14/360 areas (3.8%), surgical evaluation was not possible because of presence of adhesions, thus the number of areas explored by laparoscopy was 346. Tumour was found in 308 quadrants (38 quadrants free of disease). PET/CT was positive in all 40 patients with true negative results in 26/346 quadrants (7.5%), and true positives results in 243/346 quadrants (70.2%). False positive and negative PET/CT results were found in 12/346 and 65/346 quadrants, respectively. False positive PET/CT findings were evenly present in all quadrants. False negative PET/CT findings were present in 31/109 (28.4%) upper abdominal quadrants (epigastrium and diaphragmatic areas). Final analysis showed a sensitivity and specificity for PET/TC of 78.9 and 68.4% respectively with a positive predictive value of 95.3%. A significant difference was noted between mean SUVmax associated with lesions smaller or larger than 0.5 cm (p=0.006). Our results suggest that PET/CT may prove a useful tool for pre-surgical staging of ovarian cancer with a sensitivity and specificity of 78 and 68%, respectively. However, it may be used in combination with laparoscopy for better results. PET/CT showed an adequate correlation between SUVmax values and laparoscopy findings of lesions>5mm, but a high rate of false negative results in lesions<5mm such as in carcinomatosis. PET/CT should be used carefully in early stage disease, with low risk of peritoneal infiltration, because of high rate of false positive results, to avoid unnecessary therapy procedures."}
{"id": "20637459", "title": "Atypical presentation and management dilemma of mixed gonadal dysgenesis.", "content": "Atypical presentation and management dilemma of mixed gonadal dysgenesis. To describe a case of 45,X/46,XY mixed gonadal dysgenesis complicated by malignancy with possible metastasis. Case report. University hospital. A 15-year-old female with primary amenorrhea, short stature, and a vaginal septum. Resection of transverse vaginal septum and laparoscopic bilateral gonadectomy. The patient had dysgerminoma arising from gonadoblastoma in the left gonad and gonadoblastoma in the right gonad. No normal gonadal tissue could be identified. Postoperative computed tomography scan results were suspicious for lung metastases, but the patient opted for conservative management without chemotherapy. Mixed gonadal dysgenesis involves inherent malignancy risk and complex psychosocial issues, which necessitate a multidisciplinary approach to diagnosis and treatment."}
{"id": "20607264", "title": "The diagnostic and therapeutic approach of a primary bilateral leiomyoma of the ovaries: a case report and a literature review.", "content": "The diagnostic and therapeutic approach of a primary bilateral leiomyoma of the ovaries: a case report and a literature review. A primary fibroid (leiomyoma) arising from both ovaries is rare and can be difficult to diagnose as a result of the low incidence and its indistinctive presentation. A literature review on the diagnostic and therapeutic approach of this rare benign tumour is presented. We describe a case of bilateral primary ovarian fibroid with an unusual presentation to illustrate our recommendations for treatment. A 37-year-old woman was admitted with symptoms of acute severe abdominal pain. She had a history of faint abdominal discomfort. Due to the acute deterioration of the abdominal pain a diagnostic laparoscopy was performed. A tumour arising from both ovaries was seen and a biopsy was taken in order to decide on further therapy. Histology showed a fibroid for which excision by a second laparoscopic intervention was planned. Due to excessive adhesions conversion to laparotomy was necessary. We recommend that in the case of an abnormal adnexal mass, particularly in women who want to preserve their fertility, frozen section histology be performed laparoscopically. A frozen section diagnostic procedure, instead of a regular biopsy, seems to be a useful tool during an elective diagnostic laparoscopic procedure in order to prevent potential morbidity as a result of possible future laparoscopy or even laparotomy. Previous laparoscopic procedures can cause massive adhesions that could impede a subsequent laparoscopic approach."}
{"id": "20607263", "title": "Standardized technique of laparoscopic pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy in gynecologic cancer optimizes the perioperative outcomes.", "content": "Standardized technique of laparoscopic pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy in gynecologic cancer optimizes the perioperative outcomes. The main objective of this study is to illustrate the effectiveness and the safety of standardized technique of laparoscopic lymphadenectomy (LNE), newly introduced in a University Hospital, in patients with gynecologic malignancy. A cohort of 104 patients with gynaecologic malignancies (71 with endometrial and 33 with cervical cancer), who underwent laparoscopic pelvic with or without para-aortic LNE between September 2008 and March 2010, were analyzed. Total laparoscopic hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (TLH & BSO) was the standard approach for patients with endometrial cancer (n = 71), while laparoscopic (nerve sparing) radical hysterectomy (n = 29), laparoscopic-assisted radical vaginal hysterectomy (n = 2) and radical trachelectomy was the treatment for patients with cervical cancer. All LNE were performed by a learning team under the supervision of an expert surgeon, familiar with the technique. The median number of pelvic lymph nodes yielded was 22 (range 16-34) and of para-aortic 14 (range 12-24). The mean operative time \u00b1 standard deviation for pelvic LNE for each side was 29 \u00b1 17 and 64 \u00b1 29 min for para-aortic LNE. The overall complication rate was 7.6% (n = 8). Two patients were reoperated laparoscopically, one because of postoperative hemorrhage and the other because of lymphocyst formation; laparoconversion was not necessary. Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy performed by a learning team with standardized technique is effective with adequate number of harvested nodes, in acceptable operative time and with low rate of perioperative complications."}
{"id": "20569103", "title": "Virilising ovarian tumour: a case associating a Sertoli-Leydig cell tumour and a Brenner tumour.", "content": "Virilising ovarian tumour: a case associating a Sertoli-Leydig cell tumour and a Brenner tumour. Ovarian Sertoli-Leydig cell tumours (SLCT), also termed arrhenoblastomas, are the most frequent virilising tumours in women of reproductive age. Very rare secretory Brenner tumours (BT) have been described, generally after the menopause. A 31-year-old woman sought medical advice for secondary amenorrhoea, progressive hirsutism and a 5-year history of virilisation syndrome with clitoromegaly. Testosterone was markedly high (285 ng/dl, N<85) with moderate elevation of delta 4-androstenedione (D4AD) (311 ng/dl, N <270), dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) (366 \u03bcg/dl, N <340) and 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17OHP) (275 ng/dl). LH was 9 IU/l, FSH 4.3 IU/l, estradiol 60 pg/ml and progesterone 314 ng/100 ml. Cortisol was decreased (1.3 \u03bcg/dl) after the dexamethasone suppression test. Pelvic MRI showed a 5-cm right ovarian tumour with a 2.5 cm nodular component and cystic areas, and two nodules measuring 11 mm and 15 mm above the right and left ovaries. After right ovariectomy by laparoscopy, pathological examination concluded on a 3-cm SLCT and a 2-cm BT; the nodules above the ovaries were dysembryoplastic cysts. Postoperatively, testosterone level was normal after 24 h (26 ng/dl), estradiol and progesterone rapidly decreased, cyclic secretion then resumed and the patient menstruated at day 27. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an ovarian tumour associating a Sertoli-Leydig cell tumour and a Brenner tumour in a patient with virilisation syndrome which resolved after ovariectomy."}
{"id": "20221620", "title": "Combined positron emission tomography-computed tomography and tumor markers for detecting recurrent ovarian cancer.", "content": "Combined positron emission tomography-computed tomography and tumor markers for detecting recurrent ovarian cancer. To evaluate the accuracy of integrated FDG-PET/CT and tumor markers for the depiction of recurrent ovarian carcinoma. Patients with pathologically proven ovarian cancer, who underwent cytoreductive surgery and 3-6 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy, were included in this study. They all underwent a thorough physical examination, tumor marker determination, and FDG-PET/CT imaging. The sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive and negative predictive values for the tumor detection with PET/CT versus different tumor markers were performed in relation to the results at histological analysis after second-look surgery or clinical follow-up. A total of 37 patients underwent FDG-PET/CT scans. Among them, 22 patients underwent exploratory laparotomy and 15 had diagnostic laparoscopy. Overall, 24 patients were documented to have ovarian cancer recurrence after second operation. FDG-PET/CT had sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive and negative predictive values of 100, 85, 94, 92, and 100%, respectively. Our study has shown that PET/CT is a sensitive tool to assist in the early identification and recurrent ovarian cancer, amenable to secondary cytoreduction."}
{"id": "22750920", "title": "Warm antibody autoimmune haemolytic anaemia associated with ovarian teratoma.", "content": "Warm antibody autoimmune haemolytic anaemia associated with ovarian teratoma. The ovarian cystic teratoma is a rare cause of autoimmune haemolytic anaemia by warm antibodies, resistant to corticotherapy, with few case reports published in the medical literature. We present a case of a 45-year-old woman admitted to hospital due to general weakness. Laboratory studies revealed macrocytic anaemia, biochemical parameters of haemolysis and peripheral spherocytosis. The direct Coombs test was positive. Viral serologies, anti-nuclear antibodies, anti-double-stranded DNA antibodies and \u03b22-microglobulin were negative. CT scan of the thorax, abdomen and pelvis showed a heterogeneous right anexial lesion. The patient was treated with corticotherapy without improvement of anaemia. Regression of extra-vascular haemolysis and normalisation of haemoglobin was obtained only after laparoscopic splenectomy and right ooforectomy, and the histopathology of the right anexial mass revealed a cystic teratoma. Previously published cases controlled the haemolysis by surgically removing the lesion associated with splenectomy."}
{"id": "21966769", "title": "[Comparison of laparoscopic vs. laparotomy treatment in ovarian teratomas].", "content": "[Comparison of laparoscopic vs. laparotomy treatment in ovarian teratomas]. Benign cystic teratoma is one of the most common benign tumors of the ovary, according to international series represents between 44 and 62% of all ovarian tumors diagnosed in women younger than 40 years. To evaluate and compare the efficacy and safety between laparoscopy and laparotomy in the management of ovarian teratomas, as well as the recurrence between both techniques. Retrospective, clinical series study involving 169 cases of ovarian teratomas operated at the Instituto Nacional de Perinatolog\u00eda Isidro Espinosa de los Reyes in the period comprehended between 2000-2008. The cases were divided into the ones solved by laparoscopy, corresponding to group 1 (102 cases) and 67 cases solved by laparotomy, corresponding to group 2. Group 1 (laparoscopic approach) consisted of 102 patients (60.3%), and group 2 (laparotomy approach) had 67 patients (39.7%). Surgical bleeding: 55.7 +/- 21.4 mL vs. 91.6 +/- 29.2 mL (p < 0.0001), hospital stay: 1.6 +/- 0.57 vs. 2.7 +/- 0.42 days (p < 0.0001), surgical time: 110.3 +/- 27.2 vs. 83.6 +/- 26.9 minutes (p < 0.0001), teratoma size: 7.2 +/- 2.3 vs. 11.5 +/- 4.2 cm (p < 0.0001) in groups 1 and 2, respectively. Teratoma rupture had 57.8% incidence (59 cases) in group 1, and 16.4% in group 2 (11 cases). Laparoscopy was a risk factor for broken open for ovarian cyst (OR: 6.9; CI 95%: 3.3-14.8). Not a single case was complicated by chemical peritonitis in any study group. Laparoscopic approach to teratomas is a safe and efficient procedure, it does not increase complications in comparison to the laparotomy approach; it presents less bleeding and short hospital stay, offering a quick recovery."}
{"id": "21495250", "title": "Avoiding vaginal cuff dehiscence after robotic oncological surgery: reliable suturing technique.", "content": "Avoiding vaginal cuff dehiscence after robotic oncological surgery: reliable suturing technique. The rate of vaginal cuff dehiscence seems to have been shown to increase after both robotic and laparoscopic surgeries compared with that after the open approach. The aim of this study was to describe the vaginal cuff dehiscence rate with a novel vaginal suturing technique performed by a robotic approach in the treatment of oncological conditions. Medical records of all robotic procedures from January 1, 2009, until August 10, 2009, performed at the European Institute of Oncology of Milan were reviewed. Forty vaginal closures were carried out with a novel technique after extrafascial or radical hysterectomy for an oncological diagnosis. Outcomes were compared with those of 41 parallel vaginal closures performed with other techniques. Among the 40 patients treated with the novel technique, an endometrial pathological feature was observed in 15 (37.5%); ovarian disease, 13 (32.5%); and cervical malignancies, 12 (30%). No vaginal cuff dehiscences were observed after a median follow-up time of 126 days (range, 36-248 days). On the other group, an endometrial pathological feature was observed in 12 patients (29.6%); ovarian disease, 6 (14.6%); cervical malignancies, 22 (53.6%); and tubal cancer, 1 (2.2%). Three vaginal cuff dehiscences were observed after a median follow-up time of 130 days (range, 39-261 days). The results of the study suggest that vaginal closure technique may decrease the vaginal cuff dehiscence rate for robotic surgery, although longer follow-up time is needed, and larger studies should be carried out, encouraging gynecologic surgeons to perform it."}
{"id": "21416918", "title": "[The first Mexican consensus of endometrial cancer. Grupo de Investigaci\u00f3n en C\u00e1ncer de Ovario y Tumores Ginecol\u00f3gicos de M\u00e9xico].", "content": "[The first Mexican consensus of endometrial cancer. Grupo de Investigaci\u00f3n en C\u00e1ncer de Ovario y Tumores Ginecol\u00f3gicos de M\u00e9xico]. Endometrial cancer (EC) is the second most common gynecologic malignancy worldwide in the peri and postmenopausal period. Most often for the endometrioid variety. In early clinical stages long-term survival is greater than 80%, while in advanced stages it is less than 50%. In our country there is not a standard management between institutions. GICOM collaborative group under the auspice of different institutions have made the following consensus in order to make recommendations for the management of patients with this type of neoplasm. The following recommendations were made by independent professionals in the field of Gynecologic Oncology, questions and statements were based on a comprehensive and systematic review of literature. It took place in the context of a meeting of four days in which a debate was held. These statements are the conclusions reached by agreement of the participant members. Screening should be performed women at high risk (diabetics, family history of inherited colon cancer, Lynch S. type II). Endometrial thickness in postmenopausal patients is best evaluated by transvaginal US, a thickness greater than or equal to 5 mm must be evaluated. Women taking tamoxifen should be monitored using this method. Abnormal bleeding in the usual main symptom, all post menopausal women with vaginal bleeding should be evaluated. Diagnosis is made by histerescopy-guided biopsy. Magnetic resonance is the best image method as preoperative evaluation. Frozen section evaluates histologic grade, myometrial invasion, cervical and adnexal involvement. Total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo oophorectomy, pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy should be performed except in endometrial histology grades 1 and 2, less than 50% invasion of the myometrium without evidence of disease out of the uterus. Omentectomy should be done in histologies other than endometriod. Surgery should be always performed by a Gynecologic Oncologist or Surgical Oncologist, laparoscopy is an alternative, especially in patients with hypertension and diabetes for being less morbid. Adjuvant treatment after surgery includes radiation therapy to the pelvis, brachytherapy, and chemotherapy. Patients with Stages III and IV should have surgery with intention to achieve optimal cytoreduction because of the impact on survival (51 m vs. 14 m), the treatment of recurrence can be with surgery depending on the pattern of relapse, systemic chemotherapy or hormonal therapy. Follow-up of patients is basically clinical in a regular basis. Screening programme is only for high risk patients. Multidisciplinary treatment impacts on survival and local control of the disease, including surgery, radiation therapy and chemotherapy, hormonal treatment is reserved to selected cases of recurrence. This is the first attempt of a Mexican Collaborative Group in Gynecology to give recommendations is a special type of neoplasm."}
{"id": "21319522", "title": "Primary ovarian malignant lymphoma presenting as ovarian carcinomatosis: a case report and literature review.", "content": "Primary ovarian malignant lymphoma presenting as ovarian carcinomatosis: a case report and literature review. Primary ovarian lymphoma may present with a clinical scenario consistent with advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma. Although ovarian lymphoma is a rare entity, accounting for 0.5% of all non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and 1.5% of all ovarian neoplasms, it should be included in the differential diagnosis of an ovarian mass. We report a case of a 78-year-old woman who presented with an ovarian neoplasm suggestive of advanced ovarian carcinoma. During diagnostic laparoscopy, biopsies were obtained with frozen section analysis revealing malignant lymphoma. Further histopathologic analysis revealed a diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The treatment plan was for six cycles of R-CHOP chemotherapy. A drammatic response was noted after only three cycles of R-CHOP. Primary ovarian lymphoma presenting as an ovarian tumor is exceedingly rare. Since the prognosis and treatment of lymphoma differs significantly from ovarian carcinoma, a representative tissue sample of the adnexal tumor should be obtained and sent for frozen section analysis to establish the diagnosis. Principal treatment for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is chemotherapy without surgical cytoreductive efforts."}
{"id": "21224612", "title": "[A long-term survival case of bilateral ovarian metastasis of progressive gastric cancer treated by chemotherapy].", "content": "[A long-term survival case of bilateral ovarian metastasis of progressive gastric cancer treated by chemotherapy]. We report a long-term survival case treated by chemotherapy with new anticancer drugs such as S-1, CPT-11 and docetaxel after bilateral overiectomy for bilateral ovarian metastases of progressive gastric cancer. A 68-year-old female, who had undergone total gastrectomy with D2 lymphadenectomy for scirrhous gastric cancer of Stage IIIA, was admitted because of ovarian metastasis. Laparoscopic bilateral ovariectomy was performed for ovarian metastases of the gastric cancer (Krukenberg tumor) 6 months after gastrectomy. Seven months after gastrectomy, 11-course of S-1 treatment (80 mg/m2) for bilateral ovarian metastases of the gastric cancer was administered. CT scan revealed mediastinal lymphadenopathy 2 years and 5 months after gastrectomy. Then, the drug was changed to docetaxel (60 mg/m2). After 9-course of docetaxel treatment, the mediastinal lymphadenopathy disappeared. For a treatment of grade 3 neuropathy, a 12-course CPT-11 was started after gastrectomy 3 years and 6 months ago. CT scan and PET-CT showed no new metastasis in 4 years and 10 months after gastrectomy."}
{"id": "21199739", "title": "Robot-assisted laparoscopic staging surgery for endometrial cancer--a preliminary report.", "content": "Robot-assisted laparoscopic staging surgery for endometrial cancer--a preliminary report. The robotic surgical system is reported to overcome some technical difficulties in traditional laparoscopic hysterectomy. This study aimed to evaluate the feasibility and surgical outcomes of a robotic surgery program for endometrial cancer. Patients with endometrial cancer with the intention to receive treatment using robot-assisted laparoscopic staging surgery were recruited in a university hospital from July 2007 to August 2008. All of these surgeries were performed with the da Vinci system. Six patients (mean age, 47.5 \u00b11.4 years; mean body mass index, 26.2 \u00b13.5 kg/m(2)) were enrolled and completed robot-assisted laparoscopic staging surgery. The robot docking time was 45.0 \u00b113.6 minutes and the robot-assisted operation time was 200.3 \u00b130.0 minutes. The mean estimated blood loss was 180.0 \u00b1147.6 mL. The mean number of lymph nodes retrieved was 23.2 \u00b17.4. No laparoconversion and no intraoperative or postoperative complications occurred. All patients were alive and free of disease up to the date of this report, at a median follow-up of 6.5 months (range, 5-17 months). Robot-assisted laparoscopic staging surgery is a feasible treatment and helps overcome the technical limitations in conventional laparoscopy for endometrial cancer."}
{"id": "21180100", "title": "[Pelvic inflammatory disease: contemporary diagnostic and therapeutic approach].", "content": "[Pelvic inflammatory disease: contemporary diagnostic and therapeutic approach]. Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is polymicrobial infection in women characterized by inflammation of the upper genital tract, including endometritis, salpingitis, pelvic peritonitis, occasionally leading to the formation of tubo-ovarian abscess (TOA). PID primarily affects young, sexually active women, and it is highly correlated with having several sexual partners, intrauterine contraceptive device and sexually transmitted diseases. The spectrum of disease is caused most commonly by Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae in 30-50% of cases. PID is responsible for severe acute morbidity and significant long-term sequelae, including tubal factor infertility, ectopic pregnancy, and chronic pelvic pain. The following clinical features are suggestive of a diagnosis of PID: bilateral lower abdominal tenderness, abnormal vaginal or cervical discharge, fever (higher than 38 degrees C), abnormal vaginal bleeding, dyspareunia, cervical motion tenderness and adnexal tenderness, with or without a palpable mass. In laboratory findings, there is presence of excess leucocytes, elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate or C-reactive protein. Transvaginal ultrasound scanning may be helpful, and its sensitivity is up to 85%. It can identify inflamed and dilated tubes and tubo-ovarian masses. Magnetic resonance imaging can be helpful in a final diagnosis in 95% of cases. In 15-30% of suspected cases, there is no laparoscopic evidence of disease. Treatment regimens for PID include broad-spectrum antibiotics, including coverage for Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis. The usage of parenteral or oral therapy, inpatient or outpatient regimens, depends on the patient's clinical condition. Considering the potential complications of disease, there is a need for good health educational programmes in reproductive period."}
{"id": "21158324", "title": "Handling ovarian cancer FIGO III-IV : evolution over the last 30 years.", "content": "Handling ovarian cancer FIGO III-IV : evolution over the last 30 years. The treatment of ovarian cancer FIGO III-IV has undergone substantial changes in the last 30 years. As I was involved as an oncological surgeon in the treatment of these patients since 1979 and made my PhD thesis on this subject, I consider myself a privileged witness of this evolution. In the late 1970's two major changes took place: the introduction of combination chemotherapy containing cisplatin and the concept of debulking surgery. In 1980 we embarked on an ambitious treatment plan combining maximal cytoreductive surgery, 6 cycles of chemotherapy, second look laparotomy and panabdominal irradiation. The results were analyzed in 1991 and gave rise to the following changes. Surgical cytoreduction could only be considered optimal if no residual tumor was left and residual tumor correlated with median survival. Upfront surgery was abandoned in FIGO IV and FIGO III with a very high tumor load. Panabdominal irradiation was too toxic. A recent randomized study has established equivalency of survival in FIGO IIIc between interval debulking after 3 cycles and upfront surgery. Initial tumor load remains a determinant of long- term cure and optimal upfront surgery is critical in patients with a metastatic tumor load of less than 100 gram. Retroperitoneal node dissection becomes important when complete resection of peritoneal metastases can be obtained. In experienced hands selection for primary debulking or for interval debulking seems possible at laparoscopic exploration."}
{"id": "21138693", "title": "[Effects of different anesthesia and analgesia on erythrocyte immune function of patients with ovarian benign tumor treated by laparoscopic therapeutic].", "content": "[Effects of different anesthesia and analgesia on erythrocyte immune function of patients with ovarian benign tumor treated by laparoscopic therapeutic]. To investigate the effects of different anesthesia and analgesia on erythrocyte immune function of patients with ovarian benign tumor treated by laparoscopic therapeutic. 120 patients with ovarian benign tumor treated by laparoscopic therapeutic were randomly divided into two groups with 60 cases each.In group A, patients received general anesthesia eombined with thoracic epidural anesthesia during surgery, patients in group B received general anesthesia. The cervical venous blood samples were obtained at the following time points: before induction of anesthesia(T0), 30 min after anesthesia (T1), 1 h during operation (T2), 24 h after operation (T3), 48 h after operation (T4) and 72 h after operation (T5).RRCR, RRICR and RTRR were measured at different time points. RRCR, RRICR and RTRR in two groups decreased significantly from T1(P<0.05). RRCR in two groups was on the low-water mark at T4 and RRICR, RTRR was on the low-water mark at T3.There were no significantly different of RRCR, RRICR and RTRR in two groups at T0. There were significantly different of RRCR, RRICR and RTRR in two groups from T1 to T4(P<0.05), the increase in group A was less than that in group B(P<0.05). Anesthesia may harm on erythroeyte immune function of patients with ovarian benign tumor treated by laparoscopic therapeutic. The effect of general anesthesia combined with thoraeic epidural anesthesia on erythrocyte immune function was less."}
{"id": "21111664", "title": "[How I do\u2026 the laparoscopic treatment of an ovary dermoid cyst?].", "content": "[How I do\u2026 the laparoscopic treatment of an ovary dermoid cyst?]."}
{"id": "21054125", "title": "Clinical research device for ovarian cancer detection by optical spectroscopy in the ultraviolet C-visible.", "content": "Clinical research device for ovarian cancer detection by optical spectroscopy in the ultraviolet C-visible. Early detection of ovarian cancer could greatly increase the likelihood of successful treatment. However, present detection techniques are not very effective, and symptoms are more commonly seen in later stage disease. Amino acids, structural proteins, and enzymatic cofactors have endogenous optical properties influenced by precancerous changes and tumor growth. We present the technical details of an optical spectroscopy system used to quantify these properties. A fiber optic probe excites the surface epithelium (origin of 90% of cases) over 270 to 580\u2002nm and collects fluorescence and reflectance at 300 to\u2002800 nm with four or greater orders of magnitude instrument to background suppression. Up to four sites per ovary are investigated on patients giving consent to oophorectomy and the system's in vivo optical evaluation. Data acquisition is completed within 20 s per site. We illustrate design, selection, and development of the components used in the system. Concerns relating to clinical use, performance, calibration, and quality control are addressed. In the future, spectroscopic data will be compared with histological biopsies from the corresponding tissue sites. If proven effective, this technique can be useful in screening women at high risk of developing ovarian cancer to determine whether oophorectomy is necessary."}
{"id": "20979707", "title": "Survival impact of initial surgical approach in stage I ovarian cancer.", "content": "Survival impact of initial surgical approach in stage I ovarian cancer. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact on survival of initial laparoscopic surgery compared with conventional laparotomy in stage I epithelial ovarian cancer. We conducted a retrospective study which enrolled all consecutive patients with stage I epithelial ovarian cancer between January 1984 and December 2006. Patients with a histological diagnosis of epithelial ovarian cancer who underwent laparoscopy were recruited if their cases were compatible with stage I (clinical or surgical) at initial exploration. The independent samples t test, chi-square test, log-rank and Cox proportional hazards model were performed. A total of 208 patients were enrolled, including 34 patients with initial laparoscopy and 174 with laparotomy. The median follow-up time for survivors was 65 (range, 2-276) months. The 5-year overall survival (OS) and recurrence-free survival (RFS) rates were 67.4% and 69.5% in the laparoscopy group, and 88.7% and 78.7% in the laparotomy group, respectively. The median time to recurrence was 14.5 (range, 2-67) months. In multivariate analysis, the initial laparoscopy approach posted significant adverse impacts on the OS (laparoscopy vs laparotomy, the hazard ratio [HR]: 3.52, p=0.009) and the RFS (laparoscopy vs laparotomy, HR: 2.58, p=0.024), while a higher substage (stage IB-IC vs IA, HR: 8.29, p=0.040) was associated with only a worse OS, and its impact on the RFS was marginal. An initial laparoscopy intervention and higher substage posted significant adverse effects on the prognosis in stage I epithelial ovarian cancer. Important precautions when using laparoscopy for adnexal masses, such as avoiding rupture, applying protection, and submitting frozen sections, are recommended."}
{"id": "20975495", "title": "Laparoendoscopic single-site surgery for fertility-sparing staging of border line ovarian tumors: initial experience.", "content": "Laparoendoscopic single-site surgery for fertility-sparing staging of border line ovarian tumors: initial experience. To report feasibility of laparoscopic fertility-sparing staging of border line ovarian tumors (BOTs) by using a laparoendoscopic single-site trocar through a unique transumbilical access. This study was conducted in our University Hospital. Four young patients, intended to be submitted to benign adnexal cysts enucleation by an innovative laparoendoscopic single-site approach using a multiport trocar inserted through a unique transumbilical access and straight laparoscopic devices, were found to be affected by border line ovarian tumor at intraoperative frozen analysis. Consequently patients were conservatively staged carrying out all the requested procedures in respect of oncologic guidelines and their child bearing desire, using same single-port access approach. Main outcome measures were conversion rate to multiaccess standard laparoscopic technique or to laparotomic approach and evaluation of intraoperative and postoperative-related complications. All the laparoscopic staging procedures were feasible through a single transumbilical access: no conversion to multiaccess standard laparoscopic technique nor laparotomy and no intraoperative or postoperative complications were observed. Mean operative time was 79 minutes. All patients were discharged home on day 1 with complete satisfaction toward cosmetic outcome. Final pathologic analysis confirmed stage FIGO 1A for all cases. The patients are free from recurrence at 10 months follow-up. Laparoendoscopic single-site staging of border line ovarian tumors with preservation of fertility is feasible and effective with standard laparoscopic instruments. More clinical data are needed to confirm these advantages compared with standard multiaccess laparoscopic technique."}
{"id": "20975493", "title": "Single incision diagnostic laparoscopy in a patient with sclerosing peritonitis.", "content": "Single incision diagnostic laparoscopy in a patient with sclerosing peritonitis. Sclerosing peritonitis (SP) is a rare disease that can cause abdominal pain and intestinal obstruction. SP can be primary (also called abdominal cocoon) or secondary (when it is mainly due to systemic diseases or the intraperitoneal instillation of medications). We report the video of a single incision diagnostic laparoscopy in a patient with SP with the educational intent of allowing easier recognition of this rare disease. The patient is a 72-year-old female with a history of bladder cancer, salivary gland cancer, and squamous cell cancer of the skin. She was diagnosed with a suspicion of SP during a diagnostic laparoscopy made to rule out ovarian cancer at an outside institution. Due to worsening of her symptoms, she was presented to our hospital for a second opinion. Due to inadequate tissue from her first exploration, she was brought to the operating room for a diagnostic laparoscopy. Although SP can mimic the gross appearance of peritoneal carcinomatosis, multiple biopsies should be obtained to allow for the diagnosis of SP. This video shows how this rare disease entity can present and how an abdomen with even thick fibrosis can be managed with a minimally invasive approach."}
{"id": "20966693", "title": "Elective oophorectomy in the United States: trends and in-hospital complications, 1998-2006.", "content": "Elective oophorectomy in the United States: trends and in-hospital complications, 1998-2006. To examine trends in rates of elective bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy in the United States and to assess the association of perioperative complications with elective bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. This cross-sectional study uses 1998-2006 data from the Nationwide Inpatient Sample of the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project, a nationally representative sample of inpatient hospitalizations. Analyses were limited to women aged 15 years or older at average risk for ovarian cancer who underwent hysterectomy for a benign gynecologic condition. Tests for trends in elective bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy rates were performed using weighted least squares regression for two time periods, 1998 to 2001 and 2002 to 2006. Adjusted odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for risks of complications associated with elective bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy were estimated using logistic regression. During the period from 1998 to 2006, 39% of the 2,250,041 women who underwent hysterectomy for benign gynecologic indications had elective bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (rate, 8.3 per 10,000). The elective bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy rate increased from 7.8 per 10,000 in 1998 to 9.0 per 10,000 in 2001 (P trend <.05) and decreased from 9.0 per 10,000 in 2002 to 7.4 per 10,000 in 2006 (P trend <.05). The largest decline from 2002 to 2006 (20.3%) occurred among those aged 45 to 49 years. Compared with hysterectomy only, elective bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was associated with an increased risk of complications when performed vaginally (OR 1.12; 95% CI 1.08-1.17) and a decreased risk of complications when performed abdominally (OR 0.91; 95% CI 0.89-0.94) or laparoscopically (OR 0.89; 95% CI 0.83-0.94). Elective bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy rates declined since 2002. However, the risks compared with the benefits of the procedure have not been clearly established. Prospective studies examining elective bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy with and without estrogen therapy are needed to guide practice patterns. III."}
{"id": "20932388", "title": "Postoperative bowel herniation in a 5-mm nonbladed trocar site.", "content": "Postoperative bowel herniation in a 5-mm nonbladed trocar site. Incisional hernias are a rare complication of laparoscopic surgery, with a reported incidence of <1%. We describe a case of bowel herniation and strangulation involving a 5-mm trocar site. Although there is growing literature supporting fascial closure of abdominal port sizes \u2265 10 mm, there is sparse data to suggest closure of 5-mm port sites. Our case illustrates that in appropriate clinical scenarios, the possibility of a strangulated hernia involving a 5-mm port site warrants consideration."}
{"id": "20932362", "title": "The safety and efficacy of laparoscopic surgical staging and debulking of apparent advanced stage ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancers.", "content": "The safety and efficacy of laparoscopic surgical staging and debulking of apparent advanced stage ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancers. To describe our experience with laparoscopic primary or interval tumor debulking in patients with presumed advanced ovarian, fallopian tube, or peritoneal cancers. This is a retrospective analysis of a prospective case series. Women with presumed advanced (FIGO stage IIC or greater) ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancers deemed appropriate candidates for laparoscopic debulking by the primary surgeon(s) were recruited. The study comprised 32 patients who underwent laparoscopic evaluation. Seventeen underwent total laparoscopic primary or interval cytoreduction, with 88.2% optimal cytoreduction. Eleven underwent diagnostic laparoscopy and conversion to laparotomy for cytoreduction, with 72.7% optimal cytoreduction. Four patients had biopsies, limited cytoreduction, or both. In the laparoscopy group, 9 patients have no evidence of disease (NED), 6 are alive with disease (AWD), and 2 have died of disease (DOD), with mean follow-up time of 19.7 months. In the laparotomy group, 3 patients are NED, 5 are AWD, and 3 are DOD, with mean follow-up of 25.8 months. Estimated blood loss and length of hospital stay were less for the laparoscopy group (P=0.008 and P=0.03), while operating time and complication rates were not different. Median time to recurrence was 31.7 months for the laparoscopy group and 21.5 months for the laparotomy group (P=0.3). Laparoscopy can be used for diagnosis, triage, and debulking of patients with advanced ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer and is technically feasible in a well-selected population."}
{"id": "20882893", "title": "\"Can laparoscopy really complete full surgical staging?\" A case of early recurrence and malignant transformation of borderline ovarian tumor.", "content": "\"Can laparoscopy really complete full surgical staging?\" A case of early recurrence and malignant transformation of borderline ovarian tumor. Ovarian borderline tumor (BOT) with noninvasive implants traditionally is considered to be non-aggressive. Recurrences are delayed and transformations to high-grade carcinoma are rarely documented. We report on a patient with BOT with early recurrence and high-grade carcinoma transformation in a short interval after complete laparoscopic staging. A 27-year-old unmarried woman presented with a 26 cm in size ruptured left ovarian mass. Laparoscopic left salpingo-oophorectomy with right ovarian biopsies, multiple peritoneal biopsies, omental biopsy and washing cytology were performed. FIGO Stage I ovarian serous borderline tumor with microinvasion was confirmed. About ten months later, a 15 cm in size left BOT recurred and was resected by laparoscopic cystectomy including staging surgery. Seven months after the second surgery, we found a pelvic mass by sonogram and elevated CA125. A third diagnostic laparoscopy revealed invasive serous carcinoma with multiple peritoneal implants. In spite of radical surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy, the patient died of a progressive metastatic liver tumor. A case of early recurrence with malignant transformation of BOT is presented together with a brief review."}
{"id": "20882872", "title": "Robotic-assisted laparoscopic anterior pelvic exenteration in patients with advanced ovarian cancer: Farghaly's technique.", "content": "Robotic-assisted laparoscopic anterior pelvic exenteration in patients with advanced ovarian cancer: Farghaly's technique. The safety and efficacy of the robotic-assisted laparoscopic approach to anterior pelvic exenteration is evaluated in patients with advanced ovarian cancer undergoing anterior pelvic exenteration for involvement of the urinary bladder during primary cytoreduction surgery. All patients undergo preoperative lab work, imaging studies and bowel preparation prior to surgery. The Davinci surgical system is used to perform urinary cystectomy, total hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, bilateral pelvic adenectomy (including obturator, hypogastic, external iliac, and common iliac lymph nodes). In addition, debulking to less than 1 cm is performed. The anterior pelvic exenteration procedure involves wide perivesical dissection. Then the robot is locked, and ileal conduit is performed via a 6 cm lower midline incision. Operative time can be maintained in 4.6 hours with a mean blood loss of 215 ml and hospital stay of five days. Farghaly's technique of robotic-assisted laparoscopic anterior pelvic exenteration in patients with advanced ovarian cancer is safe, feasible, and cost-effective with acceptable operative, pathological and short- and long-term clinical outcomes. It retains the advantage of minimally invasive surgery."}
{"id": "20873867", "title": "Novel surgical approaches for sampling the ovarian surface epithelium and proximal fluid proteome.", "content": "Novel surgical approaches for sampling the ovarian surface epithelium and proximal fluid proteome. The pathogenesis of ovarian, fallopian tube, and peritoneal cancers has been difficult to elucidate despite intense effort. Recently, though, the care of women felt to be at high risk due to a strong family history of breast and/or ovarian cancer or a known germline BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation has provided potential insight into the development of these malignancies. Risk-reducing surgical removal of the fallopian tubes and ovaries, called risk-reducing bilateral salpingo-oopherectomy (RRBSO), is commonly performed as a laparoscopic procedure to minimize recovery time. We describe here an optimized surgical sampling workflow for analyzing the proteomes of peritoneal, fallopian tube, and ovarian surface epithelial (OSE) specimens collected at the time of laparoscopic RRBSO, a technique which has not been described previously. This methodology presents a unique opportunity for closer examination of the proteomic alterations in the tissues at risk for malignant transformation in women with an inherited susceptibility to ovarian, fallopian tube, and peritoneal cancer development."}
{"id": "20829343", "title": "Cell proliferation effect of GnRH agonist on pathological lesions of women with endometriosis, adenomyosis and uterine myoma.", "content": "Cell proliferation effect of GnRH agonist on pathological lesions of women with endometriosis, adenomyosis and uterine myoma. We recently demonstrated the effect of gonadotrophin-releasing hormone agonist (GnRHa) on tissue inflammation, angiogenesis and apoptosis in endometriosis, adenomyosis and uterine myoma. Here, we investigated expression of GnRH receptors (GnRHRs) and effect of GnRHa on the proliferation of cells derived from endometria and pathological lesions of women with these reproductive diseases. Biopsy specimens were collected from lesions and corresponding endometria of 35 women with pelvic endometriosis, 45 women with ovarian endometrioma, 35 women with adenomyosis and 56 women with uterine myoma during laparoscopy or laparotomy. The gene and protein expressions of GnRHR in eutopic/ectopic cells and tissues were examined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry. The immunoreactivity of GnRHR in tissue was analysed by quantitative-histogram (Q-H) scores. The exogenous effect of GnRHa on cell proliferation was examined by 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine incorporation assay. The Ki-67-immunoreactive cell proliferation index was analysed in biopsy specimens derived from GnRHa-treated and -non-treated women. Types I and II GnRHRs mRNA and proteins were expressed in eutopic endometria and pathological lesions derived from women with endometriosis, adenomyosis and uterine myoma. GnRHR expression was the highest in the menstrual phase when compared with other phases of the menstrual cycle. Higher Q-H scores of GnRHR immunoreaction were found in blood-filled opaque red lesions than in other peritoneal lesions. Exogenous treatment with GnRHa significantly suppressed the proliferation of cells derived from respective endometria and pathological lesions when compared with GnRHa-non-treated cells. Local tissue expression of GnRHR was detected in endometriosis, adenomyosis and uterine myoma. In addition to a hypo-estrogenic effect, a direct anti-proliferative effect of GnRHa may be involved in the regression of these reproductive diseases with consequent remission of clinical symptoms."}
{"id": "20824864", "title": "Interventions for the treatment of borderline ovarian tumours.", "content": "Interventions for the treatment of borderline ovarian tumours. The safety of conservative surgery and the benefit of additional interventions after surgery for borderline ovarian tumours are unknown. To evaluate the benefits and harm of different treatment modalities offered for borderline ovarian tumours. We searched the Cochrane Gynaecological Cancer Group Trials Register to 2009, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2008, Issue 4), MEDLINE and EMBASE to 2009. We also searched registers of clinical trials, abstracts of scientific meetings, reference lists of included studies. Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared different interventions in adult women diagnosed with borderline ovarian tumours of any histological variant. Two review authors independently abstracted data and assessed risk of bias. We identified seven RCTs that enrolled 372 women. We could not pool results of trials as the treatment comparisons differed.Six RCTs (n = 340) conducted over 15 years ago, evaluated adjuvant therapy (chemotherapy, pelvic external irradiation or intra-peritoneal radioactive isotope therapy) after radical surgery; over 87% of participants had Stage I tumours. Most participants were followed up for over 10 years. Overall and recurrence-free survival were similar between both arms of these trials, except that one trial (n = 66) showed a significantly lower survival (P = 0.03) in women who received chemotherapy (thio-TEPA). Adverse effects of treatment were incompletely reported and all six trials were at high risk of bias.One further trial (n = 32) that recruited participants with bilateral serous tumours who were wishing fertility preservation, revealed a significantly increased chance of pregnancy (hazard ratio (HR) = 3.3, 95% CI 1.4 to 8.0) but non-significantly earlier disease recurrence (HR = 1.5, 95% CI 0.6 to 3.8) in the women who had ultra-conservative surgery (bilateral cystectomy) than in those who had conservative surgery (cystectomy and contralateral oophorectomy). This trial was at low risk of bias.Quality of life (QoL) was not documented in any included trial. We did not find any trials that compared radical with conservative surgery or laparoscopy with laparotomy. We did not find evidence to support the use of any specific type of adjuvant therapy for borderline ovarian tumours. RCTs evaluating the benefit of adjuvant therapy with optimally dosed chemotherapy and newer targeted drugs are necessary, particularly for advanced borderline ovarian tumours. The low mortality from borderline ovarian tumours should make recurrence-free survival, time to recurrence and morbidity important end points in such trials.Bilateral cystectomy may be offered to women with bilateral borderline ovarian tumours diagnosed intra-operatively who are wishing to preserve their fertility. Similarly, women who had RCTs comparing radical with conservative surgery and comparing laparoscopy with laparotomy are needed."}
{"id": "20817462", "title": "Impact of serum tumor marker determination on the management of women with borderline ovarian tumors: multivariate analysis of a French multicentre study.", "content": "Impact of serum tumor marker determination on the management of women with borderline ovarian tumors: multivariate analysis of a French multicentre study. To evaluate the contribution of preoperative serum tumor markers to manage borderline ovarian tumors (BOT). Retrospective multicentre study including 317 BOT. Serum tumor marker levels of CA125, CA19-9, CEA, and CA15-3 were determined by radio-immunoassay. Among 181 women with serous BOT and 136 women with mucinous BOT, respectively 55 of 114 (48.2%) and 38 of 91 (41.8%) had at least one abnormal value. Women with preoperative tumor marker assays were more likely to have radical treatment (p=0.0001), full staging (p=0.004), and intra-operative histology (p<0.0001). Women with at least one abnormal tumor marker were more likely to undergo laparotomy (p=0.007), to have intra-operative histology (p=0.04) and complete staging (p=0.0008). In multivariate analysis, first-line laparoscopy was associated with abnormal tumor marker levels (OR=9.63; 95%CI=1.40-66.39; p=0.02), while laparotomy was associated with large tumors, bilateral tumors, and ascitis visible on sonography. Serum tumor marker assays modified both preoperative assessment and surgical management of BOT."}
{"id": "20814383", "title": "[Multiple ovarian fibromas in a patient with Gorlin syndrome: US and MR imaging features with pathological correlation].", "content": "[Multiple ovarian fibromas in a patient with Gorlin syndrome: US and MR imaging features with pathological correlation]. We report a case of multiple ovarian fibromas in a 23 year old woman with Gorlin syndrome. We describe the US and MR imaging features with pathological correlation. The fibrous component of the tumors were hypoechoic and attenuating on US with corresponding T2W hypointensity whereas myxoid components were hypoechoic with increased through transmission on US with corresponding T2W hyperintensity."}
{"id": "20813621", "title": "Visceral surgery and pregnancy.", "content": "Visceral surgery and pregnancy. With an incidence of 950,000 pregnancies per year in France, the likelihood of seeing one or more surgical abdominal diseases during pregnancy is high. The goal of this update was to describe the management of four different settings in the pregnant woman: colorectal cancer, laparoscopic surgery, gastrointestinal emergency surgery, and bariatric surgery."}
{"id": "20812220", "title": "Overcoming extreme obesity with robotic surgery.", "content": "Overcoming extreme obesity with robotic surgery. Obesity is often associated with endometrial cancer and has posed a challenge in surgical management. Complications such as wound breakdown, respiratory challenges, cardiac complications and difficult intubations are associated with obesity. For the patient with uterine cancer, surgery is necessary for staging, control of symptoms and cure. With the advent of the da Vinci(\u2122) intuitive robot, alternative surgical options can now be offered to these patients. While surgery is the principal modality for the treatment and management of uterine cancer, the morbidly obese patient faces increased complications and longer postoperative recovery. As studied in the LAP2, comparable outcomes have been noted in laparotomy vs laparoscopic surgery. Recently, minimally invasive surgery has been refined with the advent of the da Vinci robotic system. Applying a minimally invasive technique further enhanced with the da Vinci robotic system, a total laparoscopic hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was performed on a patient with a BMI of 98. A 35 year-old G0 woman with a BMI of 98 presented with heavy vaginal bleeding and anaemia. She was diagnosed with endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the uterus, FIGO grade 1. She was treated with a robotically assisted total laparoscopic hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Her postoperative course was uncomplicated and she was discharged home on post-operative day 1. Since obesity is a significant risk factor for endometrial cancer and the prevalence of obesity is increasing, developing surgical techniques to appropriately manage these patients is important. Minimally invasive surgery, specifically with robotic assistance, has increased the possibilities of performing minimally invasive surgery in morbidly obese women. It allows navigation around anatomical barriers and decreases the fatigue experienced by the surgeons. With the increasing obesity of our population and the high prevalence of uterine cancer, further advancement of equipment, anaesthesia and surgical techniques to accommodate the larger patient while decreasing complications have yet to be standardized."}
{"id": "20810465", "title": "Ovarian cystic teratoma torsion in pregnancy.", "content": "Ovarian cystic teratoma torsion in pregnancy. Acute abdominal pain during pregnancy is encountered frequently and the differential diagnosis is extensive. Acute ovarian torsion in a pregnant patient is rare and is difficult to diagnose. Infarction caused by ovarian torsion will result if the twist is not unwound spontaneously or surgically in a timely fashion. The case is described of a 28-year-old primigravida who originally presented to the emergency department with right lower abdominal pain. The patient was ultimately found to have an extremely large cystic teratoma of the right ovary with concomitant torsion. Bedside ultrasonography is a highly accessible tool that can be used in a pregnant woman for screening a mass or ascites. Laparoscopic surgery has now been accepted as a safe modality for definitive diagnosis and therapeutic intervention. Because acute ovarian torsion is not encountered frequently, timely diagnosis is required to prevent mortality and minimise morbidity. It is important to keep ovarian torsion in the differential diagnosis of any pregnant woman with acute abdominal pain. Emergency physicians should be aware of the possibility of acute ovarian torsion in pregnant women and should have a high index of suspicion. Early surgical intervention should be undertaken."}
{"id": "20739009", "title": "Inadvertent rupture of benign cystic teratoma does not impair future fertility.", "content": "Inadvertent rupture of benign cystic teratoma does not impair future fertility. We sought to investigate the reproductive outcomes of women who underwent laparoscopic removal of benign cystic teratoma with or without intraoperative spillage. The reproductive outcomes of reproductive age women following laparoscopic removal of benign cystic teratoma from 1997 through 2007 were investigated by a telephone questionnaire. In all, 128 reproductive age women underwent benign cystic teratoma removal, and reproductive outcomes were available for 45. Among those 45 women, intraoperative spillage occurred in 16 (35.6%). The rate of spontaneous pregnancies was significantly lower for the nonspillage compared to the intraoperative spillage groups (20/29 [68.9%] vs 16/16 [100%], respectively; P = .01). However, the median time from surgery to the first pregnancy was similar (22 and 18.5 months, respectively; P = .9). From the 9 remaining women in the nonspillage group, 4 conceived with ovulation induction, 2 conceived with in vitro fertilization, and 3 were infertile. Intraoperative spillage of benign cystic teratomas does not lead to long-term infertility."}
{"id": "20737454", "title": "Ultrasound-guided tru-cut biopsy of abdominal and pelvic tumors in gynecology.", "content": "Ultrasound-guided tru-cut biopsy of abdominal and pelvic tumors in gynecology. To analyze the safety, adequacy and accuracy of tru-cut biopsy and to evaluate factors potentially affecting adequacy. We analyzed retrospectively a group of patients who had undergone tru-cut biopsy for either primary suboptimally operable tumors, recurrence or suspected non-genital or secondary tumor. Tru-cut biopsy was performed either transvaginally or transabdominally, using an automatic biopsy gun with disposable needle and needle guide attached to the probe. The adequacy, i.e. obtaining a sample sufficient for identification of the origin of the tumor and performance of immunohistochemistry; accuracy, i.e. agreement between biopsy and final postoperative histology; and safety, as determined by complication rate, were assessed. Variables potentially influencing adequacy were analyzed using the orthogonal projections to latent structure method. A total of 195 biopsies were performed on 190 patients. An adequate sample was obtained in 178 (91.3%) biopsies. The final histology was not in agreement with the result from tru-cut biopsy in two out of 118 patients who underwent subsequent surgery (accuracy 98.3%). There were complications in two cases out of the 195 biopsies performed (1.0%). Ascites, elevated CA 125, primary suboptimal operable tumor, serous epithelial ovarian cancer histology, carcinomatosis and vaginal approach were significant positive predictors for the achievement of an adequate sample, while recurrence as an indication, non-serous and non-ovarian histotypes and transabdominal approach were negative predictors. Ultrasound-guided tru-cut biopsy is an efficient, minimally invasive, accurate and safe diagnostic method in the management of advanced, recurrent or atypical abdominal and pelvic tumors of probable non-genital origin, where unnecessary laparotomy or laparoscopy can be avoided. The adequacy of tru-cut biopsy is mainly influenced by indication group, histology, site of biopsy and approach. Our analysis can help in counseling the patient before the procedure and helps to explain the possible causes of failure of the procedure."}
{"id": "20728827", "title": "Serous cystadenoma and ectopic pregnancy in the fallopian tube.", "content": "Serous cystadenoma and ectopic pregnancy in the fallopian tube. The coexistence of a cystadenoma with an ectopic pregnancy in the same fallopian tube is extremely rare. A 30-year-old gravid woman exhibited increasing human chorionic gonadotropin concentrations. Intramuscular methotrexate therapy was administered and ectopic precautions were taken. The patient eventually underwent diagnostic laparoscopy. After pathologic review, an ectopic pregnancy and serous cystadenoma were identified in the left fallopian tube."}
{"id": "20724944", "title": "Cancer-associated retinopathy in neuroendocrine carcinoma of the fallopian tube.", "content": "Cancer-associated retinopathy in neuroendocrine carcinoma of the fallopian tube. A 70-year-old woman developed progressive visual loss with compromised visual acuity and visual fields, cells in the anterior chamber and vitreous, attenuated retinal arterioles, and macular edema. She had undergone right oophorectomy and partial salpingectomy nearly 50 years earlier. Full-field and multifocal electroretinography showed waveforms of markedly attenuated amplitudes, findings consistent with cancer-associated retinopathy (CAR). Positron emission tomography revealed a nodule in the anterior wall of a right hydrosalpinx. Total laparoscopic hysterectomy yielded a neuroendocrine fallopian tube malignancy. She underwent partial treatment with paclitaxel and carboplatin that was aborted because of the development of herpes zoster infection. At 15 months following diagnosis, her ophthalmic status was stable. This is the first report of CAR in neuroendocrine carcinoma of the fallopian tube."}
{"id": "20715668", "title": "Primary serous peritoneal carcinoma presenting first on a routine papanicolaou smear: a case report.", "content": "Primary serous peritoneal carcinoma presenting first on a routine papanicolaou smear: a case report. Primary peritoneal carcinoma (PPC) is a relatively uncommon malignancy, and its presentation is similar to that of advanced ovarian serous carcinoma. There have been afew case reports in which the malignant cells from PPC were discovered from routine Papanicolaou (Pap) smears. In 2006 a 49-year-old, asymptomatic female participated in the Hospital Health Fair. High grade adenocarcinoma was found by Pap smear. After negative cervical and endometrial curetting and loop electrosurgical excision procedure cone, laparoscopy revealed widespread peritoneal carcinomatosis. The subsequent surgical specimens showed primary peritoneal serous carcinoma. Although the Pap smear was originally designed to detect premalignant cervical lesions and cancer, it became apparent that malignant cells from extrauterine primaries might appear in the smears. This case illustrated the value of the Pap smear in discovering unsuspected extrauterine malignancies, including PPC. Review of 9 cases showed tumor cells in the fallopian tube lumen in 4 out of 9 cases, indicating the likely route of efflux of tumor cells to appear in the Pap smear. The new concept of serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma as the origin of PPC suggests another source of tumor cells in Pap smears."}
{"id": "20708506", "title": "Application of laparoscopic surgery in gynecological oncology.", "content": "Application of laparoscopic surgery in gynecological oncology. The role of laparoscopic surgery in the management of gynecological cancers continues to expand. For early-stage cervical cancer, laparoscopically assisted radical vaginal hysterectomy is feasible, and radical vaginal trachelectomy with laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy has emerged as a safe option for women who desire fertility preservation. In the treatment of early-stage endometrial cancer, the surgical staging of laparoscopic hysterectomy, peritoneal washings and pelvic lymph node dissection is effective and safe when compared with the same surgery performed via laparotomy. In ovarian malignancies, laparoscopic surgery has been incorporated to manage early-stage cancers."}
{"id": "20666969", "title": "Primary and bilateral tubal carcinoma is associated with long-standing granulomatous inflammation and primary infertility: a case report.", "content": "Primary and bilateral tubal carcinoma is associated with long-standing granulomatous inflammation and primary infertility: a case report. We report a case of bilateral and primary tubal carcinoma associated with granulomatous inflammation and long-standing primary infertility. A 38-year-old woman with a 17-year history of primary infertility presented with lower abdominal pain and granulomatous inflammation in the endometrial biopsy. Bilateral adnexal masses measuring 4 and 6 cm in size were detected and the serum cancer antigen 125 level was 141 IU/ml. Laparoscopic surgical exploration and frozen section on the resected tubes revealed bilateral fallopian tube adenocarcinoma and then a staging laparotomy was performed. Histopathological examination showed a primary bilateral Grade 2 tubal serous adenocarcinoma of Stage 1b associated with granulomatous salpingitis. Primary fallopian tube carcinomas in young women are extremely rare gynecological tumors that are infrequently diagnosed prior to surgical exploration and their cause is unknown. A definitive diagnosis could be made on the histopathological examination in our case with the evidence of chronic pelvic inflammation. Our findings suggest that chronic pelvic inflammation may play a role in carcinogenesis in the tubes of infertile women."}
{"id": "20663487", "title": "Laparoendoscopic single-site surgery (LESS) in gynecology: a multi-institutional evaluation.", "content": "Laparoendoscopic single-site surgery (LESS) in gynecology: a multi-institutional evaluation. The study objectives were to determine the surgical outcomes of a large series of gynecology patients treated with laparoendoscopic single-site surgery (LESS). This was a retrospective, multi-institutional analysis of gynecology patients treated with LESS in 2009. Patients underwent surgery via a single 1.5- to 2.5-cm umbilical incision with a multichannel single port. A total of 74 women underwent LESS. Procedures were performed for benign pelvic masses (n = 39), endometrial hyperplasia (n = 9), endometrial (n = 15) and ovarian (n = 6) cancers, and nongynecologic malignancies (n = 5). Median patient age and body mass index were 47 years and 28, respectively. A Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient was computed and demonstrated a significant linear relationship between the operating time and number of cases for cancer staging (r = -0.71; n = 26; P < .001) and nonstaging (r = -0.78; n = 48; P < .002) procedures. Perioperative complications were low (3%). LESS is feasible, safe, and reproducible in gynecology patients with benign and cancerous conditions. Operative times are reasonable and can be decreased with experience."}
{"id": "20645700", "title": "Clinical management of borderline ovarian tumors.", "content": "Clinical management of borderline ovarian tumors. Borderline ovarian tumors (BOTs) are epithelial tumors of the ovaries characterized by cellular proliferation and nuclear atypia but without an infiltrative growth pattern. As they frequently affect younger patients the clinical management is complicated by considerations such as preserving fertility and reducing postoperative morbidity. Over the past several decades surgical therapy has shifted from a radical approach to more conservative treatment. There are various modes of surgery applied to the patients. All these developments have to be considered from an oncologic standpoint as BOTs represent a potentially malignant disease. Oncologic safety, as well as patients' desires and expectations, have to be balanced to reach the most appropriate treatment for BOTs. For this reason current literature will be discussed in this review to give a thorough overview of this topic and to develop recommendations for the surgical management of these patients. Open questions will be identified to elaborate the need for future surveys and research."}
{"id": "20638901", "title": "Safety of laparoscopy versus laparotomy in early-stage endometrial cancer: a randomised trial.", "content": "Safety of laparoscopy versus laparotomy in early-stage endometrial cancer: a randomised trial. The standard surgery for early-stage endometrial cancer is total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH) and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, which is associated with substantial morbidity. Total laparoscopic hysterectomy (TLH) and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy is less invasive and is assumed to be associated with lower morbidity, particularly in obese women. This study investigated the complication rate of TLH versus TAH in women with early-stage endometrial cancer. This randomised trial was done in 21 hospitals in The Netherlands, and 26 gynaecologists with proven sufficient skills in TLH participated. 283 patients with stage I endometrioid adenocarcinoma or complex atypical hyperplasia were randomly allocated (2:1) to the intervention group (TLH, n=187) or control group (TAH, n=96). Randomisation by sequential number generation was done centrally in alternate blocks of six and three participants, with stratification by trial centre. After assignment, the study coordinators, patients, gynaecologists, and members of the panel were not masked to intervention. The primary outcome was major complication rate, assessed by an independent panel. Data were analysed by a modified intention-to-treat analysis, since two patients in both groups were excluded from the main analysis. This trial is registered with the Dutch trial registry, number NTR821. The proportion of major complications was 14.6% (27 of 185) in the TLH group versus 14.9% (14 of 94) in the TAH group, with a difference of -0.3% (95% CI -9.1 to 8.5; p=0.95). The proportion of patients with an intraoperative major complication (nine of 279 [3.2%]) was lower than the proportion with a postoperative major complication (32 of 279 [11.5%]) and did not differ between TLH (five of 185 [2.7%]) and TAH (four of 94 [4.3%]; p=0.49). The proportion of patients with a minor complication was 13.0% (24 of 185) in the TLH group and 11.7% (11 of 94) in the TAH group (p=0.76). Conversion to laparotomy occurred in 10.8% (20 of 185) of the laparoscopic procedures. TLH was associated with significantly less blood loss (p<0.0001), less use of pain medication (p<0.0001), a shorter hospital stay (p<0.0001), and a faster recovery (p=0.002), but the procedure took longer than TAH (p<0.0001). Our results showed no evidence of a benefit for TLH over TAH in terms of major complications, but TLH (done by skilled surgeons) was beneficial in terms of a shorter hospital stay, less pain, and quicker resumption of daily activities. The Dutch Organization for Health Research and Development (ZonMw), programme efficacy."}
{"id": "20638899", "title": "Quality of life after total laparoscopic hysterectomy versus total abdominal hysterectomy for stage I endometrial cancer (LACE): a randomised trial.", "content": "Quality of life after total laparoscopic hysterectomy versus total abdominal hysterectomy for stage I endometrial cancer (LACE): a randomised trial. This two-stage randomised controlled trial, comparing total laparoscopic hysterectomy (TLH) with total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH) for stage I endometrial cancer (LACE), began in 2005. The primary objective of stage 1 was to assess whether TLH results in equivalent or improved quality of life (QoL) up to 6 months after surgery compared with TAH. The primary objective of stage 2 was to test the hypothesis that disease-free survival at 4.5 years is equivalent for TLH and TAH. Here, we present the results of stage 1. Between Oct 7, 2005, and April 16, 2008, 361 participants were enrolled in the QoL substudy at 19 centres across Australia, New Zealand, and Hong Kong; 332 completed the QoL analysis. Randomisation was done centrally and independently from other study procedures via a computer-generated, web-based system (providing concealment of the next assigned treatment), using stratified permuted blocks of three and six patients. Patients with histologically confirmed stage I endometrioid adenocarcinoma and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status less than 2 were randomly assigned to TLH (n=190) or TAH (n=142), stratified by histological grade and study centre. Patients and study personnel were not masked to treatment assignment. QoL was measured at baseline, 1 and 4 weeks (early), and 3 and 6 months (late) after surgery, using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) questionnaire. The primary endpoint was the difference between groups in QoL change from baseline at early and late timepoints (a 5% difference was considered clinically significant). Analysis was done according to the intention-to-treat principle. Patients for both stages of the trial have now been recruited and are being followed up for disease-specific outcomes. The LACE trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00096408. Eight of 332 patients (2.4%) had treatment conversion-seven from TLH to TAH and one from TAH to TLH (patient preference). In the early phase of recovery, patients who had TLH reported significantly greater improvement in QoL from baseline compared with those who had TAH, in all subscales apart from emotional and social wellbeing. Improvements in QoL up to 6 months after surgery continued to favour TLH, except in the emotional and social wellbeing measures of FACT and the visual analogue scale of the EuroQoL five dimensions (EuroQoL-VAS). Operating time was significantly longer in the TLH group (138 min [SD 43]) than in the TAH group (109 min [34]; p=0.001). Although the proportion of intraoperative adverse events was similar between groups (TAH eight of 142 [5.6%] vs TLH 14 of 190 [7.4%]; p=0.53); postoperatively, twice as many patients in the TAH group experienced adverse events of grade 3 or higher (33 of 142 [23.2%] vs 22 of 190 [11.6%] in the TLH group; p=0.004). Postoperative serious adverse events occurred more in the TAH group (27 of 142 [19.0%]) than in the TLH group (16 of 190 [7.9%]; p=0.002). QoL improvements from baseline during early and later phases of recovery, and the adverse event profile, favour TLH compared with TAH for treatment of stage I endometrial cancer. Cancer Council Queensland, Cancer Council New South Wales, Cancer Council Victoria, Cancer Council Western Australia; NHMRC project grant 456110; Cancer Australia project grant 631523; The Women and Infants Research Foundation, Western Australia; Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital Foundation; Wesley Research Institute; Gallipoli Research Foundation; Gynetech; TYCO Healthcare, Australia; Johnson and Johnson Medical, Australia; Hunter New England Centre for Gynaecological Cancer; Genesis Oncology Trust; and Smart Health Research Grant QLD Health."}
{"id": "20629199", "title": "Instituting a robot-assisted surgery programme at a tertiary care cancer centre.", "content": "Instituting a robot-assisted surgery programme at a tertiary care cancer centre. The initial experience of a gynaecological oncology robotic surgery programme at a tertiary care cancer centre is described. A retrospective study was performed to evaluate the perioperative outcomes of 76 patients offered robot-assisted surgery. Seventy-three patients underwent robot-assisted surgery; three cases were converted to laparotomy; 51% of patients underwent treatment for endometrial cancer; 18% had ovarian cancer risk reduction surgery; and 8% were treated for uterine leiomyomata. Median body mass index (BMI) was 30. Median estimated blood loss, operative time, and length of stay were 150 ml, 195 min and 1 day, respectively. The total major complication rate was 6.8% and the total minor complication rate was 15.1%. Robot-assisted surgery is safe and appropriate for gynaecological patients undergoing surgical management. A gynaecological oncology robot-assisted programme can be easily established in a tertiary care cancer centre."}
{"id": "20627241", "title": "Mature cystic teratoma of the fallopian tube.", "content": "Mature cystic teratoma of the fallopian tube. To report a case of mature cystic teratoma of the fallopian tube. Case report. Medical college-affiliated hospital. A 31-year-old woman, gravida 0, visited our outpatient clinic with infertility. Hysterosalpingography (HSG) showed a swollen right fallopian tube whose patency was not confirmed. Laparoscopic right salpingectomy was perfomed for a solid-appearing mass \u223c2 \u00d7 1.5 cm in diameter in the ampullary region. Histopathologic examination showed components from each germ cell layer; therefore, the diagnosis of a mature cystic teratoma of the right fallopian tube was confirmed. The patient became pregnant with IVF-ET and gave birth to a baby boy. In cases where hydrosalpinx is suspected, a careful assessment by either HSG or laparoscopy is necessary at the time of infertility examination."}
{"id": "20621016", "title": "Bilateral interruption of mid-fallopian tubes and ovarian anomalies including ectopic ovary and cystic teratoma, a previously unreported combination.", "content": "Bilateral interruption of mid-fallopian tubes and ovarian anomalies including ectopic ovary and cystic teratoma, a previously unreported combination. A 25-year-old infertile woman underwent laparoscopy because of a dermoid cyst of the left ovary and was found to have an ectopic ovary, to which an abnormal right fimbria was connected, with an isolated right ovary in the normal position and the bilateral segmental absence of the middle portion of the fallopian tubes. The complex of these anomalies is rare. A fundamental error might have existed in the mesenchyme of the gonadal ridges of the early embryo, rather than the epithelial origin of the m\u00fcllerian and wolffian ducts."}
{"id": "20621015", "title": "Pneumopericardium and severe subcutaneous emphysema after laparoscopic surgery.", "content": "Pneumopericardium and severe subcutaneous emphysema after laparoscopic surgery. Subcutaneous emphysema is a known complication of laparoscopic surgery. Occasionally, subcutaneous emphysema is severe enough to cause pneumopericardium. This case report describes a rare but potentially serious complication of pneumopericardium occurring after laparoscopy. Contributing factors and possible etiologies are discussed."}
{"id": "20620297", "title": "Neonatal ovarian torsion complicated by intestinal obstruction and perforation, and review of the literature.", "content": "Neonatal ovarian torsion complicated by intestinal obstruction and perforation, and review of the literature. We present a case of neonatal ovarian torsion complicated by bowel obstruction and perforation and review the literature regarding the incidence of bowel obstruction in neonatal ovarian cysts, the presentation, and treatment. A term neonate was prenatally diagnosed with a cystic abdominal mass palpable on physical examination. A postnatal abdominal x-ray showed paucity of gas in the left hemiabdomen with rightward displacement of bowel loops. Exploratory laparotomy on day 2 of life revealed a large cystic mass in the left lower quadrant consistent with a torsed left ovary, an omental band causing strangulation of the bowel mesentery, and a perforation of the distal ileum. Our literature search revealed 19 reported cases of neonatal ovarian cysts resulting in bowel obstruction. Infants may present with a palpable abdominal mass, respiratory distress, as well as signs and symptoms of intestinal obstruction. Two mechanisms exist for bowel obstruction: adhesions caused by a torsed necrotic ovary and mass effect of a large ovarian cyst, often measuring 9 to 10 cm in diameter. Options to treat ovarian cysts include antenatal or postnatal aspiration, laparoscopy, and laparotomy. Cysts less than 4 to 5 cm can be observed, whereas operative intervention is indicated in symptomatic cases and in persistent or enlarging ovarian cysts."}
{"id": "20580151", "title": "Laparoscopic ovarian tissue harvesting for cryopreservation: an effective and safe procedure for fertility preservation.", "content": "Laparoscopic ovarian tissue harvesting for cryopreservation: an effective and safe procedure for fertility preservation. To critically review our experience with the method of laparoscopic ovarian tissue harvesting for ovarian cryopreservation. In a retrospective cohort study 85 patients undergoing surgery for cryopreservation of ovarian tissue were included. One random ovarian cortical slice was histologically examined in order to determine the presence of primordial follicles and to detect possible malignant cells. Selective microbiological culture techniques from swabs were taken from all slices immediately after excision. Intra- and postoperative courses, histological and microbiological findings were evaluated. Eighty-five patients underwent cryopreservation of ovarian tissue, mostly for malignant diseases (78/85, 91.8%). Sixty patients (70.6%) underwent laparoscopy for ovarian tissue harvesting only, without any additional surgical procedure. The median operating time was 30 min (range 10-75 min). The intraoperative course was uneventful in these patients. In two patients slight postoperative increases in C-reactive protein levels were found. Microbiological examination revealed no contamination apart from one case revealing sporadic Propionibacterium acnes. Histological examination revealed intact ovarian tissue with primordial follicles in 81/85 patients (95.3%). Laparoscopy is a safe and effective procedure for ovarian tissue harvesting. We suggest microbiological and histological testing of ovarian tissue as mandatory tools to guarantee safety regarding ovarian tissue transplantation."}
{"id": "20579712", "title": "Single-port risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy with and without hysterectomy: surgical outcomes and learning curve analysis.", "content": "Single-port risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy with and without hysterectomy: surgical outcomes and learning curve analysis. Based on considerable prospective data, risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy (RRSO) is one of the most beneficial interventions available to reduce ovarian/breast cancer risk in BRCA carriers and high-risk women. The purpose of this study was to describe the initial surgical outcomes and learning curve analysis associated with laparoendoscopic single-site (LESS) RRSO with and without hysterectomy. A retrospective, multi-institutional analysis of BRCA carriers and women at high risk for breast/ovarian cancer who underwent LESS RRSO with and without hysterectomy in 2009 was performed. Data collected included age, BMI, procedure, operative time, length of hospital stay, postoperative pain scores, and post operative complications. Student t-test, Pearson correlation coefficient, and multivariate linear regression were used for analysis. A total of 58 patients were evaluated; 36 (63%) were BRCA1/2 carriers and 38 (63%) had breast cancer. Patients' mean age and BMI were 46 years and 27 kg/m(2), respectively. Most patients were Caucasian (76%), and at the time of prophylactic surgery, 53% of patients were undergoing active breast cancer treatment. Mean operative time was 38.1 minutes (16-80 minutes). All cases were performed successfully via the LESS approach, and there were no surgical complications. Multivariate linear regression analysis was done, and after controlling for study site, previous abdominal surgery, active cancer treatment, and BMI, operative time was only influence by number of cases performed, p=0.019. LESS RRSO is feasible and safe with favorable surgical and cosmetic outcomes. In our experience, surgical proficiency is possible after 10-15 cases. The LESS approach may be ideal for BRCA mutation carriers and breast cancer patients because of a short convalescence, permitting minimal interruption in any ongoing cancer treatment and the potential psychological benefits from improved cosmesis and pain control. Prospective studies are needed to assess the relative benefits of LESS compared with more conventional minimally invasive approaches."}
{"id": "20573679", "title": "Ultra-conservative fertility-sparing strategy for bilateral borderline ovarian tumours: an 11-year follow-up.", "content": "Ultra-conservative fertility-sparing strategy for bilateral borderline ovarian tumours: an 11-year follow-up. This is a prospective long-term extension study of a randomized controlled trial aimed to assess the risk-benefit ratio of an ultra-conservative fertility-sparing approach in patients with bilateral borderline ovarian tumours (BOTs). The experimental group (n = 15) was treated with an ultra-conservative surgical approach consisting of bilateral cystectomy, whereas the control group (n = 17) received a less conservative surgery consisting of oophorectomy plus controlateral cystectomy alone. All patients received a complete laparoscopic staging followed by a fertility enhancement programme. Patients who completed childbearing were treated with a non-conservative standard treatment at the first recurrence. After a follow-up period of 128 (9 interquartile range (IQR); 115-150 range) and 132 (7 IQR; 117-152 range) months for the experimental and control groups, respectively (P = 0.25), the time to first baby-in-arm (P < 0.02) and the relative rate (RR) of baby-in-arm (8.05 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.20-9.66; P < 0.01]) were significantly lower and higher, respectively, for the experimental compared with the control group. Although the time to first recurrence was significently (P < 0.01) shorter for the experimental group, in the regression analysis the difference did not reach the statistic significance (P = 0.14), and the RR of recurrence (1.23 [95% CI, 0.62-3.17; P = 0.41]) was not significant. Finally the number needed to treat for pregnancy was three, the number needed to harm for radical surgery was only two. The ultra-conservative fertility-sparing approach is more effective than the standard approach in terms of reproductive outcomes, but presents a higher oncological risk."}
{"id": "20561742", "title": "Management of non-gestational ovarian choriocarcinoma: laparoscopy can be essential. Report of two cases.", "content": "Management of non-gestational ovarian choriocarcinoma: laparoscopy can be essential. Report of two cases."}
{"id": "20556585", "title": "Total laparoscopic radical hysterectomy for treatment of uterine malignant tumors: analysis of short-term therapeutic efficacy.", "content": "Total laparoscopic radical hysterectomy for treatment of uterine malignant tumors: analysis of short-term therapeutic efficacy. To investigate the efficacy and the clinical value of total laparoscopic radical hysterectomy (TLRH) for the treatment of uterine malignancies, we performed a retrospective review of 87 patients with cervical cancer and 23 patients with endometrial carcinoma who underwent TLRH at Union hospital between June 2008 and September 2009. Data collected included operative time, estimated blood loss, lymph node count, time for the recovery of normal temperature and time to resumption of normal bladder function, intraoperative and postoperative complications. The procedure was completed laparoscopically in 108 patients. Two patients were converted to laparotomy due to common iliac vein injury. The mean overall operative time was 200.6+/-38.6 min; the mean operative blood loss was 280.5+/-128.3 mL; he mean number of pelvic lymph nodes that were resected wa26. 0+/-5.8. The time for recovery of normal temperature and the normal bladder function after the operation was 5.8+/-2.9 d and 15.2+/-4.3 d. There were 2 (1.8%) common iliac vein injuries during the operation and 10 (9.1%) bladder retentions post operation. It was concluded that TLRH is feasible, minimally invasive and provides promise for the treatment of uterine malignancies."}
{"id": "20537629", "title": "Fertility results and outcomes after pure laparoscopic management of advanced-stage serous borderline tumors of the ovary.", "content": "Fertility results and outcomes after pure laparoscopic management of advanced-stage serous borderline tumors of the ovary. The outcomes of 18 patients treated with pure laparoscopic management (treated conservatively in 14 patients) of serous borderline ovarian tumors with peritoneal implants were reviewed. Eight patients relapsed (three with an invasive recurrence), but none of the patients without residual disease at the end of surgery, or invasive implants or disease with a micropapillary pattern relapsed under the form of invasive carcinoma."}
{"id": "20531186", "title": "Management of lymph nodes in endometrioid uterine cancer.", "content": "Management of lymph nodes in endometrioid uterine cancer. Hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy is the standard surgery for endometrial cancer. However, the indication and extent of surgical lymph node staging continues to be controversial if the carcinoma is confined to the uterus, even in the eyes of the experts. The survival benefit of this invasive staging technique has not been clearly demonstrated in this setting. We have focused our review on lymph node disease in patients with early endometrial cancer. We report on the important issues surrounding lymphadenectomy in endometrial cancer and the results of a recent large randomized trial that do not indicate a benefit of surgical staging. Other issues, including complications and the benefits of combining laparoscopy with lymphadenectomy, will also be discussed. Pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomies are not appropriate for low-risk patients with endometrioid uterine cancer. The risk-benefit balance for these patients seems rather in favor of not performing surgical staging. On the contrary, high-risk patients would seem to benefit from complete pelvic and para-aortic lymph node staging with adjuvant treatments tailored to the results of lymphadenectomy."}
{"id": "20529532", "title": "Laparoscopic cytoreduction for primary advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic cytoreduction for primary advanced ovarian cancer. We evaluated the feasibility of laparoscopic cytoreduction for primary advanced ovarian cancer. All patients with presumed stage 3/4 primary ovarian cancer underwent attempted laparoscopic cytoreduction. All patients had CT evidence of omental metastasis and ascites. A 5-port (5-mm) transperitoneal approach was used. A bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, supracervical hysterectomy, and omentectomy were performed with PlasmaKinetic (PK) cutting forceps. A laparoscopic 5-mm Argon-Beam Coagulator was used to coagulate tumor in the pelvis, abdominal peritoneum, intestinal mesentery, and diaphragm. Nine of 11 cases (82%) were successfully debulked laparoscopically without conversion to laparotomy. Median operative time was 2.5 hours, and median blood loss was 275 mL. All tumors were debulked to <2 cm and 45% had no residual disease. Stages were 1-3B, 7-3C, and 1-4. Median length of stay was one day. Median VAS pain score was 4 (discomforting). Two of 11 patients (18%) had postoperative complications. Laparoscopic cytoreduction was successful and resulted in minimal morbidity. Because of our small sample size, additional studies are needed."}
{"id": "20527247", "title": "Ovarian metastasis following gallbladder carcinoma: a case report.", "content": "Ovarian metastasis following gallbladder carcinoma: a case report. Mucinous ovarian cancer raises problems of differential diagnoses because it is often difficult to distinguish the primary from the metastatic form. Most metastatic ovarian tumors originate from the gastrointestinal tract, mainly colorectal, gastric, pancreatic; the gallbladder is a very rare source of ovarian metastases. We report a case of ovarian metastases from a gallbladder cancer, incidentally diagnosed more than 2.5 years earlier during a laparoscopic intervention for biliary lithiasis. The interest of this case lies in the long progression-free survival, the venous thromboembolism syndrome that preceded by a few months the diagnosis of the ovarian mass and the discrepancy between the radiologic and the laparoscopic stage assessment."}
{"id": "20527239", "title": "Preservation of ovarian function by ovarian transposition prior to concurrent chemotherapy and pelvic radiation for cervical cancer. A case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Preservation of ovarian function by ovarian transposition prior to concurrent chemotherapy and pelvic radiation for cervical cancer. A case report and review of the literature. For over 45 years, ovarian transposition has been proposed for patients with cervical cancer to preserve ovarian function prior to pelvic radiation. We report a case of preservation of ovarian function and regular normal menstrual cycles after pelvic cisplatin-based chemoradiation and perform a literature review. A 29-year-old female with cervical cancer underwent laparoscopic ovarian transposition prior to cisplatin-based chemoradiation. At 3-year follow-up after completion of her chemoradiation treatment indicated that she was still free of any disease. She is experiencing normal menstrual cycles at regular monthly intervals. The present case shows that it is possible to retain ovarian function and menstrual cycles by ovarian transposition prior to pelvic chemoradiation. This provides an option for cervical cancer patients who desire preservation of ovarian function."}
{"id": "20517826", "title": "[Borderline tumors : diagnosis and management : report of 10 cases].", "content": "[Borderline tumors : diagnosis and management : report of 10 cases]. Since their discovery in 1929 by Taylor border tumors of the ovary, also known as borderline tumor (TOLM) inspired confusion, apprehension and disagreement. Identify epidemiological, clinical and therapeutic particularities of borderline tumors of the ovary. -Study the different surgical approaches for borderline tumors of the ovary. -Assess the value of frozen section in this pathology. This is a retrospective study of 10 patients operated for borderline tumor of the ovary and collected at the department C of the center of maternity and newborn in Tunis. The average age of our patients was 35.6 years Pelvic pain was the main circumstance of discovery, it accounted for 50% of the cases. The discovery was fortuitous in 40% of the cases Ultrasound has shown purely cystic tumors in 70% of cases and solido-cystic ones in 30% of cases. There was a tumor in the controlateral ovary in only one case. The surgery was conservative whenever possible. Histological examination concluded to 6 cases of serous tumor and 4 cases of mucinous ones. Among the 10 patients, 8 were classified as stage Ia, one stage Ib and one stage Ic. The frozen section was performed in 8 cases The diagnosis of borderlines tumors of the ovary remains difficult. The laparoscopy is of great use in the management of this pathology. Histological examination is an interesting addition and the conservative treatment is the more appropriate treatment."}
{"id": "20500106", "title": "Peri- and post-menopausal incidental adnexal masses and the risk of sporadic ovarian malignancy: new insights and clinical management.", "content": "Peri- and post-menopausal incidental adnexal masses and the risk of sporadic ovarian malignancy: new insights and clinical management. Adnexal masses are common among peri- and post-menopausal women. Although ovarian cancer is a significant cause of mortality in menopausal women, large population-based studies demonstrate that the majority of adnexal masses are benign. Despite this, the appearance of an adnexal mass is a concern for the patient and an insight exercise for physicians. In most cases, an adnexal enlargement is an incidental finding, generally corresponding to a benign cyst and easily diagnosed by conventional ultrasound. Exceptionally an ovarian tumour may be malignant and should be treated as early as possible. When conventional ultrasound renders complex morphology other diagnostic tools must be used such as: colour Doppler and functional tumour vessel properties, serum CA 125 levels, nuclear magnetic resonance imaging and in some cases laparoscopy. Several new tumour markers are being studied for clinical application, although there are presently no clear recommendations. Adnexal masses with benign morphological and functional properties must be periodically monitored as an alternative to surgery since malignant transformation is exceptional."}
{"id": "20482495", "title": "Mirena intra-uterine system: does it improve long term symptoms in women with chronic pelvic pain and/or endometriosis after laparoscopy? A multicentre randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Mirena intra-uterine system: does it improve long term symptoms in women with chronic pelvic pain and/or endometriosis after laparoscopy? A multicentre randomized controlled trial. Chronic pelvic pain (CPP) is a complex clinical scenario, which affects 15% of women. The published literature lacks a consistent definition of CPP. However according to Vercillini et al., CPP is defined by the duration and type of pelvic pain. CPP is present if the pelvic pain persists for more than 3 months duration and is constant or intermittent, cyclical or noncyclical in nature. Four types of pelvic pain have also been described and these include: cyclical pain during menstruation (dysmenorrhoea), deep dyspareunia, dyschezia and noncyclical pelvic pain. Therefore for the purposes of this study, CPP will be defined by these aforementioned types of pelvic pain and duration. Multi-centre randomised controlled trial comparing Mirena IUS versus expectant management in women with CPP and/or dysmenorrhoea who undergo laparoscopic surgery. All women aged 18 - 45 years with CPP scheduled for laparoscopy will be eligible for inclusion. Women with a non-gynecological cause of pelvic pain, contraindications to the use of Mirena IUS, previous hysterectomy, contraindications to laparoscopy and/or general anesthesia, use of hormonal treatment in the preceding three months, underlying gynaecological malignancies or known ovarian cysts other than endometriomata will be excluded. Importantly, all randomised women with endometriosis noted at the time of surgery will have the disease excised laparoscopically. Routine excision of endometriosis at laparoscopy will be performed according to the anatomical location and type (superficial or deep infiltrating endometriosis (DIE)). Women will be followed for up to 24 months after laparoscopic surgery. The primary outcome measure is improvement of pelvic pain and/or of dysmenorrhoea post-laparoscopic surgery for women. Assuming a 30% reduction in pain for the expectantly managed group in order to detect a reduction in pain in the study group of 50% with an alpha of 0.05 and a beta of 0.20, the sample size was estimated at a minimum of 103 women per trial arm. This trial will provide evidence to validate the effectiveness or otherwise of progestogen-releasing IUS in treating women with CPP who undergo laparoscopy surgery. The pros and cons of both trial arms will offer guidance to clinicians in making the right treatment choice."}
{"id": "20473276", "title": "Evaluation of vascular space involvement in endometrial adenocarcinomas: laparoscopic vs abdominal hysterectomies.", "content": "Evaluation of vascular space involvement in endometrial adenocarcinomas: laparoscopic vs abdominal hysterectomies. Recent reports have described 'vascular pseudoinvasion' in total laparoscopic hysterectomies with endometrial carcinoma. To better understand this phenomenon, we compared pathologic findings in these laparoscopic and total abdominal hysterectomies performed for uterine endometrioid adenocarcinoma. Reports from 58 robotically assisted laparoscopic and 39 abdominal hysterectomies with grade 1 or 2 endometrioid endometrial adenocarcinomas were reviewed for stage, depth of invasion, vascular space involvement, uterine weight, and lymph node metastases. In addition, attention was given to possible procedural artifacts, including vertical endomyometrial clefts, and inflammatory debris, benign endometrial glands, and disaggregated tumor cells in vascular spaces. All foci with vascular involvement were reviewed by three gynecologic pathologists. Nine of the 58 (16%) laparoscopic and 3 of the 39 (7%) abdominal hysterectomies contained vascular space involvement based on the original pathology reports (P-value=0.0833). No one histologic feature consistently distinguished laparoscopic from abdominal cases on blind review of the available cases. Disaggregated intravascular tumor cells were significantly associated with reported vascular involvement in both procedures (P-values<0.001 and 0.016), most of which were corroborated on review. Laparoscopic procedures tend to have a higher index of vascular involvement, which is associated with lower stage, fewer lymph node metastases, and less myometrial invasion; however, pathologists cannot consistently determine the procedure on histologic findings alone. Moreover, there is significant inter-observer variability in distinguishing true from artifactual vascular space involvement, even among pathologists at the same institution. The clinical significance of apparent true vascular space involvement seen adjacent to artifacts is unclear, as is the impact of laparoscopic hysterectomy on recurrence risk."}
{"id": "20465557", "title": "Does prevention of intraperitoneal spillage when removing a dermoid cyst prevent granulomatous peritonitis?", "content": "Does prevention of intraperitoneal spillage when removing a dermoid cyst prevent granulomatous peritonitis? In this retrospective study of 314 patients undergoing surgery for ovarian dermoid cysts, conducted over a 20-year period, we evaluated the impact of the routine use of laparoscopic surgery without recourse to laparotomy to retrieve the specimen, using an endoscopic retrieval bag placed under the cyst to prevent intraperitoneal spillage of cyst contents, and subsequent postoperative granulomatous peritonitis. Accidental cyst rupture was more frequent when a total laparoscopic approach was used (26/174 or 15% versus 39/140 or 28%; P = 0.005), but there were no cases of intraperitoneal spillage when an endoscopic bag was used. Two cases of granulomatous peritonitis developed out of 26 women with intraperitoneal spillage of cyst contents (8%). We conclude that the risk of granulomatous peritonitis can be minimised by undertaking laparoscopic removal of dermoid cysts with the routine intraoperative use of an endoscopic retrieval bag to prevent intraperitoneal spillage of cyst contents."}
{"id": "20451983", "title": "Low incidence of port-site metastases after laparoscopic staging of uterine cancer.", "content": "Low incidence of port-site metastases after laparoscopic staging of uterine cancer. To estimate the incidence of clinically detected port-site metastases (PSM) in patients with endometrial and cervical cancer treated at two gynecologic oncology services with extensive experience. All eligible uterine cancer patients laparoscopically staged at Centre Oscar Lambret in Lille and Institut Claudius Regaud in Toulouse, France, were reviewed. MEDLINE database was searched to identify articles on PSM after laparoscopic procedures for cervical and endometrial cancer. During the study period, 1216 laparoscopic procedures for uterine cancer were performed. 921 patients underwent laparoscopic staging for cervical cancer and 295 for endometrial cancer. The overall incidence of PSM in our institutions was 0.4% per procedure (5 patients), and the incidence of PSM after laparoscopy for cervical and endometrial cancer was 0.43% and 0.33%, respectively. Excluding patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis, the rate of port-site recurrence in our series lowered to 0.16%, and the rate of isolated PSM to 0%. The median time to the development of PSM was 8 months (range 6-48), the median overall survival from diagnosis for all patients was 26 months (range 7-30), and median survival from recurrence was 5 months (range 1-20). Although PSM is recognized as a complication of laparoscopy for ovarian cancer. PSM is a rare complication of laparoscopic staging for endometrial and cervical cancer. The majority of patients with PSM presented with associated synchronous disease. The incidence of isolated PSM can be maintained virtually to 0% by an adequate operative technique. We believe that PSM in patients with uterine cancer cannot be used as an argument against laparoscopic staging in uterine cancer."}
{"id": "20446246", "title": "Single incision laparoscopic surgery (SILS) for ovarian masses (including teratoma) in adolescent girls.", "content": "Single incision laparoscopic surgery (SILS) for ovarian masses (including teratoma) in adolescent girls."}
{"id": "20444337", "title": "[Port site metastasis: a problem in oncologic laparoscopic surgery. Case report and review of the literature].", "content": "[Port site metastasis: a problem in oncologic laparoscopic surgery. Case report and review of the literature]. First success of laparoscopic surgery promoted the application of this technique in the treatment of malignancies. The technique has been associated with less postoperative pain, a better cosmetic result and a shorter period of hospitalization. The early optimism has been followed by the doubts based on the observation of port site metastasis after laparoscopic surgery for neoplastic diseases. Port site metastases have been reported without a sure explanation of their cause: gas turbulence and exfoliated cells, contaminated instruments or limited experience of surgeon. In this study we present a case of a woman that underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy; 12 months later she presented with port site metastasis from an unsuspected ovarian cancer. We review in the literature about this complication of the laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "20438667", "title": "Ovarian tumors in the pediatric age group: 37 cases treated over an 8-year period.", "content": "Ovarian tumors in the pediatric age group: 37 cases treated over an 8-year period. Ovarian tumors have generally been considered rare in the pediatric age group. We reported our experience dealing with pediatric ovarian tumors during an 8-year period. Between January 1998 and December 2006, 37 girls with ovarian tumors were treated at the Department of Pediatric Surgery, Chang Gung Childrenfs Medical Center. Modes of clinical presentation, pathology diagnosis, methods of treatment and clinical outcome were retrospectively analyzed. Twenty-nine of the 37 patients were symptomatic with abdominal pain, abdominal distention or the presence of a palpable mass, reduction in appetite or nausea and vomiting and precocious puberty. Another 8 patients were diagnosed prenatally. Thirty patients had benign disease and 7 had malignant tumors. The malignant lesions included 5 germ cell tumors (2 yolk sac tumors, 2 immature teratomas, 1 dysgerminoma), and 2 sex cord stromal tumors. Operations performed were salpingo-oophorectomy (n = 22), oophorectomy (n = 8), cystectomy (n = 3), aspiration (n = 2) and biopsy only (n = 2). A laparoscopic approach was performed in 10 cases. Patients with stage II yolk sac tumors (n = 2) or grade III immature teratomas (n = 2) had elevated alpha-fetoprotein levels, and the patient with dysgerminoma was diagnosed as stage II b. All underwent salpingo-oophorectomy and received chemotherapy following their initial operation and remained free of disease at 8 months to 6 years of follow-up. In our studies, most ovarian tumors were benign. Epithelial cysts and teratomas were the most common benign lesions, and germ cell tumors were the most common malignancy. A laparoscopic approach was feasible in most cases. With accurate staging, complete resection, and chemotherapy for malignant tumors, patients are expected to have excellent survival rates."}
{"id": "20438312", "title": "Two-port access staging laparoscopy for gynecologic cancers: a pilot study.", "content": "Two-port access staging laparoscopy for gynecologic cancers: a pilot study. The aims of this work were to introduce a two-port access (TPA) staging laparoscopy in gynecologic cancers and evaluate the feasibility and surgical outcomes of this operation. We performed 12 cases of TPA staging laparoscopy. The TPA system consisted of a single multichannel port at the umbilicus and an ancillary 5-mm port in the suprapubic area. Patient status was estimated in terms of operative morbidity and surgical outcomes. All operations were completed laparoscopically, with no conversions to conventional laparoscopy or laparotomy. Procedures included endometrial cancer staging (n = 6), ovarian cancer staging (n = 3), 2 cases of type III radical hysterectomy, and 1 type II radical hysterectomy. Median patient age and body mass index were 48 years and 20.4 kg/m(2), respectively. Median operation duration was 241 minutes (range, 188-360). Median estimated blood loss was 175 mL. Median number of lymph nodes obtained was 30 (range, 14-49). Median postoperative hospital stay was 8 days. There were no perioperative complications. TPA staging laparoscopy, using the single multichannel port system, could be a feasible procedure in selected gynecologic cancer patients, with only minimal skin incisions. Prospective, randomized trials will permit the evaluation of potential benefits of this minimally invasive surgical technique."}
{"id": "20431278", "title": "Ovarian adrenal rest tumor in a congenital adrenal hyperplasia patient with adrenocorticotropin hypersecretion following adrenalectomy.", "content": "Ovarian adrenal rest tumor in a congenital adrenal hyperplasia patient with adrenocorticotropin hypersecretion following adrenalectomy. Ovarian adrenal rest tumors (OARTs) are rare in contrast to testicular adrenal rest tumors. We report a case of OART in a patient with congenital adrenal hyperplasia who developed Nelson's syndrome after bilateral adrenalectomy. We describe the clinical, imaging, and laboratory findings of the patient and review the relevant literature regarding OART and the possible interaction between ACTH and brown adipose tissue. An 18-year-old female with congenital adrenal hyperplasia, who had undergone bilateral adrenalectomy at the age of 10 years, presented with severe hyperpigmentation and hirsutism. Rectal ultrasonography showed a mass in the right ovary. (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose PET/CT revealed intense uptake both in this mass and in brown adipose tissue located in typical supradiaphragmatic sites. Laparoscopic removal of the ovarian mass confirmed the diagnosis of OART. A systematic review revealed 9 documented cases of OART. As in our case, all presented with elevated ACTH levels. Common to all documented cases of OART are sustained high ACTH levels that activate the adrenal anlagen tissue in the ovaries."}
{"id": "20430667", "title": "[Pelvic actinomycosis: just think of it].", "content": "[Pelvic actinomycosis: just think of it]. Pelvic actinomycosis is a rare disease that can be diagnosed before, during or after surgical treatment of a suspected ovarian tumor, a suspected bowel obstruction, or acute peritonitis. The possibility of early detection of pelvic or abdominal abscess related to was evaluated through a personal series and literature review. Our series of 11 cases of severe abdominal or pelvic actinomycosis is related and compared to 58 cases reported in the literature. Seven patients in this series were diagnosed with pelvic inflammatory disease and acute peritonitis with or without bowel obstruction, and four women were diagnosed after surgical treatment for suspected ovarian cancer. Fifty-two of the 58 cases of reproductive tract actinomycosis reported in the literature review and all our cases were associated with prolonged use of an intrauterine contraceptive device with a mean of eight years. The contribution of pelvic ultrasound and angioscanner in evaluating these patients should not be underestimated and MRI may be useful in some cases as well. Early diagnosis based on Actinomyces-positive cervical smears or abscess aspiration was accomplished only once in our series and was rare in literature. A histopathologic diagnosis during laparoscopy or laparotomy could avoid more difficult and extensive surgery. In our series of 11 patients, five women required abdominal surgery, five required salpingo-oophorectomy and three required hysterectomy. All women required surgical intervention. Effective treatment combined long antibiotic therapy with surgery. Correct preoperative diagnosis is rare but if achieved, long-term treatment with penicillin for at least two months and sometimes up to a year may completely eradicate the infection. Surgery may still be necessary to improve medical treatment or to resolve pelvic abscesses. Any pelvic abscess occurring in a woman with a history of long-term use of an intrauterine device should be considered as possible pelvic actinomycosis. If there is no fever in association with an atypical adnexal tumor, frozen section should be obtained during surgery to rule out the diagnosis of actinomycosis."}
{"id": "20417433", "title": "Laparoendoscopic single-site surgery for exteriorization and cystectomy of an ovarian tumor during pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoendoscopic single-site surgery for exteriorization and cystectomy of an ovarian tumor during pregnancy. Herein, we describe a surgical approach for management of a pregnant woman with an ovarian tumor using laparoendoscopic single-site surgery with exteriorization. We assessed both the feasibility and cosmetic outcome. The operation lasted 25 minutes, and the estimated blood loss was negligible. No perioperative or postoperative complications developed, and the patient was discharged on postoperative day 2."}
{"id": "20409655", "title": "Short-term surgical outcome and safety of risk reducing salpingo-oophorectomy in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers.", "content": "Short-term surgical outcome and safety of risk reducing salpingo-oophorectomy in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers. Women with a BRCA1/2 mutation or members of a hereditary breast ovarian cancer family (HBOC) have an increased risk of developing ovarian cancer. The only effective strategy to reduce this risk is a risk reducing salpingo-oophorectomy (RRSO). The aim of this study was to evaluate the short-term surgical outcome and safety of a RRSO. Included were all consecutive women with a BRCA1/2 mutation or members of a HBOC family who visited our Family Cancer Clinic between September 1995 and March 2006, and choose for RRSO. 159 women were included, of which 97 (61.0%) BRCA1 and 32 (20.1%) BRCA2 mutation carriers, and 30 women of a HBOC family (18.9%). The median age at RRSO was 42.9 years (30.3-61.1) in the BRCA1 group, 48.4 years (33.5-66.9) in the BRCA 2 group and 46.4 (32.8-68.7) years in the HBOC group (p=0.02). The median body mass index (BMI) was 24.9 kg/m(2), 30.1% were overweighed (BMI 25-30) and 18.7% were obese (BMI>30). The RRSO was performed by primary laparoscopy (n=154) or laparotomy (n=5). Intraoperatively, one (0.6%) major complication occurred and laparoscopy was converted to laparotomy. In one patient (0.6%) a minor complication occurred. Post-operatively five minor complications (3.1%) were observed. Median hospital stay was 1 day (0-13 days). Laparoscopic RRSO in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers seems to be a safe procedure with a low intraoperative and post-operative complication rate (1.3% and 3.1% respectively), a low conversion rate (0.6%) and a short median hospital stay (1.0 day)."}
{"id": "20400071", "title": "Rare case of perplexing ovarian endometriosis.", "content": "Rare case of perplexing ovarian endometriosis. To document a rare case of coexisting endometriosis and mature cystic teratoma in the same ovary. Case report. Gynecology unit in a tertiary training and teaching hospital in Cape Town, South Africa. A 30-year-old healthy nulligravida woman with a large ovarian tumor. After a basic examination, a diagnostic and management laparotomy was performed. A unilateral oophorectomy and staging laparotomy were performed. Final diagnosis of a complex ovarian tumor. Histologic analysis confirmed endometriosis of the pelvis and concomitant compound pathology in the right ovary, which included endometriosis, mature teratoma, and mucinous cystadenoma. Co-existence of varied pathology in a single organ presents a challenge to the pathologist and the clinician. Accurate clinical (i.e., surgical) assessment and decisive histologic verification forms a critical part in this process. This case of coexisting endometriosis and teratoma in a single ovary is, to our knowledge, only the third case reported in literature."}
{"id": "20392556", "title": "Single port access laparoscopic adnexal surgery versus conventional laparoscopic adnexal surgery: a comparison of peri-operative outcomes.", "content": "Single port access laparoscopic adnexal surgery versus conventional laparoscopic adnexal surgery: a comparison of peri-operative outcomes. The objective of the study was to compare the peri-operative outcomes of single port access (SPA) laparoscopic adnexal surgery and conventional laparoscopic adnexal surgery. This is a retrospective case-control study matched by body mass index (BMI; kg/m(2)). A single surgeon (T-JK) performed 17 SPA laparoscopic adnexal surgeries (cases) consecutively between December 2008 and March 2009; 34 conventional laparoscopic adnexal surgeries (controls) were performed by another surgeon who had similar surgical skill at our hospital during the same time period. Data on the SPA laparoscopic adnexal surgery cases were collected prospectively into our data registry after Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval and we reviewed the data on the controls from the electronic medical records with IRB approval. In both groups all procedures were performed without failure. Among preoperative baseline characteristics there was no difference between the two groups including preoperative size of ovarian tumor and bilaterality. The pathology findings were similar; a mature cystic teratoma was the most common pathological feature in both groups. The two groups were comparable with regard to operative outcomes according the surgery type. There were no differences between SPA and conventional groups in median operation time (64 min vs. 57.5 min, p=0.252), the number of patients that requested additional parenteral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (7 patients vs. 19 patients, p=0.597), and the absolute decrease (1.3mg/dl vs. 1.1mg/dl, p=0.640) from preoperative hemoglobin to postoperative day 1 measurements. No patient from either cohort required a blood transfusion. There were no complications in either group including umbilical incision complications in the SPA group. Our study demonstrated that SPA laparoscopic adnexal surgery had comparable operative outcomes to conventional laparoscopic adnexal surgery. A prospective comparison is needed for confirmation and to define the role of SPA in gynecological adnexal surgery."}
{"id": "20392142", "title": "Gastrointestinal bleeding caused by ileal metastasis of a tubal complete mole: a case report.", "content": "Gastrointestinal bleeding caused by ileal metastasis of a tubal complete mole: a case report. Tubal hydatidiform mole is known to be an extremely rare disease, moreover, gastrointestinal metastasis from an ectopic complete mole has never been reported. A 33-year-old woman presented with gastrointestinal bleeding. She had undergone laparoscopic left salpingectomy for a tubal complete mole a month earlier. An ileal invasion of mole was identified. The patient received nine cycles of adjuvant methotrexate chemotherapy after small bowel resection and anastomosis. She was been without recurrence 20 months after therapy. Gestational trophoblastic diseases in ectopic pregnancy are rare and gastrointestinal tract metastasis is very infrequent. There have been a few case reports of choriocarcinoma presenting gastrointestinal tract metastasis. To our knowledge, this is the first report of molar pregnancy in a Fallopian tube with ileal metastasis. Ectopic molar pregnancy with gastrointestinal metastasis carries a high risk of intestinal perforation and uncontrollable gastrointestinal bleeding. Despite its rarity, gastrointestinal metastasis should nevertheless be considered a possible cause for gastrointestinal bleeding in ectopic molar pregnancy patients after elimination of the more common etiologies."}
{"id": "20386444", "title": "Borderline ovarian tumors and fertility.", "content": "Borderline ovarian tumors and fertility. Borderline ovarian tumors (BOTs) are a distinct diagnostic category of epithelial ovarian tumors, distinguished from both benign and invasive epithelial ovarian tumors. Because they affect young women of childbearing age, are diagnosed at an early stage, and are associated with excellent prognosis, fertility-sparing options are often used. In this review, we discuss recent findings on the outcomes of fertility-sparing treatments in patients with BOTs. Reports on the use of fertility-sparing surgery in patients with advanced-stage BOTs and on the application of laparoscopy in fertility-sparing surgery are increasing. As potential alternative, experiences on ovarian tissue cryopreservation have been reported. Fertility-sparing surgery is the best option to preserve childbearing capacity in young patients with BOTs. Fertility-sparing surgery is well tolerated not only in patients with early-stage BOTs but also in patients with advanced-stage BOTs with noninvasive extraovarian implants, if these implants can be resected completely. After fertility-sparing surgery, pregnancy outcomes are promising and most pregnancies are achieved spontaneously. There are few complications associated with pregnancy, and subsequent pregnancy seems to have little impact on disease course. Fertility drugs are well tolerated in patients with infertility after fertility-sparing surgery for early-stage BOTs, but caution should be exercised when using these drugs after surgery in patients with advanced-stage BOTs. If fertility-sparing surgery is technically not feasible owing to extensive tumor involvement of both ovaries, recent artificial reproductive technologies can be considered, including embryo, oocyte, and ovarian tissue freezing; use of donor oocytes; and surrogacy, but more experience with these options is required."}
{"id": "20376495", "title": "Laparoscopy as a diagnostic and therapeutic option in evaluating chronic unexplained right iliac fossa pain.", "content": "Laparoscopy as a diagnostic and therapeutic option in evaluating chronic unexplained right iliac fossa pain. Management of chronic right iliac fossa (CRIF) pain is poorly documented in literature. No guidelines are available on the best therapeutic approach. Patients presenting from October 2007 to August 2009 with pain persisting or recurring in right lower abdomen over a period of 6 weeks or more were assessed. Severity of CRIF pain was documented using a ten-point visual analogue scale. Initial history and examination were followed by urine analysis, blood counts, X-ray and ultrasound scan of the abdomen. Full colonoscopy was performed in all negative cases. Diagnostic or therapeutic laparoscopy was offered to patients with normal initial investigations. The normal-looking appendix was removed in the absence of other positive laparoscopic findings. Patient's immediate complications, pain score at 8 weeks and histology of appendix were assessed. Nineteen patients with median age of 43 years (range 32-52 years) underwent laparoscopy. All were female. Median pain score was 5 (range 4-6). During surgery, 12 (64%) had positive findings. Of these, 6 (30%) had adhesions, which were separated. Three patients with congested appendices were removed. One caecal perforation, tubal mass and ovarian cyst were treated laparoscopically. Seven (36%) patients who had macroscopically normal appendices underwent appendicectomy. There were no immediate postoperative complications. Significant improvement was seen in overall pain score after surgery (median 5, range 4-6 versus median 0, range 0-6; p = 0.001). However, only 57% of patients with normal appendix had improved pain scores (median 5, range 4-6 versus median 1, range 0-6; p = 0.12). All patients with positive laparoscopic findings improved after surgery. Laparoscopy seems effective in evaluation and treatment of CRIF pain. The role of appendicectomy with normal-looking appendix needs further evaluation."}
{"id": "20375795", "title": "Secondary surgery in patients with serous low malignant potential ovarian tumors with peritoneal implants.", "content": "Secondary surgery in patients with serous low malignant potential ovarian tumors with peritoneal implants. To determine the impact of secondary surgery in patients treated for a serous low malignant potential ovarian tumor (LMPOT) and peritoneal implants. A retrospective review of patients with a serous LMPOT and peritoneal implants treated in or referred to our institution. The characteristics of patients who had undergone surgery were compared with those who had not. We analyzed the clinical impact of this procedure. From 1969 to 2006, 171 patients were reviewed. Secondary surgery was defined as classic second-look surgery (residual disease at the time of initial surgery, a different histological analysis between the initial and definitive diagnosis) and surgery for abnormal radiological findings during follow-up. Fifty-seven patients had undergone secondary surgery (which was positive in 16 of them). The percentages of patients with residual disease and invasive implants at the time of initial management who had received adjuvant therapy were higher among subjects who had undergone secondary surgery. The recurrence-free interval between patients in whom secondary surgery was negative and in patients who had not undergone a secondary procedure was statistically different. Four factors were predictive of recurrent disease: the use of conservative surgery, the use of laparoscopic surgery, the presence of residual disease at the end of surgery, and positive secondary surgery. Secondary surgery seems to reduce the risk of recurrence in patients with serous LMPOT and peritoneal implants. Patients with residual disease are probably those likely to benefit from such surgery. Further studies are needed to confirm these preliminary results."}
{"id": "20373947", "title": "Laparoscopic management of gynaecological cancer in pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of gynaecological cancer in pregnancy."}
{"id": "20357728", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery for the management of ovarian endometriomas.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery for the management of ovarian endometriomas. Treatment for mild and moderate endometriosis is controversial, whereas ovarian endometriomas of diameter > 3 cm must be treated surgically. A minimally invasive and inexpensive surgical approach should be always preferred. The objective of this randomized, prospective, clinical trial was to assess operative time, hemostasis, accuracy, recurrence rates, and pregnancy outcomes of 2 different laparoscopic techniques for management of ovarian endometriomas. Ninety-two patients with ovarian endometriomas were randomized to undergo direct stripping of cystic wall from the initial adhesion site (group A), or circular excision of ovarian tissue around the initial adhesion site and then stripping (group B). Pregnancy outcome results were retrieved at 36 months after surgery. Recurrence rate corresponded to evaluation at 4 and 12 months after surgery performed by transvaginal ultrasound and Ca125 serum level. Direct stripping leads to bleeding more frequently than does circular excision. Hemostasis at the ovarian hilus does show differences between groups; an easy exposure of damage after circular excision reduces execution time. Cumulative pregnancy outcomes at 36 months, and recurrence rates during follow-up, did not significantly differ among techniques. Circular excision of endometrioma cystic wall reduces surgical time, and results in better hemostasis. In addition, excision techniques allow complete removal of the cystic wall in 93% of cases (compared to 74.5% for direct stripping technique), showing differences in recurrence rate, and bringing about a better pregnancy. Data are not statistically significant owing to the small number of collected cases."}
{"id": "20226417", "title": "Laparoscopic resection of an ovarian strumal carcinoid tumor with dramatic relief of severe constipation.", "content": "Laparoscopic resection of an ovarian strumal carcinoid tumor with dramatic relief of severe constipation. Primary ovarian strumal carcinoid tumors associated with severe constipation are extremely rare. A woman with acquired constipation was suspected to have a right ovarian strumal carcinoid tumor preoperatively. The severe constipation was relieved dramatically after successful laparoscopic resection of the tumor. The correlation between constipation and a gut hormone, peptide YY, is discussed."}
{"id": "20226415", "title": "Multiple and bilateral dermoids: a case report.", "content": "Multiple and bilateral dermoids: a case report. A 27-year-old nulliparous woman presented with pain in the lower abdomen for six months. She was diagnosed to have bilateral dermoid cysts. Ovarian dermoid tumors can be bilateral in up to 15% of cases. After laparoscopy, we found that she had 7 dermoid cysts on the left side and 2 dermoid cysts on the right side, which is a rare occurrence. All the dermoid cysts were enucleated laparoscopically. The cysts were placed in an endobag and retrieved by morcellation. A one year follow up showed no evidence of recurrence or granulomatous peritonitis."}
{"id": "20226400", "title": "Narrow band imaging in borderline ovarian tumor.", "content": "Narrow band imaging in borderline ovarian tumor."}
{"id": "20226399", "title": "Pelvic tuberculosis mimicking advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Pelvic tuberculosis mimicking advanced ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "20226130", "title": "Peritoneal tuberculosis. Report of seven cases.", "content": "Peritoneal tuberculosis. Report of seven cases. Peritoneal tuberculosis (TB) is a misdiagnosed clinical entity of low frequency. Due to its rarity, it requires a high index of suspicion in clinical practice. Its incidence has been increasing in recent years. We present and analyze seven cases of peritoneal TB diagnosed and treated at four hospitals in Aguascalientes, Mexico during a 5-year period. Mean age of the patients was 47.5 +/- 6.5 years. There were six females and one male. Two patients had a history of treated lung TB. The most frequent clinical data were abdominal pain (six patients), ascites (four patients), and abdominal tumor (three patients). Symptom duration prior to surgery was 5.0 +/- 1.7 months. Abdominopelvic CT examinations revealed unilateral ovarian tumor in four patients, bilateral ovarian tumor in two patients, ascites in four patients, and retroperitoneal adenopathy in one patient. All female patients had elevated serum CA-125 levels with a median of 419 U/ml (range: 286-512 U/ml). All patients had a preoperative diagnosis of malignant tumor. All surgical procedures were elective and consisted of laparotomy with biopsy in three patients, laparotomy with salpingo-oophorectomy in two patients, and laparoscopy with biopsy in two patients. Diagnosis of TB was suspected in all cases during surgery. Mean hospital stay was 2 +/- 0.5 days. There was no postoperative morbidity or mortality. Peritoneal TB is uncommon. Diagnoses should be considered in all patients with ascites, adnexal tumors and elevated serum CA-125 levels."}
{"id": "20217130", "title": "Diagnostic dilemma of abdominopelvic tuberculosis:a series of 20 cases.", "content": "Diagnostic dilemma of abdominopelvic tuberculosis:a series of 20 cases. To establish more effective diagnostic procedures to identify the characteristic features of abdominopelvic tuberculosis (APTB) mimicking advanced ovarian cancer. A retrospective review of 20 cases of APTB mimicking advanced ovarian cancer was undertaken. The mean age of the patients was 28.9 \u00b1 10.8 years. The main clinical manifestations were abdominal pain (45%) and distention (45%). CA125 level was elevated in 18 cases (90.0%). Pelvic mass in 18 patients (90.0%) and ascites in 12 patients (60.0%) were detected by using abdominal US. The bacteriologic cultures and cytological studies were all negative (10 cases, 100%). Laparotomy (17 cases) and laparoscopic evaluation (1 case) was performed with the presumptive diagnosis of advanced ovarian cancer except for 2 patients treated with diagnostic anti-TB chemotherapy. The common intra-operative findings were miliary nodules (14 cases, 77.8%) and widespread adhesion (10 cases, 55.6%). Intra-operative frozen section was obtained in 10 cases, and the typical tuberculosis tubercles were detected in all cases. APTB should be considered in all cases with pelvic mass, ascites and high levels of CA125, although clinical features and laboratory results specifically indicate neither ovarian malignancy nor APTB. Diagnostic laparotomy is a direct and safe method. To avoid extended surgery, the cases with APTB can be diagnosed through intra-operative frozen section in conjunction with clinical features."}
{"id": "20198556", "title": "Leydig-cell-tumor of the ovary that responded to GnRH-analogue administration - case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Leydig-cell-tumor of the ovary that responded to GnRH-analogue administration - case report and review of the literature. Progressive hirsutism can be a symptom of an androgen-producing tumor, especially in postmenopausal women. We report a case of a 58-year-old woman who complained of progressive hirsutism, nervousness, irritability, anxiousness and an increased libido. Examination showed an unusual redness of her head, d\u00e9collet\u00e9, palms and soles of her feet. Basal laboratory tests revealed a profound elevation of testosterone levels (7.5 microg/l) and normal levels of androstendione, dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate, 17alpha-hydroxy-progesterone and thyroid-stimulating hormone. Also remarkable was that her red blood count, hemoglobin and hematocrit values were elevated while erythropoietin was within normal limits. Functional laboratory tests ruled out heterozygous C21-hydroxylase deficiency and showed a moderate insulin resistance on the oral glucose tolerance test. Transvaginal ultrasound revealed a slightly hyperdensic area of 6 mm in the left ovary. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a contrast medium-accumulating area of 2 cm in the left ovary. Since the patient was initially reluctant to undergo surgery, a GnRH-analogue (triptoreline) was administered VIA intramuscular injection once per month for two months and testosterone levels were lowered to less than one third of the initial level (2 microg/l). Surgery was eventually performed with laparoscopic bilateral salpingoophorectomy, hysteroscopy and uterine curettage. The histologic examination revealed a Leydig cell tumor in the hilus and stroma of the left ovary. Postoperatively testosterone levels dropped dramatically and instantly into the normal range. Within months, the red blood count and hematocrit levels were within normal limits. The patient's face became more feminine, the redness of her face and hirsutism regressed. Her anxiousness and nervosity resolved and the insulin sensitivity improved. In this paper, polyglobulia, the metabolic and psychological changes due to hyperandrogenism are discussed, as well as the phenomenon that the tumor responded to a GnRH-analogue. Such a response implies that the tumor is either under gonadotropin control or that GnRH analogues have direct effects via receptors on tumorous Leydig cells."}
{"id": "20181551", "title": "VEGF hypersecretion as a plausible mechanism for pseudo-meigs' syndrome in advanced colorectal cancer.", "content": "VEGF hypersecretion as a plausible mechanism for pseudo-meigs' syndrome in advanced colorectal cancer. We present a case of pseudo-meigs' syndrome caused by a metastatic ovarian tumor of rectal cancer origin, and examine the possible involvement of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the pathogenesis of refractory fluid retention. A 42-year-old woman with advanced rectal cancer underwent a laparoscopic anterior resection of the rectum. During systemic chemotherapy treatment, she complained of severe abdominal distension 16 months following the operation. We failed to improve massive ascites by diuretics and repeated abdominocenteses. Without any definite evidence of carcinomatous peritonitis, we chose to extirpate an enlarged ovarian tumor on the presumptive diagnosis of pseudo-meigs' syndrome. Ascites disappeared promptly after resecting the ovarian tumors and the subject resumed systemic chemotherapy. Preoperative high levels of serum VEGF were normalized promptly after the operation. Levels of VEGF expression in metastatic ovarian tumors were as weak as in the primary tumor upon immunohistochemical staining. In contrast, increased VEGF expression was evident in epithelial cells of oviducts. For patients with massive and refractory ascites, we need to keep in mind the disease entity of pseudo-meigs' syndrome, since surgical intervention possibly improves conditions. Furthermore, the hypersecretion of VEGF from oviducts may play a role in the pathogenesis of clinical manifestations of pseudo-meigs' syndrome."}
{"id": "20143997", "title": "Incidental finding of huge ovarian borderline mucinous tumour during management of laparoscopic gastric banding port infection.", "content": "Incidental finding of huge ovarian borderline mucinous tumour during management of laparoscopic gastric banding port infection."}
{"id": "20129344", "title": "Giant pararectal epidermoid tumor mimicking ovarian cyst: combined laparoscopic and perineal surgical approach.", "content": "Giant pararectal epidermoid tumor mimicking ovarian cyst: combined laparoscopic and perineal surgical approach. Epidermoid cysts are benign tumors that can develop in any part of the human body. Pelvic cysts adjacent to the rectum develop rarely, and few cases have been described in the literature. We report the case of a 58-year-old woman who underwent laparoscopic and perineal excision of a giant pararectal cyst that was discovered during laparoscopy performed for preoperative provisional diagnosis of an adnexal mass detected on an imaging study. To our knowledge, this is the second case of a pararectal cyst excised using combined laparoscopic and perineal approaches. In the hands of skilled laparoscopic surgeons, we suggest a combined laparoscopic and perineal approach for excision of giant pararectal cystic tumors to avert laparotomy."}
{"id": "20129339", "title": "Rare case of ovarian cystic lymphangioma.", "content": "Rare case of ovarian cystic lymphangioma. Lymphangiomas are rare, generally benign tumors of the lymphatic system comprised of multiple cystic spaces lined with endothelium. Lymphangiomas may arise in any part of the body. Lymphangioma of the ovary is rare; we have identified only 13 reports in a 50-year literature survey (PubMed 1959-2009). Typically, lymphangiomas are slow-growing tumors that remain asymptomatic for a long time. They are most often found incidentally in abdominal or pelvic imaging studies or at surgery or autopsy. Wide excision of the lesion with microscopically clear margins is the best approach when feasible. A postmenopausal woman had a symptomatic pelvic mass. Imaging studies demonstrated a complex left ovarian cyst. Complete removal of a cystic lymphangioma was successfully performed at laparoscopy. Cystic lymphangiomas should be included in the differential diagnosis of an ovarian cystic mass, and laparoscopic excision may be the method of treatment."}
{"id": "20122863", "title": "[Laparoscopic ways of para-aortic lymphadenectomy].", "content": "[Laparoscopic ways of para-aortic lymphadenectomy]. The idea that pelvic cancers can be treated by laparoscopy is now commonly admitted among gynaecological surgeons. Literature shows a lower morbidity than laparotomy, with similar prognostic results. Metastatic invasion of para-aortic lymph nodes is a major prognostic factor in gynaecological malignancies. It modifies the therapeutic plan and requires retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy in many indications. Laparoscopy is an interesting technical procedure in this situation: it allows both staging and curative surgery. Two laparoscopic ways are eligible: transperitoneal lymphadenectomy and retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy."}
{"id": "20079589", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery for gynaecological cancers in obese women.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery for gynaecological cancers in obese women. The use of laparoscopic surgery in the management of gynaecological malignancies has been growing for over a decade. Concomitantly the incidence of obesity has been increasing worldwide. This review summarizes the available studies on minimal invasive surgery in obese women with gynaecological malignancies. We undertook a literature search to identify the differences between traditional open methods and the laparoscopic approach in terms of intra- and postoperative outcome and patient safety. Only eight relevant studies were identified. Six of these focused on endometrial cancer, one study included early stage cervical and ovarian cancers with other benign conditions, while another paper included cervical and endometrial pre-cancers and only a few malignant conditions. Obesity is generally known to increase the risk of intra- and postoperative complications. However, several studies show that obesity, formerly precluding keyhole surgery, seems now to be an indication for the laparoscopic approach. As compared to laparotomy, laparoscopic surgery has a good postoperative outcome, reduced estimated blood loss (EBL) and pain and in some series an increased lymph node count. Laparoscopy has been shown to be cost effective with a shorter hospital stay and return to normal activity. Survival is reported to be the same with both laparotomy and laparoscopy. The benefits of minimal invasive surgery in gynaecological surgery are starting to be found with robotic surgery."}
{"id": "20068327", "title": "Growing teratoma syndrome of the ovary after fertility-sparing surgery and successful pregnancy.", "content": "Growing teratoma syndrome of the ovary after fertility-sparing surgery and successful pregnancy. Growing teratoma syndrome (GTS) is rare and is defined as an enlarging mature teratoma that arises during or after chemotherapy for a malignant germ cell tumor, with normalization of previously elevated serum tumor markers. A 30-year-old nulliparous Japanese woman was diagnosed as having a stage IIIa immature teratoma. After fertility-sparing surgery, she received 4 cycles of chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin, etoposide and bleomycin. Thereafter, she successfully gave birth twice. Eight years after the initial surgery, a mass mimicking an adrenal tumor was resected laparoscopically. Surgical specimens revealed a mature teratoma, and she was diagnosed as having GTS postoperatively. Clinicians should consider that GTS may present late, even after pregnancy. Therefore, long-term follow-up of patients treated for ovarian immature teratoma should be mandatory."}
{"id": "20065732", "title": "Predicting the outcome of cytoreductive surgery for advanced ovarian cancer: a review.", "content": "Predicting the outcome of cytoreductive surgery for advanced ovarian cancer: a review. Ovarian cancer is the leading cause of gynecologic cancer-related mortality in the United States. Surgical cytoreduction is the cornerstone of current treatment in patients with advanced disease, but it offers the best chances for overall survival when optimal cytoreduction is achieved. Clinicopathological and radiological models for predicting optimal resectability have not been universally applicable. To summarize the existing surgical data on current serologic, radiological, and surgical tools used to predict the resectability of advanced ovarian cancer. Systematic review of surgical studies on primary cytoreductive surgery for advanced ovarian cancer reported in the English-language literature between 1980 and 2009. Seventeen retrospective studies using cancer antigen 125, and 8 retrospective studies using radiological imaging modalities to predict resectability of advanced ovarian cancer were reviewed. Five laparoscopic-based reports of ovarian cancer resectability were also reviewed as well as 5 studies examining the role of clinicopathological variables affecting surgical cytoreductive ability. These studies were analyzed according to the rate of optimal cytoreduction achieved and the reported sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and predictive values of predictive parameters described. Finally, the various conclusions were compared. The rates of optimal cytoreduction vary among surgeons. A universally applicable clinical model that can predict which patients will undergo optimal cytoreduction remains elusive. More research is needed to devise a set of uniform criteria that can be used to predict ovarian cancer resectability among different patient populations."}
{"id": "20059391", "title": "Laparoscopic excision of infarcted accessory spleen.", "content": "Laparoscopic excision of infarcted accessory spleen. An accessory spleen is present in about 10-30% of the population and, usually, does not cause symptoms. We present a case report of an unusual presentation of accessory spleen infarction, with a literature review. A 12-year old male presented with acute left-upper quadrant pain that slowly resolved. An ultrasound and computed tomography scan showed a 3.5 x 2.5 x 2 cm solid mass abutting and displacing the splenic flexure of the colon, with surrounding inflammatory changes. This was interpreted as a colonic duplication cyst, and the boy was treated with antibiotics and underwent elective laparoscopic exploration. It was removed laparoscopically without complication and, on pathologic examination, proved to be consistent with an infarcted accessory spleen. Less than two dozen similar cases of accessory spleen infarction have been reported in the literature, most presenting with acute abdominal pain. Preoperative diagnoses included appendicitis, ovarian torsion, neoplasm, and, in our case, colonic duplication. The natural course of infarcted accessory spleen would be to atrophy, but, even with advanced imaging techniques, it may be impossible to diagnose infarcted accessory spleen with enough confidence to avoid surgery."}
{"id": "20059326", "title": "Surgical management of ovarian disease in infants, children, and adolescents: a 15-year review.", "content": "Surgical management of ovarian disease in infants, children, and adolescents: a 15-year review. Despite the reported efficacy and the presumed benefits of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) for ovarian lesions in adults, questions remain as to the surgical indications, results, and outcomes for these procedures across pediatric age groups. The aim of this study was to review our experience with the management of ovarian disease in children to determine if there has been a shift in the management of these lesions from open surgery (OS) to an MIS approach in the pediatric population. An institutional review board (IRB)-approved retrospective chart review included all patients who underwent surgical management of ovarian disease from January 1, 1992 to July 10, 2007. Patients with ectopic pregnancy, known pelvic inflammatory disease, or concomitant illness requiring operative management at the time of ovarian surgery were excluded. Demographics, clinical signs and symptoms, diagnosis, surgical outcomes, and history of prior abdominal procedures were obtained. Statistical analysis included comparison of means, paired t-test, chi-squared test, and multivariate analysis, where indicated. A total of 231 patients were evaluated in this study, with a mean age of 12.8 years (range, 3 weeks to 20 years). There were 221 (95.7%) benign lesions and 10 (4.3%) were malignant. There were 156 simple or hemorrhagic cysts (70.5%) and 46 mature teratomas (20.8%). Three complications (1.3%) occurred, which were associated with surgery and no mortalities. Abdominal pain (82.3%), nausea or vomiting (24.2%), and abdominal tenderness (10.0%) were the most common presenting symptoms or signs. Operative outcomes for benign disease (n = 221) were compared between MIS and open cases over the entire time period as well as within three consecutive 5-year time intervals. There was a notable shift toward the management of benign ovarian disease in using MIS techniques over the course of three different 5-year intervals. This approach was also associated with shorter hospital stay, less operative blood loss, and shorter operative times, when compared to an open approach. When indicated, a laparoscopic approach should be performed for presumed benign ovarian disease in children."}
{"id": "20057285", "title": "Abdominal wall metastases in patients with ovarian cancer after laparoscopic surgery: incidence, risk factors, and complications.", "content": "Abdominal wall metastases in patients with ovarian cancer after laparoscopic surgery: incidence, risk factors, and complications. Laparoscopy is the standard procedure to clarify undefined ovarian masses. However, laparoscopy could induce tumor spread in ovarian cancer (OC). The aim of this study was to assess the incidence, the risk factors, and the complications of abdominal wall metastases (AWM) in patients with OC after laparoscopy. Retrospective study of patients with primary diagnosis of OC who had laparoscopy before cytoreductive surgery and resected port sites in laparotomy between 1999 and 2008 at our institution. Patients with borderline or nonepithelial ovarian tumors were excluded. Of 537 patients with a first diagnosis of OC, 101 had laparoscopy before definitive operation after a median of 31 days. Histological examination at final cytoreductive surgery of the port sites was conducted in 66 patients, whereas 31 patients (47%) showed AWM. Patients experiencing AWM had higher tumor stages and peritoneal carcinomatosis. Ascites with more than 500 mL was a further independent risk factor for AWM (odds ratio: 7.2; 95% confidence interval, 1.5-35.8; P = 0.016). Abdominal wall metastasis did not impact on survival in our cohort; however, affected patients showed significant larger abdominal wall resections (mean [SD]): 41.0 (angled brace 13.1) cm versus 9.1 (angled brace 1.4) cm in comparison with patients without AWM (P = 0.013), and 2 patients developed abdominal wall recurrences. The incidence of AWM in patients experiencing OC was considerably high when laparoscopic surgery was conducted before cytoreductive surgery. Patients experiencing AWM seem to have more surgical burden. However, our series did not show a dramatic impact of AWM on long-term outcome. Patients with highly suspected advanced OC and ascites with more than 500 mL should be referred directly to a gynecologic oncologist who is able to balance risks of laparoscopic staging and direct cytoreductive surgery."}
{"id": "20022314", "title": "Does intraoperative spillage of benign ovarian mucinous cystadenoma increase its recurrence rate?", "content": "Does intraoperative spillage of benign ovarian mucinous cystadenoma increase its recurrence rate? To report a higher than estimated recurrence rate of benign mucinous cystadenomas after complete resection of the first one, and to assess potential risk factors for recurrence after complete surgical excision. We retrospectively reviewed all cases of women who underwent either laparoscopic or laparotomic removal of benign mucinous adnexal cysts by either adnexectomy or cystectomy in our institution between 1996 and 2006. Included were the data of 42 women who fulfilled study entry criteria. Three of them (7.1%) underwent a second operation because of a recurrence of the lesion. A significantly higher rate of women who had cyst recurrence had undergone cystectomy as opposed to adnexectomy (P < .05). Intraoperative rupture of cysts during cystectomy was also significantly associated with cyst recurrence (P < .03). Mucinous cystadenoma recurrence is apparently not as rare as reported in the literature. Intraoperative cyst rupture and cystectomy instead of adnexectomy emerged as being two risk factors for recurrence."}
{"id": "19998220", "title": "[Mucocele of the appendix - a heterogenous surgical pathology].", "content": "[Mucocele of the appendix - a heterogenous surgical pathology]. Mucoceles of the appendix are rare. After appendectomy, mucoceles are detected with a frequency of 0.2 to 0.3 %. Both stenosing / obliterating processes and alterations of the epithelium (hyperplasia, mucinous cystadenoma, cystadenoma with uncertain malignant potential (UMP), mucinous cystadenocarcinoma lead to the occurrence of mucoceles. The perforation of a mucocele with possible spread of mucus and cells into the abdominal cavity constitutes a severe complication (pseudomyxoma peritonei). Surgical resection is the curative approach for mucoceles of the appendix. Data of patients who were treated for an appendiceal mucocele between 1995 and 2009 were analysed retrospectively with regard to clinical presentation, diagnostic measures, surgical procedure and histopathological result. Follow-up was evaluated in telephone interviews. We extracted 5 cases from our database. Clinical symptoms varied greatly among the individual patients, ranging from peracute abdominal pain in the right lower quadrant to chronic obstipation. Results from abdominal ultrasound and / or abdominal CT scans contributed to the indication for surgical intervention in all cases. In 2 patients surgery was stated as urgent whereas in 3 the operation was scheduled electively. In one patient the diagnosis of an appendiceal mucocele was stated preoperatively and in another intraoperatively. In 3 patients only the histopathological result revealed the underlying mucocele. We performed 1 open and 1 laparoscopic appendectomy, 1 open appendectomy with a partial resection of the coecum and 2 laparoscopic ileocoecal resections. One of the patients had a pseudomyxoma peritonei. The histopathological diagnoses ranged from mere epithelial hyperplasia to an adenoma with uncertain malignant potential and a mucinous cystadenocarcinoma. One patient's long-term follow-up could not be evaluated. All other patients had neither recurrence nor any complications after discharge. Mucoceles of the appendix present with a wide spectrum of clinical symptoms and histopathological alterations. Only an accurate histological analysis reveals the underlying pathological lesion correctly. This study emphasises that a mucocele of the appendix constitutes an important differential diagnosis in patients presenting with pathologies in their right lower abdominal quadrant."}
{"id": "19957213", "title": "Incidental detection of Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor by FDG PET/CT imaging in a patient with androgen insensitivity syndrome.", "content": "Incidental detection of Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor by FDG PET/CT imaging in a patient with androgen insensitivity syndrome. A 29-year-old female patient who was being followed up for differentiated papillary thyroid carcinoma was referred to us for exploration of any possible metastasis since her serum thyroglobulin levels were high. The patient underwent an F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography study, and a pathologically increased FDG uptake at the left lower abdomen was detected corresponding to a solid, cystic lesion on CT images. The patient had a history of primary amenorrhea and, together with the magnetic resonance imaging findings of absent uterus, short and blind end vagina, a diagnosis of androgen insensitivity syndrome was made. The patient underwent laparoscopic left pelvic mass resection, and the histopathology of the lesion revealed Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor."}
{"id": "19916886", "title": "Successful maternal and neonatal outcome following laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy for granulosa cell tumor.", "content": "Successful maternal and neonatal outcome following laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy for granulosa cell tumor."}
{"id": "19852568", "title": "Seven years' experience in laparoscopic dissection of intact ovarian dermoid cysts.", "content": "Seven years' experience in laparoscopic dissection of intact ovarian dermoid cysts. A large case series on laparoscopic removal of dermoid cysts with a diameter between 3 and 12 cm, via an endobag, is reported (127 cysts in 121 premenopausal women). The incidence of spillage and recurrence rate of laparoscopic ovarian dermoid cystectomy, the duration of the surgical procedure, the length of hospitalization, the incidence of recurrence and pregnancies was evaluated. In 2.5% of cases, the endobag ruptured during removal, and a total spillage rate of 12% was seen. No signs or symptoms of peritonitis were observed regardless of cystic spillage or not. Laparoscopic cystectomy of dermoid cysts in premenopausal women is safe and effective and appears to be a valuable alternative to laparotomy. Controlled intraperitoneal spillage of cyst contents does not increase postoperative morbidity as long as an endobag is used and the peritoneal cavity is washed out thoroughly."}
{"id": "19846211", "title": "Should laparoscopy be included in the work-up of advanced ovarian cancer patients attempting interval debulking surgery?", "content": "Should laparoscopy be included in the work-up of advanced ovarian cancer patients attempting interval debulking surgery? Primary: To investigate whether S-LPS could contribute to a better identification of patients to submit to IDS. Secondary: To identify the most appropriate level of laparoscopic index value (PIV) to identify inoperable patients in this subset of patients. A prospective single-institutional study including patients with advanced ovarian/peritoneal cancer (FIGO stage IIIC-IV) to be submitted to IDS after NACT. Patients have been considered eligible for surgical exploration in case of complete/partial radiological or serological response; stable disease if primary surgery had been performed in a different hospital; progressive radiological disease in the presence of serological response, young age, and good performance status (ECOG <1); and progressive serological disease with stable clinical and radiological disease. A laparoscopic assessment for each patient has been performed. Ninety-eight consecutive AOC patients submitted to NACT have been eligible for the study. With the addition of S-LPS to the RECIST criteria, a surgical exploration is performed in all patients and the percentage of explorative laparotomies drops to about 10%. The use of S-LPS after the GCIG criteria can reduce the risk of both explorative laparotomies from 30% to 13%, and inappropriate unexplorations from 18% to 0%. Moreover, at a PIV >4 the probability of optimally resecting the disease at laparotomy is equal to 0. Present data suggest that S-LPS can play a relevant role to discriminate patients with partially/stable disease or referred from other Institutions after NACT, which can be susceptible of successful IDS."}
{"id": "19837620", "title": "Bilateral ovarian serous borderline tumor with a giant non-invasive peritoneal implant in a four-year-old girl.", "content": "Bilateral ovarian serous borderline tumor with a giant non-invasive peritoneal implant in a four-year-old girl. Epithelial ovarian tumors are uncommon before 20 years of age and rarely occur before puberty. The vast majority of these tumors are benign, and few cases of malignant and borderline tumors are described. We report a case of a 4-year-old premenarchal girl, previously healthy, who presented with two abdominal masses. Laboratory analysis of blood showed elevation of the serum level of the CA-125. Ultrasonographic examination disclosed bilateral cystic ovarian masses. Laparoscopic exploration revealed bilateral ovarian multicystic masses with retro-uterine peritoneal implant. Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy with implant resection was performed. Histologic findings were consistent with a serous borderline tumors of both ovaries and the peritoneal implant was of the non-invasive type. There is no evidence of recurrence at 3-year follow-up. To our knowledge, there are only four cases of ovarian borderline tumors in premenarchal girls reported in the English literature: three of the mucinous type and only one of the serous type."}
{"id": "19784697", "title": "Peritoneal carcinomatosis from ovarian cancer: the role of CT and [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET/CT.", "content": "Peritoneal carcinomatosis from ovarian cancer: the role of CT and [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET/CT. The diagnosis of peritoneal carcinomatosis secondary to ovarian cancer is a real challenge in the cancer imaging field. In this retrospective study, we evaluate the accuracy of Single Detector Computed Tomography (SDCT), Multi Detector Computed Tomography (MDCT), and Positron Emission Tomography-Computed Tomography with F18-fluorodeoxyglucose ([\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET/CT) in the diagnosis of peritoneal seeding and we evaluate the possible applications of MDCT to predict the complete surgical removal of the peritoneal deposits. A total of 228 scans (91 SDCT, 89 MDCT, and 48 [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET/CT) of patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis secondary to ovarian cancer proved at laparoscopy and confirmed by histopathology were retrospectively reviewed by two independent groups of Radiologists and Nuclear Medicine Physicians for the evaluation of ascites, peritoneal nodules, and omental cake signs. MDCT showed 81% of true positives, SDCT 72.5%, and [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET/CT 77%. False negatives were 19% for MDCT, 27.5% for SDCT, and 23% for [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET/CT. From our results, we concluded that MDCT is the technique of choice in the diagnosis of peritoneal seeding, while [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET/CT, though showing similar accuracy, remains the most accurate technique for monitoring therapeutic response and disease recurrence. MDCT could play an important role due to its ability to predict the possibility of complete surgical removal of disease thus influencing the treatment plan aimed to improve quality of life."}
{"id": "19771439", "title": "Ovarian tissue cryopreservation for non-malignant indications.", "content": "Ovarian tissue cryopreservation for non-malignant indications. Ovarian tissue cryopreservation (OTC) is not restricted to patients suffering from malignancies. Benign haematopoietic diseases such as autoimmune diseases and others have been mentioned to be feasible indications. The aim of our study was to demonstrate that surgery for OTC is a safe procedure for fertility preservation in patients with non-malignant diseases. In a retrospective cohort study intra- and postoperative courses were evaluated. Histological examination of one random ovarian cortical slice was performed to determine the presence of primordial follicles. Immediately after the excision, microbiological culture techniques from swabs were taken from all slices. Seven of 85 patients (8.2%) have undergone surgery for OTC for non-malignant indications. All patients had an uncomplicated intraoperative course. A median number of 12 cortical stripes were excised and cryopreserved (range 7-17). Only for one patient an adverse event was found which was not related to laparoscopy for OTC. All patients having undergone routine laparoscopy for OTC only could be released from hospital on the first postoperative day. Selective microbiological tests showed negative results in all cases. Histological examinations revealed intact ovarian tissue with primordial follicles in 6/7 patients. Whether surgery for OTC in patients with non-malignant indications is feasible from an ethical point of view remains open. However, laparoscopy for ovarian tissue harvesting is a safe procedure for patients undergoing cytotoxic treatment for benign diseases."}
{"id": "19669156", "title": "Parasitic ovarian dermoid stuck to the anterior abdominal wall managed laproscopically.", "content": "Parasitic ovarian dermoid stuck to the anterior abdominal wall managed laproscopically."}
{"id": "19657814", "title": "Secondary amenorrhoea with high inhibin B level caused by parasitic ovarian leiomyoma.", "content": "Secondary amenorrhoea with high inhibin B level caused by parasitic ovarian leiomyoma. A 35-year-old patient attended the clinic after 1 year of primary infertility and 9 years secondary amenorrhoea. Her BMI was 21.9 kg/m\u00b2. Transvaginal scan examination showed a small uterus with 1.7 mm thick endometrium. The left ovary was quiescent and measured 2.9 cm x 61.2 cm x 62.1 cm. 3D images manipulation showed a large (96.9 cm\u00b3) solid mass attached to the right ovary. Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) level was 3.8 IU/l, oestradiol was 57 pmol/l and testosterone was 0.9 nmol/l. She had normal thyroid indices, serum prolactin, 17-hydroxyprogesterone and cortisol levels. Inhibin B and luteinising hormone (LH) blood levels were high at 408 pg/ml and 19.5 IU/l, respectively. The mass was shelled laparoscopically off the right ovary, and proved histologically to be a parasitic leiomyoma. She resumed regular menstruation 1 month after surgery and conceived in her fourth cycle. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case to be reported relating high inhibin B and luteinising hormone blood levels to an ovarian leiomyoma."}
{"id": "19589703", "title": "Premenarchal ovarian torsion and elevated CA-125.", "content": "Premenarchal ovarian torsion and elevated CA-125. Ovarian tumors are the most common gynecologic malignancy occurring in childhood, with germ cell tumors being most frequent. This contrasts with adults where epithelial tumors account for most ovarian neoplasms. Tumor markers are an integral part of the work-up and may guide management. A 6-year-old girl with a persistent adnexal mass was found to have a highly elevated CA-125. Other tumor markers were normal. Laparoscopy revealed an enlarged, adherent ovary. A minilaparotomy revealed an ovary filled with necrotic material. This necrotic material was excised and the ovary was spared. The pathology was consistent with necrosis. Follow-up ultrasonography and CA-125 were normal. This case demonstrates for the first time the association of an elevated CA-125 and ovarian torsion in a pediatric patient. This benign finding allowed attempting a conservative ovary-sparing approach during the surgery even in the presence of a highly elevated CA-125. However, in general, for children CA-125 is of limited utility, as it will not affect the indication for surgical exploration of persistent masses and elevations in CA-125 may discourage ovarian conservation."}
{"id": "19543903", "title": "Posterior colpotomy revisited: a forgotten route for retrieving larger benign ovarian lesions following laparoscopic excision.", "content": "Posterior colpotomy revisited: a forgotten route for retrieving larger benign ovarian lesions following laparoscopic excision. Although simple, ovarian cysts can be decompressed (within an impermeable pouch) following laparoscopic excision to allow lesions of up to 10 cm to be delivered safely. It is more difficult to remove solid or semi-solid ovarian tumours (such as fibromas and dermoid cysts) through this route. We present a modification of laparoscopic-assisted transvaginal retrieval of ovarian tumours through a posterior colpotomy incision (in a bag) and suggest that this is a route that allows large specimens to be retrieved safely and with minimal spillage. Women with solid or semi-solid ovarian cysts of greater than 5 cm, undergoing operative laparoscopy, were offered the option of having the specimens delivered through a posterior colpotomy, if retrieval through the abdominal ports proved difficult. The median specimen diameter was 6 cm (range 4-8 cm) and the median blood loss was 200 ml (range 150-250 ml). The median operating time was 50 min (range 40-90 min) with most patients being discharged within 24 h (median 18 h; range 16-21 h). There was no inadvertent spillage of cyst content or any intra or post-operative complications. Laparoscopic-assisted transvaginal removal of these lesions (in a bag!) allows large specimens to be removed securely and with minimal spillage."}
{"id": "19495923", "title": "Pararectal and obturator hernias as incidental findings on gynecologic laparoscopy.", "content": "Pararectal and obturator hernias as incidental findings on gynecologic laparoscopy. Pararectal and obturator hernias are relatively rare and typically affect elderly emaciated women. They are difficult to diagnose preoperatively. A gynecologist may come across such hernias as a secondary finding during laparoscopy. Such findings are expected to increase with the aging population. We present two cases and the technique to treat them."}
{"id": "19345350", "title": "Impact of laparoscopic cystectomy on ovarian reserve: serial changes of serum anti-M\u00fcllerian hormone levels.", "content": "Impact of laparoscopic cystectomy on ovarian reserve: serial changes of serum anti-M\u00fcllerian hormone levels. To evaluate the ovarian reserve changes after laparoscopic cystectomy, we prospectively evaluated pre- and postoperative serum anti-M\u00fcllerian hormone (AMH) level, and ovarian volumes. Prospective longitudinal study. University Hospital. Twenty women with benign ovarian masses participated; endometrioma [13], mature teratoma [6], and mucinous cystadenoma [1]. Seven patients had bilateral ovarian masses. All patients had undergone laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy. Serum AMH levels were serially measured: preoperative, 1 week, 1 month, and 3 months after operation. Volumes of total ovary and ovarian mass were measured by 3D ultrasonography before operation. Postoperative serum AMH level and ovarian volume. Median AMH level was 2.23 ng/mL (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.35-3.41 ng/mL) before operation, but reduced to 0.67 ng/mL (95% CI 0.44-1.70 ng/mL) at the first week postoperatively and then increased to 1.14 ng/mL (95% CI 0.79-2.36 ng/mL) in the first month and 1.50 ng/mL (95% CI 0.58-3.26 ng/mL) in the third month. The serum AMH level after 3 months postoperatively was recovered to about 65% of the preoperative level. The serum AMH level at postoperative 1 week was more decreased in endometrioma compared with nonendometrioma (33.9% vs. 69.2% of preoperative level), and in bilateral group compared with unilateral group (16.9% vs. 62.9%). This study suggests that ovarian reserve could be reduced after laparoscopic cystectomy; however, it could be restored thereafter up to 3 months postoperative in reproductive women."}
{"id": "19299121", "title": "Endometriosis related to family history of malignancies in the Yale series.", "content": "Endometriosis related to family history of malignancies in the Yale series. Recent studies reported that endometriosis could behave as a neoplasmatic process. The purpose of this study is to investigate the family risk of ovarian, colon and prostate cancer in women with endometriosis. A search of medical records at the Yale New Haven Hospital from 1996 to 2002 identified 348 women with endometriosis and 179 women without endometriosis. All the cases were diagnosed by laparoscopy. Demographic characteristics were evaluated in women with positive or negative family history of cancers in women with endometriosis. The overall risk of patients with endometriosis and positive family history of cancers was 7.7 (95% confidence interval 3.8-15.7) (chi(2)=39.8, P<0.001). Significant excess was observed for ovarian cancer in first- and second-degree relatives (OR=10.5, 95% CI (2.5-44.2), chi(2)=14.3, P<0.001), colon cancer (OR=7.5, 95% CI (2.7-21.1), chi(2)=18.2, P<0.001) and prostate cancer (OR=4.5, 95% CI (14-15.3), chi(2)=6.1, P<0.001). We found similar results in first- and second-degree relatives with ovarian and colon cancer. Moreover, we found similar results regarding the demographic characteristics in women with positive family history of cancers and in women with negative history. These data suggest a familial association of endometriosis with ovarian, colon and prostate cancers. This evidence could support the genetics and molecular similarities between endometriosis and cancer. Future studies will be important to determine a clear genetic link between endometriosis and cancer."}
{"id": "19200955", "title": "Correlation of high-risk human papilloma viruses but not of herpes viruses or Chlamydia trachomatis with endometriosis lesions.", "content": "Correlation of high-risk human papilloma viruses but not of herpes viruses or Chlamydia trachomatis with endometriosis lesions. To investigate whether sexually transmitted viruses or prokaryotes, like human papilloma viruses (HPV), herpes viruses, and Chlamydia trachomatis, are associated with endometriosis lesions. Sixty-six endometriosis lesions from 56 patients, including 49 peritoneum, 16 ovarian, and one endometrium, were analyzed using polymerase chain reaction-based ELISA and Invader technology. Thirty control tissues including endometrium and peritoneum from patient-matched (n = 13) and patients without endometriosis (n = 13) and one cervical carcinoma were tested for HPV DNA. University hospital. Seventy individual patients with and without endometriosis. Laparoscopy or laparotomy was performed, and endometriotic lesions were isolated. Herpes viruses and Chlamydia trachomatis were not detected in endometriosis lesions. High-risk and medium-risk HPV were detected in 11.3% of lesions, corresponding to 13.2% of patients. In addition, 27.5% of control tissues were positive for HPV high and medium risk. One HPV18-positive ovarian endometriosis also associated with an ovarian carcinoma. Associating clinical history with HPV-positive endometriosis and control tissues, all patients had a prior HPV cervical infection. HPV infection in endometriosis lesions including control tissues supports spreading of the virus or HPV-infected endometrial cells via retrograde menstruation. Owing to an association of HPV in carcinomas, we propose that persistent HPV infection of endometriosis lesions could contribute to malignant progression."}
{"id": "20530950", "title": "[Hyperreactive luteomas during pregnancy--symptoms and complications: a case report].", "content": "[Hyperreactive luteomas during pregnancy--symptoms and complications: a case report]. A 27-year-old Caucasian (gravida 2 para 1) presented in week 16 of her twin pregnancy with worsening of hyperandrogenic symptoms. In week 17, she developed an acute abdomen due to a twisted, incarcerated right ovary, which was surgically removed. Histological analysis revealed a diffuse steroid cell hyperplasia. Postsurgery testosterone levels fell temporarily within normal limits, diminishing the hyperandrogenic symptoms. Over time androgen levels rose again slowly above normal values with clinical worsening of hirsutism. In the 32nd week of gestation, a cesarean section of two healthy female infants was necessary due to the development of preeclampsia. An ovarian biopsy revealed again the picture of hyperreactio luteinalis. Postpartum peripheral hormone levels fell within normal limits and the hyperandrogenic symptoms subsided."}
{"id": "20446446", "title": "Young woman with polyserositis, ovarian cystic mass and increased level of CA-125. Case report of peritoneal and pleural tuberculosis.", "content": "Young woman with polyserositis, ovarian cystic mass and increased level of CA-125. Case report of peritoneal and pleural tuberculosis. A 21-year-old woman was addressed to our department for progressive abdominal swelling, fatigue and fever. The clinical examination, the ultrasound examination and the computed tomography showed the presence of polyserositis (ascites and pleural effusion) and revealed a cystic mass at the level of right ovary. The laboratory work-up showed an increased level of CA-125, suggesting a malignancy. The thoracoscopy with visualization of the pleura revealed disseminated small white spots. The laparoscopic exploration of the pelvis and of the peritoneum also showed the same disseminated lesions and a cystic-like mass at the level of the right ovary which was excised and diagnosed as a benign cyst. At the analysis of the frozen and paraffin sections, the diagnostic of pleural and peritoneal tuberculosis was made and the specific quadruple treatment was started with a good evolution at two months and with the normalization of the CA-125 level. This case report underlines the importance of tuberculosis in the differential diagnosis of patients with polyserositis and increased levels of CA-125."}
{"id": "20149044", "title": "Massive peritoneal fluid and markedly elevated serum CA125 and CA19-9 levels associated with an ovarian endometrioma.", "content": "Massive peritoneal fluid and markedly elevated serum CA125 and CA19-9 levels associated with an ovarian endometrioma. Endometriosis associated with ascites is an uncommon condition, but nevertheless important because it mimics the presentation of ovarian malignancy. We present the case of a 34-year-old woman who was admitted with the acute onset of abdominal pain and distension. A pelvic sonogram showed a large amount of peritoneal fluid with echogenic material and a 10-cm complex cystic structure, which appeared to be an enlarged left ovary. The concentrations of CA125 and CA19-9 were 548.1 and 7604 IU/mL, respectively. On the second day of admission, an exploratory laparoscopy was performed, which revealed a ruptured left ovarian cyst consistent with an endometrioma. A laparoscopic left adnexectomy was therefore performed. The histological examination of the specimen confirmed the diagnosis of an endometrioma. After a 12-month follow-up period, the patient showed no recurrence of the endometrioma or peritoneal fluid accumulation. In most instances, the presence of massive ascites is associated with malignancies, tuberculosis, or a perforated viscus. The information provided in the present report is important to both gynecologists and oncologists because it shows that an ovarian cyst with ascites and highly elevated CA125 and CA19-9 levels might be benign."}
{"id": "20108559", "title": "Cervical dysplasia (CIN III) disseminating to the fallopian tube during laparoscopic hysterectomy.", "content": "Cervical dysplasia (CIN III) disseminating to the fallopian tube during laparoscopic hysterectomy."}
{"id": "20048559", "title": "[A case of retroperitoneal Mullerian cyst resected laparoscopically].", "content": "[A case of retroperitoneal Mullerian cyst resected laparoscopically]. A 67-year-old female patient had a cystic mass, 6 cm in diameter, which was incidentally detected on the dorsal side of the cecum in the retroperitoneum. A laparoscopic tumor excision was performed. Microscopically, the majority of the cystic wall consisted of Mullerian type serous epithelium, partially including the columnar epithelium containing round nuclei and mucin production. The columnar epithelium was similar to the uterocervical epithelium, and there was proliferation of dense collagen fibers resembling ovarian stroma under the epithelium. These microscopic findings were consistent with ovarian seromucinous cystadenoma. Therefore, the cyst was diagnosed to be a retroperitoneal Mullerian cyst. This is the 15th case of a cyst of this type reported and is the first case in which a laparoscopic excision was performed."}
{"id": "20045759", "title": "Management of ovarian cysts by laparoscopic extracorporeal approach using single ancillary trocar.", "content": "Management of ovarian cysts by laparoscopic extracorporeal approach using single ancillary trocar. This prospective study aimed to evaluate an alternative laparoscopic extracorporeal approach for the treatment of benign ovarian cysts. The initial study population included 243 patients diagnosed with benign ovarian masses. Two patients with suspected malignancies and 21 patients with technical difficulties secondary to severe, dense pelvic adhesions were excluded from the study, and the final study population, therefore, comprised 220 patients. A primary 10-mm trocar was inserted, followed by a second incision on the side of the cyst and the introduction of an ancillary 5-mm trocar. The cystic content was aspirated using a needle. The capsule was held using an endograsper inserted through the ancillary trocar. The capsule was extracted from the abdomen. The 5-mm trocar and the endograsper were removed from the abdomen simultaneously. The capsule was completely detached. Homeostasis was performed and the ovary was then released. The mean duration of the operation was 20 +/- 5 minutes. The size of the cysts ranged from 5 cm to 15 cm (mean, 8.4 +/- 2.6 cm). The pathologies of the cysts were simple cyst in 86 cases, endometrioma in 68, serous cyst in 57, mucinous cyst in eight and borderline in one. The perioperative complication rate was 2.27%. This technique does not require the use of two or more ancillary trocars or widening of the trocar incision. The duration of surgery can be shortened considerably and complete excision of the cystic capsule can be performed. Homeostasis was achieved using 3-0 polyglactin sutures. No electrocoagulation was required."}
{"id": "20045752", "title": "Is it possible to use a single ancillary trocar to finish laparoscopic cystectomy?", "content": "Is it possible to use a single ancillary trocar to finish laparoscopic cystectomy?"}
{"id": "20014550", "title": "The adjunctive value of CD10 immunostaining on cell block preparations in pelvic endometriosis.", "content": "The adjunctive value of CD10 immunostaining on cell block preparations in pelvic endometriosis. To evaluate the utility of CD10 immunostaining on cell block preparations from pelvic washing cytology material obtained during laparoscopy in cases of pelvic endometriosis (PE). Six premenopausal women presenting with ovarian masses underwent a laparoscopic procedure. In addition to routine cytospin preparations, cell blocks were prepared using the formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded method from the pelvic washings in each case. Immunocytochemistry using monoclonal antibodies for cytokeratin (CK) 7, CK20, CD10, estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and CA125 was performed on sections from cell blocks using the streptavidin-biotin peroxidase complex. Clusters of epithelial cells (3 cases) and stromal cells (2 cases) were seen in a background rich in hemosiderin-laden macrophages and poorly preserved mesothelial cells on cytospin smears. CD10 and CK7 were consistently positive in the stromal and epithelial components, respectively, in all cases on cell block sections. Variable staining reactions were noted for ER, PR and CA125. CD10 immunostaining is a useful ancillary method in the diagnosis of endometriosis. Its routine use on cell block preparations from pelvic washings in women undergoing a laparoscopic procedure is recommended."}
{"id": "20003789", "title": "[Establishment of endometriosis diagnostic model using plasma protein profiling].", "content": "[Establishment of endometriosis diagnostic model using plasma protein profiling]. To establish the diagnostic model for endometriosis by screening the plasma biomarkers of endometriosis using surface enhanced laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF-MS)coupled with bioinformatics. Plasma samples from 36 patients with endometriosis (endometriosis group) matched with 35 patients with infertility or benign ovarian tumors (control group) before laparoscopy were collected at Peking Union Medical College Hospital from January to October 2007. Plasma protein profiling were detected using SELDI-TOF-MS and protein chip and peak intensities were compared between the two groups. Biomarker Discovery Software was used for data analysis and model was build by classification and regression tree software (CART), sensitivity and specificity of the diagnostic model were verified. There were 14 protein peaks abnormally expressed in endometriosis group compared with those of control group (P < 0.01). The diagnostic model composed of three protein peaks with the molecular weight of 3,956,000, 11,710,000 and 6,986,000 showed a sensitivity of 92% and specificity of 83%. In the blind test the model showed a sensitivity of 88% and specificity of 80%. SELDI-TOF-MS is a new approach for screening markers of endometriosis. Its clinical value deserves further investigation."}
{"id": "19967244", "title": "Genital schistosomiasis mansoni: tubal tumor and parietal peritoneum involvement diagnosed during laparoscopy.", "content": "Genital schistosomiasis mansoni: tubal tumor and parietal peritoneum involvement diagnosed during laparoscopy. Female genital schistosomiasis is not uncommon in endemic areas for schistosomiasis, but there are few reports in the Brazilian medical literature. Here, we describe the case of a 31-year-old woman with lower abdominal pain who was diagnosed as presenting a fallopian tube tumor caused by Manson's schistosomiasis. The diagnosis was delayed because her symptoms were considered nonspecific. Involvement of the parietal peritoneum of the ovarian fossa was observed during laparoscopy and confirmed by histological analysis. The left tube and the tumor were excised and schistosomiasis was treated with praziquantel. She presented a full recovery and options for future reproduction are under evaluation."}
{"id": "19955918", "title": "Laparoscopy staging of early ovarian cancer: our experience and review of the literature.", "content": "Laparoscopy staging of early ovarian cancer: our experience and review of the literature. We report our experience with laparoscopic staging of apparent early ovarian cancer, and we critically review the current literature on this issue. Potential limits of laparoscopic technique and theoretical concerns of using pneumoperitoneum-based surgery in this setting are addressed. Surgical, pathological, and oncological outcome data of consecutive patients undergoing comprehensive laparoscopic staging for presumed early ovarian cancer at our institution were prospectively collected. The median operative time was 348 minutes (range, 255-450 minutes). The median estimated blood loss was 250 mL (range, 50-3000 mL). The mean number of pelvic and paraaortic lymph nodes harvested was 24.5 (SD, 6.3) and 9.8 (SD, 7.1), respectively. The disease was upstaged in 6 women (23.1%). No conversion to laparotomy and no intraoperative complication occurred. One patient had a retroperitoneal hematoma recognized in the postoperative period, and this required laparotomy and ligature of the hypogastric arteries to achieve hemostasis. The median follow-up period was 26.7 months (range, 2-83 months). Recurrence-free survival was 96.1%. Our results suggest that laparoscopic comprehensive surgical staging is a valuable treatment option for ovarian cancer patients with apparent early disease. Evidence is beginning to accumulate suggesting that minimally invasive surgery is at least equivalent in surgicopathological outcomes and middle-range oncological results to the conventional treatment approach, and early concerns are proving largely unfounded."}
{"id": "19955907", "title": "Prognostic factors for complete debulking in first- and second-line ovarian cancer.", "content": "Prognostic factors for complete debulking in first- and second-line ovarian cancer. Surgery is a mainstay of therapy in ovarian cancer. Are there any actual changes in the definitions and goals of surgery? Selective review of the actual literature and results in surgery for primary and recurrent ovarian cancer. Actual data strongly suggest changing the surgical aim from the so-called optimal debulking (residual disease <1 cm) to complete resection. The standard in patients in whom complete resection might be possible remains to be primary surgery followed by chemotherapy. There might be a subgroup of patients with a poor prognosis who will have only limited benefit of primary surgery, and interval debulking is also possible. Predictive models for suboptimal debulking at primary diagnosis are discussed. The surgical aim in recurrent ovarian cancer is defined as complete resection. Actual multicenter studies investigated prospectively predictive models for complete resection. Recommendations regarding surgical aim have changed within the recent years. There are still no reliable predictive models for primary surgery of ovarian cancer. The DESKTOP II trial has validated a score of resectability in recurrent ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "19919915", "title": "[Advanced ovarian cancer: criteria of resectability].", "content": "[Advanced ovarian cancer: criteria of resectability]. Residual disease is the first predictive factor for survival in women with ovarian cancer. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy still has not proved superiority in terms of overall survival compared with complete initial resection. Hence, initial surgery remains the cornerstone of management for patients with advanced ovarian cancer. Various parameters have been proposed to evaluate the ability of complete resection. Clinical evaluation of peritoneal carcinomatosis and ascite is not relevant enough while general status (ASA score) is correlated with the risk of postoperative complications. Preoperative dosage of CA-125 higher than 500 UI/L seems to be related with an increase risk of sub-optimal surgery. Recently, some authors challenged its prognostic value. For a CA-125 threshold at 500 UI/L, sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values range from 58 to 78%, 64 to 89%, 64 to 84% and 35.7 to 85.4%, respectively. Imaging criteria failed to report concordant results. Indeed, sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values vary from 52 to 100%, 75 to 100%, 49% to 100% and 50 to 100%, respectively. High-correlation has been demonstrated for carcinomatosis scores evaluating the dissemination of the disease (AUCs of ROCs curves higher than 0.6). At laparotomy, for an Eisenkop score under 6, 99% of patients could benefit of complete resection. At laparoscopy, for a Fagotti score under 4, a complete cytoreduction could be obtained in 78% of patients. This score had the best AUC (0.76). Various scoring systems are available for surgeons to evaluate the resecability of advanced ovarian cancer. Among them, peroperative scoring systems appear the best tool and should be recommended in routine especially at first laparoscopy. Finally, due to the impact on survival of complete initial resection, women with advanced ovarian cancer should be referred to specialized centres."}
{"id": "19899422", "title": "An incidental peritoneal serous borderline tumor during laparoscopy for endometriosis.", "content": "An incidental peritoneal serous borderline tumor during laparoscopy for endometriosis. Primary peritoneal serous borderline tumor (PPSBT) is an uncommon lesion, histologically indistinguishable from non-invasive peritoneal implants found in association with ovarian tumours of borderline malignancy. A 37-year-old white woman was admitted for acute pelvic pain due to two 5 cm retrouterine bilateral ovarian cysts with an endometrioid aspect. Clinical examination, CA 125, transvaginal ultrasonography and magnetic resonance were used preoperatively to confirm the suspected diagnosis of pelvic endometriosis; conservative laparoscopy with an extensive pelvic toilette of pelvic scarring was performed to preserve her fertility. Surgeons performed cyst removal, detached bowel adhesions, removed all soft vesicular cysts and a soft blue nodule from the bowel, and coagulating all similar endometriotic islands in the pelvis. Surprisingly, the anatomopathological examination of samples revealed a rare PPSBT with diffuse implants on the bowel, bladder, and visceral and parietal peritoneum of the Douglas pouch. Although PPSBT is a rare entity, it is nonetheless important because of its macroscopic similarity to endometriosis and microscopic similarity to other peritoneal and mullerian proliferations of both benign and malignant biologic potential. It should be considered in the differential diagnosis of endometrioid lesions on the peritoneal surfaces of visceral and parietal peritoneum in patients submitted for gynaecological problems."}
{"id": "19896594", "title": "Pelvic cyst: renal or ovarian?", "content": "Pelvic cyst: renal or ovarian? Ovarian cyst is a common gynecologic finding. Renal cysts develop in 15% of women older than 70 years, and nephroptosis in 20% of the population, primarily in women. Herein, we review these conditions and present a case in which the patient had a cystic kidney in combination with nephroptosis. At vaginal ultrasound performed with the patient in an upright position, the kidney slid down into the pelvis, thus imitating an ovarian mass. At laparoscopy, the patient was positioned head down, and the kidney, lying near the diaphragm, was not seen."}
{"id": "19896593", "title": "Robotics and gynecologic oncology: review of the literature.", "content": "Robotics and gynecologic oncology: review of the literature. The objectives of this article were to review the published scientific literature about robotics and its application to gynecologic oncology to date and to summarize findings of this advanced computerenhanced laparoscopic technique. Relevant sources were identified by a search of PUBMED from January 1950 to January 2009 using the key words Robot or Robotics and Cervical cancer, Endometrial cancer, Gynecologic oncology, and Ovarian cancer. Appropriate case reports, case series, retrospective studies, prospective trials, and review articles were selected. A total of 38 articles were identified on the subject, and 27 were included in the study. The data for gynecologic cancer show comparable results between robotic and laparoscopic surgery for estimated blood loss, operative time, length of hospital stay, and complications. Overall, there were more wound complications with the laparotomy approach compared with laparoscopy and robotic-assisted laparoscopy. There were more lymphocysts, lymphoceles, and lymphedema in the robotic-assisted laparoscopic group compared with the laparoscopy and laparotomy groups in patients with cervical cancer. Infectious and lung-related morbidity, postoperative ileus, and bleeding or clot formation were more commonly reported in the laparotomy group compared with the other 2 cohorts in patients with endometrial cancer. Computer-enhanced technology may enable more surgeons to convert laparotomies to laparoscopic surgery with its associated benefits. It seems that in the hands of experienced laparoscopic surgeons, final outcomes are the same with or without use of the robot. There is good evidence that robotic surgery facilitates laparoscopic surgery, with equivalent if not better operative time and comparable surgical outcomes, shorter hospital stay, and fewer major complications than with surgeries using the laparotomy approach."}
{"id": "19851210", "title": "Ovarian involvement by desmoplastic small round cell tumor with leydig cell hyperplasia showing an unusual immunophenotype (cytokeratin negative, calretinin and inhibin positive) mimicking poorly differentiated sertoli leydig cell tumor.", "content": "Ovarian involvement by desmoplastic small round cell tumor with leydig cell hyperplasia showing an unusual immunophenotype (cytokeratin negative, calretinin and inhibin positive) mimicking poorly differentiated sertoli leydig cell tumor. Desmoplastic small round cell tumor (DSRCT) is a rare aggressive tumor primarily involving serosal surfaces in adolescents and young men. Diagnosis is based on specific clinicomorphologic, immunohistochemical, and genetic features. We report here a variant of DSRCT involving the ovaries that mimics the Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor in a 21-year-old woman complaining of abdominal pain. Abdominal ultrasonography and computed tomography showed a right adnexal mass. She had a slightly raised serum CA-125 level. Frozen section examination identified the right ovarian mass as a poorly differentiated Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor. The surgically resected tumor and left ovary and omentum implants found during laparoscopy were diagnosed as DSRCT with Leydig cell hyperplasia. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were negative for epithelial markers but were positive for calretinin and inhibin. The patient is still undergoing chemotherapy at 8 months after initial presentation with partial response. This case showed that DSRCT with unusual immunohistochemical profiles and Leydig cells hyperplasia pose a diagnostic challenge. Molecular genetic techniques may help in these cases."}
{"id": "19835804", "title": "Single port access laparoscopic adnexal surgery.", "content": "Single port access laparoscopic adnexal surgery. To estimate the feasibility, safety, and operative outcomes for the management of adnexal masses by single port access (SPA) laparoscopy with a wound retractor and a surgical glove. A prospective single-center study (Canadian Task Force classification III). University hospital. Twenty-four well selected patients with adnexal masses on imaging scans recruited from June 2008 through January 2009. Single port access laparoscopic adnexal surgery. Single port access laparoscopic adnexal surgery was successfully completed in 22 of 24 patients. The median age of the patients was 45 years (range 23-63 years), and the median body mass index was 22 (range 18-29). The median tumor size was 5 cm (range 3-12 cm). The median operative time was 70 minutes (range 40-128 minutes). The estimated blood loss was minimal (range 10-100mL). The postoperative course was uneventful in all patients. The median postoperative hospital stay was 1 day (range 1-3 days). No postoperative complications were observed at follow-up. The 2 failed cases were as follow: 1 required an additional trocar for adequate adhesiolysis, and the other a staging laparotomy because of the finding of a borderline ovarian malignancy on frozen section pathologic study. The single port access laparoscopic adnexal surgery was safe and feasible and provided almost no visual scar."}
{"id": "19761648", "title": "Initial evaluation and referral guidelines for management of pelvic/ovarian masses.", "content": "Initial evaluation and referral guidelines for management of pelvic/ovarian masses. To optimize the management of adnexal masses and to assist primary care physicians and gynaecologists determine which patients presenting with an ovarian mass with a significant risk of malignancy should be considered for gynaecologic oncology referral and management. Laparoscopic evaluation, comprehensive surgical staging for early ovarian cancer, or tumour debulking for advanced stage ovarian cancer. To optimize conservative versus operative management of women with possible ovarian malignancy and to optimize the involvement of gynaecologic oncologists in planning and delivery of treatment. Published literature was retrieved through searches of PubMed or MEDLINE, CINAHL, and the Cochrane Library, using appropriate controlled vocabulary and key words. Results were restricted to systematic reviews, randomized control trials/controlled clinical trials, and observational studies. Grey (unpublished) literature was identified by searching the web sites of health technology assessment and health technology assessment-related agencies, clinical practice guideline collections, clinical trial registries, and national and international medical specialty societies. 1. Primary care physicians and gynaecologists should always consider the possibility of an underlying ovarian cancer in patients in any age group who present with an adnexal or ovarian mass. (II-2B) 2. Appropriate workup of a perimenopausal or postmenopausal woman presenting with an adnexal mass should include evaluation of symptoms and signs suggestive of malignancy, such as persistent pelvic/abdominal pain, urinary urgency/frequency, increased abdominal size/bloating, and difficulty eating. In addition, CA125 measurement should be considered. (II-2B) 3. Transvaginal or transabdominal ultrasound examination is recommended as part of the initial workup of a complex adnexal/ovarian mass. (II-2B) 4. Ultrasound reports should be standardized to include size and unilateral/bilateral location of the adnexal mass and its possible origin, thickness of septations, presence of excrescences and internal solid components, vascular flow distribution pattern, and presence or absence of ascites. This information is essential for calculating the risk of malignancy index II score to identify pelvic mass with high malignant potential. (IIIC) 5. Patients deemed to have a high risk of an underlying malignancy should be reviewed in consultation with a gynaecologic oncologist for assessment and optimal surgical management. (II-2B)."}
{"id": "19761137", "title": "Peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking peritoneal carcinomatosis.", "content": "Peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking peritoneal carcinomatosis. The data of 11 peritoneal tuberculosis (TB) patients is discussed in an attempt to better understand this disease. Nine patients with clinical features mimicking ovarian cancer and two with infertility were evaluated retrospectively. The mean age was 40.8 +/- 18.3 years. None had any past/family history of TB. Abdominal swelling and pain, appetite loss, nausea/vomiting, and primary infertility were the most common complaints. Chest X-ray suggested TB in one cachexic patient. Six patients had ovarian/primary peritoneal cancer on laparotomy. Laparoscopy was performed to determine therapeutic modality in one patient and for primary infertility in one patient. Three patients were not operated because of suspected TB in one and neoadjuvant chemotherapy in two with poor performance scores. They underwent peritoneal or omental biopsies; histopathology revealed caseous granulomatous TB lesions. Mycobacterium tuberculosis was identified in only two ascitic fluid cultures. Peritoneal TB should be suspected in endemic areas, especially in young patients considered to have peritoneal carcinomatosis."}
{"id": "19761131", "title": "The contribution of laparoscopy to the diagnosis of adnexal masses in young and premenopausal women.", "content": "The contribution of laparoscopy to the diagnosis of adnexal masses in young and premenopausal women. The purpose of this retrospective study was to investigate the contribution of laparoscopy to the diagnosis of adnexal masses in young and premenopausal women, in whom surgery was deemed necessary, between the years 2002-2008. A total of 130 young and premenopausal women scheduled for surgery for an adnexal mass with a diameter of 5-10 cm underwent transvaginal ultrasound (US) examination prior to surgery. Laparoscopic management was successfully completed for 118 of the 130 patients in this study; however, 12 required conversion of laparoscopy to laparotomy due to endometriosis with extensive bowel adhesions, or suspected ovarian malignancy and peritoneal implants. One hundred and twenty-four patients (95.38%) had benign lesions, four (3.07%) had borderline tumors and two patients had malignant lesions (1.53%). We found a statistically significant association between laparoscopic and histological findings. Laparoscopic diagnosis of adnexal masses suspicious at US may help avoid many laparotomies for the treatment of benign ovarian disorders."}
{"id": "19751334", "title": "Port wound closure assisted by Foley catheter: an easier way to provide fascia security.", "content": "Port wound closure assisted by Foley catheter: an easier way to provide fascia security. Specific laparoscopy-related complications, such as incisional hernia (trocar hernia) or hemorrhage, are worthy of our special attention. Preventing and managing these complications safely and efficiently are important, suggesting that a definite closure of the 10-12 mm port wound after laparoscopy is needed; for this, a newer, simpler method was used. Ninety-six patients with benign ovarian tumor warranting laparoscopic surgery were enrolled into the study. Forty-eight patients (50%) underwent a Foley catheter-assisted port wound closure (Foley group) and the remaining patients (50%) underwent a conventional port would closure (control group). The outcome was measured by comparing operative time, the amount of suture material used (difficulty of wound closure), therapeutic efficacy (hernia), postoperative complications (bleeding, hematoma, and wound pain by a self-reported six-point verbal numeric rating scale (VNRS-6)) and anesthesia use as measured by an analgesic usage score (AUS), and dissatisfaction with the cosmetic results, in both groups. The general characteristics of the patients were similar in both groups. There were no statistical differences in mean operative time, therapeutic efficacy, and postoperative complications between the two groups. However, the amount of extra suture material needed was significantly less in the Foley group compared to the control group (1.04 +/- 0.08 vs 1.29 +/- 0.44, P = 0.015, and 4.2 vs 25%, P = 0.02, respectively). Wound closure with the assistance of a Foley catheter offers an easy and secure way to close a 10-12 mm port wound."}
{"id": "19745797", "title": "The value of laparoscopic surgery to stage gynecological cancers: present and future.", "content": "The value of laparoscopic surgery to stage gynecological cancers: present and future. The laparoscopic management of gynecologic cancers has been discussed controversely since decades. Much progress has been achieved technically enabling an experienced endoscopic surgeon to perform most of the gynecologic oncologic procedures such as hysterectomy, omentectomy, pelvic and paraaortic lymph node dissection. Although the value of laparoscopy with respect to oncological safety and patient's outcome has not been shown in prospective randomized clinical trials, many studies with altogether thousands of patients have revealed the feasibility and also similar oncologic results of laparoscopy when compared to laparotomy. Therefore, the laparoscopic approach has become well accepted for certain oncological indications, especially when early stage cancer cases are treated. These indications are also subject to ongoing Phase III trials: The LACC001 trial compares Total Laparoscopic Radical Hysterectomy (TLRH) or total robotic radical hysterectomy with total abdominal radical hysterectomy (TARH) for the treatment of early stage cervical cancer. The GOG LAP 2 and also the LACE001 trial compare total laparoscopic hysterectomy (TLH) with total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH) for the treatment of early stage endometrial cancer, whereby bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, pelvic and paraaortic lymph node dissection is performed according to tumor stage and grade. This review summarizes the current status of laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology based on the literature to date, the ongoing clinical trials, and the recommendations of the German Gynecologic Oncology Group (AGO)."}
{"id": "19722150", "title": "[Peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian cancer--diagnostic difficulties. Two cases reports].", "content": "[Peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian cancer--diagnostic difficulties. Two cases reports]. Tuberculosis, and specially its extrapulmonary location still causes diagnostic difficulties. In 2007, in Poland 7.3% of newly registered cases of tuberculosis in Poland were located extrapulmonary. Peritoneal tuberculosis is often wrongly diagnosed as an ovarian cancer, it is due to similar symptoms like abdominal pain, abdominopelvic masses, ascites and elevated serum CA-125. Two patients who were admitted to our department with suspicion of ovarian cancer are presented. Subjective symptoms suggested the ovarian cancer, elevated levels of CA-125, chest x-rays without abnormal findings or with minimal fibrotic changes and uncharacteristic results of additional investigations were disclosed. A diagnostic laparoscopy was made to establish the diagnosis. Because of clinical and operative picture suggesting ovarian cancer in both cases resections were performed. The procedure consisted of total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Biopsy specimens were taken up and verified histopathologically. The peritoneal tuberculosis was recognized in both cases."}
{"id": "19715487", "title": "Laparoscopically assisted vaginal ovarian cystectomy for clinically diagnosed benign large ovarian masses.", "content": "Laparoscopically assisted vaginal ovarian cystectomy for clinically diagnosed benign large ovarian masses. The aim of this study was to present our experience with laparoscopically assisted vaginal ovarian cystectomy (LAVOC) in selected patients with various large ovarian masses. Among the medical records of 324 patients with ovarian masses, 10 consecutive women of reproductive age with prior sexual activity and with large ovarian masses (10-27 cm) were evaluated. A combined laparoscopic and vaginal ovarian cystectomy was done through the posterior cul-de-sac. All operations proceeded smoothly; the ovarian pathologies included 1 mucinous cystadenoma, 1 serous cystadenoma, 1 mucinous cystadenoma coexisting with mature cystic teratoma, and 7 mature cystic teratomas. The median (range) tumor size was 15.5 cm (range, 10-27), operative duration was 62 minutes (range, 31-110), the estimated blood loss 50 mL (range, 10-150), and the hospital stay was 2 days (range, 1-4). No open conversion and blood transfusion was required, and no patient had major perioperative complications. One patient suffered from postoperative low-grade fever (<38.5 degrees C) controlled by 3-day parenteral antibiotic therapy. LAVOC is safe and feasible and can be an alternative to traditional laparotomy and the pure laparoscopic approach in selected patients. The potential risk of postoperative infection has to be kept in mind."}
{"id": "19697626", "title": "Incidence of port-site metastasis after laparoscopic management of borderline ovarian tumors: a series of 22 patients.", "content": "Incidence of port-site metastasis after laparoscopic management of borderline ovarian tumors: a series of 22 patients. The aim of this work was to evaluate the incidence of port-site metastasis in patients undergoing laparoscopy for borderline ovarian carcinoma (BOT). Twenty-two patients who underwent laparoscopy from 2004 to 2008 for BOT were evaluated retrospectively. In 15 patients an ultraconservative procedure with enucleation of the annexal neoplasia was carried out, while in five (23%) unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was performed and in two cases (9%) bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was done. The literature data report few cases of port-site metastasis in BOT patients. Residual cutaneous metastases have been reported to occur within 12 months from the first surgery, generally in association with serous histology. In our analysis, we found 17 out of 22 cases of serous BOT, three mucinous and two endometriod. In no case was cutaneous metastasis revealed after an average of 30 months of follow-up."}
{"id": "19697223", "title": "Complex serous cystadenoma with ovarian stroma of the fallopian tube ampulla presenting surgically.", "content": "Complex serous cystadenoma with ovarian stroma of the fallopian tube ampulla presenting surgically."}
{"id": "19690591", "title": "[Treatment of benign gynecologic conditions].", "content": "[Treatment of benign gynecologic conditions]."}
{"id": "19673427", "title": "[A case of primary retroperitoneal mucinous cystadenocarcinoma].", "content": "[A case of primary retroperitoneal mucinous cystadenocarcinoma]. The present report describes a 31-year-old Japanese woman with a retroperitoneal cystic mass adjoining below the left kidney. No disseminated tumors were observed, and resection of the tumor only was performed laparoscopically. The surgical specimen showed a well-differentiated papillary mucinous cystadenocarcinoma of the ovarian type. Additional gynecological examination, including positron emission tomography-computed tomography, showed no malignancy at other sites. Recurrence or metastasis has not been observed after more than 1 year of follow-up. Primary retroperitoneal mucinous cystadenocarcinoma is a very rare tumor. Thirty-six and 55 cases have been reported previously in the English and Japanese literature, respectively. The pathogenesis of the disease remains unclear and controversial. A standard treatment has not been established in the literature, and a consistent prognosis has not been reported. Therefore, close post-operative follow-up is strongly recommended."}
{"id": "19670032", "title": "Patients' preferences in mode of surgery of an adnexal mass.", "content": "Patients' preferences in mode of surgery of an adnexal mass. We assessed the preferences of women with an adnexal mass for the mode of surgery. A structured interview was designed in which women, scheduled for surgery for an adnexal mass, were confronted with fictive scenarios of the different approaches. Women were asked at what probability of a false negative test result of frozen section diagnosis they would prefer frozen section diagnosis over primary radical surgery. Furthermore, the women were asked at what probability of ovarian malignancy they would prefer laparoscopy over laparotomy. We interviewed 43 women. When the probability of frozen section diagnosis being false negative was set at 90%, 97% of the women preferred primary radical surgery. The mean threshold at which women switched their preference from primary radical surgery to frozen section diagnosis was at a risk of 49% on a false negative test result of frozen section diagnosis. In the choice between laparoscopy over laparotomy, the mean threshold at which the women switched their preference from laparoscopy to laparotomy was at a risk of 55% on ovarian malignancy. Women scheduled for surgery of an adnexal mass at low risk of ovarian malignancy, prefer frozen section diagnosis over primary radical surgery and prefer laparoscopy over laparotomy."}
{"id": "19661748", "title": "Laparoscopic management of the ovarian mass: a practical approach.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of the ovarian mass: a practical approach. Laparoscopic management of a benign ovarian mass is regarded as the best surgical approach in many cases. Although several studies have found this approach to be safe and effective, surgeon preparation, technical skill, and technique are critical to obtain good patient outcomes. The purpose of this article is to review the preparatory evaluation and surgical technique for laparoscopic removal of a benign adnexal mass, including cases complicated by pregnancy or obesity."}
{"id": "19661747", "title": "Laparoscopy and gynecologic oncology.", "content": "Laparoscopy and gynecologic oncology. Laparoscopy was used for a second-look assessment in ovarian cancer patients back in the 1970s. However, it is only with the advent of new developments in equipment in the late 1980s and early 1990s along with the vision of pioneers in laparoscopic surgery that has made operative laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology feasible. Laparoscopy has multiple benefits in the cancer patients, including image magnification to visualize metastatic or recurrent disease and improved dissection in challenging areas such as the paravesical and pararectal spaces. There is limited bleeding from small vessels because of the pressure from pneumoperitoneum, decreased hospital stay, and rapid recovery. Postoperative chemotherapy or radiation can be initiated earlier, and radiation complications from bowel adhesions are minimized. Significant progress has been made in the last 2 decades in gynecologic malignancy. In this study, the application of laparoscopy in cervical, endometrial, and ovarian cancer will be presented."}
{"id": "19660216", "title": "Laparoscopic mucin removal in patients with pseudomyxoma peritonei.", "content": "Laparoscopic mucin removal in patients with pseudomyxoma peritonei. Pseudomyxoma peritonei results from ovarian and appendiceal mucinous tumors. Cyst rupture results in intraabdominal mucin accumulation, leading to abdominal distension. No effective treatment has yet been established. Pseudomyxoma peritonei is generally associated with a poor prognosis. In a recent Mayo Clinic report, the 5-year survival rate for this disease was 53% and the 10-year survival rate was 32%, while the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center reported 5- and 10-year survival rates of 75% and 10%. In this report, we describe 4 patients with a laparoscopically confirmed recurrence of pseudomyxoma peritonei who subsequently underwent repeated laparoscopic mucin removal. Because laparoscopic surgery can be performed frequently, it appears that laparoscopic surgery, a minimally invasive procedure, greatly improves the quality of life of patients with pseudomyxoma peritonei."}
{"id": "19652848", "title": "Laparoscopic systemic retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy for women with low-risk early endometrial cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic systemic retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy for women with low-risk early endometrial cancer. There is no consensus on the extent of lymphadenectomy and the appropriate patients for lymphadenectomy in low-risk patients with endometrial cancer. This study aimed to evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of laparoscopic lymphadenectomy for low-risk patients with endometrial cancer. From January 2004 to May 2008, we reviewed the medical records of 28 patients with low-risk, endometrial cancer; endometrioid type, grade 1 or 2, and with a depth of myometrial invasion of less than one-half of the myometrium. All patients underwent laparoscopically-assisted staging surgery. The median age and body mass index were 56 years (range, 28 to 75) and 25.5 kg/m(2) (range, 21.3 to 37.2). The median operating time, estimated blood loss, and length of hospital stay were 142 minutes (range, 110 to 410), 215 mL (range, 100 to 700), and 7 days (range, 3 to 19), respectively. No conversion to laparotomy was noted. The median number of harvested lymph nodes was 21 (range, 10 to 48) pelvic nodes and 12 (range, 4 to 21) para-aortic nodes. One (3.6%) patient presented pelvic lymph node metastasis and 2 (7.1%) presented isolated para-aortic lymph node metastasis. The complication rate was 14.3%. No recurrence in the vaginal vault, distant metastasis, port site metastasis was noted up to the last follow-up. Systemic pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy should be considered in all low-risk patients with endometrial cancer until it is concluded to be clinically insignificant through large-scale prospective research in the future. However, it will be difficult to explain statistical differences in survival rates according to lymphadenectomy, because the increase of the survival rate resulting from lymphadenectomy will fall within the margin of statistical error."}
{"id": "19591970", "title": "A comparative study of laparoscopic extraperitoneal lymphadenectomy [correction of laparoscopy] with the use of ultrasonically activated shears.", "content": "A comparative study of laparoscopic extraperitoneal lymphadenectomy [correction of laparoscopy] with the use of ultrasonically activated shears. We evaluated the use of the harmonic scalpel in reducing the occurrence of symptomatic lymphoceles and its related complications in paraaortic laparoscopic lymphadenectomies (PALLs). All PALL that were performed at the Institut Claudius Regaud between January 2003 and June 2007 were included. Since January 2006, the harmonic scalpel has been used systematically for all lymphostasis. Lymphoceles that required treatment were recorded as a complication. Ninety-eight patients were enrolled, 62 PALLs were performed with the standard technique (control group), and 36 PALLs were performed with the harmonic scalpel (study group). There were no differences regarding operating time, blood loss, median nodal yield, and duration of hospital stay. Seven patients of the control group vs none of the study group (P = .03) experienced a symptomatic lymphocele that required medical treatment; 4 patients had radiologic drainage, and 1 patient had surgical drainage. We demonstrate the efficacy of harmonic scalpel in reducing the occurrence of symptomatic lymphoceles in paraaortic extraperitoneal lymphadenectomy."}
{"id": "19589709", "title": "Management of ovarian dermoid cysts in the pediatric and adolescent population.", "content": "Management of ovarian dermoid cysts in the pediatric and adolescent population. To evaluate the surgical approach used in the management of ovarian dermoid cysts in the pediatric and adolescent population. A descriptive retrospective chart review of all cases of ovarian dermoid cyst excision between January 2001 and January 2006. The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Canada. Forty-one female children and adolescents who underwent operative management of an ovarian dermoid cyst. Surgical approach (laparoscopy vs laparotomy), intraoperative cyst rupture, length of hospital stay, and postoperative complications. The mean age was 12.5 years. All cysts were unilateral. Twenty-three patients (56%) underwent laparoscopic cystectomy, 14 (34%) underwent cystectomy via laparotomy, and 4 (10%) oophorectomies were performed via laparotomy. Cyst size was significantly larger in the laparotomy group compared to the laparoscopy group (mean diameter 14.4 cm vs 7.1 cm, respectively, P < .001). A significantly higher rate of cyst rupture was experienced during laparoscopic cystectomy (100%), compared to excision via laparotomy (27.7%, P < .001). Length of hospital stay was significantly shorter in the laparoscopy group compared to the laparotomy group (median of 0 vs 3 days, respectively, P < .001). A single case in the laparoscopy group sustained a bladder injury and developed postoperative necrotizing fasciitis resulting in a prolonged hospitalization and recovery. There were no operative or postoperative complications related to cyst content spillage, regardless of the surgical approach. Laparoscopic cystectomy is a safe and effective method of managing ovarian dermoid cysts in the pediatric and adolescent patient population."}
{"id": "19585444", "title": "[18-year-old woman with an ovarian tumour detected by coincidence].", "content": "[18-year-old woman with an ovarian tumour detected by coincidence]. Massive ovarian edema (MOE) is a rare, benign disease of young women. Because preoperatively in most cases the differential diagnosis primarily appears to indicate the presence of a malignant tumour, there is a risk that these patients will be subjected to unnecessary overtreatment. In the case of the 18-year-old patient described here, on the basis of the preoperative data the suspected clinical diagnosis was polycystic ovarian (PCO) syndrome. In the MRI the enlarged ovary was interpreted as a mucous tumour. The laparotomy showed a smooth-walled, opalescent ovarian tumour with adnexal torsion. Histopathological examination of the adnexectomy specimen gave the diagnosis of a massive ovarian edema (MOE). Therapeutically, a wedge-shaped excision, immediate-section histology and derotation and suspension of the ovary would have been sufficient. Unnecessary overtreatment can be avoided in young women with enlarged ovaries, if MOE is included in the differential diagnosis and if the characteristic sonography, MRI and macroscopy findings are known."}
{"id": "19576813", "title": "Spontaneous rupture of benign ovarian cystic teratoma in a premenarcheal girl.", "content": "Spontaneous rupture of benign ovarian cystic teratoma in a premenarcheal girl. Spontaneous rupture of benign cystic ovarian teratoma is an unusual occurrence. A 9-year-old girl presented with acute onset of abdominal pain. Under a radiological diagnosis of cystic ovarian teratoma, she underwent laparoscopic cystectomy, preserving as much ovarian tissue as possible. Direct observation of a defect on the tumor surface and the presence of keratinized squamous cells in the ascites were important clues for intraperitoneal rupture. Pathologically, the defect was surrounded by inflamed tissues adjacent to the gastric mucosa, suggesting that autolysis of the wall by proteolytic enzymes induced the spontaneous rupture. We present the youngest and first premenarcheal case of spontaneous rupture of cystic ovarian teratoma. Early diagnosis and minimally invasive surgical procedure are essential to preserve future fertility."}
{"id": "19570422", "title": "[Clinicopathologic features of 234 cases with borderline ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Clinicopathologic features of 234 cases with borderline ovarian tumors]. To determine the clinicopathologic characteristics and prognostic factors that may be used to predict the poor outcome of patients with borderline ovarian tumors. All cases with borderline ovarian tumors treated in the West China Second University Hospital from January 2001 to June 2007 were analyzed retrospectively for clinicopathologic features, treatment parameters and outcome of treatment. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to assess independent prognostic factors using the logistic regression model. The median age of 234 patients was 40.1 years with a range of 14 to 80 years. There were 101 (43.2%), 94 (40.2%), 19 (8.1%), 12 (5.1%), 8 (3.4%) cases of serous, mucinous, mixed, endometrioid and clear cell tumors, respectively. Out of 234 cases, 182 (77.8%) underwent laparotomy and 45 (19.2%) underwent laparoscopy. Seven women underwent laparoconversion. Fertility sparing surgery was performed on 119 cases (50.9%) and radical surgery was performed on 115 cases (49.1%). Totally 161 (68.8%) patients had stage I, 19 (8.1%) had stage II, 54 (23.1%) had stage III, and none had stage IV disease. Sixty-four women received postoperative chemotherapy. The median follow-up was 40 months with a range of 8 to 78 months. Recurrence was found in 26 cases (11.1%) during follow-up, and no tumor-related death was reported. The logistic regression model showed that surgery procedure (OR = 2.304, P = 0.024), cyst rupture (OR = 2.213, P = 0.038), stage (OR = 4.114, P < 0.01), microinvasion (OR = 2.291, P = 0.046) and peritoneal implants (OR = 2.101, P = 0.016) were the five independent prognostic factors affecting recurrence. Although patients with borderline ovarian tumors have an excellent prognosis, the risk of recurrence remains in some patients. Emphasis should be put on these patients with high risk factors and preventive strategies should be taken to prevent their progression."}
{"id": "19568245", "title": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery in patients with serous endometrial cancer with transperitoneal spread (stage IV): a new preferred treatment?", "content": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery in patients with serous endometrial cancer with transperitoneal spread (stage IV): a new preferred treatment? To investigate the value of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT), followed by interval debulking surgery (IDS), in endometrial cancer with transperitoneal spread (stage IV). Patients with endometrial cancer with transperitoneal spread, as determined by laparoscopy (+/-pleural effusion), were treated with NACT. Efficacy was determined according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, residual tumour at IDS and histopathological assessment of tumour regression. A total of 30 patients (median age: 65 years; range:44-81 years) received 3-4 cycles of NACT (83% paclitaxel/carboplatin). Histopathological subtypes were as follows: serous (90%), clear cell (3%) and endometrioid (6%) carcinoma. Response according to RECIST was as follows: 2 (7%) complete remission, 20 (67%) partial remission, 6 (20%) stable disease and 2 (7%) progressive disease (PD). Patients with PD were not operated upon. A total of 24 patients (80%) had optimal cytoreduction (R <or=1 cm), of whom 22 (92%) were without residual tumour. Four patients were considered inoperable and were excluded from further analysis. The median progression-free survival and overall survival times were 13 and 23 months, respectively.Histopathological features of chemoresponse in both uterus and omentum were related to a better PFS (P=0.017, hazard ratio (HR) =0.785) and overall survival (P=0.014, HR=0.707). In particular, the absence of tumour infiltration and necrosis were associated with prognosis. The use of NACT resulted in a high rate (80%) of optimal IDS for the treatment of endometrial cancer with transperitoneal spread."}
{"id": "19539202", "title": "Hemorrhagic corpus luteum cysts: an unusual problem for pediatric surgeons.", "content": "Hemorrhagic corpus luteum cysts: an unusual problem for pediatric surgeons. Hemorrhagic corpus luteum cysts (HCLC) constitute a common disorder in pediatric subjects undergoing surgical intervention. HCLCs especially develop in the early period after menarche, and they are commonly associated with dysfunctional ovulation. Retrospective analysis of surgery outcome of HCLC patients. Pediatric Surgery Unit, S. Chiara University Hospital. 13 girls with HCLC diagnosis. Surgical treatment of HCLCs. We reviewed the clinical presentation and outcome of 13 post-menarcheal girls surgically treated for HCLCs in the Pediatric Surgical Unit from 2002 to 2006. Primary presentation was persistent abdominal pain in 84.6% and acute abdominal pain in 15.4% of patients, respectively. Ultrasound examination showed complex ovarian masses in 77.23% cases and simple ovarian masses in 33.7% cases, respectively. Although laparoscopic excision of HCLC was performed in more than 45% cases, laparotomic approach was commonly required. After conservative surgery, ovarian size and viability were normal, as assessed by 6-month ultrasound scan. No recurrences of disease and regular menses were reported at 2 years follow-up. In pediatric subjects with HCLC that required surgical intervention, no complications or disorder recurrence were reported. In order to preserve ovarian function, conservative surgery has to be performed whenever feasible."}
{"id": "19530497", "title": "The risk of malignancy index for ovarian tumours in Northeast Scotland--a population based study.", "content": "The risk of malignancy index for ovarian tumours in Northeast Scotland--a population based study. The Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network (SIGN) recommends the use of the Risk of Malignancy Index (RMI) for ovarian tumours, a scoring system based on ultrasound findings, menopausal status and CA 125 level, in the pre-operative evaluation of pelvic masses. The aim of this study was to investigate the accuracy of this as a predictive method of discriminating benign from malignant disease. All women who underwent oophorectomy in 2004 at Aberdeen Royal Infirmary for suspected primary ovarian pathology were evaluated. The RMI was calculated and these results were compared with the final histopathology. The sensitivity of the RMI for diagnosing malignant ovarian disease was 94% (32/34) while the specificity was 70% (76/108). Compared to previous studies, the RMI score was highly sensitive in detecting malignant disease, although not as specific in excluding benign lesions, particularly cystadenomas and endometriomas. This can be improved by the refinement of imaging techniques as well as the use of laparoscopy in particular cases. The RMI score may also be especially valuable in directing referrals to a specialised centre."}
{"id": "19527374", "title": "Third S. S. Ratnam memorial lecture 2007. Ovarian cancer: Is there hope for women?", "content": "Third S. S. Ratnam memorial lecture 2007. Ovarian cancer: Is there hope for women? Ovarian cancer is today the most lethal female cancer with an overall survival of only 49.9%. The currently available screening modalities are disappointing in detecting highly curable early stage ovarian cancer. Natural history of ovarian cancer is unknown; it appears it can develop quickly from normal looking ovaries. Timely referral of women with non-specific symptoms (such as abdominal bloating, pelvic pain) for an ultrasound scan or blood CA125 assessments may help in the early diagnosis. Patients with Stage IA or IB disease with grade 1 tumors have a cure rate of >90%; this is likely to be compromised by laparoscopic surgery. In selected patients fertility preservation with good obstetric outcome is possible. However, the relapse rate in 'high risk' early stage ovarian cancers is 40-45%; adjuvant chemotherapy is needed. Only 20-25% of those with stage III and IV disease are cured. Despite a high primary response (70%) majority (70-75%) will relapse and all are likely to succumb. Optimal debulking surgery followed by adjuvant chemotherapy are needed for stages III and IV disease; the outcome is superior if managed by gynecologic oncologists. Where cost of drugs is an important consideration, an alternative is carboplatin (an affordable and equally effective drug). The role of vaccines needs further study. When relapses occur palliation will be the aim in most instances. Oral contraceptives, breast feeding, tubal sterilization and hysterectomy also have a protective effect. Risk-reducing salpingo-oopherectomy has been suggested in women with BRCA mutations."}
{"id": "19525620", "title": "[Significance of laparoscopy in gynaecological oncology: limitations for adnexal tumours].", "content": "[Significance of laparoscopy in gynaecological oncology: limitations for adnexal tumours]. In the last few decades, the impact and use of laparoscopy for benign adnexal tumours have markedly increased. However, the surgical resection of early-stage ovarian malignoma remains controversial. This review evaluates the importance of laparoscopy in surgery of adnexa and especially of malignant tumours. Certainly, morbidity after laparoscopy is lower, but there is a risk of possibly more restricted staging, rupture of the tumour and port metastases. Analysis showed that the standard treatment of ovarian malignant tumours is laparotomy via a vertical incision, because data on laparoscopy are scarce and prospective, randomized trials for early-stage ovarian cancer are still missing. Staging by laparoscopy is technically feasible, but so far there is no proof of safety."}
{"id": "19525616", "title": "[Use of laparoscopy in gynecological oncology].", "content": "[Use of laparoscopy in gynecological oncology]. In gynecological oncology, patients particularly with early-stage endometrial or cervical carcinomas can benefit from minimally invasive procedures. In cases of cervical carcinoma, laparoscopic lymphonodectomy can help identify patients who should first undergo chemoradiotherapy. In cases of advanced ovarian carcinoma, laparoscopy is only a diagnostic option and not a therapy of its own. The use of robot-assisted laparoscopy (DaVinci) in gynecological oncology is currently evaluated."}
{"id": "19525452", "title": "Intraperitoneal alpha-particle radioimmunotherapy of ovarian cancer patients: pharmacokinetics and dosimetry of (211)At-MX35 F(ab')2--a phase I study.", "content": "Intraperitoneal alpha-particle radioimmunotherapy of ovarian cancer patients: pharmacokinetics and dosimetry of (211)At-MX35 F(ab')2--a phase I study. The alpha-emitter (211)At labeled to a monoclonal antibody has proven safe and effective in treating microscopic ovarian cancer in the abdominal cavity of mice. Women in complete clinical remission after second-line chemotherapy for recurrent ovarian carcinoma were enrolled in a phase I study. The aim was to determine the pharmacokinetics for assessing absorbed dose to normal tissues and investigating toxicity. Nine patients underwent laparoscopy 2-5 d before the therapy; a peritoneal catheter was inserted, and the abdominal cavity was inspected to exclude the presence of macroscopic tumor growth or major adhesions. (211)At was labeled to MX35 F(ab')(2) using the reagent N-succinimidyl-3-(trimethylstannyl)-benzoate. Patients were infused with (211)At-MX35 F(ab')(2) (22.4-101 MBq/L) in dialysis solution via the peritoneal catheter. gamma-Camera scans were acquired on 3-5 occasions after infusion, and a SPECT scan was acquired at 6 h. Samples of blood, urine, and peritoneal fluid were collected at 1-48 h. Hematology and renal and thyroid function were followed for a median of 23 mo. Pharmacokinetics and dosimetric results were related to the initial activity concentration (IC) of the infused solution. The decay-corrected activity concentration decreased with time in the peritoneal fluid to 50% IC at 24 h, increased in serum to 6% IC at 45 h, and increased in the thyroid to 127% +/- 63% IC at 20 h without blocking and less than 20% IC with blocking. No other organ uptakes could be detected. The cumulative urinary excretion was 40 kBq/(MBq/L) at 24 h. The estimated absorbed dose to the peritoneum was 15.6 +/- 1.0 mGy/(MBq/L), to red bone marrow it was 0.14 +/- 0.04 mGy/(MBq/L), to the urinary bladder wall it was 0.77 +/- 0.19 mGy/(MBq/L), to the unblocked thyroid it was 24.7 +/- 11.1 mGy/(MBq/L), and to the blocked thyroid it was 1.4 +/- 1.6 mGy/(MBq/L) (mean +/- SD). No adverse effects were observed either subjectively or in laboratory parameters. This study indicates that by intraperitoneal administration of (211)At-MX35 F(ab')(2) it is possible to achieve therapeutic absorbed doses in microscopic tumor clusters without significant toxicity."}
{"id": "19524715", "title": "Seven-liter ovarian cyst in an adolescent treated by minimal access surgery: laparoscopy and open cystectomy.", "content": "Seven-liter ovarian cyst in an adolescent treated by minimal access surgery: laparoscopy and open cystectomy. Laparoscopic approaches to giant ovarian cysts, particularly in adolescents, have critical management concerns as follows: risk of malignancy, risk of cyst rupture, and limited working space. A 15-year-old girl presented with a giant (>25 cm) ovarian serous cyst adenoma containing 7 L of fluid. At open laparoscopy, a giant, entirely cystic, smooth mass originating from the right ovary and lying between the symphysis and the xiphoid was observed. After intraabdominal fluid aspiration, open conservative cystectomy was performed, avoiding spillage. The patient made an uneventful postoperative recovery and was discharged on the second postoperative day. To our knowledge, this is the largest ovarian cyst treated conservatively in an adolescent. Minimal access surgery, laparoscopy and open cystectomy, can be safely proposed in this group of patients. Conservative surgery should always be evaluated for preservation of ovarian function in cases of giant ovarian cysts in adolescents."}
{"id": "19500391", "title": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy or primary surgery for stage III/IV ovarian cancer: contribution of diagnostic laparoscopy.", "content": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy or primary surgery for stage III/IV ovarian cancer: contribution of diagnostic laparoscopy. The aims of this retrospective study were to evaluate laparoscopic triage of patients with advanced ovarian cancer towards primary surgery or neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and to analyze outcome according to the treatment. Between January 2001 and December 2006, 55 patients with stage III - IV ovarian cancer underwent diagnostic laparoscopy. Primary surgery was performed when complete cytoreduction was considered feasible, while the other patients received neoadjuvant chemotherapy (platinum-based combination with taxanes) and interval surgery. All the patients received adjuvant chemotherapy. Patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy (n = 29) had a higher mean body mass index (P = 0.048), higher serum CA 125 levels (P = 0.026), and more metastases (P = 0.045) than patients treated with primary surgery (n = 26). In patients treated with primary surgery, complete cytoreduction and a residual tumour size <or= 2 cm were obtained in respectively 54% and 77% of cases. Complete cytoreduction was achieved in respectively 100% and 33% of cases when primary surgery was performed by an oncologic gynaecologist and by a non-oncologic gynaecologist (P = 0.002). Interval surgery yielded complete cytoreduction and a residual tumour size <or= 2 cm in respectively 73% and 85% of cases. With a median follow-up of 24 months (range 7 - 78 months), the survival rates after primary surgery and interval surgery were 61% and 66% respectively. Diagnostic laparoscopy is useful for identifying patients with stage III/IV ovarian cancer who qualify for primary cytoreduction. Surgeon experience was a determining factor for the success of complete cytoreduction."}
{"id": "19490787", "title": "Bilateral megaureters may masquerade as hydrosalpinges on ultrasound.", "content": "Bilateral megaureters may masquerade as hydrosalpinges on ultrasound. Gynaecologists are familiar with occluded Fallopian tubes presenting as pelvic masses on ultrasound. However, it is important to also consider anomalies of the urinary collecting system when presented with a pelvic mass, some of which do not necessitate surgical therapy. This report describes the case of a woman with unknown and asymptomatic bilateral megaureters who presented for evaluation of infertility. Initially, it was presumed that she had tubal disease and the possibility of a laparoscopy to remove her hydrosalpinges was entertained."}
{"id": "19481786", "title": "Prognostic factors predicting recurrence in borderline ovarian tumors.", "content": "Prognostic factors predicting recurrence in borderline ovarian tumors. We aimed to investigate outcome of borderline ovarian tumors (BOTs) with respect to methods and extent of surgical approach and to evaluate prognostic factors. A retrospective study included consecutive patients with BOT treated from 1984 to 2008. These cases were confirmed by histological review. The influence of clinico-pathological characteristics upon recurrence and death were analyzed by independent sample t test, Chi-square test, logistic regression model, and Cox proportional hazard model. A total of 233 patients were enrolled, 214 in Stage I, 11 Stage II and 8 Stage III. There were 21 relapses, only 5 of which died of disease. 5-year and 10-year overall survival were 97.6% and 96.4%, and recurrence-free survival rates (RFS) were 92.7% and 88.2%, respectively. Median follow-up time for survivors was 81 (range, 0.5-295) months. Median time to recurrence was 31 (range, 5.5-181) months. In multivariate analysis, Stage II/III, cystectomy and higher pretreatment serum CA-125 level (>or=144 U/mL) were selected for a model predicting 5-year RFS, where risk factor=0, 1, and 2-3 had odds ratios of 1, 14.9, and 113.3, respectively (p<0.001). Replacing stage with peritoneal implants, the latter two factors along with invasive peritoneal implants were selected. Of the 5 cases died of disease, all had invasive recurrences. Initial laparoscopic or laparotomy approach had no influence on prognosis. Although BOT has an excellent prognosis, they are not exempted from a risk of recurrence. Stage II/III (or invasive implants), cystectomy and higher pre-operative serum CA-125 were independent variables predicting recurrence."}
{"id": "19481243", "title": "Laparoendoscopic single-site surgery (LESS) in gynecologic oncology: technique and initial report.", "content": "Laparoendoscopic single-site surgery (LESS) in gynecologic oncology: technique and initial report. Recent reports suggest that laparoendoscopic single-site surgery (LESS), also known as single-port surgery, is technically feasible in treating a variety of disease processes. The purpose of this study was to assess the feasibility of LESS for the surgical treatment of various gynecologic cancers or precancerous conditions through both laparoscopic and robotic-assisted approaches. A single institution retrospective review of patients treated with LESS on the gynecologic oncology service in 2009 was performed. Patients underwent surgery through a single 2-3 cm umbilical incision with a multi-channel SILS port for laparoscopic cases or a single-channel Gelport for robotic cases on the daVinci Surgical System. Thirteen patients had LESS surgery performed, nine done laparoscopically and four robotically. Procedures included endometrial cancer staging (n=1), ovarian cancer staging (n=1), retroperitoneal pelvic lymph node dissection (n=1), risk-reducing extrafascial hysterectomy/bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO, n=2) and BSO alone (n=5), and an ovarian cystectomy (n=1) and BSO (n=2) for complex adnexal masses. Median patient age and BMI were 47 years and 28, respectively. Median operating time was 65 min. All procedures were successfully performed via a single incision and no post-operative complications occurred. The majority of patients required no narcotics post-operatively. We present the first series of laparoendoscopic single-site surgery for the treatment of various gynecologic oncology conditions. LESS is feasible in select patients by laparoscopic or robotic-assisted techniques. Further studies are needed to better define the ideal gynecologic procedures for single-site surgery and to assess the benefits of LESS compared with more conventional minimally invasive approaches."}
{"id": "19481241", "title": "Laparoscopic optical coherence tomography imaging of human ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic optical coherence tomography imaging of human ovarian cancer. Ovarian cancer is the fourth leading cause of cancer-related death among women in the US largely due to late detection secondary to unreliable symptomology and screening tools without adequate resolution. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a recently emerging imaging modality with promise in ovarian cancer diagnostics, providing non-destructive subsurface imaging at imaging depths up to 2 mm with near-histological grade resolution (10-20 microm). In this study, we developed the first ever laparoscopic OCT (LOCT) device, evaluated the safety and feasibility of LOCT, and characterized the microstructural features of human ovaries in vivo. A custom LOCT device was fabricated specifically for laparoscopic imaging of the ovaries in patients undergoing oophorectomy. OCT images were compared with histopathology to identify preliminary architectural imaging features of normal and pathologic ovarian tissue. Thirty ovaries in 17 primarily peri- or post-menopausal women were successfully imaged with LOCT: 16 normal, 5 endometriosis, 3 serous cystadenoma, and 4 adenocarcinoma. Preliminary imaging features developed for each category reveal qualitative differences in the homogeneous character of normal post-menopausal ovary, the ability to image small subsurface inclusion cysts, and distinguishable features for endometriosis, cystadenoma, and adenocarcinoma. We present the development and successful implementation of the first laparoscopic OCT probe. Comparison of OCT images and corresponding histopathology allowed for the description of preliminary microstructural features for normal ovary, endometriosis, and benign and malignant surface epithelial neoplasms. These results support the potential of OCT both as a diagnostic tool and an imaging modality for further evaluation of ovarian cancer pathogenesis."}
{"id": "19477060", "title": "Long-term follow-up after ovarian borderline tumor: relapse and survival in a large patient cohort.", "content": "Long-term follow-up after ovarian borderline tumor: relapse and survival in a large patient cohort. To assess long-term survival and relapse rate of patients diagnosed with a borderline tumor of the ovary (BOT) with special focus on the influence of primary surgery. All women diagnosed and treated for BOT between 1983 and 2006 at our institution were included in this retrospective study. Clinical data including operative procedure, stage and histology at first diagnosis as well as follow-up data were analyzed with reference to survival times and relapse rates. Altogether 113 patients could be identified, including 19 women treated with fertility sparing surgery (19.2%). Mean follow-up time was 9.6+/-6.6 years. Relapse occurred during the follow-up period in 10 patients (10.1%) with a mean time to recurrence of 2.0+/-1.7 years. Patients with recurrent disease had a statistically significantly worse survival: 5- and 10-year survival rates were 90.0 and 80.0% compared with 98.9 and 94.4% for those without (p=0.0208), respectively. Relapse rate was 7.1% in early borderline patients (Ia: 4/56) and 14% (>Ia: 6/43) for all others (p=0.436). Patients with invasive implants had a statistically significantly higher relapse rate (p=0.0112). No significant difference in relapse rates or survival was observed between the histological subtypes. Five- and 10-year survival rates of women treated with fertility sparing surgery (n=19) were 100% and thus not worse than those of radically operated patients (5- and 10-year survival 95.1 and 90.1%). Relapse rates in both groups were comparable with 10.5 and 10.0% (p=0.723). The surgical procedure with lymphadenectomy vs. without had no influence on relapse or survival, neither did laparoscopy vs. laparotomy. Our findings confirm the good prognosis of BOT in general. Patients with invasive implants have higher relapse rates. Fertility sparing surgery in women at childbearing age can be an adequate treatment option in early stage disease."}
{"id": "19459012", "title": "Incorporating laparoscopy in the practice of a gynecologic oncology service: actual impact beyond clinical trials data.", "content": "Incorporating laparoscopy in the practice of a gynecologic oncology service: actual impact beyond clinical trials data. Feasibility and safety of laparoscopic management of gynecologic cancers have been established by numerous clinical trials. However, the degree to which such results are achievable outside the context of formal research programs and the actual extent of laparoscopy uptake since its introduction are unclear. Purpose of this study was to examine the impact upon operative and cancer outcomes of the incorporation of laparoscopy into the surgical practice of our gynecologic oncology service. Data from 383 consecutive women undergoing surgery for the treatment of an apparently early-stage gynecologic cancer between 2000 and 2008 were analyzed. Integration of minimally access surgery for the treatment of invasive malignancies began with borderline ovarian tumors in 2001 and proceeded sequentially to include endometrial, ovarian, and cervical cancer patients. The annual proportion of laparoscopic cases has increased significantly over the study period from 7.7% in 2001 to 90.9% in 2008 (P < 0.0001 for trend). A temporal trend toward reduction in estimated blood loss was observed in both endometrial cancer and cervical cancer patients (P < 0.0001). There was a significant decrease in the percentage of patients requiring blood transfusions [18 (17.1%) during the period 2000-2002, 19 (13.6%) during 2003-2005, and 8 (5.8%) during 2006-2008; P = 0.005 for trend]. Length of hospital stay has decreased significantly over time for all disease sites (P < 0.0001 for endometrial and cervical cancer; P = 0.02 for ovarian cancer). No difference was found in median operative time, number of lymph nodes harvested, complication rates, 1- and 2-year disease-free survival, and overall survival when data of subsequent time periods were compared. Substantial utilization of laparoscopy in the existing practice of a gynecologic oncology service provided benefits to patients without detrimental effects on clinical outcomes. The relatively short follow-up time of laparoscopic cases disallows firm conclusions on long-term survival."}
{"id": "19423055", "title": "Between the quality of life and curability of the disease.", "content": "Between the quality of life and curability of the disease."}
{"id": "19400422", "title": "Serous cystadenoma with massive ovarian edema. A case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Serous cystadenoma with massive ovarian edema. A case report and review of the literature. Massive ovarian edema is an usual tumour-like condition. It may be confused with an ovarian neoplasm. A 13-year-old female in premenarchy was referred as emergency case to a local hospital due to acute, severe and persistent hypogastric pain. She had noticed a gradual abdominal enlargement, mainly on the right abdomen during the last months. Ultrasound revealed a mass of a non-echogenic cystic compartment of 13 cm maximum diameter, and an area of mixed echogenicity of 11 cm maximum diameter at the anatomic site of the right ovary. The CA- 125 levels were increased. An unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was performed. The pathology examination revealed serous cystadenoma with massive ovarian edema. Conservative treatment and ovarian suspension may be more appropriate, when histology on frozen section suggests a benign lesion."}
{"id": "19399101", "title": "A prototype hybrid intraoperative probe for ovarian cancer detection.", "content": "A prototype hybrid intraoperative probe for ovarian cancer detection. A novel prototype intraoperative system combining positron detection and optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging has been developed for early ovarian cancer detection. The probe employs eight plastic scintillating fiber tips for preferential detection of local positron activity surrounding a central scanning OCT fiber providing volumetric imaging of tissue structure in regions of high radiotracer uptake. Characterization measurements of positron sensitivity, spatial response, and position mapping are presented for Tl(204)/Cs(137) sources as well as 18F-FDG. In conjunction with co-registered frequency domain OCT measurements the results demonstrate the potential for a miniaturized laparoscopic probe offering simultaneous functional localization and structural imaging for improved early cancer detection."}
{"id": "19396012", "title": "Surgical management of the subdiaphragmatic mass: a sequential combined approach with laparoscopy followed by posterior thoracotomy.", "content": "Surgical management of the subdiaphragmatic mass: a sequential combined approach with laparoscopy followed by posterior thoracotomy. Recurrent ovarian cancer in the upper abdomen involving the liver parenchyma and diaphragmatic muscle traditionally requires a major abdominal surgical procedure; this involves pubis to xyphoid incision and complete mobilization of the liver. We present a strategy for evaluating 4 cases with apparently isolated recurrence to the diaphragm and liver approached by a sequential 2-phase procedure, involving diagnostic laparoscopy and subsequent posterior lateral thoracotomy. Preliminary diagnostic laparoscopy was performed to distinguish candidates for either definitive laparoscopic treatment or posterior thoracotomy. Two patients with disease confined to the diaphragm were successfully treated by laparoscopy alone, whereas full-thickness diaphragmatic resection and liver metastasis excision with cavitational ultrasonic surgical aspirator was performed in the other 2 patients. Argon beam coagulation was used to control local hemostasis and to fulgurate any possible residual tumor at the margin of resection. This is a multidisciplinary approach that is technically feasible and safe, requiring a short hospital stay."}
{"id": "19370607", "title": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for benign ovarian tumour.", "content": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for benign ovarian tumour. Over the last 10 years laparoscopy and minilaparotomy have become increasingly common approaches for the surgical removal of benign ovarian tumours. However, in the event that a tumour is found to be malignant, laparotomy is the appropriate procedure. Careful preoperative assessment including transvaginal ultrasound with morphological scoring, colour doppler assessment of vascular quality, and serum cancer antigen 125 (CA 125) level is desirable. To determine the benefits, harms, and cost of laparoscopy or minilaparotomy compared with laparotomy in women with benign ovarian tumours. We searched electronic databases, trial registers, and reference lists of published trial reports. Reference lists from trials and review articles were searched. All randomised controlled trials comparing either laparoscopy or minilaparotomy with laparotomy for benign ovarian tumours. Eight review authors independently assessed the eligibility and quality of each study and extracted the data. The results of nine randomised controlled trials (N = 482 women) showed that laparoscopic surgery was associated with fewer adverse events of surgery (surgical injury or postoperative complications including fever or infection) (OR 0.3, 95% CI 0.2 to 0.5), less postoperative pain (VAS score WMD -2.4, 95% CI -2.7 to -2.0), greater likelihood of being pain free after two days (OR 7.42, 95% CI 4.86 to 11.33), and fewer days in hospital (WMD -2.88, 95% CI -3.1 to -2.7) than with laparotomy.In one study that reported costs, laparoscopy was associated with a significant reduction in costs compared to laparotomy (WMD - USD 1045, 95% CI -1348 to -742) in 1993. Very high levels of heterogeneity made it inappropriate to pool data on duration of surgery.Three RCTs compared laparoscopy versus minilaparotomy and found that laparoscopy was associated with reduced odds of any adverse event (surgical injury or postoperative complications) (OR 0.10, 95% CI 0 to 0.8) and lower VAS scores for pain (WMD -1.0, 95% CI -1.6 to -0.45). Duration of hospital stay ranged between 1 and 2.2 days, with substantial heterogeneity. In women undergoing surgery for benign ovarian tumours, laparoscopy was associated with a reduction in fever, urinary tract infection, postoperative complications, postoperative pain, number of days in hospital, and total cost. These findings should be interpreted with caution since only a small number of studies were identified. These included a total of only 769 women and not all of the important outcomes were reported in each study."}
{"id": "19366536", "title": "Paraovarian cysts of neoplastic origin are underreported.", "content": "Paraovarian cysts of neoplastic origin are underreported. We suspected that paraovarian cysts of neoplastic origin may be underreported. This study was designed to evaluate our data on the pathologic characteristics of cystic lesions located in the paraovarian area and compare them with previous studies that claimed the vast majority of these lesions were simple paraovarian cysts and only few (1.69% to 5%) were neoplastic ones. This is a retrospective analysis of the clinical, surgical, ultrasonographic, and pathologic features of 59 women operated on for cystic paraovarian lesions at our institution from January 2002 to April 2006. Forty-four women (74.6%) had simple paraovarian cysts, and 15 (25.4%) had benign neoplastic paraovarian cysts (7 cystadenomas and 8 cystadenofibromas). There were no cases of malignant tumor. There was no difference in the clinical presentation of the women with either type of cyst. Preoperative ultrasound examinations (n=50) demonstrated more complex cysts with internal papillary projections in the group with neoplastic paraovarian cysts (41.7% compared with 7.9%, P=0.01). The macroscopic pathologic examinations revealed a significantly increased percentage of gross papillary excrescences in the group of neoplastic paraovarian cysts (10/15, 66.7%) compared with the group with simple paraovarian cysts (3/44, 6.8%, P<0.01). Other pathologic features did not differ between the 2 study groups. Our analysis revealed a higher percentage of paraovarian cysts of neoplastic origin ( approximately 25%) than the figures quoted in most previous reports. Intraoperative inspection for diagnosing the cyst type and more frequent use of endobag devices to avoid spillage of cystic fluid are recommended."}
{"id": "19363709", "title": "Pure ovarian choriocarinoma mimicking ectopic pregnancy in true hermaphroditism.", "content": "Pure ovarian choriocarinoma mimicking ectopic pregnancy in true hermaphroditism. Ovarian choriocarinoma is a rare tumor and has not been described before in a true hermaphrodite condition. A 23-year-old karyotype 46XX parous female was admitted to hospital because of amenorrhea, irregular vaginal bleeding, an adnexal mass, and an increased beta-hCG serum level. Ectopic pregnancy was suspected three times and exploratory laparoscopy done each time removing the right ovarian mass and local pelvic and omental spread. Final pathology revealed a true hermaphrodite state with testicular tissue with distinct tubules, ovarian tissue with follicles, and ovarian choriocarinoma with necrosis and hemorrhage. She received chemotherapy followed by radical pelvic surgery."}
{"id": "19361838", "title": "Extension of ovarian tissue into the infundibulopelvic ligament beyond visual margins.", "content": "Extension of ovarian tissue into the infundibulopelvic ligament beyond visual margins. The purpose of our study was to identify microscopic margins of the ovary and possible extension of the ovarian tissue beyond visual margins into the infundibulopelvic (IP) tissue to formulate recommendations for adequate salpingo-oophorectomy. An observational study was conducted with thirty female patients who underwent bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) as part of their procedure at Bethesda North Hospital between September 2007 and May 2008. Thirty patients underwent BSO as part of their primary procedure. Two ovaries were excluded from the study because of multiple adhesions to the pelvic wall and distortion of the IP ligaments resulting in fifty-eight ovaries accepted for study. Microscopic extension of the ovarian stroma into IP ligament beyond gross visual margins was found in eight ovaries (13.8%), five left ovaries and three right ovaries. The range of the extension was from 0.2 cm to 1.4 cm (four ovaries 0.2 cm, one 0.4 cm, two 0.8 cm and one 1.4 cm). Our study demonstrates that ovarian stroma can extend beyond grossly visual margins. To prevent residual ovarian tissue following oophorectomy surgeons need to ligate the IP ligament at or more than 2 cm proximal to the visual ovarian margins. Similar surgical principals need to be applied during oophorectomy by abdominal, laparoscopic and vaginal approach."}
{"id": "19346186", "title": "The roles of laparoscopy in treating ovarian cancer.", "content": "The roles of laparoscopy in treating ovarian cancer. Great advances in technology offer meticulous options of minimally invasive surgery to empower the gynecologists to manage patients of early ovarian cancer. Laparoscopy affords improved visualization of the pelvic peritoneum, diaphragm and the deep pelvic structures, and offers many advantages in the avoidance of long abdominal incision, including shorter hospital stay and a more rapid recovery time. Most studies showed that laparoscopy did not compromise the survival and recurrence prognosis in comparison with open abdominal approach of staging surgery. Contrarily, laparoscopy precludes the advantage of open surgery, such as manual examination of the full extent of the bowel and palpation of lymph nodes. Besides, laparoscopy technically hampers the removal of large ovarian mass, and laparoscopic cancer surgery has a potential risk of trocar site metastasis. As the trend shows that laparoscopy has been playing an important role in treating early ovarian cancer, we could expect laparoscopy to become an attractive surgical option in the future for ovarian cancers."}
{"id": "19343442", "title": "Embryonic natural orifice transumbilical endoscopic surgery (E-NOTES) for adnexal tumors.", "content": "Embryonic natural orifice transumbilical endoscopic surgery (E-NOTES) for adnexal tumors. Embryonic natural orifice transumbilical endoscopic surgery (E-NOTES) has shown promise as a minimally invasive laparoscopic surgery technique. To investigate the feasibility and surgical outcome of E-NOTES for adnexal tumors. We performed E-NOTES in 12 patients with adnexal tumors through a 2-cm intraumblical incision. A single-port access system comprising a wound protractor and a surgical glove was used. A prospective data registry was used in this study. Since 1 July 2008, 12 patients have undergone E-NOTES for adnexal tumors. E-NOTES in all 12 cases was completed successfully without conversion to standard laparoscopic approach. Median operative time for creating an E-NOTES access system and the ensuing operative procedures was 6 min (range 5-15 min) and 73 min (range 25-110 min), respectively. Median blood loss was <10 ml. No complications requiring treatment occurred. E-NOTES is a feasible alternative method for resection of adnexal tumors with better cosmetic outcome. More experience and instrumental improvement suitable for E-NOTES are needed."}
{"id": "19341200", "title": "Malignity-like peritoneal tuberculosis associated with abdominal mass, ascites and elevated serum Ca125 level.", "content": "Malignity-like peritoneal tuberculosis associated with abdominal mass, ascites and elevated serum Ca125 level. Peritoneal tuberculosis (TB) is similar to ovarian cancers with respect to clinical, radiological laboratory findings. In this report, we present 10 TB cases with malignity pre-diagnosis based on the presence of ascites, pelvic mass, abdominal lymph nodes and elevated Ca125. The mean age of the cases was 29 +/- 14.4 years (18-63). Eight cases were associated with ascites, and the mean adenosine deaminase (ADA) value in ascitic fluid was 130.37 +/- 92.2. All cases had elevated levels of serum Ca125. In 6 cases, we identified lung pathologies based on chest radiography. Diagnoses were made based on diagnostic laparotomy in four cases, laparoscopy in two cases, percutaneous needle biopsy in two cases, and clinical evaluation in two cases. Anti-TB treatments lasted 12 months. Serum Ca125 levels normalised in the 3rd month of treatment. In the differential diagnosis of ascites and high serum Ca125 levels, tuberculosis should be considered in patients from developing countries."}
{"id": "19327764", "title": "Primary peritoneal carcinoma in a young woman with suspected endometriosis.", "content": "Primary peritoneal carcinoma in a young woman with suspected endometriosis. To describe the treatment of a 23-year-old patient with primary peritoneal carcinoma and preservation of her fertility. Case report. University of Schleswig-Holstein, Campus L\u00fcbeck, Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics. A 23-year-old patient with primary peritoneal carcinoma. The patient was given treatment by first preserving her fertility with oocyte vitrification and cryoconservation of ovarian biopsy samples. Surgery was performed with radical resection of the peritoneal lesion, ovarian biopsies, omentectomy, and pelvic and para-aortic lymph node sampling before starting chemotherapy with carboplatin and paclitaxel (Taxol). Hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy were not performed. Treatment of peritoneal carcinoma and number of vitrified oocytes. Twenty-five oocytes of the patients were vitrified before chemotherapy was performed. Primary peritoneal carcinoma is a rare disease that laparoscopically resembles peritoneal endometriosis and histologically is very similar to primary epithelial ovarian cancer. The advised therapy is based on ovarian cancer treatment; however, it is unclear whether the radical operation improves prognosis. In this case, a 23-year-old patient underwent treatment preserving her fertility with oocyte vitrification and cryoconservation of ovarian biopsy samples before surgery and chemotherapy were performed."}
{"id": "19321390", "title": "Laparoscopy and ovarian cancer: a paradigm change in the management of ovarian cancer?", "content": "Laparoscopy and ovarian cancer: a paradigm change in the management of ovarian cancer? A MEDLINE search was conducted using the keywords \"laparoscopy ovarian cancer,\" \"laparoscopy and borderline ovarian tumors,\" \"advanced stage ovarian cancer,\" \"laparoscopic cytoreduction ovarian cancer,\" \"laparoscopy intraperitoneal catheter,\" \"port-site metastases,\" and \"carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum.\" The publications were further limited to English-language articles, those addressing adnexal mass management, early stage ovarian cancer, and advanced stage ovarian cancer treatments. The articles were divided into 4 broad categories: adnexal masses, low malignant potential tumors, early stage ovarian cancer, and advanced ovarian cancer. For each category, a further subdivision into case reports, case series, and finally cohorts was developed and summarized. Additional articles were obtained based on the bibliographic cross-reference of the initial articles reviewed. The current literature defining the role of laparoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of ovarian cancer is limited to case reports, case series, and cohort studies. However, these limited studies suggest equal efficacy of laparoscopy compared with laparotomy in both early and advanced stage ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "19319552", "title": "Ectopic pregnancy in tubal remnant stump after ipsilateral adnexectomy for cystic teratoma.", "content": "Ectopic pregnancy in tubal remnant stump after ipsilateral adnexectomy for cystic teratoma. We present a case of ectopic pregnancy occurring in the stump of a remnant fallopian tube following ipsilateral adnexectomy for a mature cystic teratoma. She had a laparoscopic salpingectomy. We hypothesize the intrauterine transmigration of the fecundated ovum. The authors emphasize the rarity of the observed case."}
{"id": "19317273", "title": "Primary adenocarcinoid tumor of the ovary arising in mature cystic teratoma. A case report.", "content": "Primary adenocarcinoid tumor of the ovary arising in mature cystic teratoma. A case report. Primary carcinoid tumors of the ovary are rare, forming 0.3 % of all carcinoid tumors and less than 0.1 % of ovarian malignancies. We present a case of a 47-year-old woman with abnormal vaginal bleeding and abdominal discomfort. Pelvic ultrasonography revealed a right-sided, 4 cm solid ovarian mass. At laparoscopy, a smooth surfaced, firm and mobile right adnexal mass with solid and cystic portions was detected and the tumor was excised. Pathologic and immunohistochemical examination revealed carcinoid tumor. After the evaluation of gastrointestinal and respiratory systems by imaging and endoscopic studies, no evidence of tumor tissue or metastases were found. Based on this finding, total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, omentectomy, and appendectomy were performed and pelvic-paraaortic lymph nodes were also removed. All histological findings were similar to the features of mature cystic teratoma and carcinoid tumor. Examination of the resected lymphatic, omental and appendiceal tissue indicated no tumoral invasion. Thus, the diagnosis was primary ovarian carcinoid arising from a mature cystic teratoma. This case, in the setting of a normal appendix and negative workup for an extraovarian origin, is one of a primary ovarian adenocarcinoid tumor. The primary carcinoid tumor should be differentiated from a metastatic carcinoid inside the ovary, which is always bilateral. It is important to be aware of this unusual entity in diagnoses of ovarian tumors, even in the absence of any clinical symptoms of carcinoid syndrome."}
{"id": "19317271", "title": "Peritoneal implantations of papillary serous ovarian cystadenocarcinoma 13 days after initial laparoscopic treatment for a presumed benign ovarian cyst.", "content": "Peritoneal implantations of papillary serous ovarian cystadenocarcinoma 13 days after initial laparoscopic treatment for a presumed benign ovarian cyst. We report a case of a 24-year-old female who underwent laparoscopy for a presumed benign ovarian mass. Frozen sections at laparoscopy initially revealed a borderline papillary serous ovarian tumour. Final histology showed an invasive papillary serous ovarian tumor (grade 1). Subsequent staging laparotomy conducted 13 days later revealed peritoneal implantations thus upgrading the initially thought Stage Ia papillary serous ovarian tumour at laparoscopy to Stage IIc. The patient after laparotomy had an uneventful postoperative course and received six cycles of chemotherapy based on taxol and carboplatin. A short review of the literature is also presented, concerning the factors which affect the patient's prognosis in cases of unexpected ovarian malignancy found during laparoscopy that are treated with subsequent staging laparotomy."}
{"id": "19317257", "title": "A retrospective analysis of twenty-eight borderline ovarian tumours in adolescent girls.", "content": "A retrospective analysis of twenty-eight borderline ovarian tumours in adolescent girls. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the clinical reproductive outcome and the rate of recurrence of low malignant ovarian tumors in adolescent girls after conservative surgical treatment by laparoscopy or laparotomy. We report 28 cases of borderline ovarian tumors (BOTs), that were surgically treated from 1990 to 2006 at the Obstetrical and Gynecological Department of Democritus University in Greece and the Aschaffenburg Teaching Hospital in Germany. All patient information was obtained by reviewing hospital records. BOT lesions in teenagers were associated with variable non-specific presenting symptoms. Ultrasonographic investigations can be helpful in the early diagnosis of BOTs in teenage girls. Most of the patients were diagnosed at an early stage. Available data of our study indicate that in these patients, fertility, pregnancy outcome and survival remain excellent."}
{"id": "19317249", "title": "Ovarian transposition for the preservation of ovarian function in young patients with cervical carcinoma.", "content": "Ovarian transposition for the preservation of ovarian function in young patients with cervical carcinoma. Radiotherapy with or without surgery for the treatment of pelvic malignancies irreversibly destroys the hormonal activity and reproductive capacity of ovaries in young women. On the other hand, menopausal symptoms associated with estrogen deficiency is an important contributor to the poor quality of life scores in gynecologic cancer survivors. Transposing of the ovaries into the paracolic gutters (ovarian transposition) was described in 1958 with the aim of protecting gonadal functions in reproductive-aged women treated by pelvic radiotherapy and/or surgery. Although the laparatomic approach has been used as a parallel to development in endoscopic surgery, today it is generally performed laparoscopically. However, there is ongoing debate about the effectiveness of ovarian tranposition with respect to protecting gonadal functions. Moreover, metastasis to the transposed ovaries and port sites is another concern about this procedure. In this short review, indications, techniques and functional outcomes of ovarian transposition have been summarized."}
{"id": "19292804", "title": "Primary peritoneal serous carcinoma presenting as inflammatory breast cancer.", "content": "Primary peritoneal serous carcinoma presenting as inflammatory breast cancer. Metastasis to the breast from extramammary malignancies is rare. Nevertheless, its recognition is important because the prognosis and treatment differ from that of primary breast cancer. We report a unique case of primary peritoneal serous carcinoma that initially presented as inflammatory breast cancer. The patient received neoadjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer and subsequently underwent bilateral total mastectomy and bilateral sentinel lymph node biopsy. She was found to have extensive intralymphatic carcinoma in both breasts, with only focal minimal breast parenchymal involvement, and residual metastatic carcinoma in bilateral sentinel lymph nodes. Further work-up revealed pelvic ascites and omental nodularities. The patient underwent laparoscopic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, which revealed high-grade serous carcinoma involving both ovaries and fallopian tubes. Molecular testing of tumor from the ovary and axillary lymph node showed an identical pattern of allelic loss, confirming a common origin for both tumors. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of an extramammary primary malignancy that not only presented as inflammatory breast cancer but also was diagnosed and initially treated as such."}
{"id": "19289327", "title": "Hyperandrogenism due to a testosterone-secreting Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor associated with a dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate-secreting adrenal adenoma in a postmenopausal woman: case presentation and review of literature.", "content": "Hyperandrogenism due to a testosterone-secreting Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor associated with a dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate-secreting adrenal adenoma in a postmenopausal woman: case presentation and review of literature. To report a case of hyperandrogenism attributable to the presence of an adrenal adenoma secreting dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEA-S) and an ovarian Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor secreting testosterone in a postmenopausal woman. The laboratory, radiologic, and pathologic findings in our case are described. In addition, the pertinent literature is reviewed. A 56-year-old woman presented with a history of gradual increase in facial and body hair, scalp hair loss, male pattern baldness, and deepening of her voice, beginning a few years after spontaneous menopause at age 49 years. She had hypertension, obesity, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Laboratory tests showed elevated levels of total testosterone (348 ng/dL) and DHEA-S (2,058 microg/dL), and a left adrenal tumor (3 by 4 cm) was detected on abdominal computed tomographic scan. Laparoscopic left adrenalectomy was performed, and the pathologic diagnosis was adrenal adenoma. The DHEA-S returned to normal levels, but the serum testosterone concentration remained elevated. Transvaginal ultrasonography disclosed an ovarian tumor. Bilateral oophorectomy was performed, and an ovarian Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor was diagnosed. The hormonal and clinical picture normalized after this surgical intervention. After extensive review of the literature, we believe that this is the first reported case of a coincidental DHEA-S-secreting adrenal adenoma and a testosterone- secreting ovarian Leydig cell tumor causing signs of virilization."}
{"id": "19287986", "title": "A gastrointestinal stromal tumor presenting as a pelvic mass: A case report.", "content": "A gastrointestinal stromal tumor presenting as a pelvic mass: A case report. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) represent 0.1-1% of gastrointestinal malignancies. They are commonly asymptomatic and found incidentally during laparoscopy, surgical procedures or radiological studies. Diagnosis is based on histology and immunohistochemistry, while the role of imaging studies is not diagnosis-specific. We present the case of a 38-year-old patient complaining of an increase in her abdominal circumference. Consequently, a vaginal examination, a transvaginal ultrasound and an MRI of the abdomen and pelvis were carried out. It should be noted that a preoperative diagnosis of GISTs is uncommon, due to the rarity and many presentations of the disease. Ultrasound and MRI are not able to differentiate a GIST from ovarian cancer. However, if a pelvic mass is detected, the possibility of a non-gynaecological tumor has to be considered."}
{"id": "19264478", "title": "Cryopreservation and autotransplantation of human ovarian tissue prior to cytotoxic therapy--a technique in its infancy but already successful in fertility preservation.", "content": "Cryopreservation and autotransplantation of human ovarian tissue prior to cytotoxic therapy--a technique in its infancy but already successful in fertility preservation. Increasing survival rates in young cancer patients, new reproductive techniques and the growing interest in quality of life after gonadotoxic cancer therapies have placed fertility preservation as an important issue to oncologists, fertility specialists and patients. Several techniques are now available for fertility preservation in these patients. A new promising method is cryopreservation and transplantation of ovarian cortex. Ovarian tissue can be extracted by laparoscopy without any significant delay of gonadotoxic therapy. The tissue can be cryopreserved by specialised centres of reproductive medicine and transplanted in case the women experience premature ovarian failure (POF). This review summarises the European expertise on cryopreservation and transplantation of ovarian tissue, following around 30 reported transplantations globally, resulting in six live births and several ongoing pregnancies. It emphasises that fertility preservation by the cryopreservation of ovarian tissue is a new but already a successful clinical option, which can be considered for selected cancer patients."}
{"id": "19263064", "title": "Comparison of diagnostic accuracy of transvaginal ultrasound with laparoscopy in the management of patients with adnexal masses.", "content": "Comparison of diagnostic accuracy of transvaginal ultrasound with laparoscopy in the management of patients with adnexal masses. The aims of this study was (a) to compare the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound examination with laparoscopic findings and both with the gold standard (histology) in the management of benign ovarian lesions, and (b) to assess the feasibility of laparoscopy in their diagnosis and management. Prospective, comparative study (Canadian Task Force Classification II-2). A total of 117 women 15-59 years old were examined at outpatient department and had transvaginal ultrasound assessment. Ninety-eight women (three postmenopausal) with 105 cystic ovarian lesions met inclusion criteria and underwent operative laparoscopy. Histology was performed in all cases. Although laparoscopy showed an overall higher performance compared to transvaginal ultrasound, statistically significant difference was found only in the detection of endometriomas compared to ultrasound (P = 0.004 for sensitivity and P = 0.046 for specificity). Laparoscopy exhibits higher diagnostic accuracy, especially in endometriomas, compared to transvaginal scan. Laparoscopic diagnosis appears to be safe and accurate. Conservative laparoscopic management of benign adnexal masses is safe and with low morbidity."}
{"id": "19261370", "title": "Effect of the removal of the Fallopian tube during hysterectomy on ovarian survival: the orphan ovary syndrome.", "content": "Effect of the removal of the Fallopian tube during hysterectomy on ovarian survival: the orphan ovary syndrome. The objective was to assess the long-term impact on ovarian survival of removing the Fallopian tube during hysterectomy. We modified our standard operative policy by adding the option of removing the Fallopian tube, thus leaving an \"orphan\" ovary behind. In a follow-up study, we identified 82 patients who had undergone hysterectomy followed by a second operation for an adnexal condition. In 45 there was presence and in 37 there was absence of the Fallopian tube. Data analysis included the time interval between hysterectomy and the occurrence of adnexa-related complaints; diagnoses prior to and the type of the second surgery; histological diagnosis after and the success rate of the second surgery. For statistical analysis, Kruskal-Wallis One-Way ANOVA on Ranks and the Mann-Whitney Rank Sum Test were used. In 35.5% of patients with an intact Fallopian tube, hydrosalpinx developed. Cystic degeneration of orphan ovaries occurred significantly earlier than that of the \"regular\" adnexae group (50.0 months vs. 84.2 months, p=0.031). Laparotomy and laparoscopy for second surgery showed equal success rates. Removal of the Fallopian tube at abdominal hysterectomy decreases the incidence of the development of pelvic masses later, but causes earlier cystic degeneration of the remaining ovaries."}
{"id": "19254579", "title": "Laparoscopic removal of adnexal cysts: is it possible to decrease inadvertent intraoperative rupture rate?", "content": "Laparoscopic removal of adnexal cysts: is it possible to decrease inadvertent intraoperative rupture rate? The objective of the study was to characterize surgical risks for intraoperative rupture of benign adnexal lesions during laparoscopy. We conducted a retrospective review of cases of laparoscopic removal of ovarian cysts (adnexectomy or cystectomy) in our institution from 2002-2006, excluding procedures in which cysts were intentionally ruptured. There were 256 operations (263 ovarian cysts). The patients' mean age was 40.9 +/- 15.8 years. The overall rate of inadvertent intraoperative rupture of cyst was 16.6% (adnexectomies 7.4% and conservative cystectomies 29.5%; P < .001). There was no significant correlation between inadvertent intraoperative rupture and adnexal torsion, pelvic adhesions, bilateral adnexal surgery, concomitant uterine surgery, presence of pelvic endometriotic foci, pregnancy, and surgeons' experience. Only cyst size and cystectomy procedure were positively and significantly associated with inadvertent cyst rupture (multivariate regression analysis). Inadvertent intralaparoscopic rupture of adnexal cyst is significantly associated with cystectomies of large ovarian cysts for which laparotomy or laparoscopic-assisted extracorporeal cystectomy should be considered."}
{"id": "19249713", "title": "Autoamputation of the fallopian tube after chronic adnexal torsion.", "content": "Autoamputation of the fallopian tube after chronic adnexal torsion. Autoamputation of the adnexa, although very rare, can either be congenital or acquired. For affected women it can have future fertility implications. Although in some women it is asymptomatic, in most cases a history of acute followed by chronic pelvic pain can be elicited. This is a case of autoamputation of a fallopian tube after chronic adnexal torsion. We suggest that all patients of reproductive age with acute lower abdominal pain should have a pelvic ultrasound scan and, if symptoms persist, early recourse to laparoscopy. Misdiagnosis can lead to ovarian damage, loss of tubal function, infertility, or chronic pelvic pain."}
{"id": "19249712", "title": "Case of accessory ovary in the round ligament with associated endometriosis.", "content": "Case of accessory ovary in the round ligament with associated endometriosis. The phenomenon of accessory ovary, initially described in 1864, is extremely rare. We report a case of an accessory ovary in a round ligament with endometriosis. At the time of laparoscopy a firm 2- to 3-cm mass was noted within the round ligament with a normal ovary visualized. Dissection and removal of the mass was performed. Histopathology revealed ovarian stroma and dense connective tissue with endometriosis. This case fulfills the criteria established in 1959 for accessory ovary and is the first case of an accessory ovary reported within the round ligament. A unique finding with the accessory ovary in this case is the presence of endometriosis. No reported cases exist of endometriosis within an accessory ovary. This information may be pertinent for evaluation of dysmenorrhea when no endometrial implants are present, or with the persistence or recurrence of endometriosis and pain after a bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy."}
{"id": "19232293", "title": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian dysgerminoma presenting with acute abdomen caused by adnexal torsion in a 17-year-old girl.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian dysgerminoma presenting with acute abdomen caused by adnexal torsion in a 17-year-old girl. Ovarian dysgerminoma cases very rarely present with acute abdomen due to adnexal torsion and the successful laparoscopic management of such a case has not been reported previously. A 17-year-old sexually inactive high school girl presenting with acute abdomen was referred to our emergency department. Transabdominal ultrasonography showed the presence of homogeneous tumor in the lower abdomen. Emergency laparoscopic surgery was performed and left ovarian tumor with adnexal torsion was identified. Left salpingo-oophorectomy was performed carefully to avoid damaging the tumor capsule and the excised tissue was removed after retrieval in an endobag. The histopathological diagnosis was pure ovarian dysgerminoma. The postoperative course was uneventful. Laparoscopic management with careful postoperative follow-up to monitor recurrence could be a treatment option in a young girl with dysgerminoma, if the disease condition is detected in the early stage."}
{"id": "19231556", "title": "A novel SOX9 mutation, 972delC, causes 46,XY sex-reversed campomelic dysplasia with nephrocalcinosis, urolithiasis, and dysgerminoma.", "content": "A novel SOX9 mutation, 972delC, causes 46,XY sex-reversed campomelic dysplasia with nephrocalcinosis, urolithiasis, and dysgerminoma. An 8-year-old phenotypic female with campomelic dysplasia (CD) and 46,XY sex-reversal presented with renal colic. Medullary nephrocalcinosis, urolithiasis, and renal malrotation were diagnosed by computed tomographic scanning. Pelvic sonogram identified an enlarged left gonad. Genetic testing revealed a novel SOX9 heterozygous deletion of a cytosine at nucleotide 972 (972delC), causing a frameshift at codon 200, introducing a stop codon 18 codons further downstream (P200fsX218). At laparoscopic gonadectomy, a left dysgerminoma was removed. This first reported case of dysgerminoma in a sex-reversed patient with CD who also had urolithiasis stresses the importance of prophylactic gonadectomy and urologic evaluations in this susceptible population."}
{"id": "19215560", "title": "Preoperative evaluation and triage of women with suspicious adnexal masses using risk of malignancy index.", "content": "Preoperative evaluation and triage of women with suspicious adnexal masses using risk of malignancy index. To test the accuracy of risk of malignancy index (RMI) in preoperative prediction of malignancy and treatment of adnexal masses. A total of 302 women with ultrasound diagnosed adnexal masses, and serum measurement of cancer-associated antigen CA-125 levels, were studied. They all had surgical exploration between October 2001 and September 2005 at the Friedrich-Alexander University Women's Hospital, Erlangen, Germany. The RMI was based on menopausal status, ultrasound morphology of adnexal masses and absolute level of serum CA-125. A cut-off of 250 was chosen as the threshold for determining the type of surgical operations (laparotomy versus laparoscopy) and the skill of the surgeons (gynecological oncologist versus general gynecologist). The data obtained were analyzed for baseline characteristics using chi(2) test and analysis of variance (ANOVA). P < 0.05 were statistically significant. The various testing methods were evaluated for sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values. The best individual performance was found in RMI at a cut-off of 250 with a sensitivity of 88.2%, specificity of 74.3%, positive predictive value of 71.3% and negative predictive value of 90%. When RMI was used to triage patient treatment, 81.5% of patients who had laparoscopy had histological diagnosis of benign ovarian tumor and 7.5% had malignant tumor. In contrast, 74.4% of patients who had laparotomy had histological diagnosis of malignant ovarian tumor and 16% had benign tumor. Risk of malignant index is a reliable, cheap, readily available and cost-effective method of preoperative discrimination of benign from malignant adnexal masses. It is also helpful in triaging patients to different treatment groups."}
{"id": "19215557", "title": "Feasibility and efficacy of laparoscopic management of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Feasibility and efficacy of laparoscopic management of ovarian cancer. The aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of laparoscopically-assisted staging surgery for ovarian cancer. Twenty four patients were evaluated. Among them, nineteen underwent initial laparoscopic staging surgery and five patients who were incompletely staged by other institutions underwent complete restaging surgery. The procedure included pelvic lymphadenectomy, paraaortic lymphadenectomy, multiple biopsies, washing cytology, infracolic omentectomy, and appendectomy. Laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy were performed on all patients except one. Parameters such as tumor diameter, operating time, estimated blood loss, length of hospital stay, number of harvested lymph nodes, intraoperative and postoperative complications, and recurrence were evaluated. The patients' mean age was 52.8 +/- 11.3 years and the mean parity was 2.5 +/- 1.6. The mean diameter of the tumors was 8.4 +/- 3.3 cm, the mean operating time was 253.7 +/- 65.7 minutes, and the mean blood loss was 567.0 +/- 170.9 mL. The mean postoperative hospital stay was 10.6 +/- 4.0 days. The mean number of harvested pelvic lymph nodes was 22.5 +/- 8.9 and the mean number of harvested paraaortic lymph nodes was 11.0 +/- 5.8. None of the operations were switched to laparotomy. There were no major intraoperative complications, however, port site metastasis developed postoperatively in one patient. Comprehensive laparoscopically-assisted staging surgery, performed by a specialized laparoscopic oncologist with sufficient laparoscopic experience and a well-trained operating team, is both feasible and effective in treating ovarian cancers."}
{"id": "19212934", "title": "Ovarian tumours: late extramedullary recurrence of acute leukaemia.", "content": "Ovarian tumours: late extramedullary recurrence of acute leukaemia. Isolated extramedullary relapse, especially ovarian recurrence, of acute leukaemia is rare. Local therapy such as irradiation or extensive surgical resection of the mass is ineffective and unnecessary. Over a 20-year period we observed two girls with ovarian relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in over 300 treated children for ALL. Pre-B ALL was diagnosed in a girl at the age of three. Treatment was initiated according to the CoALL 82-protocol. At the age of 11, the girl presented with a huge abdominal mass. Chemotherapy and low-dose radiotherapy succeeded in shrinking the tumour mass, making it operable. A salpingo-oophorectomy was performed. In the second case, a 14-year-old girl in whom pre-B ALL was diagnosed was treated according to the protocol CoALL 06-97. After having achieved complete haematological remission in the bone marrow, she stayed in remission for 18 months. Subsequently, she developed a painless abdominal tumour. Laparoscopic lymph node staging was performed and biopsies were taken. Chemotherapy was initiated according to the BFM protocol for ALL recurrence. Extensive surgical resection of the leukaemic mass, as well as additional radiation was avoided. Because we experienced favourable results with laparoscopic biopsy in our patients, we are of the opinion that laparoscopy-assisted biopsies are well suited for the management of intra-abdominal tumours in systemic malignant disease."}
{"id": "19204659", "title": "[The role of laparoscopy in ovarian carcinoma].", "content": "[The role of laparoscopy in ovarian carcinoma]. The role of minimally invasive surgery in the management of gynecologic cancers is continuously expanding. Although few trials have focused on the safety of laparoscopy in oncology, laparoscopy is now widely used for most gynecological malignancies. Laparoscopy is widely used to manage benign ovarian masses, but its role in managing ovarian cancer still needs to be defined. The role of laparoscopy in ovarian cancer surgery may be divided into three following categories: 1) laparoscopic staging of apparent early ovarian cancer; 2) laparoscopic assessment of disease extent and potential for resectability; 3) laparoscopic reassessment, or second-look operation, or rule out recurrence. Laparoscopic approach has shown several advantages like a reduction in operating time, blood loss, hospital stay, and total hospital charges. The limitations of laparoscopic practice include inadequate port-site metastasis, tumour dissemination due to cyst rupture and incomplete staging. In addition, there were limitations in performing extensive laparoscopic sampling of areas of tumor persistence including retroperitoneal lymph nodes. In literature there are no randomized studies assessing the use of laparoscopy in the management of ovarian cancer. Moreover, most of the studies in literature comparing laparoscopy and laparotomy are carried out by surgeons specialized in one of two approaches, so that the results can not be compared."}
{"id": "19189870", "title": "Paratubal borderline serous tumors.", "content": "Paratubal borderline serous tumors. While ovarian borderline tumors are common, their fallopian tube counterparts are extremely rare. We describe the first case of a serous borderline paratubal tumor with a review of the literature on paratubal and tubal low malignant potential tumors. A 26 year-old woman presented with acute onset of sharp right lower quadrant pain and nausea. Abdominal and pelvic CT revealed 12.5 cm cystic ovarian mass and she was admitted for pain control. On hospital day two, her pain escalated and torsion was suspected; thus, she underwent a diagnostic laparoscopy with right fallopian tube cystectomy and partial salpingectomy. Inspection of the cyst wall demonstrated multiple papillary excrescences and frozen section returned at least borderline fallopian tube neoplasm. After a fertility-sparing comprehensive surgical staging procedure was performed, she was diagnosed with stage IC fallopian tube serous borderline tumor and underwent no further therapy. Currently, she is without evidence of disease recurrence. Borderline fallopian tube or paratubal tumors are usually early stage at diagnosis and commonly present in the third decade with pain or are discovered on routine examination. Continued reporting of these tumors is essential to understanding the prognosis and treatment of this rare tumor."}
{"id": "19188822", "title": "Metastatic HPV-related cervical adenocarcinomas presenting with thromboembolic events (Trousseau Syndrome): clinicopathologic characteristics of 2 cases.", "content": "Metastatic HPV-related cervical adenocarcinomas presenting with thromboembolic events (Trousseau Syndrome): clinicopathologic characteristics of 2 cases. Two cases of systemic thromboembolism (Trousseau syndrome) associated with metastatic human papillomavirus (HPV)-related endocervical adenocarcinomas are reported. The first patient, age 36, presented with bilateral lower extremity deep vein thromboses, pulmonary embolism, and supraclavicular and cervical lymphadenopathy. Lymph node biopsy revealed metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma with focal signet ring cell differentiation. Imaging studies demonstrated metastatic disease without a defined primary site. Acute renal and respiratory failure developed and the patient expired shortly after initiation of chemotherapy, 7 weeks after presentation. Autopsy examination revealed widespread metastatic adenocarcinoma with a 2 cm cervical adenocarcinoma. The second patient, age 43, presented with left internal jugular vein thrombosis, acute thrombophlebitis, and bilateral axillary lymphadenopathy. She developed progressive venous thrombosis despite anticoagulation. Imaging studies demonstrated widespread lymphadenopathy and an adnexal mass. Diagnostic laparoscopy with biopsies and left oophorectomy revealed metastatic mucinous adenocarcinoma with signet ring cell differentiation involving peritoneum, ovary, cervix, and bladder without a defined primary site. Progressive thromboembolic disease with acute renal failure and multiple cerebral infarcts developed and the patient expired shortly after initiation of chemotherapy, 2 months after presentation. No autopsy was performed. HPV DNA was detected by in situ hybridization in the lymph node metastasis in the first case and in the cervical and ovarian tumor specimens in the second case. High-risk HPV-related endocervical adenocarcinomas occasionally exhibit signet ring cell differentiation and can present with Trousseau syndrome. These features more commonly suggest metastatic adenocarcinoma of upper gastrointestinal tract origin but the presence of HPV DNA within the tumors establishes them as cervical in origin."}
{"id": "19187388", "title": "Posterior colpotomy-a retrieval route for solid ovarian tumours.", "content": "Posterior colpotomy-a retrieval route for solid ovarian tumours."}
{"id": "19184073", "title": "Peritoneal tuberculosis with elevated serum Ca-125 level mimicking advanced stage ovarian cancer: a case report.", "content": "Peritoneal tuberculosis with elevated serum Ca-125 level mimicking advanced stage ovarian cancer: a case report. Tuberculosis is still a common problem in immigrant population with peritoneal tuberculosis as the most common presentation of extrapulmonary disease. A 36-year-old woman presented with abdominal distention, night sweats and weight loss. Physical examination and radiologic studies revealed ascites, omental caking and bilateral enlarged ovaries with an elevated serum Ca-125 of 353 U/mL. Acid-fast stain and culture were negative for Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Diagnostic laparoscopy and biopsy revealed multiple granulomas with epithelioid cells and caseification necrosis confirming tuberculosis. Treatment with anti-tuberculin drugs resulted in resolution of symptoms with a reduction in Ca-125 to normal. Laparoscopic biopsy with frozen section evaluation would spare patients with peritoneal tuberculosis from unnecessary extensive surgery. Serum Ca-125 level may be useful in monitoring treatment response."}
{"id": "19184048", "title": "Laparoscopic resection of benign ovarian tumours in children with gonadal preservation.", "content": "Laparoscopic resection of benign ovarian tumours in children with gonadal preservation. Ovarian tumours are often regarded as an indication for open oophorectomy, especially following torsion. We wish to report our results of laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy with ovarian preservation. Retrospective review of clinical records of patients who where managed with laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy with ovarian preservation. Twelve records were identified over a 3-year period. The average age was 11.8 years (9-15). Presentation was of a mass in nine patients and torsion in three patients. Average size of the mass was 8.2 cm (5-18). Two patients had bilateral lesions. All patients were noted to have normal tumour markers. Successful cystectomy with ovarian preservation was accomplished in all cases using 3-port laparoscopy. The bilateral lesions were addressed at the same surgery with no increased length of stay or morbidity. In the three patients with acute torsion, an initial laparoscopic detorsion was performed with delayed laparoscopic cystectomy and ovarian preservation 7-10 days later. There was one complication of a minor umbilical port site infection. Histology was of a mature teratoma in ten cases and simple cyst in two. Six patients underwent routine ultrasonographic follow-up at 2-5 months at which time the involved ovary assumed a size and shape and blood flow comparable to the contra-lateral ovary in five patients. In one patient the affected side was smaller, 8.6 ml compared to 10 ml on the contra-lateral ovary. The remaining patients have been followed up clinically and remain asymptomatic. Laparoscopic cystectomy with ovarian preservation can be successfully applied to benign ovarian tumours. Acute ovarian torsion is not a contraindication to this technique where a two stage procedure still enables us to offer ovarian preservation."}
{"id": "19181369", "title": "Feasibility study of neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery for stage III/IV ovarian, tubal, and peritoneal cancers: Japan Clinical Oncology Group Study JCOG0206.", "content": "Feasibility study of neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery for stage III/IV ovarian, tubal, and peritoneal cancers: Japan Clinical Oncology Group Study JCOG0206. To assess the safety and efficacy of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) followed by interval debulking surgery (IDS) for m\u00fcllerian carcinomas, such as ovarian, tubal, and peritoneal cancers, and to determine whether we can omit diagnostic laparoscopy before treatment initiation, a feasibility study was performed. Eligible patients had presumed stage III/IV m\u00fcllerian carcinomas clinically diagnosed by imaging studies, cytology, and tumor markers. All patients underwent diagnostic laparoscopy to confirm the clinical diagnosis. Four cycles of paclitaxel and carboplatin were administered as NAC, followed by interval debulking surgery and an additional 4 cycles of chemotherapy. The primary end point was the proportion of patients achieving clinical complete remission (cCR) among all stage III/IV m\u00fcllerian carcinomas confirmed by diagnostic laparoscopy. The major secondary end point was the positive predictive value (PPV) of clinical diagnosis. Fifty-six patients were enrolled into the study. The PPV of overall clinical diagnosis for the tumor origin, histology, and stage was 95% (53/56). Fifty-three patients received the protocol treatment starting with NAC. IDS was performed in 89% (47/53) of patients. Complete resection without residual tumors was achieved in 55% (29/53) and residual tumors became <1 cm in 17% (9/53) of patients. Twenty-two patients (42%) achieved cCR after completion of the treatment. The median overall and progression-free survival was 45 and 14 months, respectively. NAC without diagnostic laparoscopy for advanced m\u00fcllerian carcinomas holds sufficient promise to be compared with direct surgery in a phase III trial."}
{"id": "19171373", "title": "Surgical management of borderline ovarian tumors: The role of fertility-sparing surgery.", "content": "Surgical management of borderline ovarian tumors: The role of fertility-sparing surgery. To evaluate the recurrence, survival, and pregnancy outcomes of patients with borderline ovarian tumors (BOT) treated with fertility-sparing surgery. The medical records of patients with BOT who underwent surgery between 1989 and 2008 were retrospectively reviewed. Outcomes were compared between groups that underwent radical or fertility-sparing surgery. Fertility-sparing surgery was defined as the preservation of the uterus and ovarian tissue in one or both adnexa. During the study period, 360 patients with BOT were identified; of these, 344 had stage I, one had stage II, and 15 had stage III disease. A total of 176 patients underwent radical surgery (23 laparoscopically and 153 laparotomically), and 184 underwent fertility-sparing surgery (48 laparoscopically and 136 laparotomically). After surgery, 45 patients received adjuvant chemotherapy. After a median follow-up time of 70 months (range, 3-216 months), 18 patients had recurrent disease and 5 died of disease. The recurrence rate was similar in the radical and fertility-sparing surgery groups (4.9% vs. 5.1%, p=0.923). In the fertility-sparing surgery group, however, the most common site of recurrence was the remaining ovarian tissue which was successfully salvaged with a second round of fertility-sparing surgery. Multivariate analysis showed no difference in disease-free survival between groups that underwent radical or fertility-sparing surgery (p=0.651). To date, there have been 34 full-term deliveries by women in the fertility-sparing surgery group. Fertility-sparing surgery for patients with BOT is safe and can permit future pregnancy, suggesting that such surgery should be considered for young patients who wish to preserve fertility."}
{"id": "19161612", "title": "A case of Meigs syndrome mimicking metastatic breast carcinoma.", "content": "A case of Meigs syndrome mimicking metastatic breast carcinoma. Adnexal masses are not uncommon in patients with breast cancer. Breast cancer and ovarian malignancies are known to be associated. In patients with breast cancer and co-existing pleural effusions, ascites and adnexal masses, the probability of disseminated disease is high. Nevertheless, benign ovarian masses can mimic this clinical picture when they are associated with Meigs' syndrome making the work-up and management of these patients challenging. To our knowledge, there are no similar reports in the literature and therefore we present this case to highlight this entity. A 56-year old woman presented with a 4 cm, grade 2, invasive ductal carcinoma of her left breast. Pre-treatment staging investigations showed a 13.5 cm mass in her left ovary, a small amount of ascites and a large right pleural effusion. Serum tumour markers showed a raised CA125 supporting the malignant nature of the ovarian mass. The cytology from the pleural effusion was indeterminate but thoracoscopic biopsy failed to show malignancy. The patient was strongly against mastectomy and she was commenced on neo-adjuvant Letrozole 2.5 mg daily with a view to perform breast conserving surgery. After a good response to the hormone manipulation, the patient had breast conserving surgery, axillary sampling and laparoscopic excision of the ovarian mass which was eventually found to be a benign ovarian fibroma. Despite the high probability of disseminated malignancy when an ovarian mass associated with ascites if found in a patient with a breast cancer and pleural effusion, clinicians should be aware about rare benign syndromes, like Meigs', which may mimic a similar picture and mislead the diagnosis and management plan."}
{"id": "19151992", "title": "Use of bowel bags in gynecologic laparoscopy.", "content": "Use of bowel bags in gynecologic laparoscopy. Bowel bags are transparent sterile plastic bags that had no practical application in gynecology until now. We are presenting nine cases of laparoscopic hysterectomy with salpingooophorectomy in which bowel bags have been efficiently utilized."}
{"id": "19135233", "title": "Improved detection of ovarian cancer metastases by intraoperative quantitative fluorescence protease imaging in a pre-clinical model.", "content": "Improved detection of ovarian cancer metastases by intraoperative quantitative fluorescence protease imaging in a pre-clinical model. Cytoreductive surgery is a cornerstone of therapy in metastatic ovarian cancer. While conventional white light (WL) inspection detects many obvious tumor foci, careful histologic comparison has shown considerable miss rates for smaller foci. The goal of this study was to compare tumor detection using WL versus near infrared (NIR) imaging with a protease activatable probe, as well as to evaluate the ability to quantify NIR fluorescence using a novel quantitative optical imaging system. A murine model for peritoneal carcinomatosis was generated and metastatic foci were imaged using WL and NIR imaging following the i.v. administration of the protease activatable probe ProSense750. The presence of tumor was confirmed by histology. Additionally, the ability to account for variations in fluorescence signal intensity due to changes in distance between the catheter and target lesion during laparoscopic procedures was evaluated. NIR imaging with a ProSense750 significantly improved upon the target-to-background ratios (TBRs) of tumor foci in comparison to WL imaging (minimum improvement was approximately 3.5 fold). Based on 52 histologically validated samples, the sensitivity for WL imaging was 69%, while the sensitivity for NIR imaging was 100%. The effects of intraoperative distance changes upon fluorescence intensity were corrected in realtime, resulting in a decrease from 89% to 5% in signal variance during fluorescence laparoscopy. With its molecular specificity, low background autofluorescence, high TBRs, and quantitative signal, optical imaging with NIR protease activatable probes greatly improves upon the intraoperative detection of ovarian cancer metastases."}
{"id": "19125000", "title": "Robotic surgery in gynecologic oncology.", "content": "Robotic surgery in gynecologic oncology. Robotic surgery is rapidly taking the place of laparoscopy in many gynecologic oncology practices. Numerous practitioners have published their experience with this new technology. A review of their findings is timely and relevant. The majority of case series of robotic surgery for hysterectomy and lymphadenectomy show that the procedure is feasible and at least comparable to laparoscopic surgery. Similarly, case series of robotic radical hysterectomy for cervical cancer also compare favorably to laparoscopic surgery. Less common procedures such as robotic trachelectomy, parametrectomy, and retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy have also been described. Numerous patient and practitioner advantages are discussed in this review. Robotic surgery is a minimally invasive alternative to laparoscopy for the surgical treatment of endometrial cancer and cervical cancer. Its role in ovarian cancer is just starting to be explored."}
{"id": "19110193", "title": "Laparoscopic management of an isolated ovarian metastasis on a transposed ovary in a patient treated for stage IB1 adenocarcinoma of the cervix.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of an isolated ovarian metastasis on a transposed ovary in a patient treated for stage IB1 adenocarcinoma of the cervix. Transposition of the ovaries is performed frequently in young women with early-stage cervical cancer. This procedure is performed to preserve their quality of life. However, this must be balanced with the risks of ovarian metastases especially in patients with adenocarcinomas. We report the first case of laparoscopic management of an isolated metastasis to a transposed ovary that occurred 2 years after primary laparoscopic treatment of a stage IB1 adenocarcinoma of the cervix."}
{"id": "19093129", "title": "Relapse and survival in early-stage ovarian cancer.", "content": "Relapse and survival in early-stage ovarian cancer. To analyze the prognostic influence of patient characteristics, diagnostic markers or therapeutic procedures in women diagnosed with early ovarian cancer based on relapse and survival in long term follow-up. All women diagnosed and treated for early ovarian cancer at our institution between 1992 and 2006 were included in this retrospective study. Patient characteristics, clinical data including operative procedure, serum markers, stage and histology at first diagnosis as well as follow-up data were analyzed with regard to survival times and relapse rates. Altogether, 116 patients were included. Mean follow-up time was 7.0 +/- 3.3 years (range 2-14 years). Histology revealed a serous tumor in 64.7% (75/116), mucinous in 19.0% (22/116) and endometiroid tumors in 7.8% (9/116) of all cases. TNM classification was pT1a in 49.1% (57/116), pT1b in 6% (7/116), pT1c in 32.8% (38/116) and pT2a in 12.1% (14/116). Lymph node involvement (N1) was found in 3.4% of all patients. 17 deaths and 17 relapses (each 14.7%) were documented during follow-up time with a mean time to recurrence of 3.3 +/- 2.1 years (range 1-7 years). The general 1-, 2-, 5- and 10-year survival rates were 99, 95.7 and 88.9 and 81.0%, respectively. Patients with tumor stage pT1a and pT1b had a significantly better survival (P = 0.0003) and significantly lower risk of recurrence (P = 0.0138) compared to higher tumor stages. Moreover, patients who experienced recurrent disease or presented with ascites at primary diagnosis had a significantly worse overall survival (recurrence: hazard ratio 0.17, 95% confidence interval 0.0155-0.2182, P = 0.0001; ascites: HR 2.84, CI 1.1919-10.1131, P = 0.0225). The risk for recurrent disease was significantly elevated for patients with low grade (G3) tumors (P = 0.0330). Interestingly, there was neither a worse survival rate nor a higher relapse rate for patients with primary laparoscopic surgical access. Patients with early ovarian cancer stage pT1c and pT2a or low grade tumor have to be monitored closely in oncologic follow-up as they bare a significant risk for disease recurrence. Ascites at primary diagnosis, pT1c or pT2a tumor stage or recurrent disease are associated with a poor survival even in early ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "19090447", "title": "[Rare neuroendocrine carcinoma of the gall bladder. Coincidental occurrence of an endometrioid ovarian adenocarcinoma].", "content": "[Rare neuroendocrine carcinoma of the gall bladder. Coincidental occurrence of an endometrioid ovarian adenocarcinoma]. The histological investigation of a surgical specimen (after cholecystectomy) from a 73-year-old woman revealed a poorly differentiated carcinoma with glandular structures and a lymph node metastasis. Comparative immunochemistry, done to exclude metastatic growth of the previously demonstrated endometrioid ovarian carcinoma, was (1) negative for CK7 and CA125, positive for CK20, chromogranin A and synaptophysin (gall bladder and lymph node metastasis); (2) positive for CK7 and CA125, negative for CK20, chromogranin A and synaptophysin (ovary). The tumor lesion within the gall bladder and lymph node was classified as a neuroendocrine carcinoma, not a metastasis of the ovarian carcinoma. The patient underwent another laparotomy with resection of the stump of the cystic duct and the liver parenchyma surrounding the former gall bladder, including dissection of the lymph nodes within the hepatoduodenal ligament. After 14 months another metastasis of the neuroendocrine carcinoma of the gall bladder was found. But for eight years there has been no recurrence of the endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the left ovary. Because of the increasing incidence of malignant diseases and second neoplasms there is a growing need for such diagnostic tests as histological and immunohistochemical analysis. This is the first case, according to the available literature, of an endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the ovary concomitant with a neuroendocrine carcinoma of the gall bladder."}
{"id": "19039599", "title": "Omental trophoblastic implants after surgical management of ectopic pregnancy.", "content": "Omental trophoblastic implants after surgical management of ectopic pregnancy. Peritoneal implants secondary to a tubal ectopic pregnancy or extratubal omental secondary trophoblastic implants (ESTI) are a rare entity often underestimated or unknown. It can be responsible of rising in the ss-hCG titer after salpingectomy for ectopic tubal pregnancy. Moreover, implants on the omentum are exceptional. This particular localization is exceptional and its physiopathology, diagnosis, surgical management and follow-up are discussed in this paper."}
{"id": "19037650", "title": "Laparoscopic management of mature cystic teratoma of the ovary with multiple intracystic floating spherules.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of mature cystic teratoma of the ovary with multiple intracystic floating spherules. A feature of multiple spherical structures floating free in a cystic mass is one of the very rare patterns of mature cystic teratoma. A 32-year-old unmarried nulligravida was referred. Image diagnosis showed a large cystic tumor with unusual intracystic multiple floating spherules. Serum tumor marker test showed elevated squamous cell carcinoma antigen. Laparoscopic-assisted left salpingo-oophorectomy was performed. The histopathological diagnosis was mature cystic teratoma of the ovary with marked desquamative keratin formations. After obtaining pathognomonic findings on diagnostic imaging, laparoscopic management of a rare form of mature cystic teratoma of the ovary with numerous intracystic floating spherules was successfully performed."}
{"id": "19021468", "title": "Laparoscopic approach to ovarian mass in children and adolescents: already a standard in therapy.", "content": "Laparoscopic approach to ovarian mass in children and adolescents: already a standard in therapy. Functional cysts, ovarian torsion, and benign neoplasms are the most common ovarian masses among young adolescents. The laparoscopic approach to giant ovarian cysts in the pediatric population maybe difficult due the limited working space and the high risk of spillage. In this paper, we evaluate the role of laparoscopic surgery in the treatment of adnexal disease occurring in young girls. With the approval of the institutional review board, a retrospective chart review(2007-2003) of patients with adnexal disease was conducted. Overall, 12 patients were evaluated with preoperative imaging, sonography, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan and laboratory values. None resulted in malignant histology. All resections of ovarian cysts were performed laparoscopically. The outcome was uneventful in all patients. Treatment is indicated if the diagnosis is in question, the cyst persists, in the case of ovarian torsion,or if the patient is symptomatic. Laparoscopy is becoming the favored approach by most pediatric surgeons for the treatment of ovarian cysts. All surgical procedures for ovarian cysts should spare functional ovary as much as is technically possible. Simple cysts can be fenestrated, but complex or functional cysts should be excised, with the preservation of the remaining ovary by careful dissection. The laparoscopic approach for adnexal masses can be performed in an acceptable manner, with comparable results to an open approach, plus the cosmetic advantages of minimally invasive surgery, which is an important aspect for the treated patients."}
{"id": "19019337", "title": "Laparoscopic management of early ovarian and fallopian tube cancers: surgical and survival outcome.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of early ovarian and fallopian tube cancers: surgical and survival outcome. To evaluate the role of laparoscopy for staging of early ovarian cancers. Case series conducted at the University Hospital with 36 patients who had presumed early-stage adnexal cancers. Laparoscopic staging/restaging was performed. Cases included 20 invasive epithelial tumors, 11 borderline tumors, and 5 nonepithelial tumors. Mean number of peritoneal biopsies, paraaortic nodes, and pelvic nodes were 6, 12.23, and 14.84, respectively. Eighty-three percent of the patients had laparoscopic omentectomy. On final pathology, 7 patients were upstaged. Postoperative complications included 1 small bowel obstruction, 2 pelvic lymphoceles, and 1 lymphocele cyst. Mean duration of follow-up is 55.9 months. Three patients had recurrences. All patients are alive without evidence of the disease. This represents 1 of the largest series and longest follow-ups of laparoscopic staging for early-stage adnexal tumors. Laparoscopic staging of these cancers appears to be feasible and comprehensive without compromising survival when performed by gynecologic oncologists experienced with advanced laparoscopy."}
{"id": "19013745", "title": "Behaviour of ovarian tumors of low malignant potential treated with conservative surgery.", "content": "Behaviour of ovarian tumors of low malignant potential treated with conservative surgery. Fertility-sparing surgery has been proposed for the treatment of borderline ovarian tumors. The aim of this study was to evaluate the outcome of patients submitted to cystectomy (CYS) compared with patients treated by unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (USO) or bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy with/without total hysterectomy (radical surgery, RS). We reviewed retrospectively the data of patients treated in 3 institutions for borderline ovarian tumors. One hundred and sixty-eight patients underwent laparoscopic or laparotomic surgical treatment from 1985 to 2006. Tumor recurrence rate, disease-free survival and site of recurrences were evaluated. Specific prognostic factors, such as stage, histology, micropapillary subtype, exophytic tumor growth, intraoperative spillage, endosalpingiosis, staging procedures, and route of surgery were analysed. Thirty-five patients underwent cystectomy, 50 unilateral salpingo-oopohorectomy, and 83 radical surgery. Twelve patients in the CYS group (34.3%), 10 in the USO group (20.0%), and 5 (6.0%) in RS group relapsed. Five-year progression-free survival (PFS) was 59.6%, 78.4%, and 93.5% in CYS, USO and RS groups, respectively. None of the relapsed patients died of disease. Cystectomy is an effective surgical strategy for patients with borderline ovarian tumor. The higher risk of local relapses is not associated with a reduction in the overall survival. The procedure should be offered to young patients with bilateral tumors and to very young ones, considering the higher risk of local relapse."}
{"id": "18990385", "title": "Laparoscopy for differential diagnosis of a pelvic mass in a patient with Mayer-Rokitanski-K\u00fcster-Hauser (MRKH) syndrome.", "content": "Laparoscopy for differential diagnosis of a pelvic mass in a patient with Mayer-Rokitanski-K\u00fcster-Hauser (MRKH) syndrome. To report a rare case of a myoma simulating a pelvic tumor in a patient with Mayer-Rokitanski-K\u00fcster-Hauser (MRKH) syndrome. The rudimentary uterus may develop fibroids, and this event can lead to problems in differential diagnosis, especially if no vaginal reconstruction has been carried out. Case-report. University hospital. A 39-year-old patient with MRKH syndrome presented with a solid pelvic mass 9 cm in diameter on ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging that could not be differentiated between fibroid and ovarian tumor. The patient was laparoscopically operated, and a fibroid of the right uterine residual was detected and removed. Histology confirmed a benign leiomyoma. In patients with MRKH syndrome, laparoscopy allows analysis of the origin of a solid pelvic tumor and its removal. Especially in patients without vaginal reconstruction, laparoscopy may be superior to imaging techniques."}
{"id": "18982336", "title": "Serous psammocarcinoma of the ovary and peritoneum: two case reports and review of the literature.", "content": "Serous psammocarcinoma of the ovary and peritoneum: two case reports and review of the literature. Serous psammocarcinoma (SPC) is a rare variant of ovarian carcinoma or peritoneum that may present with features consistent with malignancy, or tumors of low malignant potential. This is two-case reports of a SPC of the ovary and peritoneum and review of the literature. A 41-year-old woman was referred to our clinic for adnexal mass. Ultrasonography revealed endometrioma. Endometriotic cyst excision and sacrouterine biopsy were performed via laparoscopy. Histological examination revealed endometrioma and psammocarcinoma of the peritoneum. Staging laparotomy was performed. She received six courses of chemotherapy. She has no evidence of disease after 6 years from surgical therapy and chemotherapy. A 50-year-old woman presented with pelvic pain and discomfort in the upper abdomen with nausea and emesis. CT scan showed extensive tumor in the lower abdomen, and free fluid in the abdomen and pelvis which appeared to be an ovarian tumor. She underwent a laparotomy and a right and left ovarian tumor measuring about 20 x 15 and 8 x 8 cm, respectively, were seen. Staging procedure was performed. Microscopic examination revealed SPC of the ovary. Chemotherapy was planned. The biologic behavior of this disease remains unresolved. Primary surgical debulking should be attempted, while the utility of postoperative chemotherapy remains unknown."}
{"id": "18973882", "title": "A comparison of histopathologic findings of ovarian tissue inadvertently excised with endometrioma and other kinds of benign ovarian cyst in patients undergoing laparoscopy versus laparotomy.", "content": "A comparison of histopathologic findings of ovarian tissue inadvertently excised with endometrioma and other kinds of benign ovarian cyst in patients undergoing laparoscopy versus laparotomy. To evaluate ovarian tissue inadvertently excised with benign cysts during laparotomy or laparoscopy. Prospective study. Private and university hospitals. 260 women, 20 to 35 years old, with unilateral benign ovarian cysts. One hundred fifty women operated by laparoscopic cystectomy stripping technique, and 110 women operated by laparotomy with the same technique. Histopathologic findings of ovarian tissue inadvertently excised in endometrioma compared with other kinds of benign cysts in laparoscopy versus laparotomy. In the laparoscopy group, ovarian tissue was present in 65% of endometrioma and in 32% of nonendometriotic cysts. In the laparotomy group, ovarian tissue was seen in 80% of endometrioma and 41% of nonendometriotic cysts. The surgical approach had no statistically significant impact on conservation of ovarian reserves. The nature of the ovarian cyst played a greater role in the quality and quantity of the excised ovarian tissue."}
{"id": "18950959", "title": "\"Exterritorial\" lymphocytic hypophysitis within an ovarian teratoma during pregnancy: a possible sentinel lesion?", "content": "\"Exterritorial\" lymphocytic hypophysitis within an ovarian teratoma during pregnancy: a possible sentinel lesion? Pituitary tissue is rarely to be found among the constituents of ovarian teratomas (dermoid cysts). In some exceptional cases, however, such ectopic pituitary anlagen may even give rise to secondary organ-specific pathologies. Akin to those of the pituitary in its natural location, these tend to be adenomas. We describe a unique example of lymphocytic hypophysitis incidentally encountered in a mature left ovarian teratoma from a 30-year-old woman in the 19th week of pregnancy. Amidst various fully differentiated derivatives of all three embryonic layers, the cyst wall also included a miniature replica of the anterior pituitary lobe 0.5 cm in diameter. While a full set of adenohypophyseal hormone-producing cell types could be identified, there was characteristic pregnancy-related hyperplasia of lactotrophs. This was further overlaid by prominent mononuclear inflammation, including infiltration by T lymphocytes, follicular aggregates of B cells, and attendant destruction of parenchyma. There was no significant inflammatory reaction elsewhere. Discounting the non-standard location, the ensemble of the clinical setting and histology were felt to be indistinguishable from the classical paradigm of lymphocytic hypophysitis complicating pregnancy. To date, lymphocytic thyroiditis is the sole form of organ-specific inflammatory process within an ovarian teratoma on record. By analogy, we hypothesize that this ectopic manifestation of immune-mediated inflammation of pituitary parenchyma may possibly be read as a preclinical sentinel lesion of lymphocytic hypophysitis."}
{"id": "18922565", "title": "Re: \"External validation of a laparoscopic-based score to evaluate resectability of advanced ovarian cancers: clues for a simplified score\".", "content": "Re: \"External validation of a laparoscopic-based score to evaluate resectability of advanced ovarian cancers: clues for a simplified score\"."}
{"id": "18795308", "title": "Feasibility and morbidity of total laparoscopic radical hysterectomy with or without pelvic limphadenectomy in obese women with stage I endometrial cancer.", "content": "Feasibility and morbidity of total laparoscopic radical hysterectomy with or without pelvic limphadenectomy in obese women with stage I endometrial cancer. The aim of this study was to describe the feasibility and morbidity rates associated with total laparoscopic radical hysterectomy (TLRH) with or without pelvic lymphadenectomy for stage I endometrial cancer in obese women. Obese patients with stage I endometrial cancer who underwent total laparoscopic radical surgery at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of San Gerardo Hospital were compared to nonobese patients. The same group of obese patients was compared with patients who underwent radical laparotomic surgery. Obesity was defined as a body mass index more than 30 kg/m(2). Between September 2003 and September 2007, 75 women underwent TLRH. Median age was 54 years and median body mass index was 28 kg/m(2). Thirty-seven women were obese. There were no differences between nonobese and obese women in operative, time length of parametria and pelvic nodes removed and operative or late complications. Blood loss was significantly higher in obese patients. Comparing retrospectively laparoscopy and laparotomy in obese women treated in our center, laparotomy was associated with decreased operative time, but also with increased blood loss, transfusion rate, duration of hospitalization and frequency of post surgical complications. Total laparoscopic radical hysterectomy (with pelvic lymphadenectomy) is a safe option in patients with endometrial cancer. Obesity is not a contraindication to perform a TRLH with no differences in surgical parameters between obese and nonobese population. TLRH show a significant decrease of complications compared to laparotomic radical surgery in obese women."}
{"id": "18793773", "title": "Feasibility, safety, and efficacy of conservative laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumors.", "content": "Feasibility, safety, and efficacy of conservative laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumors. To outline the most recent information regarding conservative laparoscopic surgery for young women with borderline ovarian tumors. Review article. Advanced Gynecological Endoscopy Center, Malzoni Medical Center, Avellino, Italy. Young women with low-stage borderline ovarian tumors who wish to preserve their fertility. Conservative laparoscopic surgery with unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy or cystectomy. Recurrence rate and outcomes. Laparoscopic cystectomy may have more chance of preserving a woman's fertility compared with adnexectomy because of the removal of less ovarian tissue. Its greatest danger is the risk of inadvertently leaving behind some malignant cells. Therefore, this procedure should be reserved for patients with previous unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy or when bilateral lesions are present to preserve at least some ovarian tissue. When borderline ovarian tumors are identified at surgery by intraoperative histology, the recommended conservative treatment should be laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy. Recurrence can be noted after this type of treatment, but the cases of recurrent disease can be detected with close follow-up and treated accordingly. For these reasons, careful selection of candidates for this kind of treatment is, of course, necessary and close follow-up is required. If these restrictions are rigorously applied, then fertility-sparing surgery may be considered a safe option for this pathology, but all laparoscopic procedures should be reserved for oncologic surgeons trained in extensive laparoscopic procedures."}
{"id": "18622543", "title": "Influence of carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum environment on adhesion and metastasis of a human ovarian cancer cell line.", "content": "Influence of carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum environment on adhesion and metastasis of a human ovarian cancer cell line. This study aimed to explore the adhesion and metastasis capability of the human ovarian cancer cell line SKOV(3) after exposure to a simulated laparoscopic carbon dioxide (CO(2)) pneumoperitoneum environment and the related mechanism. SKOV(3) was subjected to a simulated laparoscopic CO(2) pneumoperitoneum environment at various CO(2) pressures (8-12 mmHg) and exposure times (1-3 h). Cell adhesive capacity was determined by a mechanical method. Real-time fluorescent quantitative polymerase chain reaction (FQ-PCR) and immunocytochemical staining were used to examine the mRNA and protein expressions of heparanase (HPSE) and vascular endothelial growth factor C (VEGF-C) in SKOV(3). Cells cultured in a standard environment were used as the control. The increase of SKOV(3) cell adhesion capability was associated with CO(2) pressure and exposure time. A significantly higher adhesion capability was observed in the group with exposure to 10 mmHg for 2 h over a 48 h period, as compared with the control groups (p < 0.05). The expressions of HPSE and VEGF-C in SKOV(3), which are closely related to metastasis capability, also increased. Significantly higher expressions were observed in the group with exposure to 10 mmHg for 3 h over a 48 h period, as compared with the control groups (p < 0.01). The adhesion and metastasis capacity of SKOV(3) increased with overexpression of HPSE and VEGF-C and were positively related to CO(2) pressure, exposure, and culture time."}
{"id": "18584185", "title": "Recurrent mucinous cystadenoma: a laparoscopic approach.", "content": "Recurrent mucinous cystadenoma: a laparoscopic approach. The second most common epithelial tumor of the ovary is mucinous-type, and it constitutes 8-10% of all ovarian tumors. The recurrence of mucinous cystadenoma is very rare after complete excision. Only four such cases have been reported till date. The case presented in this report is the fifth, who had her initial surgery performed by gynecologic oncology team by laparotomy and was followed up by the same group. After recurrence at the same ovary, the patient underwent laparoscopic evaluation and unilateral salpingoophorectomy was performed. The final histopathological diagnosis was mucinous cystadenoma, just the same as the initial cyst."}
{"id": "18555237", "title": "Laparoscopic fertility-sparing staging in unexpected early stage ovarian malignancies.", "content": "Laparoscopic fertility-sparing staging in unexpected early stage ovarian malignancies. To assess feasibility and safety of fertility-sparing laparoscopic staging in women affected by unexpected ovarian cancer desiring to preserve their fertility. Prospective study. University clinic. Twenty-seven patients already operated on elsewhere for a presumably benign ovarian cyst. Laparoscopic fertility-sparing staging operations. Perioperative and survival data, reproductive outcome. Histologic findings after first surgery: 12 low malignant potential neoplasms, 11 invasive epithelial ovarian carcinomas,1 sex-cord stromal, and 3 germ cell neoplasms. Fertility-sparing staging consisted of exploration of the peritoneal cavity, peritoneal washing cytology, multiple peritoneal biopsies, omolateral adnexectomy (except in borderline tumors), omentectomy, omolateral or bilateral pelvic and aortic lymph node sampling (except in borderline tumors, well differentiated, mucinous, and granulosa cell (GC) neoplasms), endometrial biopsy, appendectomy in mucinous type. Overall, seven patients (26%) were upstaged. Six patients received adjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy. Two term pregnancies occurred. After a median follow-up of 20 months all patients are alive; one patient has FIGO stage Ic clear cell carcinoma, which recurred 8 months after surgery. Laparoscopic fertility-sparing staging in early ovarian malignancies is feasible and safe in selected and counseled patients and should be performed in experienced gynecological oncology centers trained in endoscopic procedures."}
{"id": "18509663", "title": "Bilateral dermoid cysts of the ovary in a pregnant woman: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Bilateral dermoid cysts of the ovary in a pregnant woman: case report and review of the literature. Most nonphysiological ovarian masses discovered during pregnancy are benign dermoid cysts. The association of dermoid cysts with pregnancy has been increasingly reported since 1918. They usually present the dilemma of weighing the risks of surgery and anesthesia versus the risks of untreated adnexal mass. We are reporting an illustrative case and presenting a review of the literature for recommendations regarding the management of such cases. The bilateral dermoid cysts were surgically treated in the second trimester. Most references state that it is more feasible to treat bilateral dermoid cysts of the ovaries discovered during pregnancy if they grow beyond 6 cm in diameter. This is usually performed through laparotomy or very carefully through laparoscopy and should preferably be done in the second trimester."}
{"id": "18431586", "title": "Laparoscopy-assisted cystectomy for large adnexal cysts.", "content": "Laparoscopy-assisted cystectomy for large adnexal cysts. To evaluate the feasibility and surgical outcome of laparoscopy-assisted surgery for large adnexal cysts. From January 1998 to October 2007, 46 women underwent laparoscopy-assisted surgery for large adnexal cysts whose maximum diameter were between 10 and 20 cm, radiologic and laboratory features suggestive of benign disease. All the patients had a pre-operative ultrasound with or without computed tomography and CA-125 assessment. Patients' demographics, clinical and ultrasound features, CA-125 values, surgical procedures, operative and post-operative complications, estimated amount of blood loss (EBL), operative time, conversion to laparotomy and the pathological findings were recorded. Fourty-six consecutive patients underwent laparoscopy-assisted surgery over 9 years. The mean and range of the patients' age and body mass index were 34.1 +/- 6.3 and (21-45) years and 27.4 +/- 5.9 and (22-40), respectively. In all the patients, except one with borderline ovarian tumor, laparoscopy-assisted surgery was successful. There were no operative or post-operative complications. The mean and range of the operative time, EBL and hospital stay were 48.4 +/- 7.3 and (35-65) min, 55.0 +/- 28.9 and (25-150) mL, 1.49 +/- 0.50 and (1-3) days, respectively. The mean and range of the extracorporeal cystectomy time were 10.2 +/- 2.7 and (8-14) min. The surgical procedures performed were: ovarian and paraovarian cystectomy (n = 45), unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, pelvic-paraaortic lymphadenectomy and omentectomy (n = 1). Pathologic findings included serous cystadenoma (n = 26), mucinous cystadenoma (n = 7), dermoid (n = 6), endometriosis (n = 6), and borderline ovarian tumor (n = 1). Laparoscopy-assisted surgery is feasible and safe for women with large benign adnexal cysts and result s in a short surgery time."}
{"id": "19999195", "title": "Adolescent ovarian tumors: a clinicopathlogical review of 15 cases.", "content": "Adolescent ovarian tumors: a clinicopathlogical review of 15 cases. To prospectively review the clinicopathologic pattern and out come in 15 patients with adolescent ovarian tumours in Military Hospital Rawalpindi between Jan 2004 to Sep 2007. All cases of adolescent ovarian tumours reporting to the gynaecology department of Military Hospital Rawalpindi during the period of enrolment. Out of 15 cases 12 were managed surgically. Data was recorded regarding clinical presentation, patient's age, size of tumour, bilaterality, histopathology, staging if tumour was malignant and sites of extra ovarian involvement. All patients were followed up for one year. Majority of patients fell in the subgroup 14-16 year age. Majority harboring ovarian malignancy belonged to subgroup 17-19 years. Clinical presentation in the majority was mass abdomen and abdominal distension. Approach was transcutaneous in 3 (20%), laparoscopic in 2(20%), and open laparotomy in 10 (60%). Frozen section was performed in 3 cases. Histopathology was benign in 11 cases and malignant in 4. In 3 cases cyst fluid was negative for malignancy. In 2 cyst wall biopsy and one patient where entire cyst was removed histopathology revealed benign serous cyst adenoma/luteal cyst (26%). There were 5 cases of dermoid cysts (33.3%), one patient had bilateral dermoids, one malignant and one benign. All 4 malignancies were found to be to non-epithelial on histopathology. One case had surgery twice. Unilateral oopherectomy followed by recurrence and total abdominal hysterectomy and contralateral salpingo-oopherectomy after 2 years. This study shows the preponderance of non-epithelial tumours and high percentages of malignant germ cell tumours in adolescents. The incidence of malignant tumours in adolescents is higher than in adults. Early correct diagnosis could be reached by careful physical examination, imaging and tumour markers Surgery should as much as is safely possible be fertility preserving."}
{"id": "19496369", "title": "Jejunal lymphangioma presenting as an ovarian mass.", "content": "Jejunal lymphangioma presenting as an ovarian mass. Intra-abdominal lymphangiomas are rare benign tumours that usually arise in the mesentery of the small bowel. We present the case of an intra-abdominal lymphangioma that involved both the jejunum and its adjacent mesentery that ultrasound and CT scanning suggested was an ovarian tumour. Laparoscopy confirmed normal ovaries and a jejunal mass which was resected at laparotomy. This circumstance has very rarely been described in the literature and represents a diagnostic dilemma of which clinicians should be aware. Intra-abdominal lymphangioma should be included with other non-gynaecological diseases in the differential diagnosis of a pelvic mass, and requires a multi-specialty approach."}
{"id": "19472731", "title": "[Benign ovarian tumors during pregnancy. A review of 26 cases].", "content": "[Benign ovarian tumors during pregnancy. A review of 26 cases]. To identify the particularities of ovarian tumors during pregnancy. A retrospective study of 26 patients who underwent surgical treatment for ovarian tumors during pregnancy between January 1993 and December 2005. Clinical, ultrasonographic, therapeutic and histological data were analysed. The mean age of patients was 26.5 years. The circumstances under which the ovarian tumors were discovered consisted of adnexal torsion in 57% of cases, chronic pelvic pain in 15% of cases and at routine ultrasonographic scan in 26% of cases. 20 patients underwent cystectomy by laparotomy and 4 patients underwent laparoscopic cystectomy. 3 patients underwent adnexectomy. One abortion occurs 2 days after an adnexectomy. 17 deliveries occur at term. Histological findings were functional cyst in 4 cases, serous cyst in 11 cases, mucinous cyst in 2 cases and dermoid cyst in 7 cases. Ovarian tumors during pregnancy are rare. They are usually serous, functional and dermoid cysts. Laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy offers significant advantages with respect to laparotomy for the pregnant patient."}
{"id": "19295011", "title": "[Struma ovarii].", "content": "[Struma ovarii]. Struma ovarii is a rare tumor in its pure form, but its true incidence is hard to estimate because of all the variation in the diagnostic criteria due to the fact that some authors reported it as within a teratoma and others only in its pure form. In general, it is an asymptomatic tumor, \"benign-like\" in most of the cases, and the diagnostic is based only on the histopathological findings. This is a retrospective study of all ovarian tumors treated in our departments over a period of 11 years, from January 1, 1995 to January 1, 2006. All medical records of 644 patients were reviewed, of which 502 patients (77.96%) with unilateral tumors and 142 (22.04%) with bilateral involvement. 879 tumors were removed: 88.39% benign and 11.61% malignant. Struma ovarii was demonstrated in 2 patients. The only complaint in these 2 patients diagnosed and treated in our clinics was pain in the lower abdomen. The clinical examination and ultrasound suggested ovarian tumors, but the diagnosis was made on the histopathological findings. Following surgical treatment (classic or laparoscopic) the postoperative course was excellent, confirming that this approach is the only practical solution."}
{"id": "19122954", "title": "Significance of the 'ovarian crescent sign' in the evaluation of adnexal masses.", "content": "Significance of the 'ovarian crescent sign' in the evaluation of adnexal masses. This paper aimed to study the ability of the \"ovarian crescent sign\" to predict the nature of adnexal masses and to validate the \"ovarian crescent\" as an ultrasonographical marker for malignancy. A prospective study was carried out in 60 consenting women with an undiagnosed adnexal mass, attending the gynaecology service and requiring operative intervention. An ovarian crescent sign at pelvic ultrasonography was considered to be present if normal ovarian tissue was seen adjacent to the tumour area. The ultrasonographer was blinded to the reports of CA 125, and if applicable, the ascitic fluid cytology and needle aspiration biopsy. Histopathological examination report of the tumour obtained at surgery (laparotomy/laparoscopy) was considered as the gold standard. 11 of 60 biopsy specimens were positive for malignancy. Normal ovarian tissue could be identified (positive crescent sign) in nearly two-thirds of cases (65 percent) scanned. Presence of normal ovarian tissue was identified in 97 percent of the benign masses. The sign was not seen in ten of the 11 cases with malignancy. The ovarian crescent sign as a method in prejudging the adnexal masses was found to have high sensitivity (90.9 percent) and high negative predictive value (97.4 percent)."}
{"id": "19115701", "title": "Sclerosing stromal tumor of the ovary: a case report.", "content": "Sclerosing stromal tumor of the ovary: a case report. A case of a rarely occurring ovarian tumor, sclerosing stromal tumor of the ovary, in an 11-year-old girl treated laparoscopically is described."}
{"id": "19115697", "title": "Ovarian malignant immature teratoma associated with pregnancy--a case report.", "content": "Ovarian malignant immature teratoma associated with pregnancy--a case report. We report the case of a malignant immature teratoma diagnosed at 21 weeks of amenorrhea in a 36-year-old healthy woman. Ultrasound examination showed a multilocular cystic mass of 175 mm in diameter, situated on the left side of the uterus. A left ovariectomy was performed by laparotomy at 22 weeks of amenorrhea. Histologic examination revealed a malignant grade 2 immature teratoma, and the patient underwent three courses of chemotherapy with a good pregnancy outcome. A cesarean section was carried out at 39 weeks of amenorrhea, associated with a left salpingectomy on which the pathologist examination did not find any malignant cells. The newborn had a normal aspect, and the mother was considered to be in remission after two more courses of chemotherapy.."}
{"id": "19082308", "title": "Ovarian hyperthecosis in the context of an adrenal incidentaloma in a postmenopausal woman.", "content": "Ovarian hyperthecosis in the context of an adrenal incidentaloma in a postmenopausal woman. Adrenal incidentaloma is not infrequent and can be found in hirsute women. We report a case of a 54-year-old woman with amenorrhea and hirsutism of abrupt onset and mild signs of virilization that had an adrenal incidentaloma coexisting with ovarian hyperthecosis. Basal total and free testosterone were 191 ng/dL and 179 pmol/L. Pelvic ultrasonography disclosed a right ovary with 10.3 cc and a left ovary with 9.8 cc without nodules or cysts, and computerized tomography of the abdomen disclosed a normal right adrenal gland. On the left adrenal gland a solid nodule with 0.8 cm was seen. After GnRHa administration, total testosterone was 23 ng/dL and free testosterone was 17 pmol/L. In view of a suppression of testosterone by GnRHa, the patient was submitted to a hystero-oophorectomy by laparoscopy. Symmetrically enlarged ovaries were seen. No tumor was apparent. Histology showed hyperthecosis, with foci of luteinized stromal cells. Only atretic follicles were detected. No hilar cell hyperplasia was seen. In conclusion, the presence of an adrenal mass in a hirsute woman can lead to a wrong diagnosis. In this case the suppression GnRHa test was fundamental to determine the origin of hyperandrogenemia."}
{"id": "19062661", "title": "Management and outcomes of ovarian masses in children and adolescents.", "content": "Management and outcomes of ovarian masses in children and adolescents. Ovarian masses in the pediatric age group are rare, and malignancies are even less common. We reviewed our large single-center experience to determine the rate of malignancy and discuss management. We retrospectively reviewed the cases of ovarian masses in children in our institution over a 10-year period. Demographic and tumor-specific data were reviewed and analyzed, and a Student's unpaired t test was used where appropriate. A total of 49 children and adolescents with ovarian masses were found. The mean age at presentation was 13.3 years. Eight masses were malignant (16%) with malignant teratoma, dysgerminoma, and germ cell tumors found. These patients responded to chemotherapy, but there were three recurrences noted that responded to further therapy. Seventy-four per cent of the benign tumors were teratomas. The most common presentation was abdominal pain in 27 patients (55%) followed by an abdominal mass. Ultrasound and CT scans were the most common imaging studies with a mean mass size of 14.7 cm. A majority of the patients underwent a laparotomy with 12 per cent having a minimally invasive procedure. Only 37 per cent of the operations were performed by the pediatric surgeons. There were no deaths in this series after a follow up of over 6 years. Most ovarian masses in childhood are benign. Malignant lesions have favorable outcomes with chemotherapy, even with recurrent disease. Consideration for laparoscopic procedures should be given for the benign lesions."}
{"id": "19039644", "title": "Solitary splenic metastasis of ovarian carcinoma: report of two cases.", "content": "Solitary splenic metastasis of ovarian carcinoma: report of two cases. Capsular splenic metastasis from ovarian cancer, which is associated with peritoneal spread, is not uncommon. Conversely, solitary involvement of the splenic parenchymal is unusual, and secondary debulking may improve the prognosis if there is no sign of residual disease. Thus, splenectomy is indicated for this type of isolated splenic metastasis. We report two cases of successful splenectomy for solitary splenic metastasis of ovarian carcinoma and review the relevant literature."}
{"id": "19035140", "title": "[Identification of potential neoplastic risk in gonadal development abnormality with Y chromosome of 79 cases].", "content": "[Identification of potential neoplastic risk in gonadal development abnormality with Y chromosome of 79 cases]. To identify the potential neoplastic risk in gonadal development abnormality with Y chromosome. Inquiries about the illness history were made. Lymphocyte chromosomal karyotype of peripheral blood was analyzed. Sex determining region Y gene and relative steroids and enzymes were detected. Gonadal site was examined through medical imaging. Gonadal excision was performed by laparotomy or laparoscopy. Pathological examinations were done on all of the specimens. Among 41 cases of androgen insensitive syndrome, spermatogenic cell neoplasm occurred in 1 patient, sertoli cell tumor in 2, and interstitial cell hyperplasia in 5. Among 14 cases of 17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency (XY) syndrome, one was sertoli cell tumor, and one was sertoli cell hyperplasia. In 4 cases of XY pure gonadal dysgenesis, one was gonadoblastoma with dysgerminoma. One of 16 cases of XO/XY gonadal dysgenesis was spermatogenic cell neoplasm with agenda cell tumor. Four cases of testes degeneration were all with dysgenetic testes. All of the gonadoblastoma and germ-cell tumor were located in the pelvis. Tumors occurred mostly during 15 years of age to 32 years. The gonads of XY pure gonadal dysgenesis has high risks of gonadoblastoma and germ-cell tumor. The older the onset age after puberty, the higher the malignancy risk is. Once diagnosed, bilateral gonads should be excised as soon as possible."}
{"id": "19012702", "title": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for surgical intervention of ovarian torsion.", "content": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for surgical intervention of ovarian torsion. To review the clinical manifestations of ovarian torsion (OT) and to compare the surgical results between laparoscopy and laparotomy. From 1997 to 2006, data on 179 patients admitted to a medical center with surgically proven OT were collected. We compared patients' symptom presentations, objective findings and surgical outcomes between patients who underwent laparotomy and those who received laparoscopy, and between patients admitted via the emergency room and those via the outpatient department. The most common symptom and sign was pelvic pain (82.1%), followed by nausea and vomiting (49.7%), elevated white blood count (20.1%), lower urinary tract symptoms (14.5%) and fever (7.8%). An adnexal or pelvic mass could be detected using gynecological ultrasound in almost all of the patients (98.3%). Ovarian torsion was considered among the admission differential diagnoses in 51.4% of patients. One hundred and five patients (58.7%) seen in the emergency room were more likely to present with nausea and vomiting, sudden pain onset and peritoneal signs than those seen in the outpatient department. Patients undergoing laparoscopy had a smaller sized ovarian mass; they were less likely to require oophorectomy; they had a shorter hospital stay; and fewer of them suffered from postoperative fever compared to patients undergoing laparotomy. Discriminant analysis showed that mass size was the single determining factor for choice of operating methods. The diagnosis of OT is missed in half of the patients because clinical features are unspecific and objective findings are uncommon. The laparoscopy procedure for ovarian conservation is recommended to treat patients suffering from OT owing to its shorter hospital stay, fewer postoperative complications and ovarian preservation."}
{"id": "18991080", "title": "Endometriosis in postmenopausal women without previous hormonal therapy: report of three cases.", "content": "Endometriosis in postmenopausal women without previous hormonal therapy: report of three cases. Endometriosis is a benign, estrogen-dependent, chronic gynecological disorder associated with pelvic pain and infertility. The disease most commonly affects women during the reproductive age, although postmenopausal patients do rarely present it. These rare occurrences are generally associated with hormonal use. We present three cases of endometriosis in postmenopausal patients who have no history of hormone therapy and no previous history of endometriosis or infertility. In case 1, a 62-year-old woman presented with acyclic pelvic pain and a left ovarian homogeneous cystic mass. After laparoscopic salpingoophorectomy and histological analysis, an ovarian endometriotic cyst was confirmed. In case 2, a 78-year-old woman presented with a painful abdominal wall mass that was confirmed by ultrasound and tomography. Her past medical history included an abdominal hysterectomy 20 years prior to the discovery of this mass. The lesion was surgically excised and histological analysis showed areas of endometrial stroma and glands surrounded by fibrosis, compatible with endometriosis. In case 3, a 54-year-old woman presented with chronic pelvic pain and a nodule in the rectovaginal septum was noted during gynecological examination. Menopause occurred at 48 years of age. She had no previous dysmenorrhea. Ultrasound confirmed the nodule in the rectovaginal septum. The patient was submitted to a diagnostic colonoscopy that revealed a friable lesion, which was subsequently biopsied. The histological diagnosis was endometriosis. These three cases of postmenopausal endometriosis support the celomic metaplasia theory for the genesis of this disease."}
{"id": "18971145", "title": "Parasitic dermoid cyst of the pouch of Douglas: a case report.", "content": "Parasitic dermoid cyst of the pouch of Douglas: a case report. Extragonadal mature cystic teratomas (dermoid cysts) are reported occasionally, with the most common site being the omentum. Of the 3 proposed causes of such cysts, torsion of a pre-existing dermoid, leading to autoamputation and subsequent reimplantation, is most likely the preceding event. A rare case of a parasitic benign cystic teratoma was incidentally found in the pouch of Douglas in a 29-year-old woman undergoing a laparoscopic right cystectomy for an ovarian dermoid cyst. A literature review indicates that this is the third reported case of a parasitic or wandering dermoid cyst of the pouch of Douglas."}
{"id": "18971141", "title": "Occult fallopian tube cancer in a patient with BRCA1 breast cancer.", "content": "Occult fallopian tube cancer in a patient with BRCA1 breast cancer. Primary fallopian tube cancer is very rare form of ovarian cancer. However, despite the infrequent incidence, emerging evidence suggests that patients who have a deleterious mutation of BRCA1 or -2 mutation may be more vulnerable to developing this disease. A patient with breast carcinoma was initially treated for her disease in 1994. She had a new primary lesion on the contralateral side in 2001 and was eventually identified with a positive BRCA1 germline mutation in 2007. The patient subsequently underwent a laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy surgery performed by her gynecologist. Final pathology revealed occult stage IIC fallopian tube cancer with bilateral ovarian serosal involvement. Consequently, the patient was referred to gynecologic oncology and underwent a pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy and laparoscopic omentectomy, followed by chemotherapy. Although fallopian tube cancer is rare, women who are positive for the BRCA mutation are at greater risk for developing this disease. Therefore, physicians should consider the associated risk factors and perform comprehensive risk-reducing surgery and staging when treating these patients."}
{"id": "18971136", "title": "Laparoscopic colostomy in gynecologic cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic colostomy in gynecologic cancer. The purpose of our study was to report on our case series of 7 patients with gynecologic cancer who underwent laparoscopic colostomy for elective fecal diversion. Our aim was to retrospectively estimate feasibility, safety, and efficacy of the laparoscopic approach in the setting of gynecologic malignancy, given the high incidence of earlier abdominal surgery and pelvic radiation treatment in this select population. Retrospective chart review (Canadian Task Force classification I). University of Texas, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. All patients with a history of gynecologic cancers who underwent laparoscopic colostomy during the study period. We retrospectively reviewed all patients who underwent elective laparoscopic diverting colostomy in our department of gynecologic oncology. Surgical indications, medical history, operative and stomal complications, estimated blood loss, return of bowel function, and length of hospital stay were collected. Seven patients underwent laparoscopic colostomy during the study period. Six of these patients underwent an end descending colostomy, and 1 patient underwent a loop colostomy. Indications included rectovaginal fistula (n = 5), colonic/pelvic fistula (n = 1), or large bowel obstruction (n = 1). No intraoperative or postoperative complications occurred, nor did any conversions to laparotomy. The median blood loss was 50 mL (range 10-75). Median operative time was 102 minutes (range 69-159). Six (86%) patients had a history of pelvic radiation. In addition, 3 (43%) patients had a history of laparotomy. The median patient weight was 59.8 kg (range 47.1-82.2). The median time to tolerance of a regular diet was 2 days (range 1-3) and the median length of hospital stay was 3 days (range 2-4). No immediate or delayed stomal complications were noted with a median follow-up of 6 months (range 1-15). Laparoscopic colostomy in advanced gynecologic cancer may be a safe and feasible technique with minimal morbidity, rapid return of bowel function, and short hospital stay."}
{"id": "18971132", "title": "The addition of 4% oxygen to the CO(2) pneumoperitoneum does not decrease dramatically port site metastases.", "content": "The addition of 4% oxygen to the CO(2) pneumoperitoneum does not decrease dramatically port site metastases. Port site metastases (PSM) after laparoscopic surgery for advanced-stage ovarian carcinoma are a cause of concern, but the pathophysiology is unknown. Because CO(2) pneumoperitoneum was recently demonstrated to be a cofactor in adhesion formation and tumor implantation in a laparoscopic mouse model, and because both could be prevented by the addition of 4% oxygen to the CO(2) pneumoperitoneum, we wanted to test the hypothesis that PSM could be related to tumor cell hypoxia during CO(2) pneumoperitoneum. A randomized controlled pilot trial to compare the incidence of PSM in women undergoing laparoscopy with a pure CO(2) pneumoperitoneum in comparison with women with CO(2) pneumoperitoneum with the addition of 4% oxygen (Canadian Task Force classification C). University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium. Since January 1, 2007, 22 consecutive women undergoing laparoscopy for suspected ovarian cancer with subsequent debulking laparotomy were included. Diagnostic laparoscopy with 100% CO(2) versus laparoscopy with addition of 4% oxygen. In the control group, 9 (47%) PSM found in 19 port sites were excised. In the CO(2)+oxygen group, a similar incidence was found, that is, 8 (50%) PSM in 16 port sites. The incidence of PSM was higher in small women (p <.018) and in high-grade malignancies. The pathophysiology of PSM is unknown, but besides direct wound contamination, aerosolization of tumor cells and gas leaks have been suggested together with a causal relationship with the CO(2) pneumoperitoneum. Tumor cell hypoxia probably is not an important mechanism because PSM were not prevented by adding small amounts of oxygen to the CO(2) pneumoperitoneum. The hypothesis of tumor cell hypoxia by the CO(2) pneumoperitoneum as a mechanism for PSM could not be confirmed."}
{"id": "18946442", "title": "Pilimiction.", "content": "Pilimiction. Per urethral hair growth or passage of hair in the urine is a rare urological problem. It is pathognomonic sign of urinary bladder dermoid. Primary bladder dermoid is very rare problem. It could be managed endoscopically when it is limited to detrusor muscle. Secondary dermoid in the urinary bladder is not uncommon among the female specially during their reproductive life. It is mostly ovarian origin. Ovarian dermoid may grow and invade the urinary bladder wall to discharge its content in the urine. Cystoscopic evaluation followed by laparotomy and excision of ovarian dermoid along its extension to the urinary bladder is a rational approach. However if expertise is available it may be managed laparoscopically. Our patient has benign indolent coarse of pilimiction for last 9 years. Except US scans we did not do MRI or CT scan for financial constrain. Keeping an open mind we did cyst evaluation. Attempt of endoscopic resection seems that the dermoid has invaded bladder wall from out side. We did laparotomy in the same sitting. Lt. ovary was almost buried between the leaf of broad ligament and contain a dermoid cyst invading bladder wall to discharge its contents. So we confirm our diagnosis as secondary bladder dermoids as a cause of pilimiction & excise the whole specimen keeping its safety margin. Histopathologically it appears benign mature cystic teratoma."}
{"id": "18929404", "title": "The rate of port-site metastases after 2251 laparoscopic procedures in women with underlying malignant disease.", "content": "The rate of port-site metastases after 2251 laparoscopic procedures in women with underlying malignant disease. The aim was to describe the rate of laparoscopic trocar-related subcutaneous tumor implants in women with underlying malignant disease. An analysis of a prospective database of all patients undergoing transperitoneal laparoscopic procedures for malignant conditions performed by the gynecologic oncology service. Between July 1991 and April 2007, laparoscopic procedures were performed in 1694 patients with a malignant intraabdominal condition and in 505 breast cancer patients undergoing risk-reducing, diagnostic or therapeutic laparoscopic procedures without intraabdominal disease. Port-site metastases were documented in 20 of 1694 patients (1.18%) who underwent laparoscopic procedures for a malignant intraabdominal condition. Of these, 15 patients had a diagnosis of epithelial ovarian or fallopian tube carcinoma, 2 had breast cancer, 2 had cervical cancer, and 1 had uterine cancer. Nineteen of 20 patients (95%) had simultaneous carcinomatosis or metastases to other sites at the time of port-site metastasis. Patients who developed port-site metastases within 7 months from the laparoscopic procedure had a median survival of 12 months whereas patients who developed port-site metastasis >7 months had a median survival of 37 months (P=0.004). No port-site recurrence was documented in patients undergoing risk-reducing, diagnostic or therapeutic laparoscopic procedures for breast cancer without intraabdominal disease. The rate of port-site tumor implantation after laparoscopic procedures in women with malignant disease is low and almost always occurs in the setting of synchronous, advanced intraabdominal or distant metastatic disease. The presence of port-site implantation is a surrogate for advanced disease and should not be used as an argument against laparoscopic surgery in gynecologic malignancies."}
{"id": "18843688", "title": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for FIGO Stage I ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for FIGO Stage I ovarian cancer. Over the past ten years laparoscopy has become an increasingly common approach for the surgical removal of early stage ovarian tumours. There remains uncertainty about the value of this intervention. This review has been undertaken to assess the available evidence of the benefits and harms of laparoscopic surgery for the management of early stage ovarian cancer compared to laparotomy. To evaluate the benefits and harms of laparoscopy in the surgical treatment of FIGO stage I ovarian cancer (stages Ia, Ib and Ic) when compared with laparotomy. Trials were identified by searching the Cochrane Gynaecological Cancer Group Trials Register, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), The Cochrane Library Issue 2, 2007, MEDLINE (January 1990 to November 2007), EMBASE (1990 to November 2007), LILACS (1990 to November 2007), BIOLOGICAL ABSTRACTS (1990 to November 2007) and Cancerlit (1990 to November 2007). We also searched our own publication archives, based on prospective handsearching of relevant journals from November 2007. Reference lists of identified studies, gynaecological cancer handbooks and conference abstract were also scanned. Studies including patients with histologically proven stage I ovarian cancer according to the International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO).Studies comparing laparoscopic surgery with laparotomy for early stage ovarian cancer were only available from 1990. It was anticipated that a very small number of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were conducted studying the management of early stage ovarian cancer. Therefore, non-randomised comparative studies, cohort studies and case-controls studies, but not studies with historical controls, were also considered. Data extraction was performed independently by five review authors (LRM, DDR, MIR, MCB and MIE) who assessed study quality and quality of extracted data. Extracted data included trial characteristics, characteristics of the study participants, interventions and outcomes. The quality of non RCTs was assessed using appropriate quality evaluations tools from the Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) and from the Newcastle-Ottawa tool for observational studies (NOS). No RCTs were identified. Three observational studies were identified. This review has found no evidence to help quantify the value of laparoscopy for the management of early stage ovarian cancer as routine clinical practice."}
{"id": "18840188", "title": "First case of liposarcoma arising from the fallopian tube: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "First case of liposarcoma arising from the fallopian tube: case report and review of the literature. Liposarcoma is the most common soft tissue sarcoma in adults, and it typically occurs in either the retroperitoneum or the extremities. However, this malignant tumor is very rare in the female reproductive system. A 58-year-old woman presented with acute abdominal pain, and computed tomography (CT) scan detected multiple masses measuring 4-6 cm in size with a fatty density in her adnexal region. Laparoscopic evaluation revealed tumors of the left fallopian tube with a normal left ovary. Histopathological evaluation of the resected pelvic tumors showed lipocytes and lipoblasts of various sizes, leading to diagnosis of well-differentiated liposarcoma of the left adnexal region. This is the first known case of a liposarcoma arising from the fallopian tube. When a pelvic mass with fatty density that does not show typical findings of a mature cystic teratoma is detected by either CT or magnetic resonance imaging, the possibility of a liposarcoma should be considered."}
{"id": "18837098", "title": "Primary signet ring cell carcinoma of the appendix: a rare case report and our 18-year experience.", "content": "Primary signet ring cell carcinoma of the appendix: a rare case report and our 18-year experience. Primary adenocarcinoma of the appendix is a rare malignancy that constitutes < 0.5% of all gastrointestinal neoplasms. Moreover, primary signet ring cell carcinoma of the appendix is an exceedingly rare entity. We have encountered 15 cases of primary appendiceal cancer among 3389 patients who underwent appendectomy over the past 18 years. In the present report, we describe a rare case of primary signet ring cell carcinoma of the appendix with ovarian metastases and unresectable peritoneal dissemination occurring in a 67-year-old female patient. She underwent appendectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy with a laparoscopy procedure. She then received palliative systemic chemotherapy with 12 cycles of oxaliplatin, 5-flurorouracil, and leucovorin (FOLFOX-4). The patient currently is well without progression of disease 12 mo after beginning chemotherapy."}
{"id": "18827492", "title": "A treatment selection protocol for recurrent ovarian cancer patients: the role of FDG-PET/CT and staging laparoscopy.", "content": "A treatment selection protocol for recurrent ovarian cancer patients: the role of FDG-PET/CT and staging laparoscopy. To investigate the best diagnostic and staging strategy for recurrent ovarian cancer. The negative predictive value, specificity, positive predictive value, sensitivity, and accuracy rates of the fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose positive emission tomography computed tomography (FDG-PET/CT) and staging laparoscopy in identifying surgically treatable/untreatable patients are assessed in a consecutive series of 70 recurrent ovarian cancer cases. Moreover, the diagnostic performance of each staging procedure in the evaluation of the number of nodules is analyzed. The negative predictive value of the FDG-PET/CT was 83.3%, whereas the positive predictive value was 76.9%. Specificity was 55.6%, whereas sensitivity was 93.0%. Accuracy rate was 78.6%. Negative predictive value, specificity, positive predictive value, sensitivity, and accuracy rate of staging laparoscopy were 88.9, 64.0, 80.8, 95.0 and 83.1%, respectively. Combined radiological and laparoscopic evaluation showed a negative predictive value of 88.9%, a specificity of 59.3%, a positive predictive value of 78.8%, a sensitivity of 95.3%, and an accuracy rate of 81.4%. The number of nodules identified by FDG-PET/CT corresponded in only 23 patients (40.3%) at laparotomy, whereas 15 of 30 patients were correctly diagnosed (50.0%) by staging laparoscopy. The combination of FDG-PET/CT and staging laparoscopy has a significant effect on the multimodal approach to the population of patients with recurrent ovarian cancer. Such techniques should be considered complementary, because of the potential of each one to identify a different setting of the disease."}
{"id": "18819455", "title": "[Operative treatment of benign ovarian tumours in adolescent patients: laparotomy or laparoscopy?].", "content": "[Operative treatment of benign ovarian tumours in adolescent patients: laparotomy or laparoscopy?]. The aim of the study was a retrospective analysis of operative procedures, laparoscopy or laparotomy, carried out in cases of benign adolescent ovarian tumours. A retrospective review of 709 patient charts with ovarian tumours, who had undergone surgical interventions at The Department of Surgical Gynaecology and Endoscopy of The Polish Mother's Memorial Hospital--Research Institute in \u0141\u00f3d\u017a--has been conducted. Among groups of girls treated either with laparoscopy or laparotomy, the following parameters were analysed: age of the patients, character of the tumour (based on the pathological result), size of the lesion, type of the surgical procedure, duration of the hospitalisation and postoperative complications. 109 girls had ovarian tumours operated--54 times laparoscopy and 55 laparotomy times were performed. An average age of patients who underwent laparoscopy was 16.2 years, in case of laparotomy: 15.3 years (p > 0.05). An average size of tumours excised in laparotomy was 82 mm (60-190 mm), whereas in laparoscopy 64 mm (30-80 mm) (p > 0.05). The most common laparotomic procedure was the ovarian cystectomy (63%) and cystovariectomy (32%), while during laparoscopy the cystectomy was performed in 92% (p > 0.05). Duration of the laparoscopy was shorter, average was 46.7 min, whereas mean time of laparotomy was 49.2 min (p > 0.05). Also duration of postoperative hospitalisation was longer in case of laparotomy, its average time was 5.4 days in comparison with laparoscopy--2.8 days (p < 0.05). Laparoscopy performed in adolescents due to benign ovarian tumours seems to be a very safe way of the surgical treatment. Moreover, laparoscopy reduces duration of hospitalisation and convalescence, also giving a nice cosmetic effect."}
{"id": "18814002", "title": "Robot-assisted laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology.", "content": "Robot-assisted laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology. The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate the feasibility and the outcome of gynaecological cancer surgery with the Da Vinci S surgical system (Intuitive Surgical). From February 2007 to September 2007, 28 patients underwent 32 gynaecological procedures in a single centre. Surgical procedures consisted of total hysterectomy, bilateral oophorectomy, and pelvic and/or lombo-aortic lymphadenectomy. In all cases, surgery was performed using both laparoscopic and robot-assisted laparoscopic techniques. In this heterogeneous series, a subgroup of 12 patients treated for advanced cervical cancer was compared with a retrospective series of 20 patients who underwent the same surgical procedure by laparotomy. Mean age of the entire population was 52.5 years (range 25-72 years) and mean body mass index (BMI) was 25 kg/m(2) (range 18-40 kg/m(2)). Indications for surgery were cervical cancer in 21 cases, endometrial cancer in 7 cases, ovarian cancer in 1 case and cervical dysplasia in 3 cases. Median operating time was 180 min (mean 175.25 min, range 80-360 min) and median estimated blood loss was 110 cc (range 0-400 cc); no transfusions were necessary. No perioperative complications were observed and median time of hospitalisation was 3 days (mean 3.9 days, range 2-8 days). In the subgroup of 12 advanced cervical cancer a significant difference was observed in terms of hospital stay compared with laparotomy; no difference was observed concerning operative time. Fewer complications were observed with laparotomy (33% versus 25%) but more serious complications than with robot-assisted laparoscopy. As suggested in the literature, the use of robot-assisted laparoscopy leads to less intraoperative blood loss, less post operative pain and shorter hospital stays compared with those treated by more traditional surgical approaches. Despite the need for more extensive studies, robot-assisted surgery seems to represent a similar technological evolution as the laparoscopic approach 50 years ago."}
{"id": "18805654", "title": "[Giant leiomyoma of fallopian tube: a rare aetiology of abdominal tumor].", "content": "[Giant leiomyoma of fallopian tube: a rare aetiology of abdominal tumor]. Leiomyomas of the fallopian tube are extremely rare. They are often managed with autopsy or surgery. We report a revealed case by a voluminous-abdominal mass in a 35-year-old woman. Neither the tomodensitometry nor, even, the laparoscopy did not permit specifying the tubal origin of the tumor. The diagnosis has been finally carried to the laparotomy. An annexectomy had been achieved. The histological examination concluded to a leiomyoma without malignant-cellular atypia."}
{"id": "18802903", "title": "Dermoid tumors of the ovary: evaluation of the gasless lift-laparoscopic approach.", "content": "Dermoid tumors of the ovary: evaluation of the gasless lift-laparoscopic approach. Laparoscopic removal is widely accepted as the treatment of choice for dermoid tumors. However, the spillage of dermoid content with the laparoscopic approach is very high compared to laparotomy. The potential malignancy of dermoid tumors and the rare, but difficult to treat, chemical peritonitis in cases of spillage of dermoid content should lead to an adaptation of procedures during an endoscopic operation on a dermoid tumor to comply with the precautions of the \"open\" technique. Lift-laparoscopy combines laparoscopy with the standard procedures of laparotomy and thus may help reduce the spillage of dermoid contents. In a retrospective study of 108 patients with dermoid tumors, the frequency of the rupture of a dermoid tumor during a lift-laparoscopic operation was examined. Among the 79 cases of organ-preserving treatment, there were only three cases (3.8%) where a rupture of the dermoid capsule occurred. Even in cases of ruptures, it was possible to avoid spillage by closing the lesion with a clamp and continue the enucleation of the dermoid tumor during a lift-laparascopic operation. After thorough abdominal cavity lavage, none of these three cases showed a cytological contamination of the abdominal cavity with dermoid cells. None of the ovariectomy or adnexectomy cases showed a rupture. Histologically, there was also no carcinoma in any of the examined dermoid tumors. By adapting the endoscopic dermoid surgery to the precautions established in an open surgery technique using gasless lift-laparoscopy, ruptures and cell spilling can be avoided to a large extent but not completely excluded. Compared with other methods, the number of ruptures and spillage of dermoids by organ-preserving treatment as well as ovariectomy is lowest using a lift-laparoscopic procedure."}
{"id": "18801470", "title": "Prospective validation of a laparoscopic predictive model for optimal cytoreduction in advanced ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Prospective validation of a laparoscopic predictive model for optimal cytoreduction in advanced ovarian carcinoma. The purpose of this study was to validate the performance of a laparoscopy-based model to predict optimal cytoreduction in advanced ovarian cancer patients. In a consecutive prospective series of 113 advanced ovarian cancer patients, the presence of omental cake, peritoneal and diaphragmatic extensive carcinosis, mesenteric retraction, bowel and stomach infiltration, spleen and/or liver superficial metastasis were investigated by laparoscopy. By summing the scores relative to all parameters, a laparoscopic assessment for each patient (total predictive index value = PIV) has been calculated. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV), and accuracy have been calculated for each PIV. The overall accuracy rate of the laparoscopic procedure ranged between 77.3 and 100%. At a PIV >/= 8 the probability of optimally resecting the disease at laparotomy is equal to 0, and the rate of unnecessary exploratory laparotomy is 40.5%. The proposed laparoscopic model appears a reliable and flexible tool to predict optimal cytoreduction in advanced ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "18796025", "title": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy in the management of breast disease.", "content": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy in the management of breast disease. Oophorectomy is being increasingly carried out in the management of breast disease, as either adjuvant treatment for breast cancer or for prevention of ovarian and fallopian tube cancer in BRCA gene mutation carriers. The aims of this study were to determine the surgical outcome of laparoscopic oophorectomy when carried out by breast surgeons and whether laparoscopic oophorectomy can be safely carried out during the same anaesthesia as breast surgery. Patients who had laparoscopic oophorectomy carried out by two breast surgeons were reviewed with regard to the indication, surgical outcome and concurrent procedures. Salpingectomy was also carried out when the indication was prevention. Seventy patients with breast disease had laparoscopic oophorectomy between January 2000 and June 2007. Forty-three patients had laparoscopic oophorectomy for adjuvant endocrine treatment of early breast cancer, 13 for prophylaxis, 7 for endocrine and prophylactic reasons and 7 for treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Sixteen patients had laparoscopic oophorectomy and breast surgery at the same time, without complication. Of note, four BRCA mutation carriers had prophylactic mastectomies, bilateral breast reconstruction and bilateral laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy. No patient required conversion to an open procedure, including 29 patients with previous abdominal surgery. There were no significant complications. Three patients had ovarian cancer or breast cancer detected in an ovary. Laparoscopic oophorectomy can be safely and efficiently carried out by breast surgeons with expertise in laparoscopic surgery. Previous abdominal surgery did not prevent a successful laparoscopic approach. Breast oncological and/or reconstructive surgery and laparoscopic oophorectomy can be reliably carried out as a combined procedure."}
{"id": "18763296", "title": "Large solitary ovarian metastasis from colorectal cancer diagnosed by endoscopic ultrasound.", "content": "Large solitary ovarian metastasis from colorectal cancer diagnosed by endoscopic ultrasound. A case is presented of rectal carcinoma in which during staging by endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) a second large extrarectal mass was seen not otherwise visualized on computer tomography (CT) that was a solitary ovarian metastasis. The surgeon was alerted to the EUS finding prior to the planned laparoscopic colectomy. On retrospective review of the CT pelvis after surgery, the radiologist could still not diagnose the ovarian lesion separated from the primary rectal tumor due to their close proximity. However, on EUS we were able to clearly see on real-time imaging that there was a distinct peri-rectal mass apart from the primary rectal tumor."}
{"id": "18722966", "title": "Ectopic ovarian teratoma of the uterosacral ligament associated with a large ovarian dermoid.", "content": "Ectopic ovarian teratoma of the uterosacral ligament associated with a large ovarian dermoid."}
{"id": "18708903", "title": "Acute abdomen due to twisted ovarian immature teratoma in a 7-year-old girl: magnetic resonance findings with histopathologic correlation.", "content": "Acute abdomen due to twisted ovarian immature teratoma in a 7-year-old girl: magnetic resonance findings with histopathologic correlation. Immature teratomas represent only the 1% of ovarian teratomas, and they are the third most common primitive germ cell tumor; generally, they are congenital lesions and affect mainly the first 2 decades. We present the case of a 7-year-old child who came at our attention because of an acute low abdominal pain due to the torsion of an ovarian immature grade 1 teratoma on its pedicle. After ultrasound in the emergency department, preoperative evaluation was done by performing a magnetic resonance study, whose findings helped in suggesting the curative approach. The magnetic resonance imaging characteristics of the neoplasm are reviewed and correlated with histopathologic findings. As it was highlighted in our case, magnetic resonance imaging may be part of the diagnostic approach of this rare disease entity also in a small child in emergency."}
{"id": "18706207", "title": "Laparoscopic radical cystectomy with orthotopic ileal neobladder in the female: report of 14 cases.", "content": "Laparoscopic radical cystectomy with orthotopic ileal neobladder in the female: report of 14 cases. Bladder carcinoma is the most common malignant urological tumor in China. We present our preliminary experience and results of laparoscopic radical cystectomy (LRC) with orthotopic ileal neobladder in female patients with bladder carcinoma. From February 2003 to February 2008, 14 female patients with bladder carcinoma underwent LRC with orthotopic ileal neobladder. Nine of these patients underwent hysterectomy and ovariectomy, and the other 5 had preservation of the uterus and ovarian appendage. Standard bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy was followed by radical cystectomy that was completed laparoscopically with hysterectomy and ovariectomy when needed. The tumor was removed by a 4 - 5 cm lower midline abdominal incision, followed by the construction of ileal neobladder and the extracorporeal anastomosis of ureter-neobladder. The neobladder was anastomosed to the urethral stump under a laparoscope. The mean operative time and blood loss in the 14 patients were 350.2 minutes and 349.8 ml, respectively. Postoperative complications included uretero-pouch anastomotic stricture in 1 patient and pouch-vaginal fistula in 1 patient. Follow-up time of all patients ranged from 3 to 60 months, and 12 patients were followed up for more than 6 months and achieved micturition in half a year. One patient had occasional day-time urinary incontinence and 2 had night-time incontinence. Two patients who had undergone hysterectomy and ovariectomy had voiding difficulties after one year, which was treated by intermittent self-catheterization. The mean volume of the neobladder and the residual urine were 333.6 ml and 31.2 ml, respectively. Surgical margins were tumor free for all patients. One patient had bone metastasis and died 11 months after the operation. LRC with orthotopic ileal neobladder in female patients is a technically feasible, safe and mini-invasive procedure with a low morbidity and acceptable neobladder function. Long-term follow-up is required to confirm the neobladder function and oncological outcomes."}
{"id": "18692828", "title": "Progression of conservatively treated endometrial complex atypical hyperplasia in a young woman: a case report.", "content": "Progression of conservatively treated endometrial complex atypical hyperplasia in a young woman: a case report. To describe a case of progression of endometrial complex atypical hyperplasia (CAH) to extrauterine endometrioid adenocarcinoma in a patient who had requested fertility-sparing management. Case report. Division of Gynecologic Oncology, National Cancer Institute \"Regina Elena,\" Rome, Italy. A nulliparous 36-year-old woman with endometrial CAH who decided on a conservative approach. Conservative hysteroscopic resection of the lesion, the surrounding endometrium, and underlying myometrium plus hormone therapy regimen of megestrol acetate (160 mg) daily for 6 months. Failure of the conservative therapy and progression of disease. Eighteen months after fertility-sparing management, a laparoscopic operation revealed grade 2 endometrium adenocarcinoma with superficial myometrial invasion and a microscopic metastasis of the left ovary and Douglas peritoneum. The patient underwent adjuvant chemotherapy followed by external beam radiation of the pelvis and brachytherapy. Twenty-five months after, she was free of disease. Conservative therapy is feasible in carefully selected young women with endometrial CAH. However, close follow-up is required because of possible progression to endometrial cancer."}
{"id": "18672622", "title": "Results of laparoscopic pelvic and/or para-aortic lymphadenectomy in gynecologic oncology patients in Bangkok Metropolitan Administration Medical College and Vajira Hospital.", "content": "Results of laparoscopic pelvic and/or para-aortic lymphadenectomy in gynecologic oncology patients in Bangkok Metropolitan Administration Medical College and Vajira Hospital. To determine the results of laparoscopic lymphadenectomy in gynecologic oncology patients. Medical records of 31 gynecologic oncology patients who underwent laparoscopic lymphadenectomy between November 1, 2004 and February 28, 2007 were retrospectively reviewed. The median age of the study population was 47 years (range 24-77 years). Sixteen patients (51.6%) had endometrial cancer while 15 (48.4%) had ovarian malignancy, with median numbers of resected pelvic and paraaortic nodes of 12 (range 3-30 nodes) and 1 (range 1-3 nodes). The groups of lymphadenectomy only, lymphadenectomy with total laparoscopic hysterectomy, and lymphadenectomy with laparoscopic assisted vaginal hysterectomy had median blood losses of 100 ml (range 30-220 ml), 350 ml (range 100-800 ml), and 200 ml (range 150-400 ml) respectively. Accidental injuries of common iliac artery and large bowel occurred in two patients, all of whom were converted to a laparotomy for correcting the damaged sites. Overall, the median duration for postoperative recovery was three days (range 2-8 days). The results suggest that surgical staging for gynecologic malignancies can be adequately performed through laparoscopic surgery, with benefit in terms of early postoperative recovery."}
{"id": "18669765", "title": "Robotic trocar site small bowel evisceration after gynecologic cancer surgery.", "content": "Robotic trocar site small bowel evisceration after gynecologic cancer surgery. Trocar site hernia is a known, rare complication after laparoscopic surgery. We describe a case of bowel herniation, evisceration, and bowel obstruction through an 8-mm robotic port site. A 67-year-old patient with endometrial cancer underwent an uncomplicated robotic hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, and pelvic and aortic lymphadenectomy. Four days later, she presented with symptoms of a small bowel obstruction and was found to have evisceration through a laterally placed 8-mm robotic port site. The bowel was reduced locally and the fascial defect repaired without midline laparotomy or bowel resection. Bowel herniation can occur through the fascial defect after placement of an 8-mm robotic port. Continued reporting is needed to accurately gauge the occurrence of this complication."}
{"id": "18660682", "title": "Gynaecological laparoscopy: 'see and treat' should be the gold standard.", "content": "Gynaecological laparoscopy: 'see and treat' should be the gold standard. Two hundred and fifty thousand gynaecological laparoscopies are performed yearly in the UK, many of them diagnostic. Unless a patient has major endometriosis and needs advanced surgery, the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists suggest a 'see and treat' policy. Thus, gynaecologists who undertake laparoscopy should be competent at performing intermediate level laparoscopic surgery, including excision of endometriosis, adhesions and benign ovarian tumours, rather than converting to laparotomy or referring patients to another unit. In order to reduce operative risk and make best use of resources, preoperative assessment should triage patients into those with unlikely pelvic pathology who do not require laparoscopy in the first instance, those with severe endometriosis, who need referral to a specialist centre and the intermediate group who is best served with a 'see and treat' policy. Appraisal of alternatives to diagnostic laparoscopy in infertility assessment and recent reports of modified ultrasound scanning improve the predictive value and will help to avoid unnecessary laparoscopies. Preoperative predictors for severe endometriosis can determine who needs specialist referral. 'See and treat' laparoscopies require adequate education, and workable training methods are under investigation. Negative laparoscopies should be avoided and 'see and treat' laparoscopy should replace diagnostic procedures. Thorough preoperative assessment helps to identify women suitable for 'see and treat' laparoscopy."}
{"id": "18656074", "title": "Emergency management and conservative surgery of ovarian torsion in children: a report of 40 cases.", "content": "Emergency management and conservative surgery of ovarian torsion in children: a report of 40 cases. The authors describe and discuss the clinical and therapeutic features of 40 ovarian torsions (OT) in children with its urgent treatment that has advanced in recent years. A retrospective study of 40 cases of OT in 38 children under 16 years of age, excluding adnexal torsions in neonates. Abdominal and/or pelvic pain was the presenting symptom ; 8 of these children had pain between 2 to 9 months prior to surgery and 27/40 (67.5%) had associated vomiting. Before the procedure, ultrasound (US) diagnosed 29 ovarian lesions, related to 14 mature teratomas (MTE) and 10 cystadenomas (CA), one association of MTE and CA in the same ovary, 2 functional cysts and 2 malignant neoplasms. 19/40 torsions could benefit from conservative management. Eleven torsions occurred, 10/11 of these ovaries had an increased volume, and 5/11 had US evidence of small subcortical cysts. Three detorsions with incomplete removal of CA were followed by enlargement of the tumor and re-torsion in 2 of them. Five children had bilateral ovarian pathology which led to unilateral ovariectomy, while the other benefited from conservative treatment. In any girl presenting with abdominal pain, the diagnosis of an ovarian torsion must be considered. US is performed emergently, but only surgery, most often a laparoscopic procedure, assures diagnosis. The treatment of the torsion is an emergency and must be as conservative as possible in order to preserve the ovarian function. Bilateral torsions are not unusual."}
{"id": "18651883", "title": "Should adnexal mass size influence surgical approach? A series of 186 laparoscopically managed large adnexal masses.", "content": "Should adnexal mass size influence surgical approach? A series of 186 laparoscopically managed large adnexal masses. To evaluate the feasibility and safety of laparoscopic management of adnexal masses > or = 10 cm in size. Prospective cohort study. Two Gynecology Departments of University Hospitals. All women presenting with an adnexal mass > or = 10 cm in diameter were candidates for laparoscopic management. Women were excluded from laparoscopic approach if there was evidence of ascites or gross metastatic disease. Neither the sonographic features of the cyst nor elevated serum CA125 level was used to exclude women from having a laparoscopic approach. A single operative protocol was followed for all women. All removed specimens were sent for immediate pathological evaluation. Rate of conversion to laparotomy, incidence of cancer encountered, and operative complications. One hundred and eighty-six women underwent laparoscopic evaluation for an adnexal mass of 10 cm or larger in size. The average preoperative mass size was 12.1 +/- 4.9 cm. A benign pathological condition was found in 86.6% (161/186) of the women, primary ovarian cancer in 16 (8.6%) women, a metastatic tumour of gastrointestinal origin in 1 (0.5%) woman, and a low malignant potential ovarian tumour in 8 (4.3%) women. Laparoscopic management was successful for 174 (93.5%) women. Reasons for conversion to laparotomy included anticipated technical difficulty (n = 7) and malignancy (n = 5). No intraoperative complications occurred in the entire study group. The vast majority of large adnexal masses can be safely resected laparoscopically, provided that there is expertise in laparoscopic surgery, immediate access to frozen section diagnosis, and preparation of patient to receive an adequate cancer surgery where indicated."}
{"id": "18646677", "title": "Struma Ovarii with a focus of follicular variant of papillary thyroid cancer: a case report.", "content": "Struma Ovarii with a focus of follicular variant of papillary thyroid cancer: a case report. Struma Ovarii is a mature ovarian teratoma that consists mainly of thyroid tissue. Mature cystic teratomas may contain small amounts of thyroid tissue. Carcinomatous change in Struma Ovarii is extremely rare. No guidelines exist regarding the staging and treatment of malignant Struma Ovarii. To report a case of Struma Ovarii with a focus follicular variant papillary thyroid cancer. A 36 year old nulligravid patient presented with a pelvic mass palpated on her routine annual exam. Struma Ovarii with a focus of follicular variant of papillary thyroid cancer was diagnosed during the subsequent laparoscopy and ovarian cystectomy. She then underwent a staging laparotomy, total hysterectomy, bilateral salpingoophorectomy, and infracolic omentecomy. Tumor markers, thyroid studies, thyroid scan, and whole body scans were normal. Optimal treatment and surveillance of malignant struma ovarii has yet to be determined."}
{"id": "18618475", "title": "Triage for surgical management of ovarian tumors in asymptomatic women: assessment of an ultrasound-based scoring system.", "content": "Triage for surgical management of ovarian tumors in asymptomatic women: assessment of an ultrasound-based scoring system. To prospectively evaluate an ultrasound-based scoring system as a method for triaging asymptomatic women presenting with an adnexal mass for surgical treatment. Two hundred and four adnexal masses in 189 asymptomatic women undergoing elective surgical treatment at our institution were included in this prospective study. Patients were evaluated by transvaginal power Doppler ultrasound imaging before surgery. Patients were classified as low risk or high risk for malignancy according to an ultrasound-based scoring system. Women with a low risk for malignancy were scheduled for laparoscopy and patients with a high risk for malignancy were scheduled for laparotomy. However, patients classified as low risk by the ultrasound scoring system, but with a tumor size >or= 10 cm or clinical suspicion of pelvic adhesions, were instead considered to be at intermediate risk and were scheduled for laparotomy. Some patients classified as high risk were scheduled for an operative laparoscopy by an expert in gynecological oncology. One hundred and thirty-four (65.7%) masses were considered to be low risk and were treated by a laparoscopically guided procedure. All these tumors were benign. Forty-seven (23%) masses were classified as high risk, of which 39 tumors were malignant and eight benign. Twenty-three (11.3%) tumors were considered to be intermediate risk and were scheduled for primary laparotomy. In this group, 21 (91.3%) tumors proved to be benign and two (8.7%) were malignant. Ultrasound-based triage of asymptomatic women diagnosed with a persistent adnexal mass is effective for selecting the surgical approach."}
{"id": "18614547", "title": "NOTES: transvaginal for cancer diagnostic staging: preliminary clinical application.", "content": "NOTES: transvaginal for cancer diagnostic staging: preliminary clinical application. Laparoscopy is now a reliable method for staging gastrointestinal cancer, orienting the therapy, and avoiding unnecessary laparotomy. Natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) is an emerging concept with potential advantages for patient recovery. The first case of clinical diagnostic application of transvaginal NOTES for diagnostic cancer staging is presented. Informed consent and Institutional Commission approval were obtained for transvaginal clinical trials. On February 28, 2007, a patient with elective surgical indication for diagnostic cancer staging was submitted to transvaginal NOTES procedure, and intra- and postoperative parameters were documented. In a 50-year-old female patient presenting with ascitis, diffuse abdominal pain, and weight loss for 2 months, diagnosis of peritoneal carcinomatosis was suspected, which was also found when a CT scan was performed. Transvaginal NOTES was used for diagnostic staging of the patient, using a colonoscope introduced into the abdomen through a small incision in the vagina. Biopsies of liver, diaphragm, ovaries, and peritoneum were successfully performed. Operative time was 105 min, vaginal access and closure was obtained in 15 min. Abdominal inventory was reliable, and all 16 biopsies taken were positive for ovarian adenocarcinoma. The patient was dismissed 48 hours after the procedure without complications. Recent literature and experience of the study group suggest possibilities for preliminary clinical applications by transvaginal natural orifice surgery for diagnostic purposes."}
{"id": "18613274", "title": "Robotic appendectomy in gynaecological surgery: technique and pathological findings.", "content": "Robotic appendectomy in gynaecological surgery: technique and pathological findings. We evaluated the feasibility, safety and pathological findings of incidental robotic appendectomy in patients undergoing robotic gynaecological surgery. Retrospective analysis of 107 consecutive cases of robotic appendectomy done in conjunction with other robotic gynaecological procedures between May 2004 and January 2007. All appendectomies were performed robotically in conjunction with other robotic procedures. Mean time for appendectomy was 3.4 min. No perioperative complications related to appendectomy were encountered. Among 90 patients with no gynaecological malignancy, 57 patients reported chronic pelvic pain preoperatively and 21 (37%) of them had an abnormal appendiceal pathology as compared to only 5 (15%) of the 33 patients with no pelvic pain (OR. 3.2; 95% CI, 1.1-9.7, p = 0.032). Of seven patients with ovarian malignancy, three (42%) had appendicular metastasis. Incidental robotic appendectomy can be performed safely without the need for switching to conventional laparoscopy. It should be considered in patients undergoing robotic pelvic surgery for pelvic pain and ovarian malignancy."}
{"id": "18609278", "title": "Increasing numbers of ureteric injuries after the introduction of laparoscopic surgery.", "content": "Increasing numbers of ureteric injuries after the introduction of laparoscopic surgery. There is an impression that ureteric injuries have become more common during the past decade, and therefore this study aimed to determine the incidence, aetiology, features, treatment and outcomes of ureteric injuries over an extended period. Records of patients treated for ureteric injury in 1986--2006, divided into three 7-year periods, were reviewed retrospectively. The numbers of open and laparoscopic gynaecological, surgical and endourological operations were ascertained. All 72 ureteric injuries recorded were iatrogenic, being diagnosed in 60 females and 11 males (mean age 52 years). Only five injuries occurred during the first 7-year period (1986--1992), but the incidence was markedly higher during the following two 7-year periods, 28 (1993--1999) and 39 (2000--2006), respectively. The injuries were mostly secondary to gynaecological procedures (64%) or general surgery (25%). Only 11% occurred in association with a urological procedure. The cause was mostly laparoscopic (56%) or open surgery (33%), and the injury was in most cases located in the lower ureter (89%). The diagnosis was usually delayed (in 79%), with a median time to diagnosis of 6 days. The injuries were managed by ureteroneocystostomy (49%), a ureteral stent (19%) or end-to-end anastomosis (12%). The complication rate was 36%. Iatrogenic ureteric injuries have increased markedly during the past two decades. Gynaecological laparoscopic procedures account for more than half of the injuries, and the most common location is the lower ureter. Most injuries are treated by ureteroneocystostomy, but endourological treatment yields acceptable results. To improve the management of ureteric injury there must be a high index of suspicion, especially during laparoscopic operations."}
{"id": "18602055", "title": "Three case reports of laparoscopic management of granulosa cell tumor with intraoperative rupture and subsequent upstaging.", "content": "Three case reports of laparoscopic management of granulosa cell tumor with intraoperative rupture and subsequent upstaging. Granulosa cell tumors (GCT) of the ovary account for 2% to 5% of all ovarian tumors and typically demonstrate an indolent clinical course. For a young woman with stage IA disease who wishes to preserve fertility, conservative surgery with laparoscopic techniques can be a safe and effective method. Three patients with clinical presumptive stage IA GCT of the ovary were initially treated with conservative laparoscopic surgery with intraoperative rupture of the tumor. On repeat surgical exploration, all 3 patients were found to have peritoneal disease. Postoperative chemotherapy was required. Several important aspects of laparoscopic management of adnexal masses are highlighted by these 3 case reports. A thorough knowledge about GCT is important. Complete and clean removal of an unknown adnexal mass is imperative."}
{"id": "18584410", "title": "A case of metastatic struma ovarii treated with 131I therapy: focus on preservation of fertility and selected review of the literature.", "content": "A case of metastatic struma ovarii treated with 131I therapy: focus on preservation of fertility and selected review of the literature. Struma ovarii is a rare monodermal ovarian teratoma composed predominantly of mature thyroid tissue. We describe herein the case of a 22-year-old woman who underwent a right salpingo-oophorectomy for struma ovarii at the age of 12 years, who was admitted 8 years later with signs and symptoms of a left pelvic tumor. Laparoscopy detected a left ovarian endometriotic cyst and multiple nodules on the pelvic peritoneum, right lateral abdominal wall, diaphragm, vesical plica and liver. The diagnosis was abdominal and pelvic widespread dissemination of recurrent struma ovarii, with features consistent with the follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma. The patient was treated with a combination of conservative surgery and two 131I administrations (cumulative activity of 350 mCi after dosimetric evaluation). Because of the high degree of hormonogenesis shown by the metastases, the first administration was performed following use of recombinant human (rh) thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) to reach adequate TSH levels. To avoid the 'stunning effect' and to obtain high-quality scintigraphy, a whole-body scan was performed with 123I after rh-TSH and before the 131I therapy. We also discuss the potential role and the possible benefit of using gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs and ovarian tissue cryopreservation to preserve fertility in women treated with 131I for pelvic metastases from malignant struma ovarii."}
{"id": "18581775", "title": "Irregular dental structures in a benign ovarian cystic teratoma (dermoid cyst): case report.", "content": "Irregular dental structures in a benign ovarian cystic teratoma (dermoid cyst): case report. Mature cystic teratomas, often referred to as dermoid cysts, are the most common germ cell tumors of the ovary in women of reproductive age. The gross pathologic appearance of a dermoid cysts is characteristic. Hair follicles, skin glands, muscle, and other tissues lie within the cyst wall. We present a case of a dermoid cyst ovarian tumor in a 24-your-old patient with a tooth lying on each wall. The mass was laparoscopically removed by ovarian cystectomy."}
{"id": "18581767", "title": "Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts.", "content": "Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts. Dermoid cysts are the most common germ cell tumors of the ovary in women of reproductive age. We report 67 cases of patients with dermoid cysts (mean age, 31.31 years) originating from the ovary treated from 1994 to 2006 at the Obstetrics and Gynecology Department of Aschaffenburg Hospital-Clinic in Germany. Most patients (60) underwent cyst removal. In two patients salpingo-oophorectomy was performed and in five partial oophorectomy was performed. Additional surgery ensuing laparotomy was never necessary. None of the patients had long-term postoperative complications. Two patients were at nine and 15 weeks of gestation and postoperatively were well following termination of pregnancy. In a group of 43 women, who desired pregnancy, 37 pregnancies resulted. The overall intrauterine pregnancy rate was 83.7%; one patient had an ectopic pregnancy (2.32%). To receive more information on this disease, treatment should be performed according to international protocols."}
{"id": "18572226", "title": "External validation of a laparoscopic-based score to evaluate resectability of advanced ovarian cancers: clues for a simplified score.", "content": "External validation of a laparoscopic-based score to evaluate resectability of advanced ovarian cancers: clues for a simplified score. The relevance of laparoscopy-based score in identifying patients with advanced ovarian cancer for optimal cytoreductive surgery has been evaluated. 55 patients with stage III-IV ovarian cancer, having undergone both laparoscopy and laparotomy for cytoreductive surgery, were retrospectively analyzed. Seven parameters were assessed: omental cake, peritoneal carcinosis, diaphragmatic carcinosis, mesenteric retraction, bowel infiltration, stomach infiltration, liver metastases. Each parameter was assigned 2 points if present and 0 if not (Fagotti score). Sensitivity, specificity, positive (PPV) and negative (NPV) predictive values, and accuracy were calculated for each parameter. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was used to predict the surgical outcome. A laparoscopy-based score of >or=8 was associated with suboptimal cytoreduction with sensitivity, specificity, PPV, NPV, and accuracy of 46%, 89%, 89%, 44%, and 60% respectively. ROC curve analysis gave an Area Under the Curve (AUC) of 0.74. A modified score was set up by selecting 4 of the 7 parameters which satisfied the inclusion criteria in our population: diaphragmatic carcinosis, mesenteric retraction, stomach infiltration, liver metastases. Thirteen patients (12%) had a modified score of >or=4 and 42 patients (88%) had a score of <4 with an optimal cytoreduction rate of 0% and 43% respectively (P=0.002). A modified score of >or=4 was associated with suboptimal cytoreduction with sensitivity, specificity, PPV, NPV, and accuracy of 35%, 100%, 100%, 43%, and 56% respectively. ROC curve analysis gave an AUC of 0.68. This simplified laparoscopy-based score was at least as accurate as the Fagotti score to predict resectability."}
{"id": "18539090", "title": "Laparoscopic treatment and staging of early ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic treatment and staging of early ovarian cancer. To review the laparoscopic staging procedure in a series of patients with early ovarian cancer and compare results with the literature. A prospective single-center study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). A hospital in Spain. A total of 20 patients with apparent early stage ovarian cancer from January 2003 through November 2007. The histologic tumor types were epithelial tumors (18 patients) and dysgerminoma (2 patients). Among the epithelial tumors, 11 were invasive and 7 were borderline (3 serous and 4 mucinous). Comprehensive laparoscopic staging was performed in all patients according to the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics guidelines. Seventeen patients had previous adnexal surgery and diagnosis and surgical staging were performed in only 3 patients during the same surgery. The patients' median age was 42.8 years (range 16-67). Eight (40%) patients desired to maintain fertility and a conservative approach was performed for this group. Laparoscopic staging was completed in 19 (95%) patients. In 1 case, a conversion to laparotomy was necessary as the para-aortic lymphadenectomy was completed because of a vessel lesion that was repaired without difficulty. The median operative time was 223 minutes (range 180-320) for radical surgery and 188 minutes (range 120-240) for the conservative approach. The mean hospital stay was 3 days. Of the 20 total patients, 4 (20%) were upstaged. The median follow-up was 24.7 months (range 1-61), with a disease-free survival of 95% and an overall survival of 100%. One recurrence was observed. A comprehensive surgical staging procedure is clearly indicated in cases of early ovarian cancer and oncologic guidelines should be respected. The laparoscopic approach could be a valid alternative to laparotomy."}
{"id": "18510047", "title": "[Expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) on peritoneal fluid mononuclear cells in women with endometriosis].", "content": "[Expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) on peritoneal fluid mononuclear cells in women with endometriosis]. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) plays a key role in the processes underlying the development of pelvic endometriosis. TNF-alpha acts on target cells via two receptors: TNFR1(p55) and TNFR2(p75). Depending on cell type and its activation state, ligand binding to TNF-alpha may induce activation and proliferation of the cells or promote apoptosis. The aim of our study has been to evaluate the expression of TNFR1 and TNFR2 on peritoneal fluid macrophages and T lymphocytes derived from women with endometriosis. The study group consisted of 22 patients with endometriosis (stage I and II rAFS). 14 patients with benign, non-inflammatory ovarian tumors composed the reference group. Mononuclear cells have been isolated from peritoneal fluid, obtained during laparoscopy. The expression of TNFR1 and TNFR2 proteins has been evaluated by means of flow cytometry, using monoclonal antibodies against CD120a, CD120b, CD3 and CD14. The percentage of peritoneal fluid macrophages revealing the expression of TNFR1 and TNFR2 proteins has been higher in patients with endometriosis, in comparison with control group (22.6+/-5.3% vs. 6.8+/-1,8%; p=0.03 and 29.3+/-2.3% vs. 8.8+/-1.8%; p=0.01, respectively). The percentage of T lymphocytes with the expression of TNFR1 and TNFR2 has been similar in endometriosis and control group. Higher percentage of peritoneal fluid macrophages expressing TNFR1 and TNFR2 proteins in endometriosis suggests dependence of these cells on TNF-alpha stimulation. Changes in TNF receptors distribution on PF macrophages, but not lymphocyte, may play its role in the pathogenesis of endometriosis."}
{"id": "18504700", "title": "Pelvic pain, adnexal masses, and ultrasound.", "content": "Pelvic pain, adnexal masses, and ultrasound. Pelvic pain, acute or chronic, accounts for more than 10% of referrals to gynecologists. Pain accounts for more than 40% of gynecologic diagnostic laparoscopies. Predicting operative findings is critical in planning surgical interventions, as well as preoperative and postoperative medical therapy. Ultrasound is useful in preoperative evaluation and in predicting surgical findings. This section reviews the use of various ultrasound modalities in evaluating adnexal masses and associated pelvic pain. Morphologic assessment with two-dimensional (2-D) ultrasound is the foundation for adnexal evaluation. The ultrasound morphology of common ovarian and adnexal masses is reviewed. The application and reliability of Doppler assessment is also reviewed. New advances, such as three-dimensional (3-D) sonography, 3-D vascular assessment, and contrast imaging, augment diagnostic accuracy. These advances may find future application in the clinical evaluation of patients. This section reviews the application of 2-D morphology, Doppler analysis, 3-D morphology, rendering and vascular assessment, and the use of contrast agents in the ultrasound evaluation of patients with adnexal masses and pelvic pain."}
{"id": "18504696", "title": "Ultrasound assessment of the ovary in the infertile woman.", "content": "Ultrasound assessment of the ovary in the infertile woman. Few would argue that the introduction of transvaginal ultrasound (TVUS) revolutionized the practice of assisted reproduction. For example, full-bladder follicular scanning and laparoscopic oocyte retrievals were converted to TVUS-guided procedures. The application of higher-frequency scanning probes provided greater resolution and improved the clinician's ability to evaluate the ovary for pathologic conditions, for determination of ovarian reserve, and for therapeutic decisions during ovarian stimulation cycles. All these uses of TVUS of the ovary will be discussed in this article."}
{"id": "18501324", "title": "Incidence, clinical analysis, and management of ovarian fibromas and fibrothecomas.", "content": "Incidence, clinical analysis, and management of ovarian fibromas and fibrothecomas. The objective of the study was to identify the incidence, diagnosis, and therapeutic and histological particularities of ovarian fibromas and fibrothecomas. This was a retrospective study of 24 patients who underwent surgical treatment for ovarian fibromas and fibrothecomas between January 1994 and December 2006. Clinical, ultrasonographic, tumor marker, therapeutic, and histologic data were analyzed. The mean age of patients was 49 years. Thirteen patients were menopausal. Ultrasonographic findings were ovarian echogenic tumor in 6 cases, hypoechogenic tumor in 12 cases, mixed tumor in 6 cases, and anechogenic tumor in 1 case. Cancer antigen-125 level measured in 21 cases was abnormal in 3 cases. Twenty-one patients underwent laparotomy. Three patients underwent laparoscopy; however, 1 was converted to laparotomy because of a suspected tumor. Histological findings were 16 fibromas and 9 fibrothecomas. Ovarian fibromas and fibrothecomas are uncommon, accounting for 3.3% of ovarian tumors. These lesions often occur in perimenopausal and menopausal patients. Clinical, ultrasonographic, and tumor marker data remain the best preoperative approach currently available for ovarian tumors. However, the diagnosis remains histological."}
{"id": "18493900", "title": "Outcome of an adult granulosa cell tumour in an adolescent initially managed by laparoscopy.", "content": "Outcome of an adult granulosa cell tumour in an adolescent initially managed by laparoscopy. Adult granulosa cell tumour is rarely encountered in adolescents. Tumours in their early stages have a favourable prognosis whereas those in advanced stages have a poor outcome. Documented series of tumours at advanced stages are very rare and follow-up is difficult because of the frequently prolonged intervals before progression of the tumour. That may explain why it is very difficult to define a consensual management strategy with or without adjuvant therapy such as chemotherapy or radiation therapy. We describe a case of adult granulosa cell tumour in a 14-year-old girl who initially underwent laparoscopy for an \"unsuspicious\" cyst. Management was then modified according to oncological guidelines because of the histological nature of this cyst."}
{"id": "18476952", "title": "Laparoscopic ovarian transposition in patients with early cervical cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic ovarian transposition in patients with early cervical cancer. The aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility, efficacy, and morbidity of laparoscopic ovarian transposition on the preservation of hormonal function in patients younger than 45 years operated for early cervical cancer. According to risk factors on pathologic evaluation of the specimen, some of them will receive postoperative pelvic radiotherapy. This subset of patients could benefit from taking the ovaries away from the irradiation field in an effort to preserve their functionality. This prospective study included 28 FIGO stage IB1 cervical cancer patients, 45 years old or younger, maintaining menstrual cycles, who were considered suitable for conservation of the ovaries. The ovarian transposition was performed by laparoscopy as a part of the same celio-Schauta operation. Twelve patients underwent adjuvant pelvic radiotherapy. No intraoperative or postoperative morbidity related to the ovarian transposition was observed, and the procedure only entailed a minimum delay of the operative time. There were no cases of ovarian metastasis. At a mean follow-up of 44 months, 63.6% of patients receiving radiotherapy and 93% of those who nonirradiated maintained normal ovarian function. Two patients developed benign ovarian cysts, requiring oophorectomy, but no other long-term adverse effects of the transposition were identified. To the best of our knowledge, this is the largest series of the laparoscopic procedure reported to date in this setting. According to our results, laparoscopic ovarian transposition is a safe and effective procedure for the preservation of ovarian function in young patients with early cervical cancer undergoing adjuvant radiotherapy after surgery."}
{"id": "18463044", "title": "Virilizing ovarian Leydig cell tumor in a woman with subclinical Cushing syndrome.", "content": "Virilizing ovarian Leydig cell tumor in a woman with subclinical Cushing syndrome. To report the case of a patient with a virilizing ovarian Leydig cell tumor and subclinical Cushing syndrome attributable to an adrenal adenoma. Detailed clinical, laboratory, radiologic, and pathologic findings are presented, and the pertinent literature is reviewed. A 49-year-old woman was referred for evaluation of a left adrenal mass (3.0 by 2.4 cm), which had been diagnosed by computed tomographic scan 4 years previously during a work-up for hirsutism. On examination, she had central obesity, facial hirsutism, and male pattern baldness. Work-up showed elevated total and free testosterone levels of 196 ng/dL (reference range, 20 to 70) and 24 pg/mL (1 to 9), respectively. Other results (and reference ranges) were as follows: dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, 7.5 microg/dL (10 to 221); corticotropin, 12 pg/mL (5 to 50); morning cortisol, 1.4 microg/dL after a 1-mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test; and urine free cortisol, 48.8 microg/24 h (20 to 100). The testosterone level decreased by 14% after a 2-day low-dose dexamethasone suppression test. Findings on transvaginal ovarian ultrasonography and a computed tomographic scan of the pelvis were normal. A laparoscopic adrenalectomy revealed an adrenal adenoma. On the first day postoperatively, the cortisol level was less than 1.0 microg/dL; however, the testosterone level remained elevated. At 6 months postoperatively, a normal result of a cosyntropin stimulation test indicated recovery of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. Bilateral oophorectomy revealed a 1.3-cm right ovarian Leydig cell tumor. Postoperatively, the testosterone level declined to less than 20 ng/dL. To our knowledge, this is the first case report of a virilizing ovarian Leydig cell tumor in a patient with subclinical Cushing syndrome."}
{"id": "18463043", "title": "Medullary thyroid carcinoma manifesting as an ovarian mass: case report and review of literature.", "content": "Medullary thyroid carcinoma manifesting as an ovarian mass: case report and review of literature. To report the uncommon case of a woman with abdominal pain and a complex adnexal mass, who was subsequently found to have medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) metastatic to the ovary. We present the clinical history, physical findings, laboratory and imaging studies, and pathologic findings in a woman with metastatic MTC and locally aggressive disease. The genetic associations, variable clinical course, and histopathologic findings in MTC are reviewed. A 38-year-old woman with abdominal and pelvic pain underwent a computed tomographic scan of the abdomen, which showed a complex left adnexal mass. After laparoscopic left oophorectomy, histopathologic analysis of the resected ovary suggested the presence of a metastatic neuroendocrine tumor. The patient recovered but was referred to the surgery clinic 3 months later because of hoarseness, a left neck mass, and left-sided vocal cord paralysis. Further work-up was suggestive of MTC, which prompted RET testing for multiple endocrine neoplasia. The patient underwent left thyroid lobectomy and selective lymph node dissection but later required tracheostomy because of tumoral invasion of the trachea, laser debulking of the tumor, and external beam radiation therapy. One year postoperatively, development of a metastatic lesion in her right ovary necessitated a second oophorectomy. MTC usually manifests as a solitary thyroid nodule but should be considered in patients with metastatic lesions characterized by neuroendocrine features. This unusual case highlights the biologic and clinical variability of this often aggressive thyroid cancer, which necessitates an attentive work-up, a rigorous operative strategy, and a periodic postoperative surveillance program."}
{"id": "18459557", "title": "Primary ovarian choriocarcinoma mimicking ectopic pregnancy managed with laparoscopy -- case report.", "content": "Primary ovarian choriocarcinoma mimicking ectopic pregnancy managed with laparoscopy -- case report. Nongestational ovarian choriocarcinomas are extremely rare and pose diagnostic challenges in reproductive-aged patients because of elevated human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG). A 23-year-old nulliparous Chinese woman with nongestational ovarian choriocarcinoma escaped diagnostic testing and was initially treated for an ectopic pregnancy. Three months after her first visit, a diagnostic laparoscopy demonstrated a nongestational ovarian choriocarcinoma. Comprehensive surgical staging was performed by laparoscopy. The tumor was confined to the left ovary. The patient was categorized as FIGO Stage IA. She was given four courses of combined chemotherapy after laparoscopic surgery and has been disease-free for 36 months."}
{"id": "18439519", "title": "Total laparoscopic resection of primary large retroperitoneal teratoma resembling an ovarian tumor in an adult.", "content": "Total laparoscopic resection of primary large retroperitoneal teratoma resembling an ovarian tumor in an adult. Whereas most teratomas occur in the ovaries and testes of adolescents, they can be found in midline structures such as sacrococcygeum (congenitally), anterior mediastinum, retroperitoneum, and the pineal gland. Primary retroperitoneal teratomas are extremely rare in adults. A 27-year-old woman was referred to our hospital because of an incidentally found pelvic mass, considered to be an ovarian tumor by ultrasonography. Computed tomography strongly suggested a retroperitoneal cystic tumor because of anterior displacement of retroperitoneal organs. The large retroperitoneal mature teratoma was successfully resected laparoscopically without complication. In this case, despite a large tumor size and its approaching the rectum, total laparoscopic resection was the most feasible surgical choice."}
{"id": "18437497", "title": "Comparison of laparoscopy and laparotomy in surgical staging of early-stage ovarian and fallopian tubal cancer.", "content": "Comparison of laparoscopy and laparotomy in surgical staging of early-stage ovarian and fallopian tubal cancer. To compare feasibility, accuracy, and safety of laparoscopy and laparotomy in surgical staging of early-stage ovarian and fallopian tubal cancer. Outcomes of patients with stage I ovarian and fallopian tubal cancer who underwent complete surgical staging at Asan Medical Center, Korea between 2004 and 2007 were retrospectively evaluated. Nineteen patients were surgically staged through laparoscopy and 33 through laparotomy. There were no between-group differences in mean age, parity, body mass index, lymph nodes retrieved, or omentum specimen size, nor were there between-group differences in the percentage of patients who were postmenopausal, those referred for restaging, in the time interval to restaging, in those upstaged after surgery, or in those with intraoperative tumor rupture. The laparoscopy group had significantly shorter operating time (221 +/- 83 min versus 275 +/- 63 min, P = 0.012), less blood loss (240 +/- 228 mL versus 568 +/- 451 mL, P = 0.005), less transfusion requirement (5.3% versus 30.3%, P = 0.033), faster return of bowel movement (1.3 +/- 0.7 days versus 3.6 +/- 1.7 days. P < 0.001), and shorter postoperative hospital stay (8.9 +/- 6.1 days versus 14.5 +/- 5.6 days, P = 0.002) and time interval to adjuvant chemotherapy (12.8 +/- 4.9 days versus 17.6 +/- 8.3 days, P = 0.049). There were no postoperative complications requiring further management. After a median follow-up time of 17 months (range 1-44 months), there was no recurrence or death from disease in either group. Laparotomy and laparoscopy showed similar surgical staging adequacy and accuracy, and laparoscopy showed more favorable operative outcomes. Laparoscopy was safe for early-stage ovarian and fallopian tubal cancer, although follow-up time was relatively short."}
{"id": "18433977", "title": "The role of laparoscopy in the treatment of early ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "The role of laparoscopy in the treatment of early ovarian carcinoma. Laparoscopic management of early ovarian cancer (EOC) has constituted a controversial issue since it was first described. Recent data reinforced the arguments supporting the use of laparoscopy in the management of EOC. Advances in laparoscopy have enabled surgeons to meet the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics' criteria for staging of EOC. Although most study results are encouraging, the sample size is still too small to be able to draw definite conclusions. Frequently cited concerns such as accuracy of staging, intraabdominal tumor rupture and port site metastasis should not be used as arguments against laparoscopic management of EOC. Clinical evidence is clearly in favor of a larger role for laparoscopy in the management of EOC. This should encourage studies with larger sample sizes to confirm the validity of laparoscopic management of EOC."}
{"id": "18394621", "title": "Pregnancy in a hermaphrodite with a male-predominant mosaic karyotype.", "content": "Pregnancy in a hermaphrodite with a male-predominant mosaic karyotype. To report a pregnancy in a hermaphrodite and review of the literature. Case report and literature review. Clinical. A patient with male-predominant mosaic karyotype 96% 46XY. Removal of left ovotestis in combination with a supracervical hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Identification of published cases of pregnancy and hermaphroditism. The current patient had previous pregnancy and a wedge biopsy of her left gonad, which demonstrated an ovotestis and an area suspicious for a gonadoblastoma. After delivery of her second pregnancy, the patient underwent a hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. The histopathologic evaluation following bilateral oophorectomy demonstrated a residual ovotestis without further evidence of a gonadoblastoma. Review of the literature identified 10 other cases of pregnancy in a hermaphrodite patient. This is the 11th reported case of fertility in a true hermaphrodite and only the second report of a mosaic true hermaphrodite to demonstrate fertility. This is the only case of a pregnancy involving a male-predominant mosaic 96% 46XY and the only case to confirm the genetics of the offspring."}
{"id": "18386461", "title": "Concentrations of follicle stimulating hormone are increased in ovarian tumor fluid: implications for the management of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Concentrations of follicle stimulating hormone are increased in ovarian tumor fluid: implications for the management of ovarian cancer. Significant progress has been made in recent years in the understanding of the mechanisms postulated by the gonadotropin theory of ovarian carcinogenesis. In the present study we compare FSH concentrations between serum and fluid from cysts or the rectouterine pouch of patients with epithelial tumors and non-neoplastic lesions. We enrolled 277 patients. They were divided into five groups: I (n = 44)--ovarian cancer patients, II (n = 16)--borderline tumors, III (n = 40)--benign epithelial cystadenomas, IV (n = 137)--non-neoplastic lesions and V (n = 22)--admitted for \"second-look\" laparoscopy. There were any significant differences between FSH concentrations in serum and tumor fluid in patients with ovarian cancer (36.46 vs 28.11 mIU/ml) and borderline epithelial tumors (31.5 vs 22.7 mIU/ml). For benign cystadenomas the respective concentrations were 28.96 mIU/ml in serum and 6.93 mIU/ml in tumor fluid in these groups p < 0.0000001. The same highly significant differences were found in non-neoplastic lesions (24.97 vs 4.77 mIU/ml), p < 0.0000001. Patients who underwent \"second-look\" laparoscopy demonstrated significant differences (p < 0.05) as FSH concentration in serum and peritoneal fluid when neoplastic cells were not disclosed, but the difference was not significant (p = 0.752) when fluid from the rectouterine pouch was positive for carcinoma cells. The results of our study can reflect an ineffective tumor: blood barrier and easy diffusion of gonadotropins into the tumor tissue. Local reduction of FSH levels through administration of GnRH analogs may in some clinical situations produce clear therapeutic benefits for the management of ovarian malignancies."}
{"id": "18358268", "title": "A laparoscopic approach to treating torsion of a nonpregnant uterus accompanied by a large ovarian cyst in a premenarchal girl.", "content": "A laparoscopic approach to treating torsion of a nonpregnant uterus accompanied by a large ovarian cyst in a premenarchal girl. A 10-year-old premenarchal girl was admitted to our hospital with moderate abdominal pain, although presenting no vomiting or abdominal rebound tenderness. A large abdominal mass was visible and palpable in the periumbilical and epigastric regions. Results of physical examination revealed that the general health status was satisfactory. Computed tomographic scan revealed a large, thin-walled cyst occupying nearly the entire peritoneal cavity. The other viscera were of normal aspect. A laparoscopic approach revealed a left ovarian cystic tumor that was twisted 360 degrees in conjunction with the uterine corpus with hemorrhagic infarction. A partial hysterectomy and a left salpingo-oophorectomy were carried out. The tumor was classified as mature cystic teratoma of the ovary accompanied by hemorrhagic necrosis, not only of the cyst but also of the left uterine tube and the uterine corpus."}
{"id": "18356093", "title": "[Borderline ovarian tumors: an update].", "content": "[Borderline ovarian tumors: an update]. Borderline ovarian tumors account for 15-20% of all ovarian epithelial tumors and are diagnosed primarily in young women who want to preserve their childbearing potential. Due to the absence of specific preoperative criteria, diagnosis is often made during surgery or after the anatomopathologic examination. The management of borderline ovarian tumors with early stage is well-known and conservative surgery must be chosen as much as possible. Laparoscopic approach is possible for these tumors, allowing diagnosis, staging and also treatment. For advanced stage, laparotomy is still recommended. Staging must be performed during the initial surgery because tumor stage is one of the most relevant prognostic factors. Restaging operation should be discussed when complete staging was not made during initial surgery. Because his prognostic and therapeutic impacts are not proved, restaging surgery remains controversial. For that reason, it seems important to define clinical and histological criteria for patients with a high risk of upstaging."}
{"id": "18353321", "title": "Does the fimbria have an embryologic origin distinct from that of the rest of the fallopian tube?", "content": "Does the fimbria have an embryologic origin distinct from that of the rest of the fallopian tube? To propose a new theory describing the development of the fallopian tube fimbria. Case series report. Metropolitan tertiary care children's hospital. Two girls, aged 12 and 20 years, who presented with pelvic pain. Magnetic resonance imaging, laparoscopy with salpingectomy, and pathologic analysis. Description of a novel theory regarding the embryologic development of the fallopian tube and its fimbria. In two non-sexually active girls the cause of their pelvic pain was found to be a hydrosalpinx associated with a discontinuous fallopian tube in which the fimbriated end did not directly communicate with the remainder of the fallopian tube. The two cases of pure congenital fallopian tube atresia, the presence of fimbriae in patients with m\u00fcllerian (uterine, cervical, and vaginal) agenesis, and the role of the fimbria in ovarian-like and peritoneal cancers, support a novel hypothesis that the fimbria of the fallopian tube may arise separately from the rest of the tube."}
{"id": "18336393", "title": "Timing of debulking surgery in advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Timing of debulking surgery in advanced ovarian cancer. It is clear that primary debulking remains the standard of care within the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer (FIGO stage III and IV). This debulking surgery should be performed by a gynecological oncologist without any residual tumor load, or so-called \"optimal debulking.\" Over the last decades, interest in the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy together with an interval debulking has increased. Neoadjuvant therapy can be used for patients who are primarily suboptimally debulked due to an extensive tumor load. In this situation, based on the randomized European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer-Gynaecological Cancer Group trial, interval debulking by an experienced surgeon improves survival in some patients who did not undergo optimal primary debulking surgery. Based on the GOG 152 data, interval debulking surgery does not seem to be indicated in patients who underwent primarily a maximal surgical effort by a gynecological oncologist. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy can also be used as an alternative to primary debulking. In retrospective analyses, neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery does not seem to worsen prognosis compared to primary debulking surgery followed by chemotherapy. However, we will have to wait for the results of future randomized trials to know whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery is a good alternative to primary debulking surgery in stage IIIc and IV patients. Open laparoscopy is probably the most valuable tool for evaluating the operability primarily or at the time of interval debulking surgery."}
{"id": "18326907", "title": "[Effect of carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum-laparoscopic surgery on tumor seeding and metastases in endometrial cancer].", "content": "[Effect of carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum-laparoscopic surgery on tumor seeding and metastases in endometrial cancer]. To explore the influence of carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum-laparoscopic surgery on tumor cell seeding and metastases in endometrial cancer. Twenty patients with endometrial cancer who underwent laparoscopic surgery and 10 patients with endometrial cancer who underwent laparotomic surgery were enrolled. Each patient was in preoperative clinical StageIand the uterus size in each patient was less than 12 weeks of pregnancy. Carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum was established and maintained with CO2 insufflation at 4 approximately 6 L/min and intraperitoneal pressure of 13 mmHg with an automatic pneumoperitoneum machine. Cytologic examination of peritoneal fluid(at the beginning and end of the operation), CO2 filtrated gas and the lavage fluid of instruments during the laparoscopic surgery were performed. The protein expressions of E-cadherin,beta-catenin,P-selectin,matrix metalloproteinase-2(MMP-2),vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),and CD44v6 in tumor tissues before and after the operation were detected by DAKO Envision. There were no case of positive washing cytology in the peritoneal fluid,CO2 filtrated gas, and the lavage fluid of instruments during the laparoscopic surgery. The expressions of E-cadherin and beta-catenin proteins were obviously abnormal in endometrial cancer. The abnormal expressions of E-cadherin and beta-catenin protein between the pre- and post-operations were not significantly different in both the laparoscopic group and the laparotomic group(P>0.05).The changes of abnormal expressions of E-cadherin and beta-catenin protein were no statistical difference between the two groups(P>0.05). The positive protein expressions of P-selectin,MMP-2,VEGF,and CD44v6 were not significantly different between the pre- and post-operations both in the laparoscopic group and the laparotomic group(P>0.05),and there was also no significant difference between the laparoscopic group and the laparotomic group(P>0.05).The follow-up period in the laparoscopic group was 7 approximately 19 (14.25+/-3.65) months and 7 approximately 19 (13.10+/-4.23) months in the laparotomic group. One patient got infection in the urinary system in the laparoscopic group and one patient had lower extremity venous thrombosis in the laparoscopic group.No recurrence was detected in both groups. Laparoscopic surgery for endometrial cancer has no effect on protein expressions of E-cadherin,beta-catenin,P-selectin,MMP-2,VEGF,and CD44v6 in tumor tissues. No evidence has been found that CO2 pneumoperitoneum-laparoscopic surgery may favor endometrial cancer cell seeding and metastases."}
{"id": "18299381", "title": "Ovarian torsion caused by teratoma masquerading as renal colic.", "content": "Ovarian torsion caused by teratoma masquerading as renal colic. Ovarian torsion is a well known but poorly recognised disease and prompt treatment is necessary to avoid adverse outcomes. We report a patient with severe right flank pain initially diagnosed as renal colic. She was brought to our emergency department because of persistent pain. After further investigation, ovarian torsion caused by teratoma was diagnosed. Because of the timely management, the patient made a good recovery. This is an uncommon but important case that emergency physicians should be aware of."}
{"id": "18289650", "title": "Bladder erosion by an intraperitoneal chemotherapy catheter resulting in catheter protrusion through the external urethral meatus.", "content": "Bladder erosion by an intraperitoneal chemotherapy catheter resulting in catheter protrusion through the external urethral meatus. Chemotherapy remains an essential part of the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer. Intraperitoneal (IP) administration has been demonstrated to provide a survival advantage over intravenous chemotherapy in three phase 3 studies. However, IP catheter complications have been a significant factor in aborting IP therapy. A 42-year-old woman receiving IP chemotherapy for carcinoma of the ovary presented with complaints of incontinence. Examination revealed the catheter protruding through the external urethral meatus. The reservoir was intact, and the catheter was immobile. Laparoscopic and cystoscopic evaluation demonstrated that the catheter tip had eroded through the dome of the bladder. The catheter was re-secured to the abdominal wall, and the bladder was laparoscopically repaired. IP chemotherapy was resumed 16 days postoperatively without incident. This is the first report of an IP catheter eroding through the bladder. Increased usage of IP chemotherapy may offer new challenges in the diagnosis and management of catheter-related complications."}
{"id": "18284455", "title": "Laparoscopic and laparotomic staging in stage I epithelial ovarian cancer: a comparison of feasibility and safety.", "content": "Laparoscopic and laparotomic staging in stage I epithelial ovarian cancer: a comparison of feasibility and safety. The aim of this study was to compare laparoscopic and laparotomic surgical staging in patients with stage I epithelial ovarian cancer in terms of feasibility and safety. A retrospective chart review was undertaken of all patients with apparent stage I epithelial ovarian cancer who underwent laparoscopic (laparoscopy group) or laparotomic (laparotomy group) surgical staging at the Center for Uterine Cancer, National Cancer Center, Korea, between January 2001 and August 2006. During the study period, 19 patients underwent laparotomic surgical staging and 17 patients underwent laparoscopic surgical staging. No cases were converted from laparoscopy to laparotomy. The two groups were similar in terms of age, body mass index, procedures performed, number of lymph nodes retrieved, and operating time. The laparoscopy group had less estimated blood loss (P = 0.001), faster return of bowel movement (P < 0.001), and a shorter postoperative hospital stay (P = 0.002) compared to the laparotomy group. Transfusions were required only in two laparotomy patients, and postoperative complications occurred only in four laparotomy patients. However, two patients with stage IA grade 1 and 2 disease in laparoscopy group had recurrence with one patient dying of disease. The accuracy and adequacy of laparoscopic surgical staging were comparable to laparotomic approach, and the surgical outcomes were more favorable than laparotomic approach. However, the oncologic safety of laparoscopic staging was not certain. This is the first report on the possible hazards of laparoscopic staging in early-stage ovarian cancer. In the absence of a large prospective trial, this technique should be performed cautiously."}
{"id": "18275579", "title": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal tumours in post-hysterectomy women.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal tumours in post-hysterectomy women. Laparoscopy is becoming common for the management of complex benign gynaecological diseases, in which considerable adhesions are expected, thus making the laparoscopic surgery more difficult to perform. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of laparoscopic surgery for adnexal tumours in post-hysterectomy women. In a retrospective study, we reviewed and analysed 40 post-hysterectomy women who were treated surgically for benign ovarian tumours at Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, from May 1999 to April 2007. Twenty women received laparotomic surgery and 20 were treated by laparoscopic surgery. Operating time, haemoglobin changes, complication rates, return of bowel activity, and duration of hospital stay were evaluated. Operating time, haemoglobin changes, and complication rates were similar for both groups. For the laparoscopy group, the return of bowel activity was significantly faster (33 vs 45 h; P = 0.0131) and hospital stay was significantly shorter (four vs eight days; P = 0.0005) than for the laparotomy group. Laparoscopic surgery for adnexal tumours in post-hysterectomy women might be an effective and safe alternative to laparotomic surgery. Surgical experience in this procedure and a thorough understanding of retroperitoneal anatomy from a laparoscopic view are mandatory to ensure low morbidity."}
{"id": "18273629", "title": "Laparoscopic findings in female genital tuberculosis.", "content": "Laparoscopic findings in female genital tuberculosis. To evaluate the laparoscopic findings in genital tuberculosis (TB). A total of 85 women of genital TB, who underwent diagnostic laparoscopy for infertility or chronic pelvic pain were enrolled in this retrospective study conducted in our unit at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India from September 2004 to 2007. The mean age was 28.2 years and the mean parity was 0.24. Most women were from poor socioeconomic status (68.1%). Past history of TB was seen in 29 (34.1%) women with pulmonary TB in 19 (22.35%) women and extrapulmonary in 10 (11.7%) women. Most women presented with infertility (90.6% primary 72.9%; secondary 17.6%) while the rest had chronic pelvic pain (9.4%). The mean duration of infertility was 6.2 years. A total of 49 (57.6%) women had normal menses, while hypomenorrhea, oligomenorrhea, secondary amenorrhea and menorrhagia were seen in 25 (30.1%), 3 (3.5%), 5 (5.9%), and 2 (2.4%) women respectively. Diagnosis of genital TB was made by histopathological evidence of TB granuloma in 16 (18.8%) (Endometrial biopsy in 12.9%, laparoscopy biopsy in 5.9%) women, demonstration of acid fast bacilli (AFB) on microscopy in 2(2.3%), positive AFB culture in 2 (2.3%), positive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in 55 (64.7%) and laparoscopic findings of genital TB in 40 (47.1%). The various findings on laparoscopy were tubercles on peritoneum (12.9%) or ovary (1.2%), tubovarian masses (7.1%), caseous nodules (5.8%), encysted ascitis in 7.1% women. Various grades of pelvic adhesions were seen in 56(65.8%) women. The various findings on fallopian tubes were normal looking tubes in (7.1%), inability to visualize in 12(14.1%), presence of tubercles on tubes in 3 (3.52%), caseous granuloma in 3 (3.52%), hydrosalpinx in 15 (17.6%) (Right tube 11.7%, left tube 5.9%), pyosalphinx in 3 (3.5%) on right tube and 2 (2.35%) in left tube, beaded tube in 3 (3.5%) on right tube, 4 (4.7%) in left tube with tobacco pouch appearance in 2 (2.35%) women. The right tube was patent in 9 (10.6%) while left tube was patent in 10(11.7%) cases only, while they were either not seen (absent in one case due to previous salphingectomy, inability to see due to adhesion in 14.12%) or blocked at various sites with cornual end being most common in 3 (3.5%) showing multiple block in right tube and 4.7% in left tube. There is a significant pelvic morbidity and tubal damage in genital tuberculosis."}
{"id": "18262158", "title": "Comprehensive laparoscopic surgical staging of ovarian dysgerminoma in a 13-year-old girl: a case report.", "content": "Comprehensive laparoscopic surgical staging of ovarian dysgerminoma in a 13-year-old girl: a case report. A case of comprehensive laparoscopic surgical staging for ovarian dysgerminoma in a 13-year-old girl is described. A 20-cm pelvic mass, rising from right adnexum, was incidentally diagnosed, and the patient underwent laparoscopic right salpingo-oophorectemy. Pathologic findings were consistent with diagnosis of pure dysgerminoma. We then performed laparoscopic staging including peritoneal washing; resection of right infundibulopelvic ligament; systematic pelvic, common iliac, and infrarenal paraaortic lymphadenectomy; appendectomy; and infracolic omentectomy. Uterus and left adnexum were spared to preserve future fertility. Currently, the patient is alive and free of disease after 21 months of follow-up. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of comprehensive laparoscopic surgical staging for ovarian neoplasm in a 13-year-old patient."}
{"id": "18258232", "title": "Identical twins with ovarian endometriosis and mucinous borderline tumor: an unusual association.", "content": "Identical twins with ovarian endometriosis and mucinous borderline tumor: an unusual association. To report a case of monozygotic twins with unilateral ovarian tumors of different histology and character. Case report. Medical center and teaching hospital. A 22-year-old woman with ruptured ovarian endometrioma and her twin with mucinous borderline tumor of the ovary. Ultrasonography, laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy, and salpingo-oophorectomy. Ovarian cystectomy for the twin with endometrioma and examination of the asymptomatic twin. Diagnosis and treatment of the asymptomatic twin. Ovarian tumors present in monozygotic twins may not always be of the same histologic type."}
{"id": "18239927", "title": "Squamous cell carcinoma arising in an ovarian mature cystic teratoma complicating pregnancy: a case report.", "content": "Squamous cell carcinoma arising in an ovarian mature cystic teratoma complicating pregnancy: a case report. The question of whether patients with pure stage I squamous cell carcinoma in a mature cystic teratoma (MCT) should undergo conservative surgery, or postoperative adjuvant treatment remains unresolved. A 33-year-old woman with a left ovarian cyst underwent laparoscopic cystectomy at 16 weeks of gestation. Histological examination confirmed squamous cell carcinoma arising in an MCT. At 18 weeks of gestation, she underwent left salpingo-oophorectomy, and was diagnosed as having stage Ic malignant transformation of the MCT, and was observed closely without postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy. She delivered a healthy baby at 41 weeks of gestation. No evidence of recurrence was observed 14 months after the initial laparoscopic surgery. Although a thorough staging procedure , histopathologic evaluation, and long-term follow-up are indispensable, patients with early stage I squamous cell carcinoma in MCT may safely undergo conservative surgery."}
{"id": "18236062", "title": "Laparoscopic management of a large recurrent benign mucinous cystadenoma of the ovary.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of a large recurrent benign mucinous cystadenoma of the ovary. Benign mucinous cystadenomas account for 15% of all ovarian neoplasms and up to 80% of all mucinous tumors. Laparoscopy has become an accepted method of management for ovarian cysts and its role is expanding as large benign adnexal masses more than 10 cm can be managed safely and effectively. We report a 25-year-old nulliparous lady with a huge benign mucinous cystadenoma managed by laparoscopic cystectomy, followed by an early recurrence within 2 months. Left salpingo-oophorectomy was performed on a repeat laparoscopy due to suspicion of malignancy on ultrasound. Pathology revealed a benign cyst. Since mucinous tumors are usually benign and multilocular, management of young patients is challenging, especially in the case of recurrence which is very rare."}
{"id": "18227769", "title": "Efficacy of selective venous catheterization in localizing a small androgen-producing tumor in ovary.", "content": "Efficacy of selective venous catheterization in localizing a small androgen-producing tumor in ovary. Androgen-producing tumors, originating mostly in the ovary or adrenal gland, induce hirsutism. It sometimes is difficult to localize the tumor precisely even with modern imaging technology. We used selective venous catheterization and hormonal sampling (SVCHS) to localize an androgen-producing ovarian tumor. A 37-year-old woman (gravida 0, para 0) presented with secondary amenorrhea, infertility, and virilization, including hirsutism and progressive balding. Laboratory examination revealed severe hyperandrogenism, with a total testosterone (T) concentration of 13.1 ng/ml and a free T concentration of 28.1 pg/ml. Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate and androstendione were within normal ranges. Work-up included an abdominal and pelvic ultrasound scan, CT, MRI, and norcholesterol scintigraphy without discovery of the source of the hyperandrogenism. Persistently high plasma T concentrations prompted SVCHS. Eleven blood samples were collected from both the adrenal and the ovarian veins bilaterally. The total T concentration was significantly higher in blood from the right ovarian vein (878 ng/ml). A laparoscopic right oophorectomy was performed. The pathologic diagnosis was a Leydig cell tumor. A rapid decrease in free and total T followed tumor removal, and she became pregnant by in vitro fertilization. SVCHS is highly effective in confirming the presence of a small androgen-producing ovarian tumor."}
{"id": "18207461", "title": "Effect of quality of gynaecological ultrasonography on management of patients with suspected ovarian cancer: a randomised controlled trial.", "content": "Effect of quality of gynaecological ultrasonography on management of patients with suspected ovarian cancer: a randomised controlled trial. The diagnostic accuracy of ultrasonography for differentiating between benign and malignant adnexal masses is proportional to the expertise of the operator. However, we do not know whether improved diagnostic accuracy will affect the management of these tumours. We assessed the effect of the quality of gynaecological ultrasonography on the management of patients with suspected ovarian cancer in a randomised controlled trial. 165 patients who were referred to the regional gynaecological cancer centre at Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust (London, UK), between June 7, 2004, and April 23, 2006, with suspected adnexal tumours met the inclusion criteria. Of these, 150 patients were randomly assigned to either level II (routine) ultrasonography (n=73) or to level III (expert) ultrasonography (n=77). The primary endpoint was the number of major surgical staging procedures (including a laparotomy and at least an oophorectomy and omental biopsy) in each group of the study. Secondary endpoints were: total number of surgical procedures; number of minimally invasive procedures (eg, operative laparoscopy or ultrasonography-guided cyst aspiration); number of additional diagnostic tests (eg, CT or laparoscopy); number of follow-up scans; diagnostic accuracy of level II and level III ultrasonography; and duration of hospital stay. All analyses were by intention to treat. This study is registered on the Current Controlled Trials website http://www.controlled-trials.com/mrct/trial/230201/ISRCTN02631195. More major surgical staging procedures for suspected ovarian cancer were done in the level II group than in the level III group of the study (27 of 73 [37%] vs 17 of 77 [22%], respectively; difference between groups 15% [95% CI 0-29]; RR 1.68 [1.00-2.81]; p=0.049). The total number of surgical procedures was similar between the two groups: 35 of 73 (48%) in the level II group and 33 of 77 (43%) in the level III group (RR 1.12 [0.79-1.59]; p=0.53). The median duration of hospital stay for patients who were operated on was 6 days (range 3-13) in the level II group and 5 days (range 1-9) in the level III group (p=0.01). A likely histological diagnosis was provided to clinicians after ultrasonography for 76 of 77 (99%) patients in the level III group compared with only 38 of 73 (52%) patients in the level II group. 18 of 150 (12%) patients recruited were eventually diagnosed with ovarian malignancy. The sensitivity and specificity of ultrasonography was 2 of 5 (40%; [95% CI 6.5-84.6]) and 10 of 10 (100%; [34-100]), respectively, in the level II group and 7 of 8 (88%; [47-98]) and 27 of 28 (96%; [82-99]), respectively, in the level III group. Improved quality of ultrasonography has a measurable effect on the management of patients with suspected ovarian cancer in a tertiary gynaecology cancer centre, and results in a significant decrease in the number of major staging procedures and a shorter inpatient hospital stay."}
{"id": "18004572", "title": "Primary ovarian rhabdomyosarcoma in children.", "content": "Primary ovarian rhabdomyosarcoma in children. Although rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) is the most common soft tissue sarcoma in children, primary rhabdomyosarcomas of the ovary are extremely rare, with only eight well-documented pediatric cases previously reported in the literature. We present two additional cases: an alveolar RMS originating in the right ovary with metastatic spread to the splenic flexure of the colon and to both lungs in a 13-year-old African American girl, and an embryonal RMS arising in the right ovary of a 6-year-old Caucasian girl with pre-operative intra-abdominal rupture and a malignant right pleural effusion. Both patients had complete resection of their primary tumors and received chemotherapy including vincristine, doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide with good response to therapy. Both are alive 8 and 9 months post-operatively."}
{"id": "18003624", "title": "Laparoscopic oophoropexy prior to radiation for pediatric brain tumor and subsequent ovarian function.", "content": "Laparoscopic oophoropexy prior to radiation for pediatric brain tumor and subsequent ovarian function. Ovarian failure has been reported to occur in female cancer survivors who had received spinal radiation as children. We aimed to determine whether laparoscopic unilateral oophoropexy prior to radiotherapy effectively preserves ovarian function. In a retrospective analysis, the study group comprised girls, aged 18 and younger, who received spinal irradiation for a brain tumor. Ovarian dysfunction, the primary endpoint, was defined as an elevated follicle-stimulating hormone level or persistent amenorrhea. After applying exclusion criteria, 15 patients comprised the group that had undergone laparoscopic oophoropexy, and 11 patients comprised the comparison group that did not have oophoropexy. Mean age at diagnosis, length of follow-up, proportion of high-risk tumors and doses and duration of chemotherapy and radiation were not different between the two groups. Two of 15 patients (13%, 95% CI 0.2-40%) with oophoropexy had ovarian dysfunction compared with five of 11 (45%, 95% CI 17-77%) in the comparison group (P = 0.09). Oophoropexy may protect against radiation-induced ovarian failure in girls receiving spinal radiation. A high risk of ovarian dysfunction was seen in patients who did not undergo oophoropexy. In girls who underwent oophoropexy, a lower rate of ovarian dysfunction was seen."}
{"id": "18000633", "title": "Transrenal ureteral occlusion with the use of microcoils in five patients with ureterovaginal fistulas.", "content": "Transrenal ureteral occlusion with the use of microcoils in five patients with ureterovaginal fistulas. To evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of transrenal ureteral occlusion with microcoils in patients with ureterovaginal fistulas Five women (median age 44 years, range 26-51 years) with ureterovaginal fistulas were treated by transrenal ureteral occlusion with microcoils. The underlying diseases were uterine fibroids (n = 3), a primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the uterine cervix (n = 1), and an ovarian cancer (n = 1). Microcoils with or without gelatin sponges, were placed antegradely through a percutaneous nephrostomy (PCN). A PCN tube was then placed to provide an external diversion The transrenal ureteral occlusion was technically successfully in all patients. Complete or near complete (<1 pad/day) dryness was obtained in all patients within 3 days. No complications other than a slight proximal migration of the microcoils in two patients occurred. The PCN tubes were removed in four of the five patients during the follow-up period with the subsequent procedures: antegrade ureteral stent placement, patent normal ureter, an ureteroneocystostomy and a laparoscopic end-to-end anastomosis of the ureter Transrenal ureteral occlusion with microcoils with or without gelatin sponges is a safe and reliable method for the management of patients with ureterovaginal fistulas."}
{"id": "18000169", "title": "Induction of proliferation in the primate ovarian surface epithelium in vivo.", "content": "Induction of proliferation in the primate ovarian surface epithelium in vivo. Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is the primary ovarian malignancy affecting women. Proposed etiologies of EOC resist direct testing due to the absence of a suitable animal model, as EOC affects only primates, not other mammals. The role of proliferation in ovarian surface epithelium (OSE) transformation has been suggested but not demonstrated, nor has OSE proliferation been widely reported. We selected the rhesus macaque as a model to evaluate the unique primate OSE in vivo, and to determine whether it can undergo proliferative repair, which may relate to EOC etiology. Macaque ovaries were collected at three stages of the cycle. Very late luteal phase ovaries were gently brushed during laparoscopy to remove a portion of the OSE, and ovaries (< or =3 per group) were collected 1-4 days later. Ovary samples were also collected from 10 women aged 33-74 years. Ovarian tissue sections were probed with OSE markers (keratin, beta-catenin, E- and N-cadherin), proliferation markers [proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), phosphorylated histone H3 (phospho-H3), and phosphorylated Retinoblastoma (pRb)], or labels of collagen and basement membrane. Brushing partially removed the OSE; did not cause tissue damage/adhesions; elevated the frequency of PCNA, phospho-H3 and pRb in the residual OSE, marking as many as 10-50% of cells in brushed regions (unbrushed areas contained <0.1% positive cells), and; did not induce proliferation in underlying stromal cells. The OSE can undergo proliferative repair, and thus its normal regulation could contribute to EOC etiology."}
{"id": "17949797", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery for large benign ovarian cysts.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery for large benign ovarian cysts. To assess the feasibility and surgical outcome of laparoscopic surgery among women with large benign ovarian cysts. We conducted a prospective study applying laparoscopic surgery among women with ovarian cysts whose maximum diameter was > or = 10 cm and radiologic and laboratory features suggestive of benign disease. Patients' demographics, clinical and ultrasound features, CA-125 values, surgical procedures, operative and post-operative complications, estimated amount of blood loss (EBL), operative time, conversion to laparotomy and the pathologic findings were recorded. Thirty-three consecutive patients underwent laparoscopic surgery over 7 years. The mean (range) age and body mass index were 45.2 (17-73 years) and 30 (21-42), respectively. Laparoscopic surgery was successful in 31 (93.9%) patients. The procedure was converted to laparotomy in 2 patients secondary to adhesions. There were no operative or post-operative complications. The mean (range) operative time, EBL and hospital stay were 82 (45-125 min), 89 (20-250 mL) and 0.94 (0-4 days), respectively. Twenty-three (70%) patients were discharged home the day of the surgery. The surgical procedures performed were: unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (SO) (n=16), bilateral SO (n=4), ovarian cystectomy (n=2) and laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy and bilateral SO (n=9). The cysts were extracted after aspiration through the vagina (n=11), lower quadrant incision (n=5) or the umbilical incision (n=15). Pathologic findings included serous cystadenoma (n=11), mucinous cystadenoma (n=6), dermoid (n=6), endometriosis (n=5), benign epithelial-lined cyst (n=3) and borderline ovarian tumors (n=2). Laparoscopy is feasible and safe for women with large ovarian cysts with benign features and results in a short hospital stay."}
{"id": "17888431", "title": "Unusual case of adenocarcinoma arising in endometriosis mimicking colorectal cancer in a young woman with a M\u00fcllerian anomaly.", "content": "Unusual case of adenocarcinoma arising in endometriosis mimicking colorectal cancer in a young woman with a M\u00fcllerian anomaly. To report a case of endometrioid adenocarcinoma that arose in endometriosis mimicking colorectal cancer in a young woman with a M\u00fcllerian anomaly. A case report. A university hospital. A 31-year-old, white nulligravida woman with a history of two previous laparoscopies for infertility and chronic pelvic pain. A solid rectosigmoid mass adherent to the left pelvic sidewall was found in this patient. The patient was subjected to an exploratory laparotomy followed by adjuvant chemotherapy. Surgical findings and histopathological observations are included in this report. Intraoperative and histologic examinations revealed endometriosis-associated colorectal cancer. Although a rare event, this condition should be considered in the diagnosis of women with a previous history of pelvic endometriosis, M\u00fcllerian malformation, abdominal pain, constipation, or rectal bleeding."}
{"id": "17764453", "title": "Ultrasound-guided tru-cut biopsy in the management of advanced abdomino-pelvic tumors.", "content": "Ultrasound-guided tru-cut biopsy in the management of advanced abdomino-pelvic tumors. The goal of this study was to evaluate the accuracy and safety of ultrasound-guided tru-cut biopsy in patients with either primarily inoperable pelvic tumor, advanced tumor and compromised performance status, or recurrent pelvic tumor. Altogether, 90 patients were enrolled and only 4 were not suitable for tru-cut biopsy. The biopsy was taken either from pelvic tumor (54.6%), peritoneal visceral or parietal metastases (31.4%), or omental cake (14%). Samples were obtained transvaginally (53.5%) or transabdominally (46.5%). A diagnosis consistent with primary ovarian malignancy was made in 62.8%, metastatic ovarian involvement was found in 10.5%, and extraovarian tumor in 26.7%. The obtained tissue was adequate for histologic diagnosis in 80 out of 86 cases. In four cases, repeated biopsy was required to obtain a sufficient tissue sample. False-negative samples without tumor tissue were obtained in two cases, and those patients were referred for either laparoscopy or minilaparotomy. The diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound-guided tru-cut biopsy reached 97.7% (95% CI 91.85-99.72%). There was only one complication, a bleeding from tumor in a patient with mild thrombocytopenia, requiring laparotomy. In conclusion, ultrasound-guided tru-cut biopsy is safe, reliable, and cost-effective diagnostic method. It can be performed in an outpatient setting without the need for general anesthesia and provides an adequate specimen for histologic analysis, including immunohistochemical methods. It should, therefore, be considered as a method of choice for histologic verification of both advanced primary and recurrent abdomino-pelvic tumors."}
{"id": "17692084", "title": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for benign ovarian tumor: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "content": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for benign ovarian tumor: a systematic review and meta-analysis. To determine the efficacy, safety, and cost of laparoscopic surgery compared with laparotomy in women with ovarian tumors assumed to be benign. This study is a systematic review. We searched (MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS, and COCHRANE LIBRARY) trials registers and reference lists of published trial reports. Six randomized controlled trials were identified involving 324 patients. Duration of surgery, adverse effects of surgery, pain, length of hospital stay, and economic outcomes were compared. The mean duration of surgery was longer in the laparoscopy group overall (weighted mean difference 11.39, 95% CI 0.57-22.22). The pooled estimate for febrile morbidity decreased for laparoscopy (Peto OR 0.34, 95% CI 0.13-0.88). The odds of any adverse effect were decreased after laparoscopic procedures (Peto OR 0.26, 95% CI 0.12-0.55). The odds of being pain free were significantly greater for the laparoscopy group (Peto OR 7.35, 95% CI 4.3-12.56). Mean length of hospital stay was shorter in the laparoscopy group with reduction of 2.79 days (95% CI -2.95 to -2.62). In economic outcomes, there was a significant reduction of US$1045 (95% CI -1361 to -726.97) in the laparoscopy group. Laparoscopy is associated with a reduction in the following: febrile morbidity, urinary tract infection, postoperative complications, postoperative pain, days in hospital, and total cost. These findings should be interpreted with caution as only a small number of studies were identified including a total of only 324 women."}
{"id": "17653564", "title": "Genital tuberculosis: an important cause of Asherman's syndrome in India.", "content": "Genital tuberculosis: an important cause of Asherman's syndrome in India. To demonstrate the association between genital endometrial tuberculosis and Asherman's syndrome. A total of 28 women who underwent hysteroscopy with or without laparoscopy for suspected Asherman's syndrome from symptoms (amenorrhoea or oligomenorrhoea, and or primary or secondary infertility) and who were found to have genital tuberculosis on endometrial biopsy (histopathology or culture) or positive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on endometrial aspirate or positive findings of tuberculosis on laparoscopy or hysteroscopy were enrolled in this retrospective study. The mean age and parity were 26.5 years and 0.3, respectively. There was past history of TB in 67.8% women. All women had menstrual dysfunction, with oligomenorrhoea and hypomenorrhoea in 16 (57%) women and amenorrhoea in 12 (42.8%). All women had primary (n = 19, 67.8%) or secondary (n = 9, 32%) infertility. On hysteroscopy, there were various grades of adhesions in all women, with grade I in 17.8%, grade II in 28.5%, grade III in 28.5% and grade IV in 17.5% women. Only four women (14.3%) had open ostia, while others had bilateral (28.5%) or unilateral (21.3%) blocked ostia or inability to see ostia (28.5%). On laparoscopy performed on 18 women, there were varying grades of adhesions in 16 (88.8%) women, with beading (33.3%), tubercles (33.3%), caseation (11.1%) and tubo-ovarian masses (11.1%). The diagnosis of genital TB was made by histopathology (tuberculous granuloma) on endometrial biopsy in 28.6%, positive culture in 3.6%, positive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in 46.4% and observation of tubercles, beading or caseation on laparoscopy in 17.8% or shaggy cavity with caseation on hysteroscopy in 3.6% women. Genital tuberculosis appears to be an important and common cause of Asherman's syndrome in India, causing oligomenorrhoea or amenorrhoea with infertility."}
{"id": "17401568", "title": "An ovarian tumour with a potential appendiceal origin.", "content": "An ovarian tumour with a potential appendiceal origin. A 14-year-old girl underwent left oopherectomy for a multicystic ovarian mass. Histology revealed this to be an intestinal type mucinous borderline tumour (IMBT). In view of this, a semi-urgent laparoscopic appendicectomy was carried out. The appendix was histologically normal. IMBT of the ovary is a mucinous tumour with atypical proliferation of the goblet cell containing epithelium. It is known to occur simultaneously with tumours of the appendix. Paediatric surgeons need to be aware of this rare tumour and when operating on any ovarian pathology should always inspect the peritoneal cavity for mucinous deposits and examine the appendix."}
{"id": "18666467", "title": "[Stage I ovarian carcinoma: two distinct malignancies?].", "content": "[Stage I ovarian carcinoma: two distinct malignancies?]. Ovarian cancers are the most lethal gynecologic malignancies and are rarely diagnosed in their early stages. The most common of these tumors--serous papillary carcinoma--is generally asymptomatic in the early stages. Non serous carcinomas (endometrioid and clear-cell carcinomas) have a higher chance of early diagnosis, as the associated endometriosis can cause pelvic pain, while endometrial hyperplasia/neoplasia can lead to vaginal bleeding. In addition, serous papillary carcinomas tend to be bilateral with peritoneal involvement, while non serous papillary carcinomas are often unilateral. Non serous papillary carcinomas tend to occur in younger, hyperestrogenic, often infertile patients. Serous papillary carcinomas potentially arise from dysplastic epithelial cells lining the ovarian surface and inclusion cysts, while the substrate of non serous papillary tumors is atypical endometriotic tissue. Tumor markers also tend to differ between the two forms of ovarian cancer. Pelvic laparoscopy and prophylactic oophorectomy have offered new insights into the mechanisms and early stages of ovarian malignancies."}
{"id": "18447057", "title": "[Endoscopic management of gynecological malignancies: an update. 2007].", "content": "[Endoscopic management of gynecological malignancies: an update. 2007]. All the different surgical procedures used to treat gynecologic cancers have already been performed with the endoscopic approach. However, the prospective randomized trials required to confirm the oncologic efficacy of this approach are still lacking in gynecology, whereas such studies are available for abdominal surgery. Animal studies suggest that the risk of tumor dissemination in the non traumatized peritoneum may be higher after pneumoperitoneum than after laparotomy, and they also show the importance of the surgeon's experience and technique. All the parameters of pneumoperitoneum can influence the risk of postoperative dissemination. By controlling these parameters we may, in future, be able to create a peritoneal environment suitable for oncologic indications and thereby prevent or minimize the risk of peritoneal dissemination and postoperative tumor growth. In endometrial cancer, the laparoscopic approach should be reserved for clinical stage I disease, if the volume of the uterus and local conditions are appropriate for vaginal extraction. In cervical cancer, the laparoscopic approach should be reserved for patients with favorable prognostic factors (stage IB, less than 2 cm in diameter). Laparoscopy is the gold standard for surgical diagnosis of adnexal masses, but puncture should be avoided whenever possible. Surgical treatment of invasive ovarian cancer should use laparotomy, whatever the stage. In contrast, restaging of early ovarian cancer initially managed as a benign mass is a good indication for the laparoscopic approach. Laparoscopic management of tumors with low malignant potential should include complete staging of the peritoneum. An excellent knowledge of the principles of endoscopy and of oncologic surgery is required. Training in endoscopic oncological techniques will be a major challenge in the field of gynecologic surgery in coming years."}
{"id": "18274181", "title": "Ovarian fibroma in the era of laparoscopic surgery: a general surgeon's experience.", "content": "Ovarian fibroma in the era of laparoscopic surgery: a general surgeon's experience. The ovarian fibroma is a rare benign tumor originating from the connective tissue of the ovarian cortex. On occasion, the general surgeon may encounter ovarian fibroma while operating an acute abdomen. We present a series of 15 ovarian fibromas encountered in 13 patients over 11 years experience in our general surgical ward. Only four cases required emergency operations due to either tumors or adnexal torsion. High-resolution ultrasound scan with color Doppler suggested an ovarian fibroma in only ten cases, while CT and MRI were suggestive for the diagnosis in three other cases. Surgical treatment consisted of five ovarectomies, three adnexal resections and five total hysterectomies with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Seven patients underwent laparoscopic surgery, four of them for an ovarian resection and in three for an adnexectomy. Laparoscopic approach has significant advantages by limiting parietal aggression with better cosmetic results, short hospital admission, lower costs, few postoperative adhesions and rapid recovery."}
{"id": "18241545", "title": "[Clinical analysis of ovarian tumor in infertility women].", "content": "[Clinical analysis of ovarian tumor in infertility women]. To determine the clinical characteristics and management of ovarian tumor in infertility women. During the period from Jan. 1 1999 to Dec. 31 2004, 110 infertility women with ovarian tumor were analysed retrospectively, in terms of clinical and pathological features. According to the histological findings, the tumors were divided into three groups: epithelial tumor, teratoma and others. Among 110 cases, 49 cases were epithelial tumor, 42 cases were teratoma, and 19 cases were others. A total of 97 cases were small ovarian tumor, and the maximal diameter was less than 5 cm. In epithelial tumor group only 29% were diagnosed before operation, significantly lower than the other two groups (P < 0.01). In epithelial tumor group 61% were complicated with pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), significantly higher than teratoma group (26%, P < 0.01). A total of 102 cases (91%) were followed-up for 1.5 to 5 years. A total of 45 patients (44%) had become pregnant. Among them 18 conceived spontaneously, 21 underwent in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer, and 6 received artificial insemination. Most ovarian tumors found in infertility women are small cysts and only a few epithelial tumors are diagnosed before the operation. Physicians should be alert of infertility women with ovarian mass and laparoscopy should be performed as early as possible. Our data show the incidence of PID in epithelial tumor group is higher than others. After treatment by surgery and assisted reproductive technology, those infertility women with ovarian tumor may achieve fair pregnancy outcomes."}
{"id": "18200965", "title": "[Concentration of TNF-alpha in the postoperative period in patients with benign adnexal tumors treated by laparoscopy or laparotomy].", "content": "[Concentration of TNF-alpha in the postoperative period in patients with benign adnexal tumors treated by laparoscopy or laparotomy]. The aim of the study was to compare serum concentrations of the TNF-alpha (TNF-alpha) in the early postoperative period in patients with benign adnexal masses operated by laparoscopy or laparotomy. The study was conducted in a group of patients aged from 20 to 52, operated due to adnexal masses. Out of 40 patients included in the study, 25 underwent laparoscopy and 15 underwent laparotomy. Serum concentrations of TNF-alpha were measured by commercially available ELISA assays before the surgery and 4, 24 and 48 hours after the start of the operation. A decrease of TNF-alpha serum concentrations was observed in the early postoperative period. 24 h after the operation concentrations of TNF-alpha were significantly higher in the laparotomy group as opposed to the group operated by laparoscopy. Lower concentrations of TNF-alpha in the laparoscopy group, observed 24 hours after the operation, may reflect more favorable changes in the systemic inflammatory response after minimally invasive management of benign ovarian masses."}
{"id": "18179147", "title": "Surgical approach to appendiceal mucocele mimicking an adnexal complex mass: case report.", "content": "Surgical approach to appendiceal mucocele mimicking an adnexal complex mass: case report. Mucocele of the vermiform appendix is a rare disease of the appendix caused by mucoid substance retention in its lumen, due to obstruction or hyperproduction due to appendiceal retention cysts, mucosal hyperplasia, mucinous cystadenomas and cystadenocarcinomas. Therefore, also appendiceal malignancy can be the underlying cause, making accurate preoperative diagnosis imperative, even if this disease is often asymptomatic and an early diagnosis still remains very difficult on imaging studies. In women, appendiceal mucoceles can sometimes present on clinical and instrumental findings as a right adnexal mass mimicking an ovarian neoplasm. A rare case of appendiceal mucocele in a 36-year-old women with a right-sided painful pelvic mass is presented. The mucocele was misdiagnosed as a cystic complex mass of the right adnexa both clinically and ultrasonographically. Serum levels of CEA and CA19-9 were increased. Explorative laparoscopy was performed revealing an enlarged vermiform appendix with the uterus and adnexa macroscopically normal, and no signs of intraperitoneal metastasis or adnexal torsion. Laparotomic appendectomy followed. Histological examination revealed a mucinous cystadenoma of the vermiform appendix. This clinical entity of appendiceal mucocele should always be considered by gynaecologists as well as gastroenterologists in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting a right-sided adnexal mass on ultrasound in order to choose the best surgical approach."}
{"id": "18179144", "title": "A rare case of extra-adrenal pheochromocytoma masquerading as an ovarian mass treated by laparoscopic surgery.", "content": "A rare case of extra-adrenal pheochromocytoma masquerading as an ovarian mass treated by laparoscopic surgery. Extra-adrenal pheochromocytoma, or paraganglioma, is a rare tumour arising from paraganglion chromaffin cells of the sympathetic nervous system. In adults, pheochromocytomas are often called the \"10% tumor\" because approximately 10% occur above the diaphragm, 10% of intraabdominal pheochromocytomas are extra-adrenal, 10% are bilateral, 10% are multiple, 10% are familial, 10% are malignant, and 10% recur postoperatively. In children, instead, this tumor occurs in ectopic sites in 30-40% of the cases. This paper reports the successful laparoscopic resection of an extra-adrenal pheochromocytoma, simulating an ovarian tumor, combined with a laparoscopic cholecystectomy for gallstones. The case of a 48-year-old woman affected by an extra-adrenal pheochromocytoma that had been unsuspected for a long time is presented. The patient had some clinical symptoms that had been taken for a climacteric syndrome given her premenopausal age. The atypical and rare location of the pheochromocytoma (parauterine) had contributed to misdiagnosing it as an ovarian tumor. Laparoscopic surgery was chosen for the removal of the tumor because it is a safe technique requiring a shorter hospital stay; a concomitant cholecystectomy was performed due to the presence of gallstones. Surgical resection is the only treatment option for extra-adrenal pheochromocytomas. With adequate preoperative adrenergic receptor blockers and vascular filling, the laparoscopic approach appears to be a valid alternative to open surgery for paragangliomas. Gynecologists should consider the possibility, although rare, of an extra-adrenal pheocromocytoma when preparing to surgically remove a pelvic mass."}
{"id": "18175521", "title": "[Da vinci robotic surgery in gynaecological oncology: a critical interim appraisal].", "content": "[Da vinci robotic surgery in gynaecological oncology: a critical interim appraisal]. Benefit evaluation of robot-assisted surgery in gynecological oncology. The parameters observed were feasibility, safety, overal surgery length and economic aspects. Prospective study analysing our experience in 10 patients operated due to gynaecological malignancy, adnexal tumors or planned for the procedure used as a part of extensive oncological surgery. Department of Gynecology and Minimally Invasive Surgery Na Homolce Hospital, Prague. The surgeries were performed with Da Vinci robotic system (Intuitive Surgical, inc., USA) including surgeon's console with stereoscopic viewer with hand and foot controls. The second component of the system was In Site vision system with 3D 12 mm endoscope. The third part comprised of 3 telerobotic arms with Endowrist instruments. From 2/2006 to 9/2006 10 patients were operated upon. 2 patients with early invasive cervical cancer, 2 patients with cervical cancer in situ (CIS), 3 patients with complex ovarian tumors, 2 patients with symptomatic atypical endometrial glandular hyperplasia and 1 patient underwent necessary gynecological surgery as a part of oncological treatment of breast cancer. The range of surgery included Total robotic hysterectomy, Robot-assisted vaginal hysterectomy with adnexectomy and frozen section, Robot-assisted radical vaginal trachelectomy with pelvic lymphadenectomy and unilateral adnexectomy with frozen section. The average age of patients was 52 years (range 32-58 years). 30% of patients had a previous laparotomy in their history. All procedures were finished with robot-assisted system. In 2 patients a temporary conversion to laparoscopy was made. In 3 patients a technical fault of the robotic system was noticed. This was corrected during the surgery. The overal surgery time was significantly longer (29 hours for robot-assisted versus 12 hours for laparoscopy). This represented operation time increase of 59% in comparison to identical laparoscopic procedures in our department in 2006. This was caused by lengthy assembly and disassembly time of the robotic system. No patients experienced any peroperative or postoperative comlications. The costs in our setting were approximately 10 times higher in comparison to laparoscopy. Our preliminary experience shows that Robot-assisted surgery is comparable to the standard laparoscopic procedure in terms of feasibility and outcome, but costs are considerably higher owing to longer operating time and the use of more expensive instruments. A major limitation is the lack of a large operation field. The enormous costs and the lack of appropriate instruments can be a major problem in the further expansion of robotic surgery. The use of robotic system in gynecologic oncologic surgery and in abdominal surgery in general offers, at this stage, no relevant benefit and thus is not justified. Clinical data demonstrating improved outcomes are so far lacking for robotic surgical application within the abdomen."}
{"id": "18158818", "title": "Minimal invasive surgery in pediatric solid tumors.", "content": "Minimal invasive surgery in pediatric solid tumors. There is only limited experience of using the minimally invasive surgery (MIS) technique in resecting pediatric solid tumors. In this paper, we report our experience of using the MIS technique in the management of pediatric solid tumors. A retrospective review was undertaken on all children who had undergone MIS for their solid tumors between 1995 and 2005. Over a 10-year period, there were 38 patients who had undergone MIS for tumor resection. The mean age at the time of surgery was 7.5 years (range, 1 day to 15 years). There were 22 ovarian tumors, 4 sacrococcygeal tumors, 3 adrenal tumors, 3 retroperitoneal tumors, 1 kidney tumor, 1 liver mass, 1 intra-abdominal testicular tumor, and 3 intrathoracic masses. Thirty of 38 patients had undergone a successful resection using the MIS technique (78.9%). Eight patients required a conversion to the open procedure because of limited intraperitoneal space in 7 and excessive bleeding in 1. Of the 28 successfully MIS-resected intra-abdominal tumors, 18 required enlargement of the umbilical incision and 5 required an additional Pfannenstiel incision for tumor retrieval. Enlargement of the thoracic port site for specimen retrieval was required in the 2 successfully MIS-resected intrathoracic masses. The mean operation time was 171 minutes (range, 45-275). There was no postoperative complication encountered. On an average follow-up of 3.1 years, there was no recurrence observed, even in the 7 patients with malignant tumors, and all patients with successful MIS tumor excision had good cosmetic results. With the advance of laparoscopic instruments and techniques, a variety of pediatric solid tumors can be resected safely by the MIS technique. This has the potential benefit of a more rapid postoperative recovery and better cosmetic results. The role of the MIS technique in resecting malignant tumors is uncertain, as the number of cases in the current series is too small to draw any conclusion."}
{"id": "18156118", "title": "[Minimally-invasive surgery in cancer children].", "content": "[Minimally-invasive surgery in cancer children]. Minimally-invasive surgery, or video-assisted surgery, includes laparoscopy, retroperitoneoscopy and thoracoscopy, can be used for diagnosis (biopsies) and treatment (resections) in various malignant solid tumours in children. Potential advantages of MIS techniques include a decreased parietal trauma (cosmetic benefit, bowel adhesions) and less postoperative discomfort (postoperative pain, analgesics requirement, postoperative ileus, length of hospital stay). Main indications of MIS techniques are represented by diagnostic biopsies (mediastinal or lung tumors, retroperitoneal extrarenal masses), resection of the primary tumor in thoracic and abdominal neuroblastic tumors and in post-treatment residual mass in lymphoma."}
{"id": "18078193", "title": "[Cancer of the endometrium].", "content": "[Cancer of the endometrium]."}
{"id": "18076766", "title": "Phase II study of intraperitoneal recombinant interleukin-12 (rhIL-12) in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis (residual disease < 1 cm) associated with ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal carcinoma.", "content": "Phase II study of intraperitoneal recombinant interleukin-12 (rhIL-12) in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis (residual disease < 1 cm) associated with ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal carcinoma. Pharmacokinetic advantages of intraperitoneal (IP) rhIL-12, tumor response to IP delivery of other cytokines as well as its potential anti-angiogenic effect provided the rationale for further evaluation of IPrhIL-12 in patients with persistent ovarian or peritoneal carcinoma. A phase 2 multi-institutional trial (NCI Study #2251) of IP rIL-12 (300 nanogram/Kg weekly) was conducted in patients with ovarian carcinoma or primary peritoneal carcinoma. Patients treated with primary therapy for ovarian cancer who had no extraabdominal/parenchymal disease or bulky peritoneal disease were eligible. Four to 8 weeks from last chemotherapy, eligible patients underwent a laparotomy/laparoscopy. Patients with residual disease < or = 1 cm were registered for the treatment phase 2-5 weeks post surgery. The effect of IP rIL-12 on the expression of TNFalpha , INFalpha , IL-10, IP-10, IL-8, FGF, VEGF was also studied. Thirty-four patients were registered for the first screening phase of the study. Median age was 56.6 years (range: 31-71); 12 completed the second phase and were evaluable for response/toxicity. Performance scores of IL-12 treated patients were 0 (11 pts) and 1 (1 pt). There were no treatment related deaths, peritonitis or significant catheter related complications. Toxicities included grade 4 neutropenia (1), grade 3 fatigue (4), headache (2), myalgia (2), non-neutropenic fever (1), drug fever (1), back pain (1), and dizziness (1). The best response observed was SD. Two patients had SD and 9 had PD, and 1 was evaluable for toxicity only. Peritoneal fluid cytokine measurements demonstrated a > or = 3 fold relative increase post-rhIL-12: IFN-gamma, 5/5 pts; TNF-alpha , 1/5; IL-10, 4/5; IL-8, 5/5; and VEGF, 3/5. IP10 levels were increased in 5/5 patients. Cytokine response profiles suggest either NK or T-cell mediated effects of IP rhIL-12. Cytokine/chemokine results also suggest a pleiotropic response since proteins with potential for either anti-tumor (IFN-gamma , IP-10) or pro-tumor growth effects (VEGF, IL-8) were detected. IP IL-12 can safely be administered at this dose and schedule to patients after first line chemotherapy for ovarian/peritoneal carcinoma. The maximum response was stable disease. Future IP therapies with rhIL-12 will require better understanding and control of pleiotropic effects of IL-12."}
{"id": "18018361", "title": "[Laparoscopic ovariectomy in breast cancer].", "content": "[Laparoscopic ovariectomy in breast cancer]."}
{"id": "17991355", "title": "Innovative laparoscopic surgery in gynecologic oncology.", "content": "Innovative laparoscopic surgery in gynecologic oncology. Minimally invasive surgery has been performed since the early 1990s, and gynecologic oncology surgeons continue to improve their skills for this procedure. Advanced laparoscopic techniques are used to evaluate and treat cervical, endometrial, and ovarian malignancies. Laparoscopy has significant benefits in selected oncologic patients and may be a more useful technique than the abdominal approach. The benefits of laparoscopy include less postoperative pain, less blood loss, shorter length of hospital stay, and a shorter recovery period with no significant increase in complications or morbidity. With emerging data, it appears that the risk of cancer recurrence does not increase with a minimally invasive approach. The incorporation of laparoscopic pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy has expanded the types of procedures performed for the management of certain gynecologic malignancies. New techniques, including hand-assisted laparoscopic procedures and extraperitoneal lymph node dissections, are expanding the role of laparoscopy in the treatment of all gynecologic malignancies."}
{"id": "17991106", "title": "Laparoscopy in the treatment of ovarian tumours of low malignant potential.", "content": "Laparoscopy in the treatment of ovarian tumours of low malignant potential. Laparoscopy is increasingly used by gynaecologists for the investigation of adnexal masses. Uncertainty exists whether ovarian tumours of low malignant potential can effectively be treated by laparoscopy, whether staging bears a benefit for all patients, whether port-site metastases are a problem and how long patients need to be followed up after surgery. This review summarises the evidence to address these important questions."}
{"id": "17980339", "title": "Primary ovarian adenocarcinoma developing in ovarian remnant tissue ten years after laparoscopic hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy for endometriosis.", "content": "Primary ovarian adenocarcinoma developing in ovarian remnant tissue ten years after laparoscopic hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy for endometriosis. Ovarian remnant syndrome is a rare but known complication of bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy associated or not with hysterectomy. This complication is frequently related to a history of multiple surgery, pelvic inflammatory disease, or endometriosis. Here we report the eighth documented case of a primary ovarian adenocarcinoma developing in an ovarian remnant but, to our knowledge, the first case to occur after laparoscopic hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. We discuss the management of pelvic masses suspected of malignancy after bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and the possible role of endometriosis in the development of malignancy in ovarian remnant syndrome."}
{"id": "17980337", "title": "Robotic-assisted laparoscopic cytoreductive surgery for lobular carcinoma of the breast metastatic to the ovaries.", "content": "Robotic-assisted laparoscopic cytoreductive surgery for lobular carcinoma of the breast metastatic to the ovaries. The first case of robotic-assisted laparoscopic cytoreductive surgery for a metastatic malignant ovarian tumor is described. A 65-year-old woman who was treated for breast cancer 13 years earlier presented with a deep venous thrombosis in the right leg and a pelvic mass. Imaging tests showed bilateral solid ovarian tumors and an enlarged lymph node at the level of the right common iliac vessels but no evidence of any other tumor metastases. The patient was offered and accepted to undergo a da Vinci robotic-assisted bilateral adnexectomy with hysterectomy and pelvic lymph node sampling. The surgery took 200 minutes, and the patient was discharged uneventfully on the third postoperative day. Histologic examination showed strongly estrogen receptor-positive metastatic lobular carcinoma of the breast in both ovaries and fallopian tubes. She was further treated with adjuvant exemestane and is currently doing well. It is possible to treat selected patients with malignant ovarian tumors by robotic-assisted laparoscopy."}
{"id": "17977178", "title": "Cholelithiasis of the ovary after laparoscopic cholecystectomy: a case report.", "content": "Cholelithiasis of the ovary after laparoscopic cholecystectomy: a case report. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy may result in spilled bile and dropped gallstones. Although there are usually no consequences, occasionally this can lead to serious complications, including those requiring surgical procedures. Very few cases have been reported documenting the consequence of spilled biliary contents on or near the female genital tract. A cholelith became embedded in the ovary of a 53-year-old woman and was detected >7 years after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The complications of cholelithiasis of the ovary may include chronic pelvic pain, dysmenorrhea, infection, adhesions, ectopic pregnancy and infertility. Ovarian choleliths may be an incidental finding or can mimic a primary ovarian tumor."}
{"id": "17977174", "title": "Lipid cell tumor in an adolescent girl: a case report.", "content": "Lipid cell tumor in an adolescent girl: a case report. Lipid cell tumors of the ovary are rare sex cord neoplasms and account for < 0.1% of ovarian tumors. A 16-year-old girl sought medical advice because of amenorrhea and virilization, manifested as facial hirsutism and temporal balding. Her total testosterone level was increased in comparison with normal values. Ultrasonography revealed an echogenic left adnexal tumor about 5.7 x 6.3 x 5.5 cm. The patient underwent laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy, and pathology showed a lipid cell tumor. Postoperatively, the serum testosterone level returned to normal. The tumor appeared to be the source of hyperandrogenism in this woman."}
{"id": "17966785", "title": "[Krukenberg tumour: diagnostic findings and surgical therapy. Recent acquisitions].", "content": "[Krukenberg tumour: diagnostic findings and surgical therapy. Recent acquisitions]. The authors report on their experience with two cases of Krukenberg's tumour treated at Chioggia Hospital in patients admitted for pelvic tumours. The clinical manifestation of Krukenberg's tumour is mainly related to the presence of the pelvic mass even in advanced forms of gastrointestinal cancers. The authors stress the importance of an adequate follow-up of premenopausal patients with a previous gastrectomy for adenocarcinoma because the incidence of ovarian metastases is quite frequent and influences the prognosis. The Authors do not consider a bilateral preventive ovariectomy associated with gastrectomy as advisable in premenopausal patients, because the studies to date are inadequate for the purposes of drawing conclusions regarding the benefit of these procedures. They consider a more valid policy to be a thorough follow-up in women with a previous gastrectomy for adenocarcinoma because the priority must be accorded to diagnosing secondary lesions so as to be able to perform an ovariectomy which may improve the prognosis. With this in mind it is important to assess Ca 19.9 and perform radiological procedures, such as CT and MRI. The prognosis may be distinctly unfavourable as in one of the cases reported by the Authors involving a very rare form of secondary lesion of the bone marrow and consequent medullary aplasia, with the onset of severe haemorrhages in several areas leading to the patient's death. They consider that surgical treatment should be preceded by a diagnostic laparoscopy. When there are other concomitant negative prognostic factors such as neoplastic ascites and perineal carcinosis, ovariectomy will prove ineffective from the prognostic point of view."}
{"id": "17966217", "title": "The role of three-dimensional (3D) sonography and 3D power Doppler in the preoperative assessment of borderline ovarian tumors.", "content": "The role of three-dimensional (3D) sonography and 3D power Doppler in the preoperative assessment of borderline ovarian tumors. To determine the value of three-dimensional (3D) sonography and 3D power Doppler in distinguishing borderline ovarian tumors from benign cysts and malignant tumors. One hundred and seventy-two women with a mean age of 37 years (range 28-45) and diagnosis of a confirmed pelvic mass were referred for preoperative evaluation with 3D sonography and 3D power Doppler. Sonographic criteria used for the diagnosis of borderline tumors were based on a system that included morphological characteristics, histological evaluation and power Doppler imaging. Ten lesions were histopathologically diagnosed as borderline ovarian tumors, 42 as malignant and 120 as benign. Three-dimensional sonography revealed 120 ovarian tumors which scored below 7 (benign), according to Kurjak's scale, 12 tumors which scored between 7-8 and 40 tumors between 9-13 (malignant). Preoperative assessment of borderline tumors by 3D imaging may promote improved patient care and introduce laparoscopic management as an alternative surgical approach."}
{"id": "17948753", "title": "[Benign and borderline tumors of the ovary].", "content": "[Benign and borderline tumors of the ovary]. Alterations of the ovaries easily cause diagnostic uncertainty about relevance and consequence. Palpable or sonographic ovarian tumors are reason for various differential diagnoses. Therefore the clarification of ovarian lesions is one of the main duties in daily gynaecological practice. Although diagnostic procedures might be supplemented by CT-Scan or MRI techniques, classical bimanual examination and vaginal ultrasound scan will determine the diagnosis in most cases comparably accurate. The suspected diagnosis concerning benign or malignant lesions, should take the palpable and sonographic feature, as well as the information from the patients medical history (e.g. family history of malignant diseases (BRCA 1/2 mutations) into account. In this regard, there are no other additional parameters established. Serum tumormarkers (CA 12.5) or sonographic examinations (including Doppler) have low sensitivity and specificity. Clinical diagnostic experience seems to be crucial. Cystic lesions mostly occur in premenopausal women and commonly relapse. They are mostly normal follicle cysts, but may also be a tumor of low malignant potential (LMP-tumor) or even an invasive cancerous lesion. 20-30% of all ovarian tumors are malignant and by the time of primary diagnosis already in a about 60-70% incurable due to intraabdominal dissemination. Benign or malignant lesions may occur in every age group. Ovarian tumors at infantile age are malignant in about 15%. Most malignant tumors occur between the age of 50 to 70. The LMP-tumors occur in average 10 years earlier. Malignant ovarian lesions represent about 15-30% of all genital malignant tumors. Hormonal contraceptives, pregnancy and breast feeding seem to be protective. The persistence of ovarian cysts and tumors will be mostly examined by laparoscopic surgery. In that respect the diagnosis of LMP-tumors might be incidentally and will then have a substantial impact on the extent of the surgery and the follow up. This compilation overviews the spectrum of benign and low malignant potential tumors of the ovary and their different tissues of origin."}
{"id": "17947845", "title": "Polycystic ovary and gonadoblastoma in Turner's syndrome.", "content": "Polycystic ovary and gonadoblastoma in Turner's syndrome. Turner's syndrome (TS) is characterized by typical facial features, short stature, hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, streak gonads, infertility, hearth and kidney malformations. Typical karyotype is 45,X0; however, 6% of TS have mosaic patterns including Y chromosome or fragments of Y. This karyotype is a risk factor of developing a dysgerminoma in dysgenic gonads. Furthermore, rare cases of polycystic ovary are described in young-adult patients with TS. We describe the clinical case of a 12-year-old girl with TS treated with GH who showed a good response to treatment. She developed an ovary with histological polycystic pattern and a contralateral gonadoblastoma in the streak gonad. Laparoscopic gonadectomy was performed, with a good prognosis. Of remark is the opportunity to carry out gonadectomy in prepubertal age in girls with TS and Y chromosome material. This is a rare precocious case of polycystic ovary in TS, with different evolution in the two gonads with different histological differentiation."}
{"id": "17937093", "title": "Contribution of laparoscopy in young women with abdominal pain.", "content": "Contribution of laparoscopy in young women with abdominal pain. This study retrospectively evaluates the laparoscopic treatment of acute abdominal pain in 120 young girls aged 13 to 25 years from 1990 to 1995. Seventy-two (60%) of all operations were emergency procedures. Of these, 55 had functional ovarian cysts, eight patients were operated on for adnexal torsion and nine patients had other adnexal conditions. Ovarian cyst resection was performed in 46 patients and ovarian cyst coagulation in 17 patients. In the rest of the 48 patients (40%), 31 (26.67%) cases had pelvic inflammatory disease, three (2.5%) benign ovarian tumors, two (1.6%) ectopic pregnancies, one (0.8%) a paraovarian cyst and 11 (5%) endometriosis. Laparoscopy appeared to be a safe and effective surgical procedure."}
{"id": "17932999", "title": "Value of preoperative ultrasound examination in the selection of women with adnexal masses for laparoscopic surgery.", "content": "Value of preoperative ultrasound examination in the selection of women with adnexal masses for laparoscopic surgery. To assess the value of preoperative ultrasound examination in predicting the feasibility of intermediate-level laparoscopic surgery for benign adnexal masses. Symptomatic women with a clinical or ultrasound diagnosis of adnexal mass were offered a detailed transvaginal ultrasound scan in order to assess the feasibility of laparoscopic cystectomy/oophorectomy. In all cases an attempt was made to establish a likely histological diagnosis using the pattern recognition method. The selection criteria for laparoscopic surgery were: no ultrasound features suggestive of ovarian cancer, predominantly cystic lesion with no solid foci > 5 cm in mean diameter, no evidence of severe pelvic endometriosis or severe pelvic adhesions and dermoid cyst < 10 cm in mean diameter. Laparoscopic surgery was classified as successful if the mass was removed completely without resorting to a laparotomy. One hundred and forty-three women were diagnosed with a total of 162 adnexal cysts. The final dataset consisted of 137 women (with 153 lesions), 113 (82.5%) of whom were selected for laparoscopy and 24 (17.5%) for laparotomy. On histological examination 152 (99.3%) cysts were benign and the remaining one (0.7%) was borderline. The operation was successfully completed laparoscopically in 107/113 (94.7%) cases. The preoperative ultrasound assessment predicted the successful outcome of laparoscopic surgery with a sensitivity of 98% (95% CI, 94-99%), specificity of 79% (95% CI, 60-90%), positive predictive value of 95% (95% CI, 89-98%), positive likelihood ratio of 4.58 (95% CI, 2.25-9.32) and negative likelihood ratio of 0.02 (95% CI, 0.01-0.09). A detailed preoperative transvaginal ultrasound examination is a helpful tool for assessing the feasibility of intermediate-level laparoscopic surgery in women with benign adnexal lesions."}
{"id": "17922452", "title": "[Acute renal failure after videolaparoscopic surgery: an avoidable complication?].", "content": "[Acute renal failure after videolaparoscopic surgery: an avoidable complication?]. Videolaparoscopic surgery exposes the abdominal organs to the mechanical effect of pneumoperitoneum at pressure values between 12 and 15 mm Hg, which are considered safe. Nevertheless, experimental data have shown that this pressure range can represent a hemodynamic risk factor as it may induce a decrease in the venous return to the right ventricle, a decrease in cardiac output, and activation of the sympathetic nervous system and renin angiotensin system. We report two cases of acute renal failure that occurred soon after videolaparoscopy in young female patients without any evidence of ongoing renal disease. Patient A was 29 years old and was submitted to videolaparoscopic surgery in a follow-up program after surgical treatment of ovarian cancer; patient B was 15 years old and was submitted to the surgical removal of a monolateral ovarian cyst. In neither of the cases was it necessary to perform hemodialysis. Patient A underwent a renal biopsy under ultrasound guidance; optic microscopy showed only in ra- and extraglomerular capillary congestion. In both cases the acute renal failure resolved completely and the patients where discharged with normal renal function. Taking in to account that normal renal venous pressure levels are around 4 mmHg we think that a) a 15 mmHg pneumoperitoneum may represent a risk factor during videolaparoscopic surgery mainly if the patient's extracellular volume is not properly expanded; b) administration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in order to prevent surgical pain may inhibit vasodilatory prostaglandin availability; c) onset of oliguria during the surgical procedure suggests that extracellular volume expansion is required."}
{"id": "17912181", "title": "[The prophylactic oophorectomy. An unsolved problem].", "content": "[The prophylactic oophorectomy. An unsolved problem]. The ovarian cancer is the second cancer of the female genital organs and it is the first cause of death for gynecological oncology and the sixth cause of death in women. Prevention and early detection may reduce the mortality of ovarian cancer. Potential screening tests include pelvic exams, sonography and tumor markers measurements, although they do not guarantee a positive effect on the survival rate. In the last century, the role of prophylactic oophorectomy during benign pelvic operation has been discussed. The choice of this preventive measure raises the question of the advantages and disadvantages that a surgical menopause could cause. Finally, the role of laparoscopy in the performance of the oophorectomy versus the vaginal approach is discussed."}
{"id": "17848331", "title": "Laparoscopic management of benign serous neoplasia arising from persistent ovarian remnant.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of benign serous neoplasia arising from persistent ovarian remnant. Serous cystadenoma arising from ovarian remnant has not been reported in the literature. We report 3 cases with ovarian remnant syndrome that were treated with laparoscopic excision and were proven to be benign serous neoplasia with ovarian origin on final pathologic examination. We review the current evidence for malignant transformation potential of ovarian serous cystadenoma and discuss laparoscopic techniques for management of ovarian remnant syndrome."}
{"id": "17848329", "title": "Management of large cystic adnexal tumor by gasless laparoscopic-assisted surgery with wound retractor.", "content": "Management of large cystic adnexal tumor by gasless laparoscopic-assisted surgery with wound retractor. We used a retrospective analysis to evaluate the efficacy of a wound retractor used in gasless laparoscopic-assisted surgery by the subcutaneous abdominal wall-lift method for the management of large cystic adnexal tumors. In the department of gynecology at a general hospital, 39 patients with large cystic adnexal tumors with an excised tissue weight including cystic contents exceeding 1000 g were treated by gasless laparoscopic-assisted surgery with a wound retractor from January 2001 through December 2006. Intervention was with a gasless laparoscopic-assisted adnexal surgery with a wound retractor. The median age of the patients was 51.5 years (range 16-79 years). The median weight of the excised tissue including cystic contents was 1857 g (range 1044-9454 g). The median blood loss was 30 mL (range 10-570 mL). The median surgical duration was 62 minutes (range 26-107 minutes). There were no major surgical complications. Histopathologic diagnosis of the excised tumor was mucinous cystadenoma, 18 cases; serous cystadenoma, 8 cases; mucinous cystadenocarcinoma of low-grade malignancy, 5 cases; dermoid cyst, 4 cases; paraovarian cyst, 2 cases; endometriotic cyst, 1 case; and clear cell adenocarcinoma, 1 case. Bilateral adnexal tumors were noted in 3 cases. We determined that gasless laparoscopic-assisted adnexal surgery with a wound retractor is an effective, minimally invasive procedure to treat large cystic adnexal tumors."}
{"id": "17848322", "title": "Endoscopic surgery in patients with borderline tumor of the ovary: a follow-up study of thirty-five patients.", "content": "Endoscopic surgery in patients with borderline tumor of the ovary: a follow-up study of thirty-five patients. To study the long-term outcome of 35 patients after endoscopic surgery of ovarian borderline tumor. Descriptive study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). Outpatient clinic. Thirty-five women with histologically proven ovarian borderline tumors underwent adnexal surgery by laparoscopy in an outpatient clinic. We report a series of 41 patients treated by endoscopic surgery for borderline tumors of the ovary, 35 of whom were followed up for 2 to 12 years after surgery. Of a total of 3138 patients referred for endoscopic surgery to treat ovarian tumors, 7 were found to have cancer, and 41 were found to have borderline tumors. The borderline tumor was diagnosed before surgery by vaginal ultrasonography in 45.7% of patients, during surgery in an additional 22.9%, but only by postoperative histologic study in 31.4% of patients. There were no intraoperative or postoperative complications in the patients with borderline tumor, and all have remained healthy for the period of their follow-up. Provided a strict management protocol is followed, endoscopic surgery is safe and effective for the treatment of borderline tumors of the ovary."}
{"id": "17786826", "title": "Healthy early preantral follicle can be obtained in a culture of frozen-thawed human ovarian tissue of 32 weeks.", "content": "Healthy early preantral follicle can be obtained in a culture of frozen-thawed human ovarian tissue of 32 weeks. The objective of this study was to report morphological and functional evidence of a well-preserved preantral follicle recovered from human frozen-thawed ovarian tissue in a long-term culture. The tissue was originally obtained from a 26-year-old woman with breast cancer. The ovarian cortex was collected by laparoscopy and frozen/thawed and cultured for 32 weeks in minimum essential medium alpha-MEM, supplemented with insulin transferrine selenite (ITS), human serum (HS), antibiotics, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). and N-acetyl cysteine (NAC). Thawed tissue samples were examined by light microscopy (LM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and real-time RT-PCR. LM examination of cortical pieces after 32 weeks of culture showed a healthy early preantral follicle; TEM and real-time PCR confirmed its good state of preservation. The synergy in action of NAC and FSH plays an important role in follicle growth of ovarian tissue cultures. For the first time a well-preserved preantral follicle was found in a culture of frozen-thawed human ovarian tissue."}
{"id": "17762575", "title": "Treatment modalities in endometrial cancer.", "content": "Treatment modalities in endometrial cancer. Endometrial cancer is the most common malignancy of the female genital tract. This review highlights new insights and these will change current practice. Surgery is the cornerstone of the treatment of endometrial cancer but the metastatic pattern is different for types 1 and 2. The surgical staging procedure therefore depends on subtype. Type 2 endometrial cancers often metastasize to the lymph nodes and peritoneal cavity and patients should undergo a staging procedure similar to that performed for ovarian cancer. Laparoscopic staging and treatment for endometrial cancer appears to be safe and effective. Adequate staging also serves to appropriately tailor adjuvant treatment modalities that benefit high-risk patients only. Recent data suggest adequate staging to improve the overall survival. In addition, following complete surgical staging, recent studies emphasize the benefit for adjuvant chemotherapy in early stage serous endometrial cancer. Adjuvant chemotherapy appears to be more effective than radiotherapy for type 1 cancers. In the primarily advanced or recurrent setting, hormonal treatment may be beneficial. Doxorubicin-cisplatin is still the standard chemotherapy regime used in many centres; paclitaxel-containing regimes also appear to show promise. Recent data shed new light on the current concepts of tumour spread, surgical staging and adjuvant treatment modalities for endometrial cancer."}
{"id": "17761984", "title": "Primary fallopian tube malignancies in BRCA-positive women undergoing surgery for ovarian cancer risk reduction.", "content": "Primary fallopian tube malignancies in BRCA-positive women undergoing surgery for ovarian cancer risk reduction. To review the frequency and location of malignancies detected after prophylactic salpingo-oophorectomy in women with BRCA mutations. Medical records and pathology findings were reviewed from BRCA-positive women undergoing prophylactic surgery for ovarian cancer risk reduction who underwent complete examination of the adnexa. Patients undergoing this procedure between January 1999 and January 2007 were identified. From January 1999 to January 2007, 122 BRCA-positive patients underwent prophylactic surgery in the Division of Gynecologic Oncology at Brigham and Women's Hospital. The median age was 46.5 years (range, 33 to 76 years). Seven (5.7%) were found to have an early malignancy in the upper genital tract and all patients were age > or = 44 years at diagnosis. Of seven consecutive cancers culled between January 1999 and January 2007, all (100%) originated in the fimbrial or ampullary region of the tube; six had an early (intraepithelial) component. Two were associated with surface implants on the ovary and two required repeated sectioning to detect microscopic carcinomas in the fimbria. The distal fallopian tube seems to be the dominant site of origin for early malignancies detected in approximately 6% of women undergoing ovarian cancer risk-reduction surgery. The greatest proportion of serous cancer risk in BRCA mutation-positive women should be assigned to the fimbria rather than the ovary, and future clinical and research protocols should employ thorough examination of the fimbria, including multiple sections from each tissue block, to maximize detection of early malignancies in this population."}
{"id": "17713096", "title": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy either with or without hysterectomy for early breast cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy either with or without hysterectomy for early breast cancer. The aim of this study was to assess the surgical results, complications and pathological findings of laparoscopic ovarian ablation either with or without hysterectomy in women with early-stage breast cancer (BC). Ninety women in early breast cancer stage who underwent laparoscopic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) either with or without hysterectomy were identified in a retrospective study conducted between January 2000 and December 2006. Tamoxifen antiestrogen therapy was used prior to hysterectomy. Forty-eight consecutive patients underwent laparoscopic hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and 42 with ovarian ablation only. The mean operative time for the laparoscopic hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy or BSO alone was 82 min and 47.8 min, respectively. Blood loss was minimal in both groups (range: 20-250 ml). The rate of postoperative complications was very low (4.4%). One of all ovaries removed by laparoscopy showed ovarian breast carcinoma metastasis. Histopathologic examination revealed concomitant findings of leiomyoma, adenomyosis or endometrial abnormalities in 64.5% of hysterectomy specimens. Our experience with ovarian ablation either with or without hysterectomy confirmed that the use of a minimally invasive technique is feasible. We assume that ovarian ablation and hysterectomy is an appropriate treatment for premenopausal women at risk (BRCA positive) or for patients with concomitant benign uterine pathology, treated with tamoxifen in first-line therapy. Removing the uterus allows women to take only estrogens rather than combination HRT. Further investigation into the indications of disease where laparoscopic ablative surgery is appropriate in the management of early breast cancer is needed."}
{"id": "17713090", "title": "Granulocytic sarcoma involving the uterus and right fallopian tube with negative endometrial biopsy.", "content": "Granulocytic sarcoma involving the uterus and right fallopian tube with negative endometrial biopsy. Granulocytic sarcoma is an extramedullary tumor associated with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and it is rarely seen in the female genital tract. We report an unusual case of granulocytic sarcoma of the uterus and fallopian tube in an AML patient who presented with vaginal bleeding and persistent abdominal pain. She was under chemotherapy. Biopsy did not reveal the diagnosis. After laparoscopic examination, hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was performed. Pathology showed atypical myeloid cells infiltrating the muscle bundles which was consistent with granulocytic sarcoma involving the uterus and right fallopian tube. Immunohistochemistry confirmed the diagnosis. The patient is in complete remission for AML and being followed-up for granulocytic sarcoma. Granulocytic sarcoma of the uterus and fallopian tube is very rare, and in AML patients with abnormal uterine bleeding but negative endometrial biopsy it should still be considered in the differential diagnosis."}
{"id": "17706482", "title": "A large struma ovarii tumor removed via laparoscopy in a 16-year-old adolescent.", "content": "A large struma ovarii tumor removed via laparoscopy in a 16-year-old adolescent. Struma ovarii is rare ovarian tumor that is characterized by the presence of at least 50% thyroid tissue on histologic examination. This usually benign neoplasm is predominantly found in women between the ages of 40 and 60 years and infrequently in the pediatric age group. In the foregoing report, we present an unusual case of a large struma ovarii in a 16-year-old adolescent girl with abdominal pain and increasing abdominal girth. Removal of the mass was achieved via a laparoscopic approach. We conclude that the diagnosis of struma ovarii should be considered in adolescent girls presenting with large cystic ovarian masses and that a laparoscopic approach to management is the treatment of choice."}
{"id": "17693116", "title": "[Laparoscopic ovarian transposition and cryopreservation of ovarian tissue before chemo-radiotherapy for rectal cancer].", "content": "[Laparoscopic ovarian transposition and cryopreservation of ovarian tissue before chemo-radiotherapy for rectal cancer]. We report a case of laparoscopic ovarian transposition and ovarian cryopreservation in a nulliparous 25-year-old woman with rectal cancer. The authors focus on the surgical technique and the importance of preserving ovarian function."}
{"id": "17688638", "title": "Definitive diagnosis of primary adenocarcinoma of the appendix by laparoscopic appendectomy.", "content": "Definitive diagnosis of primary adenocarcinoma of the appendix by laparoscopic appendectomy. We report a 62-year-old woman with a primary adenocarcinoma of the appendix mimicking ovarian tumor. We had diagnosed it definitively by laparoscopic appendectomy, and additional surgery was required in this case. However, the present case suggests that, in some cases, if cancer of the appendix can be diagnosed early, laparotomy can be avoided and the cancer treated with minimally invasive laparoscopic surgery alone."}
{"id": "17686238", "title": "[Recurrent mature ovarian teratomas: retrospective analysis of 20 cases].", "content": "[Recurrent mature ovarian teratomas: retrospective analysis of 20 cases]. To investigate the clinical characteristics and the rule of recurrence of mature ovarian teratoma. The clinical data of 20 patients with recurrent mature ovarian teratoma treated 1965 approximately 2002 was analyzed retrospectively and compared with the data of 40 patients without recurrence who were randomly selected at the ratio of 1 patient with recurrence to 2 patients without recurrence and who underwent surgical treatment in the same operation dates as the corresponding patients with recurrence. The overall recurrence rate after The patients with recurrence was (26 +/- 7) years old on average at the onset of recurrence, significantly younger than those without recurrence [(30 +/- 6 yearly old, P < 0.05). There were no significant differences in gravidity, parity, and the cyst size, manner of surgery, and rupture during operation between the 2 groups (all P > 0.05). The incidence rates of bilateral or multilocular cysts in the patients with recurrence were significantly higher than those of the patients without recurrence (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01). The overall recurrence rate after conservative treatment was 2.5%. The mean period of recurrence was 8 +/- 7 years. Younger patients and patients bilateral or multiple dermoid cysts should be followed up closely. Laparoscopy is the best treatment choice for mature ovarian teratoma. Biopsy of the contralateral ovary is not recommended regularly in surgery."}
{"id": "17673140", "title": "A pure Sertoli cell tumor of the ovary in a 10-year-old female.", "content": "A pure Sertoli cell tumor of the ovary in a 10-year-old female. To document an unusual presentation of a pure Sertoli Cell tumor. Case report. We present a 10-year-old female who presented with abdominal pain and diarrhea with no symptoms of puberty. Surgical exploration revealed a metastatic pure Sertoli Cell tumor, which was treated with resection and chemotherapy. Sertoli cell tumors are rare occurrences and should be considered in the differential diagnosis for a prepubescent girl with an abdominal mass."}
{"id": "17666596", "title": "Laparoscopy compared with laparoscopically guided minilaparotomy for large adnexal masses: a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Laparoscopy compared with laparoscopically guided minilaparotomy for large adnexal masses: a randomized controlled trial. To address the efficacy in terms of intraperitoneal spillage of laparoscopically guided minilaparotomy compared with operative laparoscopy for large adnexal cysts. A randomized controlled trial was carried out at a tertiary referral center from January 2005 to September 2006. Sixty eligible patients affected by nonendometriotic adnexal cysts with diameter between 7 and 18 cm were randomly assigned to either operative laparoscopy or laparoscopically guided minilaparotomy. The relative risk for intraperitoneal spillage among women treated with laparoscopy was 5.55 (95% confidence interval 1.88-16.33). Operative times were significantly shorter in patients who underwent laparoscopically guided minilaparotomy. Surgical difficulty was significantly higher in patients treated with laparoscopy. However, postoperative stay was shorter. Laparoscopically guided minilaparotomy, when compared with laparoscopy, is able to reduce intraperitoneal spillage in patients with presumably benign large adnexal masses, with minimal increase in patient short- and long-term discomfort. Because data regarding the importance of intraperitoneal spillage during surgery for benign and malignant pathologies, as well as rupture rates during traditional laparotomy, are scarce, traditional laparotomy still represents the standard treatment. In women desiring a minimally invasive strategy for large cysts, laparoscopically guided minilaparotomy should be considered. Australian Clinical Trials Registry, www.actr.org.au, ACTR N012607000241437, I."}
{"id": "17646728", "title": "Malignant struma ovarii: a case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Malignant struma ovarii: a case report and review of the literature. Malignant struma ovarii is a very rare disease. Only few cases are reported in literature. Because of its rarity, there are various approaches to its treatment. We describe a case of malignant struma ovarii, in a 37 year-old female who presented for non cyclic, chronic pelvic pain and the presence of a right ovarian cyst with mean diameter of 7 cm. The patient was treated with laparoscopic right ovariectomy and with multiple biopsies of omental, left ovary and utero-sacral ligament. The patient underwent subsequently total thyroidectomy and radioiodine (131I) ablation. A Medline literature search was performed; we found 48 cases of malignant struma ovarii. The therapeutic management of the disease is very different in the described case; particularly after surgical removing of the ovarian mass, the treatment is still controversial. We think that the management of malignant struma ovarii could be the same than carcinoma of the thyroid, so after surgical removing of ovarian neoplasm, we recommend thyroidectomy, radiotherapy with 131I and levothyroxine suppressive therapy."}
{"id": "17638632", "title": "A feasible laparoscopic surgery technique for complex adnexal tumors.", "content": "A feasible laparoscopic surgery technique for complex adnexal tumors."}
{"id": "17633068", "title": "The role of neoadjuvant chemotherapy versus primary surgery in the management of stage III ovarian cancer.", "content": "The role of neoadjuvant chemotherapy versus primary surgery in the management of stage III ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "17630162", "title": "Total laparoscopic hysterectomy with and without lymph node dissection for uterine neoplasia.", "content": "Total laparoscopic hysterectomy with and without lymph node dissection for uterine neoplasia. To compare surgical outcomes of patients with uterine neoplasia undergoing total laparoscopic hysterectomy only (TLH) with those having TLH and lymph node dissection (TLHND) from September 5, 1996 through January 13, 2007. Retrospective chart analysis (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). Three tertiary surgical centers in California. 112 patients with uterine neoplasia operated on from 1996 through 2006. All patients underwent total laparoscopic hysterectomy and bilateral salpingoophorectomy; however, 30 patients with FIGO stage IC or higher, lymph channel involvement, or grade 3 disease also underwent pelvic and aortic node dissection. Of 807 patients having TLH, 112 had a uterine neoplasia: twenty-one hyperplasia, 86 carcinoma, 2 ovarian and endometrial carcinoma, and 3 low-grade endometrial stromal sarcoma; 82 had TLH and adnexectomy; and 30 had TLHND. For both groups, the mean age was 60 (NS), Quatlet index was 31.2 (NS), parity was 1.6 (NS), and the mean blood loss was 148 mL (NS). The node dissection added 56 minutes to TLH (132 vs 188 minutes, p <.001) and yielded a mean of 25 nodes. Patients in both groups spent a median of 1 day in the hospital (NS). There were 7 complications (6.3%) in the series: among the patients in the TLH group, 1 conversion to laparotomy for bleeding from an ovarian artery, 1 vaginal rupture during coitus at 6 weeks, and 1 nonsurgical episode of diverticulitis. There were 4 patients in the TLHLND group with complications: 1 ureteral injury, 1 trocar-site hernia, 1 vaginal laceration, and 1 pelvic abscess. Node dissection added 56 minutes and entailed no additional blood loss, transfusion, or length of hospital stay, as well as minimal risk of complication. Total laparoscopic hysterectomy with indicated lymph node dissections for endometrial disease is reasonably well tolerated and warrants prospective randomized study to document its role in the therapy of endometrial carcinoma."}
{"id": "17628919", "title": "[Elevated Ca 19.9 tumor marker without evidence of malignancy].", "content": "[Elevated Ca 19.9 tumor marker without evidence of malignancy]. Tumor markers are a useful tool for surveillance of oncologic patients, whereas their role in the diagnosis of a malignancy is controversial. We present the case of a woman with a benign ovarian cyst with an unexpected elevation of Ca 19.9 after laparoscopic bilateral anexectomy."}
{"id": "17627695", "title": "Small bowel volvulus caused by re-implantation and growth of remnant tissue from a previously excised ovarian mucinous cystadenoma.", "content": "Small bowel volvulus caused by re-implantation and growth of remnant tissue from a previously excised ovarian mucinous cystadenoma."}
{"id": "17617524", "title": "Management of borderline ovarian neoplasms.", "content": "Management of borderline ovarian neoplasms. Over the last decades, the management of borderline ovarian tumors (BOTs) has changed from radical surgery to more conservative therapy as a result of the need for fertility-sparing surgery and the increasing use of laparoscopy. The question is whether this is good clinical practice from an oncologic point of view. Here, recent literature regarding management of borderline ovarian neoplasms is reviewed, and oncologic concerns are discussed with emphasis on the mode of surgery and the possibility of fertility-sparing surgery and its consequences. Proper staging is defined as an exploration of the entire abdominal cavity with peritoneal washings, infracolic omentectomy, and multiple peritoneal biopsies as the cornerstone of a successful treatment, and this is only possible through a midline incision. For stage I disease, conservative surgery consisting of unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy or cystectomy in case of bilateral ovarian involvement or when the disease develops in the only remaining ovary is a valuable alternative in a number of young patients who want to preserve their fertility. Patients with advanced-stage disease or who are finished childbearing are treated with radical surgery consisting of peritoneal washings, total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, infracolic omentectomy, complete peritoneal resection of macroscopic lesions, or multiple peritoneal biopsies; in case of mucinous BOTs, patients also are treated with an appendectomy."}
{"id": "17617522", "title": "Adjuvant chemotherapy for early-stage ovarian cancer: review of the literature.", "content": "Adjuvant chemotherapy for early-stage ovarian cancer: review of the literature. This overview summarizes studies with acceptable quality and validity and presents a synthesis of the effectiveness on adjuvant therapy after surgery for early ovarian cancer (EOC) patients. The literature published between 1970 and 2006 was identified systematically by computer-based searches in MEDLINE and Cochrane library. Twenty-two prospective randomized studies were analyzed, which included 4,626 patients. No difference between adjuvant chemotherapy (AC) and radiotherapy was found. There is agreement on that patients with stage IA, grade 1 tumors have excellent survival and do not need postsurgical therapy. The International Collaborative Ovarian Neoplasm 1/Adjuvant Chemotherapy in Ovarian Neoplasm trials were the first to show an effect on survival of AC, but in patients with adequate surgical staging, there was no additional effect of AC. For patients who are staged incompletely at the time of initial surgery, completion of the staging procedure with either laparoscopy or laparotomy is a reasonable approach before a final decision is made regarding the need for AC. If full staging cannot be performed due to medical contraindication or patient refusal, consideration of AC is reasonable in selected patients. Using prognostic variables such as grade, International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics substage, pretreatment of CA-125 < or = 30 U/mL, and DNA ploidy, it is possible to divide patients into risk groups to avoid overtreatment. Gynecologic Oncology Group study 157 suggests that it may be possible to minimize chemotherapy-induced toxicity by using three instead of six cycles of AC, although it is not known fully whether this will compromise effectiveness. Future randomized studies in EOC will include the investigation of new targeted therapies and new prognostic factors in adequately staged patients."}
{"id": "17615917", "title": "[Laparoscopic hysterectomy].", "content": "[Laparoscopic hysterectomy]. Our paper presents the experience gained in nearly 12 years by the General Surgery Clinic of \"Sfantul Ioan\" Hospital, Bucharest in the field of laparoscopic hysterectomy. The period of time is quite long compared to the evolving of mini-invasive techniques and also unequal towards the experience of the surgeons who perform these procedure. The total number of hysterectomies was 1491 from which 251 by laparoscopic approach, the rest being made by the classic methods (most of them by laparotomy and some by vaginal approach). In the statistic we have included 15 myomectomies, 4 cases of radical hysterectomy with pelvic lymphadenectomy and 4 cases of complete hysterectomy after partial procedures made by laparotomy. The indications were represented mostly by uterine fibroma (82.07%), but also by uterine prolapse (13.14%), uterine bleeding, cervix severe dysplasia, uterine and cervix neoplasia (stage I) or associated to ovariectomy related to breast cancer. The paper analyses the results looking at the incidents and accidents (hemorrhagic, ureteral, urinary bladder or rectal lesions) and also postoperative complications (we had three reinterventions, two by laparoscopy and one by laparotomy). We also recorded one death not directly as a consequence of surgery, but as a diagnosis error. Regarding the surgical technique we initially chose the laparoscopic assisted vaginal hysterectomy. Afterwards by gaining experience we started treating the uterine pedicle and now we settled for the integral laparoscopic procedure. In our opinion laparoscopic hysterectomy represents all the advantages of mini-invasive approach. The technological development, but essentially the experience gained by surgeons are the key factors in accepting and promulgating the technique."}
{"id": "17602847", "title": "[Ovarian dermoid cyst complicated by chemical peritonitis. Case report].", "content": "[Ovarian dermoid cyst complicated by chemical peritonitis. Case report]. Dermoid cyst is the most frequent benign ovarian tumor. Its spontaneous or more frequently iatrogenic intraperitoneal rupture may lead to a chemical peritonitis. This is a rare complication but with a potentially dangerous issue. We report a case of a patient who developed chemical peritonitis after laparoscopic management of ovarian dermoid cysts. Three further interventions, associated with systemic anti-inflammatory treatment, were necessary to resolve symptoms completely. On the basis of this case, we aim to re-access the characteristics of dermoid cysts and highlight in particular the potential complication of chemical peritonitis and the following attitude to avoid this."}
{"id": "17581760", "title": "Gestational choriocarcinoma arising from a cornual ectopic pregnancy: a case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Gestational choriocarcinoma arising from a cornual ectopic pregnancy: a case report and review of the literature. Gestational choriocarcinoma associated with ectopic pregnancy is an extremely rare event. We report a case of a choriocarcinoma arising from a cornual pregnancy. The patient is a 35-year-old G8 P2052 who was referred to our department due to failure of treatment for a suspected ectopic pregnancy. The patient had initially been treated with methotrexate injection but her beta-hCG levels reached a plateau 3 weeks later and, despite another two methotrexate injections, started to rise. The patient underwent dilation and curettage that did not reveal any trophoblastic tissue. A diagnostic hysteroscopy that followed demonstrated occluded ostia of the left tube. The patient subsequently underwent diagnostic laparoscopy that revealed a mass in the left cornua, which was removed with wedge-wide resection. Histologic evaluation revealed choriocaricnoma. Appropriate monitoring of beta-hCG titers following conservative management of suspected ectopic pregnancy is important, not only to diagnose persistent ectopic gestation, but also to rule out the presence of malignant trophoblastic disease, albeit the latter is a rare diagnosis."}
{"id": "17578369", "title": "Ectopic ovary: a case of autoamputated ovary with mature cystic teratoma into the cul-de-sac.", "content": "Ectopic ovary: a case of autoamputated ovary with mature cystic teratoma into the cul-de-sac. An ovary with a mature cystic teratoma which was autoamputated into the cul-de-sac and confirmed by laparoscopy is described. A 24-year-old woman with a history of chronic pelvic pain for 5 years presented with left abdominal pain. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a left ovarian mass of 5 cm in diameter. The pain was relieved spontaneously after a few weeks. Laparoscopy was performed 5 months later. The mass was identified in the cul-de-sac partly enveloped in the omentum without any ligamentous or direct connection with the pelvic organs. There was no left ovary in its proper anatomical location. Histopathologic study revealed a mature cystic teratoma with viable ovarian tissue. These findings suggested autoamputation of the ovary either by inflammation or torsion, which is one of the mechanisms for the formation of an ectopic ovary."}
{"id": "17578358", "title": "Ovarian endometriosis associated with ovarian cancer and endometrial-endocervical polyps.", "content": "Ovarian endometriosis associated with ovarian cancer and endometrial-endocervical polyps. To determine the prevalence of ovarian cancer and endometrial polyps in women with moderate and severe ovarian endometriosis. A retrospective analysis of 667 cases of moderate and severe endometriosis laparoscopically and histologically confirmed during the period 1997-2004. One hundred and ninety-three (29%) of cases were American Fertility Society (AFS) stage III (moderate endometriosis) and 473 (71%) were AFS stage IV (severe endometriosis). Ovarian cancer was diagnosed in 13 cases (2.0%), while an endometrial or endocervical polyp was identified in 35 cases (5.3%). The incidence of endometrial polyps in the group with moderate endometriosis tended to be higher (15/193, 7.8%) than in the group with severe endometriosis (20/473, 4.2%), and the same results were obtained in the ovarian cancer group (moderate: 6/193, 3.1%; severe: 7/473, 1.5%). However, neither of the two differences was statistically significant. Ovarian endometriosis may be associated with an increased incidence of both ovarian cancer and endometrial polyps. Careful evaluation for coexistent pathology should be undertaken in women with symptomatic endometriosis."}
{"id": "17544420", "title": "Extremely elevated serum CA-125 level as a result of unruptured unilateral endometrioma: the highest value reported.", "content": "Extremely elevated serum CA-125 level as a result of unruptured unilateral endometrioma: the highest value reported. To present a case of a unilateral endometrioma with extremely elevated serum CA-125 levels. Case report. University hospital. A 25-year-old woman with left adnexal mass and extremely elevated serum CA-125 level, 7,900 U/mL, underwent laparoscopy. There were unilateral endometrioma and stage IV endometriosis. Laparoscopic excision of the endometrioma, unilateral salpingectomy, adhesiolysis, ablation of endometriotic foci, and partial omentectomy were performed, and histopathologic results confirmed the diagnosis of endometriosis. Extremely elevated serum CA-125 levels and unruptured ovarian endometrioma. On the second, sixth, and 13th days of the menstrual period, serum CA-125 levels were 7,900 U/mL, 1,577 U/mL, and 627 U/mL, respectively. On the third postoperative day serum CA-125 level was 56 U/mL. Ovarian endometrioma and advanced endometriosis may be associated with extremely elevated serum CA-125 levels. For this reason ovarian endometrioma should be considered with respect to differential diagnosis of reproductive-age women presenting with an ovarian mass even if it resembles an ovarian malignancy."}
{"id": "17537302", "title": "[Clinical analysis of conversion from gynecological laparoscopic surgery to laparotomy].", "content": "[Clinical analysis of conversion from gynecological laparoscopic surgery to laparotomy]. To discuss the causes and clinical significance of conversion to laparotomy during laparoscopic surgery. Three thousand two hundred and three cases who underwent laparoscopic surgery during the past five years were analyzed retrospectively. Three thousand one hundred and eighty cases underwent laparoscopic surgery, in which 23 cases were converted to laparotomy due to factors including severe pelvic adhesions (6 cases), complex disease with difficulties in laparoscopy (7 cases), massive haemorrhage (3 cases), bladder trauma (1 case), gastric trauma (1 case), intestinal trauma (1 case), as well as unexpected malignant genitalia neoplasm (4 cases). The major causes for the conversion to laparotomy during gynecology laparoscopic surgery are severe pelvic adhesion and complex disease with difficulties in laparoscopy. Careful evaluation before surgery and conversion to laparotomy at the right moment can decrease the complication."}
{"id": "17532369", "title": "Secondary cytoreductive surgery for isolated nodal recurrence in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer.", "content": "Secondary cytoreductive surgery for isolated nodal recurrence in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "17524458", "title": "Laparoscopic extraperitoneal para-aortic lymphadenectomy.", "content": "Laparoscopic extraperitoneal para-aortic lymphadenectomy."}
{"id": "17514402", "title": "Laparoscopic restaging of borderline ovarian tumors.", "content": "Laparoscopic restaging of borderline ovarian tumors. This study aimed to evaluate the feasibility and relevance of laparoscopic restaging surgery for women with borderline ovarian tumors. From March 2001 to February 2006, 42 women referred for borderline ovarian tumors after laparoscopy or laparotomy underwent a laparoscopic restaging operation. Of these women, 37 (88%) had undergone conservative surgery including unilateral cystectomy (n = 16), bilateral cystectomy (n = 1), and unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (n = 20). The remaining five women (12%) had undergone radical surgery, including bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) (n = 4) and hysterectomy with BSO (n = 1). Intraoperative rupture occurred in 13 cases. All 42 restaging operations were performed via the laparoscopic approach. There were no intraoperative complications, no laparoconversions, and no postoperative complications. Laparoscopic restaging identified two persistent borderline ovarian tumors (12%) in women who had initially undergone cystectomy. Seven women were upstaged (16.6%) because of positive cytology (n = 2), peritoneal biopsy (n = 2), or omentum (n = 3). Among the 28 women with initial Federation International of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage Ia disease, the final stage was Ia for 24 women, Ib for 2 women, IIIa for 1 woman, and IIIc for 1 woman. Among the 12 women with initial stage Ic disease, 11 kept the same stage and 1 was upstaged to IIIc. The woman with initial stage IIa disease was upstaged to IIb, and the woman with initial stage IIc disease was upstaged to IIIc. The risk of upstaging was significantly higher among women with serous borderline tumors. Upstaging occurred in women with both initial stages I and II disease. The results confirm the feasibility and safety of laparoscopic restaging operations for women with borderline ovarian tumors. Cystectomy was associated with a risk of persistent lesions. The risk of upstaging was higher for women with serous borderline ovarian tumors and women with initial FIGO stage I or II disease."}
{"id": "17502200", "title": "Laparoscopic ovarian tissue preservation in young patients at risk for ovarian failure as a result of chemotherapy/irradiation for primary malignancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic ovarian tissue preservation in young patients at risk for ovarian failure as a result of chemotherapy/irradiation for primary malignancy. Aggressive chemotherapy/radiotherapy for cancer may cause gonadal failure in young female survivors. The putative aim of ovarian tissue cryopreservation is to restore fertility by transplantation of a patient's frozen-thawed ovarian tissue or, further into the future, by in vitro maturation of frozen-thawed oocytes followed by in vitro fertilization. This report presents our early experience with ovarian tissue preservation in young patients. We conducted a database review of the techniques and outcomes of the ethics board-approved ovarian tissue cryopreservation procedures performed at our center since 1998 for young girls with malignancy. The study group included 23 patients (median age = 14 years) with various types of cancer (hematologic, bone, ovarian, or intracranial); 11 patients were scheduled for chemotherapy, 11 patients had already undergone some form of chemotherapy before the ovarian tissue harvesting, and 1 patient was not scheduled for chemotherapy. Ten underwent bone marrow transplantation after tissue retrieval. Twenty-one patients underwent laparoscopic harvesting of their ovarian tissue. In the other 2 patients, the ovary was preserved during inguinal hernia repair or tissue was obtained at laparotomy for a pelvic tumor. All patients had benign operative and postoperative courses. Laparoscopy for ovarian tissue retrieval for cryopreservation is safe in young cancer patients. Based on reports of successful cryopreservation of human ovarian tissue containing primordial follicles, we believe that this approach holds promise for female cancer survivors."}
{"id": "17489487", "title": "[Laparoscopy for ovarian tumors in children].", "content": "[Laparoscopy for ovarian tumors in children]. Laparoscopic techniques play a major role in pediatric surgery. We reported our experience in the laparoscopic management of ovarian tumors. 22 patients with ovarian tumor were treated with laparoscopy in our hospital from 1998 to 2005. The following features have been taken into account: surgical techniques in the dissection and extraction of the tumors, time of surgery, hospital stay, complications and time of follow- up. 21 benign teratomas and one osteosarcoma metastasis were observed in this group of 22 patients. The average of age at diagnosis was 9.5 years (range 1.5-17 years) The chief symptom was acute abdominal pain in 47.3% of cases, in 10.5% was chronic pain and in 42.2% of patients was an incidental finding. In 8 girls (36.4%) were performed adnexectomy, in 11 (50%) ooforectomy and in three cases (13.6%) the cyst was enucleated with preservation on the ovary. In one patient a haemorrhage cyst was found and it was treated in the same time and in four patients an inguinal hernia as seen in the laparoscopic surgery and they were repaired subsequently. Laparoscopic management of ovarian tumor is safe and effective. It allows the surgeon to dissect the tumor, to determine respectability in ovarian cancer and taking biopsy under direct vision. This approach lets to diagnose other lesions that can be repaired in the same procedure or subsequently."}
{"id": "17486474", "title": "Extraperitoneal laparoscopic para-aortic lymphadenectomy as a diagnostic procedure for lymph node recurrence of gynaecological cancers.", "content": "Extraperitoneal laparoscopic para-aortic lymphadenectomy as a diagnostic procedure for lymph node recurrence of gynaecological cancers. The aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of extraperitoneal laparoscopic para-aortic lymphadenectomy for lymph node recurrence of gynecological cancers. Seven patients underwent extraperitoneal laparoscopic para-aortic lymphadenectomies for suspected lymph node recurrence, detected by magnetic resonance image or CT scan. The suspicious nodes were removed through an extraperitoneal laparoscopic approach. The median age of patients was 51 years (range: 39-67). The median operating time was 207 min (range 120-300). There were no intraoperative or postoperative complications. The median nodal yield was 7.3 (range: 1-15). The median hospital stay was 2.5 days (range: 2-3). Histological examination revealed metastasis in 6 of the 7 patients. The extraperitoneal laparoscopic para-aortic lymphadenectomy for lymph node recurrence of gynecological cancers is a safe and feasible procedure which should be considered in the case of possible recurrence."}
{"id": "17484640", "title": "Indications for hand-assisted laparoscopic radiofrequency ablation for liver tumors.", "content": "Indications for hand-assisted laparoscopic radiofrequency ablation for liver tumors. Radiofrequency ablation has established itself as the preferred treatment for irresectable liver tumors. It can be performed either percutaneously, laparoscopically, or by open surgery. The choice of approach depends on the patient and tumor-related variables. The laparoscopic approach appears to be the safest and most effective method for small tumors on the liver surface. It also provides additional information on the intrahepatic tumor burden with the use of intraoperative ultrasound and staging laparoscopy. Furthermore, the pneumoperitoneum reduces the flow of the portal vein and increases the efficacy of the ablation. Depending on the location of the tumor, mobilization of the liver or lysis of adhesions from previous surgery can require open surgery. Our aim was to study the combined use of laparoscopy and laparotomy by using hand-assisted laparoscopic radiofrequency ablation. We performed hand-assisted laparoscopy to ablate nine tumors in seven patients, enabling us to combine most of the advantages of laparoscopy and open surgery. The radiofrequency ablation was technically simple to perform. A laparoscopy of the entire abdominal cavity and a thorough examination of the entire liver via ultrasound was also performed. The electrode was accurately placed in all patients. In four patients, a complete mobilization of the right lobe was performed to obtain the easiest possible access to the tumor. In three patients, severe adhesions from previous surgeries were removed prior to insertion of the laparoscopic tools. The ablation was completed safely and successfully in all patients. Our overall impression of the hand-assisted laparoscopic approach is that it seems to have a major advantage in comparison with simple laparoscopy, specifically for adhesions from previous surgeries and when the right liver lobe requires mobilization. Also, needle placement seems to be far more accurate than with simple laparoscopy."}
{"id": "17478373", "title": "Ovarian capillary hemangioma presenting as pseudo-Meigs' syndrome: a case report.", "content": "Ovarian capillary hemangioma presenting as pseudo-Meigs' syndrome: a case report. We report a case of pseudo-Meigs' syndrome, consisting of bilateral ovarian hemangiomas, hydrothorax, ascites, and an elevated CA 125 level, which was resolved after laparoscopic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy."}
{"id": "17478171", "title": "Pathologic findings and outcomes of a minimally invasive approach to ovarian remnant syndrome.", "content": "Pathologic findings and outcomes of a minimally invasive approach to ovarian remnant syndrome. To review outcomes and pathologic findings of a primarily minimally invasive approach to ovarian remnant syndrome. Data were abstracted from medical records documenting bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and subsequent treatment between 1996 and 2006 for pathologically confirmed ovarian remnant tissue. Follow-up was by mailed questionnaires and telephone interviews. Tertiary care academic medical institution. Twenty patients (mean age, 48 years) receiving treatment for ovarian remnant tissue after prior bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Primarily minimally invasive approach (conventional laparoscopy and robot-assisted laparoscopy) for removal of ovarian remnant tissue. Postoperative complications and recurrence. The 20 patients had a mean follow-up of 30 months. Indications were endometriosis in 8 and ovarian neoplasm in 6. Eighteen patients presented with pain, and 2 presented with a pelvic mass. Nineteen had laparoscopy (14 conventional; 5 robotic), and 1 had laparotomy. Remnant ovarian tissue was associated with endometriosis in 5 and corpus luteum in 3. Two patients had malignancy in remnant ovarian tissue. Postoperative complications included pneumonia (1 case). Follow-up identified no recurrence. Ovarian remnant syndrome can be managed safely and successfully with minimally invasive surgery. Risk of carcinoma mandates surgical resection."}
{"id": "17464594", "title": "Surgery of borderline tumors of the ovary: retrospective comparison of short-term outcome after laparoscopy or laparotomy.", "content": "Surgery of borderline tumors of the ovary: retrospective comparison of short-term outcome after laparoscopy or laparotomy. Laparoscopic management of borderline ovarian tumors is controversial. To retrospectively compare outcome after surgery by laparoscopy or laparotomy for borderline tumors. Ovarian tumors from all women operated at Ullev\u00e5l University Hospital during a five-year period were re-evaluated histologically. Patients with borderline FIGO (International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics) stage I tumors were retrospectively compared regarding surgery outcome following laparoscopy or laparotomy. Histological re-evaluation revealed only 3 misclassifications in 608 patients. Borderline tumors represented 36% of epithelial ovarian malignancies. The 107 borderline stage I included 52 serous, 53 mucinous, and 2 endometrioid tumors. Thirty-eight patients were operated on primarily by laparoscopy and 69 by laparotomy (including 14 women starting with laparoscopy). In the laparoscopy group, more women were premenopausal (63% versus 35%, p=0.01) and median tumor diameter was smaller (8.6 versus 16.4 cm, p<0.001) as compared to the laparotomy group. When tumor diameter exceeded 10 cm, intraoperative tumor rupture was significantly more frequent during laparoscopy than during laparotomy (p=0.01). Less postoperative complications were seen after laparoscopic operations (p=0.034), but laparoscopic surgeries were less extensive, without hysterectomy, as compared to laparotomy. During the 14-78 months follow-up time, no relapse occurred in either group. After fertility-sparing surgery, there was no statistical significant difference regarding successful pregnancies between the two groups. Laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumors is feasible if tumor is of moderate size (diameter below 10 cm), gives fewer complications, and shorter hospital stay. Long-term follow-up of larger materials is needed to determine the ultimate recurrence risk as well as fertility rates."}
{"id": "17461295", "title": "[Clinical case of the month. Peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian carcinoma].", "content": "[Clinical case of the month. Peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian carcinoma]. Peritoneal tuberculosis can mimic advanced stage ovarian cancer and can lead to the performance of an unnecessary extended surgery. Clinical discrimination between peritoneal tuberculosis and ovarian carcinoma may sometimes be extremely difficult. We report 2 cases of peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian carcinoma. Diagnosis was made on perioneal biopsy."}
{"id": "17447107", "title": "Laparoscopic prophylactic oophorectomy plus N3 lymphadenectomy for advanced rectosigmoid cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic prophylactic oophorectomy plus N3 lymphadenectomy for advanced rectosigmoid cancer. The primary aim of the present retrospective study was to evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of laparoscopic prophylactic oophorectomy plus N3 lymph node dissection for patients with rectosigmoid cancer. The secondary aim was to explore the clinicopathologic features of ovarian micrometastasis from rectosigmoid cancer. We performed 244 laparoscopic resections of rectosigmoid cancer in women during a 6-year period. In them, 34 patients (13.9%) were subjected to prophylactic oophorectomy plus N3 lymphadenectomy in addition to the standard anterior or low anterior resection of rectosigmoid cancer, because the patients presented with ovarian cystic lesions, tethering of the ovary to the primary rectosigmoid tumor, and/or pelvic ascites accumulation, which were postulated as the indicative findings for the synchronous ovarian micrometastasis. The surgical procedures are detailed in the attached video. The surgical outcomes were compared between patients with (n = 34) and without (n = 210) these two additional procedures. In analyzing the clinicopathologic features of ovarian micrometastasis, we included both cases of laparoscopic (n = 34) and traditional open surgery (n = 30), whose prophylactic oophorectomy was performed by the same surgical indications. Although the operation time was significantly longer (264.2 +/- 24.5 vs. 192.5 +/- 24.2 minutes, P < .0001) in patients with prophylactic oophorectomy and N3 lymphadenectomy, there was no significant difference between patients with and without the two additional procedures in blood loss, wound length, postoperative complications, diverting ileostomy, and mortality. Although flatus passage, hospitalization, postoperative pain, and return to partial activity were statistically different between the study groups, they were deemed clinically unimportant because the difference of mean was very small. Foley removal was delayed in patients with N3 lymphadenectomy by 2 days. With respect to surgical efficacy, we found that patients undergoing the two additional procedures could collect significantly more lymph nodes (22.0 +/- 4.0 vs. 14.4 +/- 2.4, P < .0001) for pathologic staging and facilitated upstaging of nodal status in three patients (8.8%). Patients undergoing prophylactic oophorectomy plus N3 lymphadenectomy could achieve good oncologic outcome, with the estimated 5-year survival rate of 62.5% and 69.2% in patients with and without ovarian micrometastasis, respectively. Clinicopathologically, patients with ovarian micrometastasis (n = 15) tended to have vascular invasion of tumor cells, as compared with those without (n = 49). However, ovarian micrometastasis was not related to menstrual status of patients, tumor location, tumor size, morphology, differentiation, mucin production, T stage, nodal invasion, and level of carcinoembryonic antigen. Laparoscopic surgical techniques could be safely applied to perform prophylactic oophorectomy plus N3 lymphadenectomy with acceptable efficacy in a highly selected subset of patients with rectosigmoid cancer."}
{"id": "17445640", "title": "Laparoscopic adrenalectomy for suspected metastasis of adrenal glands: our experience.", "content": "Laparoscopic adrenalectomy for suspected metastasis of adrenal glands: our experience. To present our experience in laparoscopic adrenalectomy for isolated adrenal metastasis. A total of 34 adrenalectomies were performed in 32 patients for incidental adrenal masses discovered at primary tumor diagnosis or during follow-up. The primary tumors diagnosed were 13 cases of lung carcinoma, 9 of renal cell carcinoma, 2 of colorectal carcinoma, 2 of bladder carcinoma, and 1 each of ovarian carcinoma, breast cancer, gastric cancer, and melanoma. Two patients had no history of a primary tumor. The mean patient age was 59 years (range 26 to 75). The male/female ratio was 1.9:1. The mean operative time was 87 minutes (range 40 to 240). The average blood loss was 89 mL (range 0 to 1000). No conversions to open surgery were needed. The mean hospital stay was 3 days (range 1 to 5). One intraoperative diaphragmatic lesion developed that was repaired laparoscopically, and 1 patient had a pancreatic fistula that was managed by percutaneous drainage. The mean tumor size was 4.3 cm (range 1.5 to 9). The microscopic analysis revealed 22 malign lesions (64.7%) and 12 cases of benign pathologic features (35.3%). The mean survival time was 26 months (range 4 to 64) for the 22 patients with malign lesions. In 2 patients (9.1%), the surgical margins were positive. Laparoscopic adrenalectomy for small isolated metastases is feasible. However, because of the high risk of positive margins, this procedure should only be done by expert laparoscopists. We did not find a correlation between mass size and malignancy. Nevertheless, we believe that longer follow-up is mandatory before definitive conclusions can be drawn."}
{"id": "17425680", "title": "Bulky lymph node resection in patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer: impact of surgery.", "content": "Bulky lymph node resection in patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer: impact of surgery. The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of systematic lymphadenectomy, feasibility, complications rate, and outcome in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) patients with recurrent bulky lymph node disease. A prospective observational study of EOC patients with pelvic/aortic lymph node relapse was conducted between January 1995 and June 2005. After a clinical and laparoscopic staging, secondary cytoreduction, including systematic lymphadenectomy, were performed. The eligibility criteria were as follows: disease-free interval > or =6 months, radiographic finding suggestive of bulky lymph node recurrence, and patients' consent to be treated with chemotherapy. Forty-eight EOC patients with lymph node relapse were recruited. Twenty-nine patients were amenable to cytoreductive surgery. Postoperatively, all patients received adjuvant treatment. The median numbers of resected aortic and pelvic nodes were 15 (2-32) and 17 (8-47), respectively. The median numbers of resected aortic and pelvic positive lymph nodes were 4 (1-18) and 3 (1-17), respectively. The mean size of bulky nodes was 3.3 cm. Four patients (14%) experienced one severe complication. No treatment-related deaths were observed. After a median follow-up of 26 months, among cytoreduced patients, 18 women were alive with no evidence of disease, nine were alive with disease. Among the 11 patients not amenable to surgery, five women were alive with persistent disease, six patients died of disease, at a median follow-up of 18 months. Estimated 5-year overall survival and disease-free interval for operated women were 87% and 31%, respectively. In conclusion, patients with bulky lymph node relapse can benefit from systematic lymphadenectomy in terms of survival. The procedure is feasible with an acceptable morbidity rate."}
{"id": "17373668", "title": "Ovarian cancer screening with annual transvaginal sonography: findings of 25,000 women screened.", "content": "Ovarian cancer screening with annual transvaginal sonography: findings of 25,000 women screened. Ovarian cancer has the highest mortality rate of all gynecologic malignancies, and most women present with advanced-stage disease. The current investigation was performed to determine the efficacy of annual transvaginal sonography (TVS) as a screening method for ovarian cancer. Annual TVS screening was performed on 25,327 women from 1987 to 2005. Asymptomatic women aged>or=50 years and women aged>or=25 years who had a family history of ovarian cancer were eligible for participation in this trial. Among 364 patients (1.4%) with a persisting ovarian tumor on TVS who underwent exploratory laparoscopy or laparotomy with tumor removal, 35 primary invasive ovarian cancers, 9 serous ovarian tumors of low malignant potential, and 7 cancers metastatic to the ovary were detected. Stage distribution was as follows: 28 patients had stage I disease, 8 patients had stage II disease, and 8 patients had stage III disease. Four patients died of disease, 2 patients died of other causes, and 38 patients were alive and well from 0.5 years to 15.8 years after diagnosis (mean, 5.3 years). Nine women developed ovarian cancer within 12 months of a negative screen (false-negative results), and 3 of these patients died of disease. TVS screening had a sensitivity of 85.0%, specificity of 98.7%, positive predictive value of 14.01%, and negative predictive value of 99.9%. After 107,276 screening years, there have been 7 ovarian cancer deaths in the annually screened population and 3 ovarian cancer deaths among women who were noncompliant. Excluding patients with nonepithelial or borderline ovarian malignancies, the survival of patients with ovarian cancer in the annually screened population was 89.9%+/-10.1% at 2 years and 77.2%+/-22.8% at 5 years. TVS screening, when it was performed annually, was associated with a decrease in disease stage at detection and with case-specific ovarian cancer mortality, but it was not effective in detecting ovarian cancers in women who had normal ovarian volume."}
{"id": "17368265", "title": "Laparoscopic management of enlarged serous cystadenoma in advanced pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of enlarged serous cystadenoma in advanced pregnancy. Operative laparoscopy is changing the methods of treatment of the acute abdomen in advanced pregnancy. Diagnostic capabilities in identification of benign disease are becoming more sensitive with the use of advanced imaging ultrasound scanning and magnetic resonance imaging. This has changed the deciding factors in the handling of advanced-size adnexal masses with minimally invasive techniques for the conservative management and treatment in advancing pregnancies. This case shows the successful removal of a 6198-g ovarian serous cystadenoma by use of minimally invasive techniques."}
{"id": "17368256", "title": "Presurgical assessment of intraabdominal visceral fat in obese patients with early-stage endometrial cancer treated with laparoscopic approach: relationships with early laparotomic conversions.", "content": "Presurgical assessment of intraabdominal visceral fat in obese patients with early-stage endometrial cancer treated with laparoscopic approach: relationships with early laparotomic conversions. To evaluate the relationship between intraabdominal visceral fat (IVF) and early conversion from laparoscopy to laparotomy in obese patients. Prospective study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). Department of obstetrics and gynecology, University \"Magna Graecia\" of Catanzaro. One hundred fifty-one obese patients with endometrial cancer and laparoscopic surgery. Laparoscopic treatment for early-stage endometrial cancer. In all patients, demographic, anthropometric (including body mass index, waist-to-hip ratio, and waist circumference), and IVF assessments (using ultrasonography [IVF-USG, cm] and computed tomography [IVF-CT, cm(2)]), were evaluated. In 122 patients (122/151, 80.8%), the laparoscopies were successfully completed (group A), whereas 29 patients (29/151, 19.2%) had a laparotomic conversion. Specifically, in 19 (19/29, 65.5%) and in 10 patients (10/29, 34.5%) the conversion was early (group B1) and late (group B2), respectively. A significant (p <.05) difference in surgical stage IC and in postoperative complications rate was detected between group A and groups B1 and B2, without difference between these 2 last groups. IVF-USG and IVF-CT were significantly (p <.01) higher in group B1 in comparison with groups A and B2, without difference between these 2 last groups. A strong and significant (p <.001) association between IVF-USG and IVF-CT was detected in all groups by Spearman bivariate correlation (r = 0.78, 0.918, and 0.978 for group A, B1, and B2, respectively). Multivariate analysis showed the IVF-CT as the main predictor for early laparotomic conversion (OR 2.184; 95% CI 1.227-3.886). Intraabdominal visceral fat is a predictor for early laparotomic conversion in obese patients with endometrial cancer. Further studies are necessary to assess the efficacy of the IVF evaluation for reducing the laparotomic conversion risk in obese women undergoing laparoscopic surgery for gynecologic malignancy."}
{"id": "17362319", "title": "Characterization of an intraperitoneal ovarian cancer xenograft model in nude rats using noninvasive microPET imaging.", "content": "Characterization of an intraperitoneal ovarian cancer xenograft model in nude rats using noninvasive microPET imaging. MicroPET is a noninvasive imaging modality that can potentially track tumor development in nude rats using the radiotracer fluorine 18-fluorodeoxyglucose ((18)F-FDG). Our goal was to determine whether microPET, as opposed to more invasive techniques, could be used to noninvasively monitor the development of ovarian cancer in the peritoneal cavity of nude rats for monitoring treatment response in future studies. Female nude rats were inoculated intraperitoneally with 36 million NIH:OVCAR-3 cells. Imaging was carried out at 2, 4, 6, or 8 weeks postinoculation. Each rat was fasted overnight and intravenously injected with 11.1 MBq (300 microCi) of (18)F-FDG in 0.2 mL of saline. Thirty minutes following injection, the rats were placed in the microPET and scanned for 30 min. After imaging, rats were euthanized for ascites and tissue collection for biodistribution and histopathologic correlation. Standard uptake values (SUVs) of (18)F-FDG within the peritoneal cavity were also calculated from regions of interest analysis of the microPET images. MicroPET images showed diffuse increased uptake of (18)F-FDG throughout the peritoneal cavity of tumor rats (mean SUV=4.64) compared with control rats (mean SUV=1.03). Ascites gathered from tumor-bearing rats had increased (18)F-FDG uptake as opposed to the peritoneal fluid collected from control rats. Biodistribution data revealed that the percent injected dose per gram (% ID/g) was significantly higher in tumor-bearing rats (6.29%) than in control rats (0.59%) in the peritoneal lymph nodes. Pathology verified that these lymph nodes were more reactive in tumor-bearing rats. By 6 weeks, some rats developed solid masses within the peritoneum, which could be detected on microPET images and confirmed as tumor by histopathology. (18)F-FDG uptake in these tumors at necropsy was 2.83% ID/g. These results correlate with previous invasive laparoscopic studies of the same tumor model and demonstrate that microPET using (18)F-FDG is a promising noninvasive tool to localize and follow tumor growth in an intraperitoneal ovarian cancer model."}
{"id": "17354223", "title": "Decreased intraperitoneal disease recurrence in epithelial ovarian cancer patients receiving intraperitoneal consolidation treatment with yttrium-90-labeled murine HMFG1 without improvement in overall survival.", "content": "Decreased intraperitoneal disease recurrence in epithelial ovarian cancer patients receiving intraperitoneal consolidation treatment with yttrium-90-labeled murine HMFG1 without improvement in overall survival. This study analyzes the site of disease recurrence in ovarian cancer patients to assess the influence of a single intraperitoneal (IP) administration of yttrium-90-labeled murine monoclonal antibody HMFG1 ((90)Y-muHMFG1) on the pattern of disease recurrence. In a large phase III trial ovarian cancer patients in complete clinical remission with FIGO stage Ic-IV were randomized between standard treatment plus a single IP (90)Y-labeled muHMFG1 versus standard treatment alone after negative second-look laparoscopy. Case report forms of all patients with disease recurrence were reviewed to determine site and date of recurrent disease. In total 447 patients were included in the study with a median follow-up of 3.5 years. Relapse was seen in 104/224 in the active and 98/223 in the control arm. Significantly fewer IP (p < 0.05) and more extraperitoneal (p < 0.05) relapses occurred in the active treatment arm. Time to IP recurrence was significantly longer (p = 0.0019) and time to extraperitoneal recurrence was significantly shorter for the active treatment arm (p < 0.001). The impact of IP radioimmunotherapy on IP relapse-free survival could only be seen in the subgroup of patients with residual disease after primary surgery (HR, 0.31; 95% CI, 0.18 to 0.53; p = 0.002). Although, there is no survival benefit for IP radioimmunotherapy as consolidation treatment for epithelial ovarian cancer, we found an improved control of IP disease, that was offset by increased extraperitoneal recurrences."}
{"id": "17339150", "title": "Primary leiomyoma of the fallopian tube: preoperative ultrasound findings.", "content": "Primary leiomyoma of the fallopian tube: preoperative ultrasound findings. Leiomyoma of the fallopian tube is extremely rare. Most cases are asymptomatic and found incidentally at autopsy or unrelated operation. These leiomyomas tend to be singular, small, and unilateral, with a resultant rare preoperative diagnosis. They are often managed with laparotomy, as seen in the literature review. Therefore, preoperative imaging is never reported. We describe a case of leiomyoma of the fallopian tube, which was suspected before operation and treated by laparoscopic approach. Transvaginal ultrasound clearly showed a hypoechoic solid mass separate from the left ovary and uterus in a 44-year-old woman. Color Doppler ultrasound detected low impedance flow in this mass. Diagnostic laparoscopy and the follow-up laparoscopic salpingoectomy revealed a primary leiomyoma of the fallopian tube. We conclude that powerful ultrasound could be helpful in diagnosing rare gynecologic disorders but laparoscopy can be used for definite diagnosis and management of such disorders."}
{"id": "17337353", "title": "[Laparoscopic management of occult cervical cancer discovered after simple hysterectomy].", "content": "[Laparoscopic management of occult cervical cancer discovered after simple hysterectomy]. To assess the feasibility and morbidity of surgical management by combined laparoscopic and vaginal approach after cervical cancer diagnosed at the time of simple hysterectomy. From 2000 to 2005, 10 patients were referred with occult cervical cancer discovered after simple hysterectomy. All these patients had laparoscopy for surgical staging. Eight on ten patients had complete laparoscopic staging: pelvic lymphadenectomy (N=8), radical colpectomy (N=5). Operative time, pelvic lymph nodes resected, postoperative stay were respectively 261.3 minutes (200-400), 27 (23-38), 4.4 days. There were 2 symptomatic lymphocysts. Pelvic lymph nodes were positive for 1 patient with negative paraaortic nodes. Residual disease was present in 2 cases: 1 parametrial and vaginal involvement, 1 ovarian metastasis. 5 patients had adjuvant treatment: 2 combined pelvic external radiotherapy and brachytherapy, 1 pelvic external radiotherapy, 1 pelvic concurrent chemoradiation and 1 brachytherapy only. Two on ten patients needed a laparoconversion, one for ovarian involvement and one for technical failure. With a median follow-up of 29.7 months (4-63), 3 patients recurred. 3 patients recurred above 5 patients with pelvic lymphadenectomy but without parametrectomy versus no recurrence above 5 patients with pelvic lymphadenectomy and parametrectomy. Surgical staging of occult cervical cancer discovered after simple hysterectomy is necessary for indication of adjuvant treatment. Laparoscopy combined with vaginal surgery is feasible and safe, inducing fewer adhesions which is important for adjuvant radiotherapy. The realization of a radical parametrectomy seems to offer a local control of the disease and a decrease in the risk of recurrence, which need to be confirmed by conducting a study with more patients. This emphasize the necessity of creating a national record to register all women managed for occult cervical cancer."}
{"id": "17315741", "title": "[Anesthesia machine malfunction caused by the blockade of an exhaust gas port].", "content": "[Anesthesia machine malfunction caused by the blockade of an exhaust gas port]. We report an intraoperative case of anesthesia machine (ACOMA ANESPIRATOR KMA-1300III, ACOMA Medical Industry Co., Ltd., Tokyo) malfunction. The ventilator, which had run normally on the preanesthetic inspection, suddenly went out of order showing the negative circuit pressure. This accident was caused by the obstruction of the exhaust gas port with a vinyl bag, resulting in the failure in expansion of ventilator bellows. While minute volume exceeds fresh gas flow, the bellows are replenished with gases from the exhaust gas pocket connected to both the exhaust gas port and the excess gas aspirator. Mannual ventilation could be properly carried out. Our incident led the manufacturer to provide a safety device and to issue the notice of trouble."}
{"id": "17306593", "title": "[Impact of the surgical route on staging and outcome of early borderline ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Impact of the surgical route on staging and outcome of early borderline ovarian tumors]. To assess the impact of the surgical route on the management and outcome of early borderline ovarian tumors (BOT). We have retrospectively analysed BOT operated on between January 1st 1985 and December 31st 2001. We included cases with clinical stages Ia to Ic. We compared the prevalence of deleterious acts according to the surgical access, as well as the quality of staging. Univariate and multivariate analysis assessed the impact of factors on quality of staging. Survival was also compared according to the initial surgical access. Data were computed and analysed using SPPS 7.5 and STATA 8. 118 cases have been included, 48 (41%) have been operated on by laparoscopy, 54 (45%) by laparotomy and 16 (14%) had a conversion. A conservative treatment has been done in 57% of patients, with increased frequency in case of laparoscopy (P<0.05) and in aged patients (P<0.001). A tumor rupture occurred in 9% of cases, without difference between accesses (P=0.1). A bag was used for the specimen delivery in only 40% of cases of laparoscopy. Most of patients (73%) had an incomplete staging. Year of treatment, and a radical treatment were associated with a better staging. Survival curves showed no detrimental effect of laparoscopy. Despite an incomplete staging, this series does not show any detrimental effect of laparoscopy on the outcome of early BOT."}
{"id": "17290330", "title": "[Synchronous bilateral renal cell cancer with a single ovarian metastasis and a fibromuscular dysplasia of the renal artery].", "content": "[Synchronous bilateral renal cell cancer with a single ovarian metastasis and a fibromuscular dysplasia of the renal artery]. Ovarian metastases of renal cell cancer (RCC) are extremely rare with less than 20 cases reported to date. These metastases occur in the majority of cases metachronous (i. e. prior to or after identification of the primary tumour) or--such as in our case--synchronous. A 42-year-old women was diagnosed for synchronous bilateral renal and a left-sided ovarian mass. In a first surgical step, the ovarian metastasis was removed laparoscopically and the 20 cm tumour on the right kidney via a transperitoneal tumour nephrectomy (histology: clear cell RCC, pT3bN0V1R0M1). Prior to nephron-sparing surgery of the left kidney an angiography was performed revealing a massive fibromuscular dysplasia. Under cold ischaemic perfusion, the two RCCs (pT1aV0R0) on the left side were excised and the renal artery replaced by a Goretex graft. Twelve hours postoperatively the patient became anuric and two stents were placed endoradiologically because of a stenosis of the proximal anastomosis. Two years after surgery the patient is recurrence-free and her renal function is normal. Although extremely rare, the possibility of an ovarian metastasis should be considered in women with RCC. The presented case was unique because of synchronous bilateral RCC, an ovarian metastasis and a fibromuscular dysplasia of the renal artery requiring a sophisticated surgical approach."}
{"id": "17289310", "title": "Bilateral Leydig cell tumour of the ovary: a rare cause of virilization in postmenopausal patient.", "content": "Bilateral Leydig cell tumour of the ovary: a rare cause of virilization in postmenopausal patient. Leydig cell tumours of the ovary are very rare benign neoplasms, frequently associated with symptoms of virilisation, in postmenopausal patients. Only four cases of bilateral Leydig tumours have been reported in the literature. We report an additional case of bilateral presentation. A 77-year-old postmenopausal patient was referred from the Endocrinology Service due to a biochemical diagnosis of hyperandrogenism during hospital admission with unbalanced diabetes mellitus. The patient had suffered from alopecia and hirsutism for many years. Biological data confirmed an increment of androgen production. Ultrasonography showed a well-defined hyperechoic lesion of 12 mm in the right ovary. A CT scan demonstrated adrenal glands and ovaries without tumour. Bilateral adnexectomy by laparoscopy was carried out. The pathological finding was a bilateral Leydig cell tumour, measuring 15 mm in the right ovary and 3 mm in the left ovary. Following treatment the patient experienced regression of the hirsutism and the plasma testosterone dropped to a normal level. In spite of its low incidence, it is a possibility that must be considered in all postmenopausal women with hyperandrogenism, and bilateral adnexectomy by laparoscopy is recommended as a diagnostic test and definitive treatment."}
{"id": "17285387", "title": "Laparoscopic management of a nonobstetric emergency in the third trimester of pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of a nonobstetric emergency in the third trimester of pregnancy. Laparoscopic management of nonobstetric acute abdominal pain during pregnancy remains controversial. A gestational age of 26 to 28 weeks has been considered the upper limit for laparoscopy by some authors. A case series of nonobstetric surgery in advanced pregnancy is reported. Third-trimester patients who underwent surgery between 1997 and 2006 were reviewed. Laparoscopic surgery was performed for nonobstetric emergencies during the third trimester for 11 patients. Four patients underwent open surgery. The laparoscopic surgery group included five cholecystectomies, four appendectomies, and two adenexal surgeries. The laparoscopic surgery procedure was successfully completed for 10 patients. Of these 10 patients, 9 had no complications and went on to deliver a healthy term infant. One patient went into preterm labor after a laparoscopic appendectomy for perforated acute appendicitis with purulent peritonitis and delivered a viable infant at 34 weeks. Another patient at 29 weeks of gestation underwent a diagnostic laparoscopy for abdominal pain. Adenexal torsion of a large multicystic ovarian mass led to a laparotomy (obstetrician preference) and right salpingo-oophrectomy. Her postoperative course was complicated by an episode of sudden syncope, hypotension, and fetal distress on postoperative day 3. An emergent laparotomy showed hemoperitoneum attributable to bleeding from the ovarian pedicle. A cesarean section delivery of a preterm infant requiring neonatal resuscitation was performed. The open surgery group included four patients. Two of the patients underwent appendectomies at 35 and 33 weeks, respectively, followed by a term delivery. The remaining two patients underwent emergent colectomies with a cesarean section delivery at 31 and 38 weeks, respectively. This study demonstrated that laparoscopic surgery in the third trimester of pregnancy is feasible and can be performed safely with an acceptable risk to the fetus and the mother. Access to the pregnant abdomen is easily obtained. Space generally is not a problem, and there is minimal uterine manipulation."}
{"id": "17276434", "title": "Struma ovarii coincident with Hashimoto's thyroiditis: an unusual cause of hyperthyroidism.", "content": "Struma ovarii coincident with Hashimoto's thyroiditis: an unusual cause of hyperthyroidism. To report the identification of struma ovarii in a patient with a history of struma ovarii and new hyperthyroidism. Case report. Academic research hospital. A woman with hyperthyroidism who has struma ovarii coincident with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy. Measurement of thyroid hormone parameters before and after surgery. After removal of the second struma ovarii, hyperthyroidism resolved. In a patient with two different causes of abnormal thyroid function, it is important to seek an encompassing clinical scenario."}
{"id": "17275077", "title": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for the surgical management of apparent early stage ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for the surgical management of apparent early stage ovarian cancer. To compare the results of laparoscopic staging of apparent early ovarian cancer (EOC) with those obtained with comprehensive surgical staging via laparotomy. Consecutive patients undergoing comprehensive laparoscopic staging for presumed EOC (LPS group; N=15) were compared with historical controls selected from consecutive women who have had conventional staging with open surgery (LPT group; N=19). No difference was found in demographics and preoperative variables between the two groups. There were no significant differences between the two groups with regard to median number of lymph nodes and likelihood of identifying metastatic disease. No conversion to laparotomy and no intraoperative complication occurred in the LPS group. Operative time was significantly longer in the LPS group when compared with the LPT group (377+/-47 vs. 272+/-81 min, P=0.002). One patient in the LPS group had a retroperitoneal haematoma recognized in the postoperative period, and this required laparotomy and ligature of the hypogastric arteries to achieve haemostasis. Minor postoperative complications occurred in 1 (6.7%) patient in the LPS group and in 8 (42.1%) patients in the LPT group (P=0.047). Hospital stay was significantly shorter in the LPS group [3 (2-12) vs. 7 (4-14) days, P=0.001]. Median (range) follow-up time was 16 (4-33) and 60 (32-108) months in the LPS and LPT group, respectively. Eleven (73.3%) patients in the LPS group and 13 (68.4%) in the LPT group received adjuvant treatment. There were no recurrences in the LPS group whereas 4 (7.1%) recurrences occurred in the LPT group. Overall survival was 100% in both groups. Our results suggest that laparoscopic comprehensive surgical staging of EOC is as safe and adequate as the standard surgical staging performed via laparotomy."}
{"id": "17270653", "title": "Primary retroperitoneal teratoma presenting as an adrenal tumor in an adult.", "content": "Primary retroperitoneal teratoma presenting as an adrenal tumor in an adult. Primary teratomas in the retroperitoneum are rare in adults. Most teratomas in this region are secondary to germ cell tumors of the testes or ovaries. We describe a case of mature cystic teratoma that was clinically suggestive of an adrenal myelolipoma. Resection was attempted using laparoscopy but was converted to open adrenalectomy to ensure complete resection. Because of the risk of malignancy, follow-up radiographic studies were performed to ensure the oncologic efficacy of resection. The patient has been free of recurrence for longer than 18 months."}
{"id": "17267889", "title": "Diagnosis and management of hepatic ectopic pregnancy.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of hepatic ectopic pregnancy. We present a case in which an adnexal mass caused symptoms that eventually lead to the identification of a primary hepatic pregnancy. A young woman presented with abdominal pain, a positive hCG test result, an empty uterus, and a pelvic mass. Diagnostic laparoscopy revealed a cystic adnexal mass. An exploratory laparotomy with ovarian cystectomy identified a mature teratoma but no evidence of pregnancy in the pelvis. Because the patient's quantitative hCG level continued to increase without evidence of an intrauterine pregnancy, a dilation and curettage was performed which yielded no products of conception. An ultrasound examination and magnetic resonance imaging identified an 11-week ectopic pregnancy with fetal cardiac activity located in the maternal liver. This was treated with fetal injections of methotrexate and potassium chloride under ultrasound guidance and subsequent maternal intramuscular injection of methotrexate. The patient tolerated these interventions well, and subsequent ultrasound examinations showed absent fetal cardiac activity and decreasing fetal size. Serial hCG tests were followed up to zero, and the patient's liver enzyme levels remained normal. With persistently rising hCG levels and no pregnancy identified in the uterus or pelvis, there should be a thorough evaluation of the entire pelvis and abdomen. Magnetic resonance imaging is a useful tool for locating such an ectopic pregnancy. Once identified, decisions regarding surgical versus medical management must take risk of adverse outcomes into consideration. This report reveals an 11-week hepatic pregnancy managed conservatively with fetal potassium chloride and maternal methotrexate administration."}
{"id": "17267138", "title": "[Endometriosis: good practice rules for diagnostic laparoscopy].", "content": "[Endometriosis: good practice rules for diagnostic laparoscopy]. The interest for diagnostic laparoscopy for the diagnosis of endometriosis is not longer discussed. Indications could be pelvic pain, infertility, menorragia, and/or organic ovarian tumour. Several lesions, typical and non typical, have been described and should be recognized. Histological confirmation seems suitable even though the correlation with visual inspection is not perfect. New laparoscopic techniques seem interesting to increase diagnostic relevance. Visual inspection should be associated with palpation. For deep infiltrating endometriotic lesions diagnostic laparoscopy has shown its limits. Precisions concerning peri-operative methods and operative reports are described. The place of the different classifications has been discussed."}
{"id": "17230294", "title": "Pregnancy outcome and recurrence after conservative laparoscopic surgery for borderline ovarian tumors.", "content": "Pregnancy outcome and recurrence after conservative laparoscopic surgery for borderline ovarian tumors. The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of conservative laparoscopic management of borderline ovarian tumors, and to assess pregnancy outcome and recurrence after fertility-sparing surgery. From 1995 to 2005, 43 patients of reproductive age presented with adnexal mass, which was subsequently diagnosed as a borderline tumor of the ovary. These patients were treated by conservative laparoscopic surgery, with intraoperative staging of the disease. Patients were evaluated every 3 months for the first 2 years, and then every 6 months thereafter, to determine the best modality for following patients after conservative surgery. Three (7%) patients developed a recurrence after conservative treatment. Among the 43 patients who had conservative surgery, 21 (49%) became pregnant during the follow-up period; 12 (57%) conceived spontaneously, and the remaining 9 (43%) patients underwent caesarean section. In our opinion, conservative laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumors is an appropriate and reasonable therapeutic option for young women with low-stage disease who wish to preserve their childbearing potential, because the fertility results are encouraging. Recurrence can be noted after this type of treatment, but the cases of recurrent disease can be detected with close follow-up and treated accordingly. Careful selection of candidates for this kind of treatment is, of course, necessary, and close follow-up is required."}
{"id": "17217498", "title": "Inguinal endometriosis attaching to the round ligament.", "content": "Inguinal endometriosis attaching to the round ligament. We report a case of endometriosis in the right inguinal region, attached to the right round ligament in a 28-year-old woman. At the age of 20, laparoscopic left ovarian cystectomy and pelvic adhesiolysis for endometriosis was carried out. She noticed a right tender groin mass 7 months previously, and the tumour size fluctuated with the menstrual cycle. A poorly circumscribed elastic hard mass, measuring 3 cm in diameter, was palpated in her right inguinal region. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a 2.5 cm x 2.5 cm mass in the right inguinal canal and a 5.4 cm x 6.8 cm mass was seen in the left ovary. The mass enlarged during menstruation. The groin mass was removed, in addition to carrying out laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy. At operation, the groin mass was found to be in continuity with the round ligament of extraperitoneal portion. Histological diagnosis of endometriosis was made in both ovarian and inguinal tumours. After surgery, the pain disappeared completely. Worth mentioning is that MRI clearly showed the change of tumour size depending on the menstrual cycle, which aided in arriving at the correct diagnosis of endometriosis in an unusual location."}
{"id": "17211677", "title": "Lymph node metastasis detection of ovarian cancer by porphyrin fluorescence photodetection: case report.", "content": "Lymph node metastasis detection of ovarian cancer by porphyrin fluorescence photodetection: case report. The concept of intraoperative in vivo diagnosis and selective resection of infiltrated lymph nodes in ovarian cancer has not been evaluated despite the increased morbidity associated with pelvic and paraaortic lymph node dissection and its questionable therapeutic value. Fluorescence photodetection is based on the application of a photosensitizer relatively selective for malignant tissue, which after light activation of appropriate wavelength, shows fluorescence. Six hours after oral application of 10 mg/kg body weight 5-aminolevulinic acid, the abdominal cavity of a patient with suspicion of recurrent ovarian cancer was inspected using a laparoscope and blue light at 380-440 nm. Spectral measurements at a wavelength of 635 nm, multiple peritoneal biopsies, and lymph node excisions were performed. White light inspection and porphyrin fluorescence photodetection revealed no intraperitoneal metastases and multiple biopsies were negative. Fluorescence-positive lymph nodes were visible only in the left common iliac region and a specific porphyrin fluorescence peak could be detected. In contrary, no increased porphyrin fluorescence of intraperitoneal tissues or skin was seen. Fluorescence microscopy showed the characteristic red fluorescence in the infiltrated parts of the lymph node tissue by the papillary ovarian cancer. Histology of the other sites was negative. No systemic or cutaneous side effects were recorded. This data is a proof of the concept that porphyrin fluorescence-guided lymph node metastasis detection is possible in ovarian cancer and should stimulate further research in this field."}
{"id": "17188545", "title": "[Ovarian and peritoneal sarcoidosis mimicking an ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Ovarian and peritoneal sarcoidosis mimicking an ovarian cancer]. Ovarian and peritoneal sarcoidosis is a very rare condition, with an atypical clinical presentation close to that of ovarian cancer. An erroneous diagnosis could induce a definitive castration. A 38-year-old woman was admitted because of ascites and weight loss. A computerized tomography scan revealed multiple soft tissue nodules in the pelvis, on the ovaries as well as peritoneal deposits. Histological examination after laparoscopic biopsy was indicative of sarcoidosis. Corticosteroids were given to the patient and the symptoms quickly subsided. This case with its clinical presentation is discussed in comparison with previously reported cases."}
{"id": "17175013", "title": "Splenectomy in patients with advanced or recurrent ovarian cancer: open and laparoscopic surgical techniques and clinical outcomes.", "content": "Splenectomy in patients with advanced or recurrent ovarian cancer: open and laparoscopic surgical techniques and clinical outcomes."}
{"id": "17166570", "title": "Hand-assisted laparoscopic splenectomy for isolated ovarian cancer recurrence.", "content": "Hand-assisted laparoscopic splenectomy for isolated ovarian cancer recurrence."}
{"id": "17157903", "title": "Analysis of factors impacting operability in stage IV ovarian cancer: rationale use of a triage system.", "content": "Analysis of factors impacting operability in stage IV ovarian cancer: rationale use of a triage system. Determine impact of tumor distribution and surgery on prognosis in patients with stage IV epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC). Retrospective analysis of stage IV EOC patients undergoing primary surgery between 1994 and 1998. Simple statistics, univariate and multivariable analysis were performed. Forty-nine patients met the inclusion criteria and entered the study. Five-year overall survival (OS) was 18.2%. Residual disease (RD) and radical surgical procedures (RSP) independently predicted survival (p<0.001). Optimal debulking rate (RD <1 cm) was 49% and median survival for optimal patients was 3.2 years. A very high risk group of patients based on extent of peritoneal disease, parenchymal liver metastases and ASA could be identified in whom the rate of optimal debulking was less than 25% (median survival 1.4 years). No patients with multiple liver metastases were optimally cytoreduced and the median survival was 1 year. Based on patient factors and extent of disease, a high risk group of patients can be identified with a poor prognosis and low probability of optimal debulking. It appears justified in these patients to first exclude those with unresectable pleural disease and then perform laparoscopic assessment to determine extent of disease to triage patients to alternative strategies such as neoadjuvant chemotherapy."}
{"id": "17150248", "title": "The impact of video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) in patients with suspected advanced ovarian malignancies and pleural effusions.", "content": "The impact of video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) in patients with suspected advanced ovarian malignancies and pleural effusions. We previously reported our initial experience of patients with suspected advanced ovarian cancer and moderate to large pleural effusions who underwent video-assessed thoracic surgery (VATS) before planned abdominal exploration. The objective of this study was to report the surgical findings and management of patients who underwent VATS in an update of our experience. We performed a retrospective review of all patients with suspected advanced ovarian cancer and moderate to large pleural effusions who underwent VATS for assessment of extent of intrathoracic disease at our institution between 6/01 and 8/05. Twenty-three patients with a median age of 61 years (range, 36-79) were identified. VATS was performed for right-sided effusions in 17 patients (74%), and a median of 1350 ml (400-3700 ml) of pleural fluid was drained. VATS demonstrated macroscopic disease in 15 (65%) patients, with nodules >1 cm in 11/15 (73%), and nodules <1 cm in 4/15 (27%). Macroscopic intrathoracic disease was found in 4/10 (40%) patients with negative cytology. Intrathoracic cytoreduction was performed in 3/11 patients (27%) with intrathoracic disease >1 cm. After VATS, 12/23 patients (52%) underwent primary surgical management, with cytoreduction to < or =1 cm achieved in 11/12 patients (92%). The other eleven patients received primary chemotherapy after undergoing diagnostic laparoscopy alone (4/11) or no further abdominal exploration (7/11). Nine of these patients proceeded to interval cytoreduction, while 2 had pathology demonstrating upper gastrointestinal and lymphoma primaries at the time of VATS. Final diagnosis of primary site of disease included: ovary, 14 (61%); endometrial, 2 (9%); dual ovarian/endometrial primaries, 1 (4%); fallopian tube, 1 (4%); primary peritoneal, 1 (4%); other, 4 (17%). Overall, findings at VATS altered primary surgical management in 11/23 (48%) patients. Sixty-five percent of patients with suspected advanced ovarian cancer and moderate to large pleural effusions had gross intrathoracic disease identified at VATS, with the majority (11/15, 73%) having disease >1 cm in diameter. Use of VATS allows for assessment of intrathoracic disease and may help identify candidates for primary cytoreductive surgery and possible intrathoracic cytoreduction versus neoadjuvant chemotherapy."}
{"id": "17146744", "title": "Outcome of patients with known metastatic gastric cancer undergoing resection with therapeutic intent.", "content": "Outcome of patients with known metastatic gastric cancer undergoing resection with therapeutic intent. Metastatic gastric cancer has a dismal prognosis. We identified a subset of patients where surgical resection with therapeutic intent was undertaken in the setting of known metastatic disease. Review of a prospectively maintained database of gastric cancer patients at a single institution over a 19-year period was performed. Thirty-seven patients with metastatic disease known prior to resection with therapeutic intent were identified out of 3384 patients with gastric cancer (1%). Twelve patients had positive peritoneal cytology as the only evidence of metastasis, 21 had gross metastasis limited to peritoneal surfaces, one had peritoneal and ovarian metastasis, one had liver metastasis, one had retropancreatic lymph node metastasis, and one had a malignant pleural effusion. Thirty-six patients (97%) received chemotherapy prior to resection, and 30 (81%) received postoperative chemotherapy. The median time from diagnosis to resection was 4.5 months (range 1-22) in patients receiving preoperative chemotherapy. Median survival was 12 months after resection with no three-year survivors. Predictors of worse prognosis were cytologic or pathologic evidence of persistent metastatic disease at the time of resection or at laparoscopy within six weeks of resection (P < .01), N3 disease (P = .03), and total gastrectomy or additional organ resection (P = .04). Metastatic disease as evidenced by cytology only was not associated with improved prognosis. Highly selected patients with metastatic gastric cancer undergoing surgical resection with therapeutic intent have a relatively poor prognosis. Persistent detectable metastatic disease after preoperative chemotherapy portends a particularly poor prognosis."}
{"id": "17101236", "title": "A case of ovarian mature cystic teratoma presenting as a pedunculated ileal tumor.", "content": "A case of ovarian mature cystic teratoma presenting as a pedunculated ileal tumor. We report on a 34-year-old Japanese woman who presented with a pedunculated ileal tumor and who was finally diagnosed as having a right ovarian mature cystic teratoma penetrating and protruding into the ileum. She had undergone laparoscopic left ovarian cystectomy, whose specimen was diagnosed as dermoid cyst when she was 27 years old. The colon fiberscope revealed an ileal polyp, diagnosed as mature teratoma. Because of adhesion to the necrotic nodule between the tumor and the right ovary, ileocecal resection and right ovarian cystectomy were performed. The ileal tumor contained tissues of skin, neuroglia, ganglion, choroid, retina, smooth muscle, as well as fibrous and adipose tissues, cartilage, bone, mucous epithelium, and bronchial structures with bronchial glands. The necrotic nodule showed abscess, granulation tissue, foreign body reaction, hairs, normal ileal epithelium, and the ovary with ovums."}
{"id": "17050549", "title": "Comparison of two fertility-sparing approaches for bilateral borderline ovarian tumours: a randomized controlled study.", "content": "Comparison of two fertility-sparing approaches for bilateral borderline ovarian tumours: a randomized controlled study. During the childbearing years, the standard fertility-sparing treatment for bilateral borderline ovarian tumours (BOTs) is the unilateral oophorectomy plus controlateral cystectomy. The aim of the present study was to compare the effects of two laparoscopic fertility-sparing surgical procedures for the treatment of bilateral BOTs on recurrence and fertility in young women who desire to conceive as soon as possible. Thirty-two women affected by bilateral early-stage BOTs who desired to conceive were randomized to receive bilateral cystectomy (experimental group, n=15) or oophorectomy plus controlateral cystectomy (control group, n=17). At the first recurrence after childbearing completion, each patient was treated with non-conservative standard treatment. Recurrences and reproductive events were recorded. After a follow-up period of 81 months (19 inter-quartile; 60-96 range), the cumulative pregnancy rate (CPR) (14/15 versus 9/17; P=0.003) and the cumulative probability of first pregnancy (P= 0.011) were significantly higher in the experimental than in control group. No significant (P=0.358) difference between groups was detected in cumulative probability of first recurrence. The laparoscopic bilateral cystectomy followed by non-conservative treatment performed at the first recurrence after the childbearing completion is an effective surgical strategy for patients with bilateral early-stage BOTs who desire to conceive as soon as possible."}
{"id": "17031738", "title": "Laparoscopic partial splenectomy.", "content": "Laparoscopic partial splenectomy. The immunologic function of the spleen and its important role in immune defense has led to splenic-preserving surgery. This study aimed to evaluate whether laparoscopic partial splenectomy is safe. Data on consecutive patients presenting with localized benign or malignant disease of the spleen were included in a prospective database. The surgical technique consisted of six steps: patient positioning and trocar placement, mobilization of the spleen, vascular dissection, parenchymal resection, sealing/tamponading of the transected edge, and removal of the specimen. From 1994 to 2005, 38 patients underwent laparoscopic partial splenectomy. The indications included splenomegaly of unknown origin, splenic cysts, benign tumors (hamartoma), and metastasis from ovarian carcinoma and schwannoma. The median operating time was 110 min (range, 65-148 min). The median length of hospital stay was 5 days (range, 4-7 days). There was no postoperative mortality. Postoperative pleural effusion occurred in two patients. There were no reoperations. Three patients required blood transfusions. Laparoscopic partial splenectomy is safe for patients with localized benign or malignant disease of the spleen."}
{"id": "16977608", "title": "Feasibility of ovarian tissue cryopreservation for prepubertal females with cancer.", "content": "Feasibility of ovarian tissue cryopreservation for prepubertal females with cancer. Loss of fertility is one of the long-term adverse effects of high-dose chemotherapy or total body irradiation for cancer, even in children. Ovarian tissue cryopreservation (OTC) may make it possible for survivors of childhood cancer to have children. We evaluated the feasibility of this technique for prepubertal girls. Between September 2000 and February 2005, 49 prepubertal girls were referred to the Reproductive Biology Unit for OTC before sterilizing treatment. One ovary each was collected from 47 patients, by laparoscopy in 24 patients and laporotomy in the others. In 16 cases, the ovary was harvested during laparotomy to resect a residual abdominal tumor. No complications occurred after operations. Ovarian tissue was frozen by a slow-cooling protocol, using DMSO and sucrose as cryoprotectants. An mean of 17.6 +/- 6.5 ovarian tissue fragments was cryopreserved per patient. Follicle concentration was evaluated histologically for 46 patients and a strong correlation was found between age and follicular density. None of the cases had visible ovarian tumor components. Ovarian cryopreservation was not carried out for two patients. The cryopreservation of ovarian tissue could be systematically offered even to prepubertal girls at risk of sterility due to gonadotoxic treatment."}
{"id": "16959199", "title": "Distant malignant recurrence after laparoscopically assisted radical vaginal trachelectomy in patients with early uterine cervical cancer.", "content": "Distant malignant recurrence after laparoscopically assisted radical vaginal trachelectomy in patients with early uterine cervical cancer."}
{"id": "16261563", "title": "Ovarian repositioning in pediatric cancer patients: Flexible techniques accommodate pelvic radiation fields.", "content": "Ovarian repositioning in pediatric cancer patients: Flexible techniques accommodate pelvic radiation fields. Treatments for childhood cancer and consequent long-term survival rates continue to improve. As the success of these therapies advances, premature ovarian failure and sterility have become an increasingly evident long-term morbidity. Abdominal and pelvic radiation have been specifically shown to induce early menopause and decreased fertility. In order to minimize radiation injury, we utilized novel techniques to reposition ovaries in two girls with pelvic tumors prior to initiation of pelvic radiation. One girl with a sacral Ewing sarcoma underwent laparoscopic anterior suspension of the ovaries, using a simple and easily reversible technique. The second patient, who underwent hysterectomy for a recurrent uterine rhabdomyosarcoma, underwent widely lateral and cephalad repositioning of the ovaries. Both procedures were well tolerated, with no significant morbidity. In both cases the ovaries were moved well beyond the planned radiation field. We propose that open or laparoscopic ovarian repositioning in children is a simple, flexible, and reversible option to reduce radiation injury to the ovaries in pediatric cancer patients."}
{"id": "17467272", "title": "Solitary gastric recurrence from ovarian carcinoma: a case report and literature review.", "content": "Solitary gastric recurrence from ovarian carcinoma: a case report and literature review. Isolated gastric recurrence due to ovarian cancer is a rare event and is usually associated with gastrointestinal symptoms. We report a case of an isolated gastric recurrence of ovarian carcinoma in an otherwise asymptomatic 42-year-old woman in whom diagnosis was made using the FDG-PET/CT scan followed by laparoscopy. In rare cases, ovarian cancer can directly recur on the stomach without any symptoms. FDG-PET/CT scan and diagnostic laparoscopy are effective in leading to an early diagnosis of disease recurrence."}
{"id": "17352116", "title": "[Pure gonad dysgenesia or Swyer sindrome. A case report having tumoral development: melanoma].", "content": "[Pure gonad dysgenesia or Swyer sindrome. A case report having tumoral development: melanoma]. A 14 year old girl having 10-days lumbar pain, polaquiuria and moderate pain to palpation is reported. Blood and urine analysis were normal. Abdominal ultrasound scan showed cavity free and solid, rounded, heterogeneous, intrapelvic mass compressing bladder and uterus. Magnetic resonance image was performed showing right gonad compromise with extensive liver and sacro-lumbar spine invasion. Tumoral markers were ruled out. During surgery, primary tumor mass localizad in the right gonad was completely excised. Melanotic peritoneal and hepatic disemination were observed. The patient had left streak gonad and infantile uterus (2 x 3 cm). As gonad dysgenesia was suspected, high resolution cromosomic study was performed and resulted in cariotype 46 XY. Microscopy of the resected gonad showed primary gonad melanoma. Chemotherapy was instituted with no tumor response and the patient died two month later."}
{"id": "17213968", "title": "[Fluorescence diagnosis and photodynamic therapy with 5-aminolevulinic acid induced protoporphyrin IX in gynecology: an overview].", "content": "[Fluorescence diagnosis and photodynamic therapy with 5-aminolevulinic acid induced protoporphyrin IX in gynecology: an overview]. Fluorescence diagnosis and photodynamic therapy with 5-aminolevulinic acid induced protoporphyrin IX are promising new options in the diagnosis and therapy of diseases in a wide spectrum of medical disciplines such as urology, dermatology, gastroenterology, surgery, neurosurgery and gynecology. The techniques are based on the application of the heme biomolecule precursor 5-aminolevulinic acid which induces the endogenous accumulation of the photosensitizer protoporphyrin IX in designated tissues. After external excitation with blue light a strong red fluorescence can be initiated particularly in tumorous tissues. In gynecology many studies have been performed evaluating the usefulness of fluorescence based detection of cervical dysplasias, breast cancer, endometrial diseases, ovarian cancer and endometriosis. This work aims on the principles of fluorescence detection as an important tool in biomedical optical imaging and its current status in gynecology."}
{"id": "17187015", "title": "Laparoscopic management of dermoid cysts in patients of reproductive age.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of dermoid cysts in patients of reproductive age. Ovarian dermoid cysts are one of the most common germ cell tumors in women. The aim of the study was to analyze the use of laparoscopy in dermoid cysts treatment in women of reproductive age. The studied material consisted of 95 patients, aged 17-49, operated on because of dermoid cyst suspicion at the 1st Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical University of Warsaw, in the years 1996-2005. All the patients had pre-operative CA-125 antigen evaluation and transvaginal sonography with Doppler assessment of the ovarian pathology. All the women with tumors less than 8 cm in diameter were qualified for laparoscopic management. The majority of patients were below 40 years of age (86 women; 90.5%). Out of 95 studied cases, 93 (97.9%) had the cyst removed during laparoscopy, mostly elective. Dermoid cyst enucleation was the most commonly applied procedure, while oophorectomy was the least frequent. The whole gonad was removed in 33 patients (34.7%), generally because of the total loss of functional ovarian tissue surrounding the cyst (28 women; 29.5%). All the extracted material was submitted for a histopathological examination--the diagnosis of mature ovarian cystic teratoma was confirmed in 100% of cases. The correspondence of pre-operative sonographic imaging and intraoperative macroscopic assessment was evaluated. In 85 (89.5%) operated patients an ovarian tumor was earlier described as a dermoid cyst. Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts is a safe method, offering many advantages in comparison to classical surgery. However, proper early qualification, based on medical history, gynecological and sonographic examination is of great importance."}
{"id": "17185953", "title": "[Management of ovarian cysts].", "content": "[Management of ovarian cysts]. Ovarian cysts occur frequently in women of reproductive age. These are usually functional cysts which resolve spontaneously and whose evolution can be followed with ultrasound. Non-functional cysts have diverse histologic origins. The most common are serous and mucinous cystadenomas which arise from the epithelial wall of the ovary, endometriomas which arise in the setting of pelvic endometriosis, and dermoid cysts which arise from the germinal cells of the ovary. Endovaginal ultrasound with Doppler enhancement is the best imaging technique to establish the nature of cysts and to distinguish cysts suspicious for malignancy which require more invasive investigation. Pelvic laparoscopy is the surgical approach of choice for the treatment of non-functional benign ovarian cysts. Conservative treatment to shell out the cyst and preserve functional ovarian tissue should be reserved for women desirous of future pregnancies. The risk of ovarian cancer remains a major preoccupation of the surgeon. Where malignancy is suspected, laparoscopy is contraindicated and a median laparotomy is appropriate for radical extirpative surgery. This article describes the diagnostic techniques which allow a laparoscopic approach to presumably benign cysts and discusses surgical techniques specifically adapted to their different histologic nature of ovarian cysts."}
{"id": "17176869", "title": "[Renal cell carcinoma metastatic to the ovary].", "content": "[Renal cell carcinoma metastatic to the ovary]. A 45-year-old woman underwent left radical nephrectomy in April 2002. Pathological diagnosis was a renal cell carcinoma, clear cell subtype, pT3a, v(-), NO. One year later, abdominal ultrasound revealed a left ovarian tumor which had an enlargement tendency. A laparoscopic bilateral salpingooophorectomy was performed. Immunohistochemical analysis confirmed the diagnosis of metastatic ovarian renal cell carcinoma. This is the 20th case in the literature."}
{"id": "17175475", "title": "Poor prognosis of intraoperative rupture of mature cystic teratoma with malignant transformation.", "content": "Poor prognosis of intraoperative rupture of mature cystic teratoma with malignant transformation. To present the phenomenon of the postoperative rapid progression of mature cystic teratoma (MCT) with malignant transformation (MT) when intraoperative spillage occurs during operation. Two patients with MCT were treated, one with total hysterectomy plus bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy in an exploratory laparotomy, and the other with cystectomy with laparoscopy, respectively. Tumor spillage occurred during both operations. The postoperative pathology showed MCT with MT (squamous cell carcinoma type). Both patients were referred to our hospital and underwent treatment (3 months and 8 days, respectively, after the initial operation). At the secondary laparotomy for staging surgery, tumor dissemination was observed in both patients. Whether or not tumor dissemination is correlated with tumor rupture during operation, we emphasize that any patient with a preoperative diagnosis of MCT should have it removed intact to avoid the possibly catastrophic event of tumor dissemination."}
{"id": "17174830", "title": "Laparoscopic management of mature cystic teratoma of bilateral ovaries with adnexal torsion occurring in a 9-year-old premenarchal girl.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of mature cystic teratoma of bilateral ovaries with adnexal torsion occurring in a 9-year-old premenarchal girl. Laparoscopic surgery is a minimal-access procedure with many advantages. However, reports of young girls with adnexal disease treated by laparoscopic surgery are limited in the literature. A 9-yr-old premenarchal girl presenting with acute abdomen was treated by emergency laparoscopic surgery. Bilateral adnexal torsion was noted. After detorsion, bilateral cystectomy was successfully performed and ovarian tissues were preserved. Pathological diagnosis was mature cystic teratoma of bilateral ovaries. Although adnexal torsion occurring in a premenarchal girl is an extremely rare disorder and bilateral adnexal torsion is even more rare, gynecologists should possess sufficient knowledge about the manifestations of such disorder for immediate diagnosis and treatment to preserve future fertility and, if available, laparoscopic approach should be chosen for a young girl."}
{"id": "17169178", "title": "Ovarian adenomyoma following gonadotrophin treatment for infertility.", "content": "Ovarian adenomyoma following gonadotrophin treatment for infertility. An ovarian adenomyoma developed in a 38-year-old infertile patient following treatment with exogenous gonadotrophins. Laparoscopic excision was performed. Histological examination showed thick muscular bundles resembling myometrium lined with endometrial glands and stroma. Gonadotrophins might be involved in the pathogenesis of extrauterine adenomyoma."}
{"id": "17159812", "title": "A case of left interstitial pregnancy after left adnexectomy--why surgical management?", "content": "A case of left interstitial pregnancy after left adnexectomy--why surgical management? Interstitial pregnancy is a rare condition of tubal pregnancy with a mortality rate of 2-2.5% [4] that can easily be misdiagnosed. The prevalence of interstitial pregnancy is 0.8% in normal population and it increased during the past few decades due to reproduction techniques development even up to 11% in groups of women after in vitro fertilization. A comprehensive MEDLINE and OLDMEDLINE search covering years 1950-2005 using query terms \"interstitial\", \"pregnancy\" and \"adnexectomy\" identified only 10 cases reported in worldwide literature. The first treatment of interstitial pregnancy used to be a resection of the uterus body via laparotomy. Along with the evolution of sensitive biochemical assays, imaging technologies and the development of operative techniques, the management of interstitial pregnancy became less invasive. We report a case of spontaneous left interstitial pregnancy after left adnexectomy due to left ovarian tumor of borderline malignancy."}
{"id": "17145485", "title": "Health technology assessment of surgical therapies for benign gynaecological disease.", "content": "Health technology assessment of surgical therapies for benign gynaecological disease. This chapter summarises the evidence of the benefits and harm of surgical therapies for benign gynaecological disease. We have limited the discussion in this chapter to three gynaecological conditions - menorrhagia, endometriosis and benign ovarian tumours - with a further section on the different surgical approaches for performing a hysterectomy for menorrhagia due to dysfunctional uterine bleeding and pelvic masses such as fibroids and benign adnexal masses. The currently available evidence suggests that there is little to choose between the four first-generation endometrial destruction techniques - laser ablation, transcervical resection of endometrium, vaporisation ablation and rollerball ablation - in terms of clinical efficacy and patient satisfaction. There is a paucity of evidence with regards to the comparison of the different second-generation endometrial-destruction techniques but current evidence suggests that bipolar radiofrequency ablation is more effective than thermal balloon ablation for treating menorrhagia. Overall, the second-generation techniques are at least as effective as first-generation methods but are easier to perform and can be done under local rather than general anaesthesia in some circumstances. Hysteroscopic endometrial ablation is an alternative to hysterectomy and should be offered to women with menorrhagia because of its high satisfaction rates, shorter operation time, shorter hospital stay, earlier recovery and reduced postoperative complications; hysterectomy remains the surgical option of choice for women with intractable menorrhagia despite repeated endometrial ablations and for those who do not wish under any circumstances to continue to have menstrual bleeding. The combined use of laparoscopic laser ablation, adhesiolysis and uterine nerve ablation has been shown to have a beneficial effect on pelvic pain associated with mild to moderate endometriosis. Current evidence also supports the use of laparoscopic treatment of minimal and mild endometriosis to improve the on-going pregnancy and live birth rate in infertile patients. The current available evidence suggests that the laparoscopic approach is superior to laparotomy for the surgical management of benign ovarian cysts. It results in less postoperative pain and a shorter postoperative hospital stay; it also costs less. With regards to the surgical approach for performing a hysterectomy for menorrhagia and benign pelvic masses, vaginal hysterectomy should be performed over laparoscopic and abdominal hysterectomy when possible. Where it is not possible to perform the hysterectomy vaginally, then laparoscopic hysterectomy can be employed instead of abdominal hysterectomy to avoid a laparotomy scar. There appears to be no significant advantage in performing a subtotal hysterectomy instead of the total removal of the uterine corpus and cervix."}
{"id": "17139978", "title": "Ovulatory failure, fertility preservation and reproductive strategies in the setting of gynecologic and non-gynecologic malignancies.", "content": "Ovulatory failure, fertility preservation and reproductive strategies in the setting of gynecologic and non-gynecologic malignancies. The advances in assisted reproductive technology over time have paralleled the insights gained into the natural history of different gynecologic malignancies. Subgroups of young patients with early stage ovarian cancer, endometrial carcinoma and cervical carcinoma may be considered to be at relatively low risk of recurrence and may be treated conservatively with the aim to preserve fertility when this is of prime concern. Unilateral adnexectomy with preservation of the contralateral ovary and uterus may be appropriate for some patients with epithelial ovarian cancers, and certainly should be the procedure of choice for those young women with borderline tumors and early stage sex cord-stromal and malignant germ cell tumors. Administration of high-dose progestins may obviate the need for immediate hysterectomy in a young patient with a well-differentiated endometrial carcinoma desirous of childbearing. The performance of vaginal radical trachelectomy in conjunction with laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomies has emerged as a real breakthrough for a highly select group of young women with early invasive tumors of the cervix. In this review, we also discuss reproductive strategies for women who experience chemotherapy-induced ovulatory failure and also address the potential for ovarian cortex cryopreservation and transplantation, and uterine transplantation, all of which are looming on the horizon."}
{"id": "17076199", "title": "[Laparoscopy or laparotomy in the treatment of ovarian teratomas?].", "content": "[Laparoscopy or laparotomy in the treatment of ovarian teratomas?]. Mature cystic teratomas (dermoid cyst), are the most common germ cell tumours of the ovary in women of reproductive age. They are usually asymptomatic until they reach considerable size. Frequently, ultrasonography is diagnostic. 81 patients who had surgery in 3rd Departament of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University of Medicine, L\u00f3d\u017a, from 2000 to 2005 for benign cystic teratomas were analyzed. 86 teratomas were removed from 81 patients. 31 patients had surgery via laparoscopy and 50 via laparotomy. The mean age was found to be 34,5 years. 39 patients were asymptomatic. The tumours diameter ranged from 1 to 19 cm. In 46 cases there were cystectomies performed sparing fragments of healthy ovarian tissue, in 24 cases ovariectomies and in 11 panhysterectomies were made. All removed lesions histologically appeared benign cystis ovarian teratomas without any signs of malignancy. The teratomas are composed of mature tissues derived from the three germ cell layers. In our study histologic examination revealed 16 cases of neurogenic tissue. One of the possibility of ovarian teratoma's treatment is operative laparoscopy. When the laparoscopy is not possible or inadvisable, the laparotomy is still irreplaceable."}
{"id": "17068405", "title": "Advancing women's cancer care. Report from the 37th Annual Meeting of the Society of Gynecologic Oncologists, Palm Springs, Calif., USA, March 22-26, 2006.", "content": "Advancing women's cancer care. Report from the 37th Annual Meeting of the Society of Gynecologic Oncologists, Palm Springs, Calif., USA, March 22-26, 2006."}
{"id": "17054259", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery for presumed benign ovarian tumor during pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery for presumed benign ovarian tumor during pregnancy. The surgical management of ovarian tumors in pregnancy is similar to that of non-pregnant women. The procedures include resection of the tumor (enucleation), removal of an ovary or ovaries (oophorectomy), or surgical excision of the fallopian tube and ovary (salpingo-oophorectomy). The procedure can be done by open surgery (laparotomy) or keyhole surgery (laparoscopy) technique. The benefits of laparoscopic surgery include shorter hospital stay, earlier return to normal activity, and reduced postoperative pain. However, conventional laparoscopic surgery techniques required the infusion of gas carbon dioxide in the peritoneum to distend the abdomen and displace the bowel upward to create the room for surgical manipulation. Serious complications such as abnormally high levels of carbon dioxide in the circulating blood (hypercarbia) and perforation of internal organs have also been reported. These serious complication may be harmful to the fetus. To compare the effects of using laparoscopic surgery for benign ovarian tumor during pregnancy on maternal and fetal health and the use of healthcare resources. We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (1 June 2006). Randomized controlled trials with reported data that compared outcomes of laparoscopic surgery for benign ovarian tumor in pregnancy to conventional laparotomy technique. Two review authors planned to independently assess trial quality and extract data. There were no randomized controlled trials identified. The practice of laparoscopic surgery for benign ovarian tumour during pregnancy is associated with benefits and harms. However, the evidence for the magnitude of these benefits and harms is drawn from case series studies, associated with potential bias. The results and conclusions of these studies must therefore be interpreted with caution. The available case series studies of laparoscopic surgery for benign ovarian tumour during pregnancy provide limited insight into the potential benefits and harms associated with this new surgical technique in pregnancy. Randomized controlled trials are required to provide the most reliable evidence regarding the benefits and harms of laparoscopic surgery for benign ovarian tumour during pregnancy."}
{"id": "17042207", "title": "[Ovary teratoma. Report of 91 cases].", "content": "[Ovary teratoma. Report of 91 cases]. To analyse the clinical and anatomic aspects of cystic teratomas of the ovary, caracteristics of patients having cystic teratomas and the management trends at our institution. Retrospective study of 91 cases of cystic teratomas of the ovary diagnosed and treated at Farhat -Hached Hospital (Sousse) between 1 january 1995 and 30 june 2003. Cystic teratomas constituted 12.13% of all ovarian tumors diagnosed and treated at our institution during the study period. The median of age was 33.35 ans. Abdominal or pelvic pain was the most frequent symptom for presentation in 67% of the cases. In addition; incidental finding was noted in 25.3% of the cases and swelling in 23% of the cases. The mean tumor diameter was 10 cm. The rate of bilateral cystic teratomas of the ovary was 14.3%. 19.8% of cystic teratomas has occurred in pregnancy. The operative video-laparoscopy was employed in 9 cases, laparotomy was employed in82 cases. Histopathological evaluation has detected 96.7% cases of mature teratomas, and 3.3% cases of immature teratomas. Cystic tertomas are the most common ovarian neoplasms, that occurs most commonly during the reproductive years. The operative laparoscopy is the most common modality of treatment of mature cystic teratomas. Immature teratomas must be treated by laparotomy associated if necessary to chimiothrapiy."}
{"id": "17014818", "title": "Inhibition of ovarian cancer growth and implantation by paclitaxel after laparoscopic surgery in a mouse model.", "content": "Inhibition of ovarian cancer growth and implantation by paclitaxel after laparoscopic surgery in a mouse model. We used an established experimental model to evaluate the influence of intraperitoneal chemotherapy on the generation of laparoscopy-associated metastases and the effectiveness of chemotherapy. Twenty-four nude mice underwent laparoscopy with carbon dioxide insufflation and the instillation of a tumor cell suspension with or without paclitaxel into the peritoneal cavity. Mice were allocated to 1 of the following groups (8 mice to each group): (1) controls; (2) paclitaxel given during the operation; (3) paclitaxel given after the operation. Mice were killed 30 days after the procedure, and the peritoneal cavity and port sites were examined for the presence of tumors. Tumor implantation and port-site metastases were reduced more by the intraoperative intraperitoneal administration of paclitaxel during the operation than by administration after the operation. Intraoperative intraperitoneal administration of paclitaxel may decrease significantly the occurrence of port-site metastasis and intraperitoneal dissemination in an animal study."}
{"id": "17009994", "title": "Laparoscopic splenectomy for isolated parenchymal splenic metastasis of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic splenectomy for isolated parenchymal splenic metastasis of ovarian cancer. Metastatic carcinoma of the spleen occurs in a setting of widespread malignant disease. Solitary parenchymal splenic metastasis of ovarian carcinoma is rare. We report a case of a 59-year-old woman who presented with an elevated serum CA125 level due to a solitary splenic metastasis after a long disease-free period. She was treated with laparoscopic splenectomy followed by chemotherapy. The literature contains 16 cases of solitary parenchymal splenic metastasis of ovarian carcinoma. Our case is the third case that was treated with laparoscopic splenectomy. We review the literature, and we focus on the laparoscopic approach in managing these cases."}
{"id": "17006426", "title": "The position of neoadjuvant chemotherapy within the treatment of ovarian cancer.", "content": "The position of neoadjuvant chemotherapy within the treatment of ovarian cancer. It is clear that primary debulking remains the standard of care within the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer (International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, FIGO, stage III and IV). Debulking surgery should be performed by a gynaecologic oncologist without any residual tumour load, or so called optimal debulking'. Over the last decades, interest in the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy together with an interval debulking has increased. Open laparoscopy is probably the most valuable tool for evaluating the operability primarily or at the time of interval debulking surgery. Neoadjuvant therapy can be used for patients that are primarily suboptimally debulked due to an extensive tumor load. In this situation, based on the randomized EORTC-GCG trial, interval debulking by an experienced surgeon improves survival in some patients who did not undergo optimal primary debulking surgery. Based on the GOG 152 data, interval debulking surgery does not seem to be indicated in patients who underwent primarily a maximal surgical effort by a gynecological oncologist. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy can also be used as an alternative to primary debulking. In retrospective analyses neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery does not seem to worsen prognosis compared to primary debulking surgery followed by chemotherapy. However, we will have to wait for the results of future randomized trials to know whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery is a good alternative to primary debulking surgery in stage IIIc and IV patients."}
{"id": "17006424", "title": "[Laparoscopic treatment of adnexal cystic masses].", "content": "[Laparoscopic treatment of adnexal cystic masses]. Operative laparoscopy has become the gold standard for the surgical treatment of numerous gynecological benign conditions. In the case of ovarian cysts, however, the use of the laparoscopic approach has been debated due to the possibility of encountering an unexpected ovarian malignancy at the time of surgery. This would upstage a IA or IB ovarian malignancy to IC. In this review, the authors evaluate the preoperative parameters that could help in the selection of the patients who are candidate to a laparoscopic approach. In particular, the authors consider the age related risk of the patients, the use of sonography and color-Doppler velocimetry, the use of CA 125, and as a last diagnostic step, the findings at laparoscopy. In a personal series of 1.584 cysts in patients under 40 years of age, the first author encountered 7 unexpected borderline tumors and 1 mucinous G1 adenocarcinoma, while no malignancy was found in a group of strictly selected postmenopausal patients. These data have been compared with those found in scientific literature. There is no sound evidence that the stripping procedure determines a reduction of the ovarian reserve when performed with strict microsurgical principles. Recent evidence in the literature suggests that the decreased ovarian responsiveness reported by some authors following ovarian cystectomy may not be a consequence of surgery. The concern of a possible reduction of the ovarian reserve needs to be balanced with the benefits obtained with surgery. Finally, it should always be kept in mind the risk of an unexpected malignancy, even in cysts apparently benign, malignancy that can only be diagnosed through surgery obtaining a specimen for pathology."}
{"id": "17005244", "title": "Ovarian cancer: patterns of surgical care across the United States.", "content": "Ovarian cancer: patterns of surgical care across the United States. To describe the primary surgical procedures and procedures for intraoperative and postoperative complications, and factors associated with these procedures, in women with ovarian cancer. Using hospital discharge data from nine states, obtained from the Heath Care Cost and Utilization Project from 1999 to 2002, we evaluated 10,432 women with a primary diagnosis of ovarian cancer who underwent at least an oophorectomy for additional procedural ICD-9 codes during their initial hospitalization. Surgical procedures performed in addition to oophorectomy included: omentectomy/debulking 81.9%, hysterectomy 73.4%, lymph node dissection 41.4%, appendectomy 23.8%, bowel procedures 19.8%, laparoscopy 5.6%, diaphragmatic procedures 4.9%, colostomy 3.5%, and splenectomy 1.2%. Transfusions were given to 15.5% of patients. Intraoperative and postoperative procedures for complications were coded in 7.4% of patients, including repair of surgical injury 3.5%, procedures for cardiopulmonary complications 2.8%, reoperation 1.1%, and infection treatment 0.3%. In early stage disease 21.4% of women received no additional staging procedures and 46.8% did not have nodal sampling. In bivariate analysis of crude rates, factors associated with lymph node dissection were patient age, race, payer, teaching hospital status, hospital and surgeon volume, and surgeon specialty, p<.01. for all observations. Colostomies were performed by general surgeons in 23.1% of cases, by gynecologic oncologists in 2.7% of cases, and by obstetrician/gynecologists in no cases, p<.001. Complications were associated with age, payer, median household income, and stage, p<.001 for all observations. Complication rates were similar for low- and high-volume hospitals and surgeons. However, in higher volume settings, significantly more patients received debulking procedures, lymph node dissections, and additional surgical procedures, p<.001 for all observations. A significant percentage of women with ovarian cancer did not receive recommended surgical procedures. Almost 50% of women with early stage disease were not adequately staged and in women with advanced disease, the percentage who had additional surgical procedures such as bowel resections was much lower than in institutions that report high optimal cytoreduction rates."}
{"id": "17000446", "title": "Acute pulmonary embolism following laparoscopic ovariectomy: a case report.", "content": "Acute pulmonary embolism following laparoscopic ovariectomy: a case report. Laparoscopic surgery is usually considered to be less invasive when compared to traditional laparotomy, and is regarded as a relatively low-risk procedure for postoperative complications because of the reduced surgical stress and earlier mobilization. However, we describe a 47-year-old woman who presented with acute respiratory distress, drowsy consciousness, and circulatory collapse shortly after gynecologic laparoscopic ovariectomy for removing an ovarian teratoma at a local hospital. After resuscitation, the patient was transferred to our emergency department. Immediate bedside electrocardiographic and echocardiographic examination results led to acute pulmonary embolism being quickly diagnosed. The patient received subsequent intensive care with smooth course. Although pulmonary embolism is rare after laparoscopic surgery, early detection and quick treatment are important in the management of this life-threatening complication and offer good prognosis. The risk of pulmonary embolism after gynecologic laparoscopic surgery remains unclear. Therefore, the decision to provide prophylaxis is up to the individual physician, and should take into consideration the patient's individual risk factors and comorbidities."}
{"id": "16966069", "title": "Image guided biopsy in the management of cancer of the ovary.", "content": "Image guided biopsy in the management of cancer of the ovary. When used in the context of multidisciplinary team discussion, image guided biopsy using ultrasound (US) or computed tomography (CT) guidance is of value in planning management of women with suspected ovarian cancer and peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC) of uncertain aetiology. It is essential in women believed to have ovarian cancer but with poor performance status or with advanced disease believed beyond the scope of primary cytoreductive surgery for whom staging surgical pathology will not be obtained. It provides a site-specific primary tumour diagnosis in 93% of cases and it should replace diagnostic laparoscopy or laparotomy for this purpose. It allows provision of primary (neoadjuvant) chemotherapy based on a firm histological diagnosis. It is mandatory in women with a history of cancer whose metastases may mimic ovarian cancer (e.g. breast, GI tract, melanoma). More women with prior breast cancer who re-present with peritoneal cancer will have a new gynaecological primary than recurrence of their original primary tumour; the two options require radically different therapies. Finally it is a valuable problem solving tool in situations of diagnostic uncertainty, e.g. unusual imaging patterns of disease such as PC with bilateral solid ovarian masses or non-enlarged ovaries and with an unusual tumour marker profiles suggesting primary tumours outwith the ovary. The technique is simple, safe and effective and can be combined with palliative drainage of ascites at the same procedure."}
{"id": "16964696", "title": "[Comparison of gas and gasless laparoscopy in the treatment of benign ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Comparison of gas and gasless laparoscopy in the treatment of benign ovarian tumors]. The aim of the study was to compare the outcomes of the gas and gasless laparoscopy in the treatment of benign ovarian tumors. Retrospective analysis of 48 gas and gasless laparoscopic cystectomies (24 in each group) performed between 2004-2005 in Holy Family Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital in Warsaw was carried out. An ovarian tumor considered to be benign was the indication to operation. All gas laparoscopies and 25% gasless laparoscopies were performed under general anesthesia. Remaining 75% gasless laparoscopies were performed under epidural anesthesia. The average time of gasless laparoscopy was 53 minutes and gas laparoscopy 48 minutes. In all cases histopatologic examination during surgery was done. Those assessments revealed that all tumors had been benign. The hospitalization time in both groups lasted to 72 hours after operation. An average blood loss during the surgery, pain felt during the first 24 h after the surgery and the number of complications were similar (statistically insignificant) in both groups. Gasless laparoscopic cystectomy is equally efficient and safe as gas laparoscopy. The lack of necessity of producing and maintaining pneumoperitoneum during the surgery was additional advantage of gasless laparoscopy in comparison to gas laparoscopy, because it was possible to perform it in epidural anesthesia."}
{"id": "16962536", "title": "A minimally invasive technique for management of the large adnexal mass.", "content": "A minimally invasive technique for management of the large adnexal mass. To describe our experience managing large pelvic masses through a minilaparotomy incision using a flexible, self-retaining wound retractor and exteriorized drainage by application of 2-octyl cyanoacrylate and a thin polyurethane membrane. Prospective nonrandomized trial (Canadian Task Force classification II-1). Academic university hospital. Ten women undergoing minilaparotomy for adnexal masses. After obtaining institutional review board approval, we identified 10 patients who underwent minilaparotomy for treatment of adnexal masses not thought to be amenable to laparoscopic surgical management and with clinical, radiographic, and laboratory evaluation consistent with a low probability of malignancy. Charts were reviewed and data collected. The median mass size was 17.5 cm (range 9-30 cm), median incision length was 4.0 cm (range 3-5.5 cm), median patient age was 29.5 years (range 19-41 years), median body mass index was 24.7 (range 19.4-30.7), median duration of surgery was 85 minutes (range 53-141 minutes). Blood loss was minimal in all cases and all patients were discharged on the day of surgery. There were no diagnoses of ovarian malignancy. Pathologic diagnoses included mature cystic teratomas, cystadenomas, and cystadenofibromas. There were no instances of intraabdominal leakage of cyst fluid. One patient required readmission for a postoperative ileus. Minimally invasive management is a reasonable alternative to traditional laparotomy in the setting of a large adnexal mass with low probability of malignancy. This technique allows adequate access and exposure while minimizing the risk of intraabdominal contamination, speeding patient recovery, and optimizing cosmetic results. Further, this approach can be converted to a laparoscopic staging procedure if a patient is found to have ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "16957416", "title": "Unusual presentation of juvenile granulosa cell tumor of the ovary.", "content": "Unusual presentation of juvenile granulosa cell tumor of the ovary. We present a case report of juvenile granulosa cell tumor of the ovary (JGCT) with an unusual clinical presentation and hormonal secretion. A 16-yr-old girl had developed spontaneous menarche at the age of 12 yr, but after this initial menstrual bleeding she had no further periods for 4 yr. She had no clinical signs of virilization. Endocrinological studies detected high levels of DHEA, 17 hydroxyprogesterone (17OH-P), insulin and PRL, an exaggerated DHEA response after ACTH stimulation, and low FSH and high LH values after GnRH. An ultrasound examination revealed an irregular structure and increased diameters of her right ovary, due to the presence of a cyst. Because exploratory laparoscopy revealed the presence of a right ovarian mass, her right ovary was removed. JGCT was diagnosed. Ten days after surgery, menstrual bleeding initiated. Endocrinological evaluation after the operation showed that 17OH-P, insulin and basal FSH and LH serum values had returned to normal, while DHEA levels had decreased to within the upper limit of the normal range. Only PRL levels remained unchanged. Our patient presented some unusual characteristics. She did not have precocious puberty, but secondary amenorrhea. Hormonal secretion consisted mainly of androgens, even though clinical signs of virilization were not present."}
{"id": "16956051", "title": "[Present occurrence of benign teratoma of ovary and fallopian tube in a patient with adnexal torsion].", "content": "[Present occurrence of benign teratoma of ovary and fallopian tube in a patient with adnexal torsion]. The authors demonstrate the case of left adnexal torsion caused by 2 benign teratomas in its ovarian and tubal location. Case report. Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 1st Faculty of Medicine and General Teaching Hospital, Charles University, Prague. 24-years old woman underwent laparoscopy for several days lasting pain in lower abdomen and ultrasound finding of semicystic mass in the left adnexal region with suspicion of teratoma. The benign teratoma of the left ovary together with a torsion of the left Fallopian tube distended by teratoma was revealed during surgery. Left side salpingectomy and enucleation of the ovarian teratoma has been performed. This surprising finding was confirmed by histopathological examination. The acute gynaecological torsion event may be caused not only by torsion of uterine fibroid or enlarged tumorous ovary but rarely also by a teratoma of the Fallopian tube."}
{"id": "16951393", "title": "Role of minimally invasive surgery in gynecologic cancers.", "content": "Role of minimally invasive surgery in gynecologic cancers. The role of minimally invasive surgery in the management of gynecologic cancers continues to expand. Radical vaginal trachelectomy with laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy has emerged as a safe, reasonable option for women with early-stage cervical cancer desiring fertility preservation. Similarly, laparoscopically assisted radical vaginal hysterectomy has been systematically described, is feasible, and can be offered to women with early-stage cervical cancer who do not desire future childbearing. In the treatment of early-stage endometrial cancer, the surgical approach of laparoscopic hysterectomy, peritoneal washings, and pelvic and para-aortic lymph node dissection, with or without an omentectomy, is being compared with the same surgery performed via laparotomy in the cooperative Gynecologic Oncology Group LAP 2 study, which has completed accrual, and appears to be a reasonable surgical option. In ovarian cancer, minimally invasive surgery has been incorporated to manage early-stage, advanced-stage, and recurrent disease, as well as second-look procedures. Hand-assisted laparoscopy has also recently been described in managing larger volume primary and recurrent gynecologic cancers. Extraperitoneal laparoscopy for para-aortic and pelvic lymph node dissections has been shown to yield adequate nodal counts and to be safe and feasible in the management of gynecologic cancers."}
{"id": "16949028", "title": "[Advanced ovarian cancer, an optimal surgical treatment is possible to all patients owing to laparoscopy].", "content": "[Advanced ovarian cancer, an optimal surgical treatment is possible to all patients owing to laparoscopy]."}
{"id": "16927923", "title": "[Incidence and management of the ovarian fibroma and thecoma. Experience of The First Surgical Clinic Ia\u015fi].", "content": "[Incidence and management of the ovarian fibroma and thecoma. Experience of The First Surgical Clinic Ia\u015fi]. The ovarian fibroma, thecoma and fibro-thecoma are a rare benign tumors growing from the connective tissue of the ovarian cortex. The general surgeon may confront in his practice solid ovarian mass, sometimes in emergency. Between 1995 and 2005, we report thirteen cases of ovarian fibroma (two bilateral) and two ovarian thecoma with mean age 53 years operated in First Surgical Clinic Iasi. Four of them were operated on as emergencies. Clinical ascites are found in three patients with large tumors. The early symptoms were pelvic pain and abnormal uterine bleeding. Patients with large tumors or ascites were admitted with compression symptoms or abdominal distension. Ultrasonography showed a solid uniformly hypo-echogenic mass, with very marked sound attenuation. We performed oophorectomy in six cases (laparoscopic approach in four cases) and salpingo-oophorectomy in nine cases (using laparoscopic stapler in three cases). There were no conversions to laparotomy. In all cases the diagnosis was established by histological examination. Laparoscopic approach is associated with significantly less operative morbidity, less postoperative pain, shorter hospital stays and shorter recovery periods, best cosmetic results."}
{"id": "16915373", "title": "Frasier syndrome in a pre-menarchal girl: laparoscopic resection of gonadoblastoma.", "content": "Frasier syndrome in a pre-menarchal girl: laparoscopic resection of gonadoblastoma. Frasier syndrome (FS) is characterized by male pseudohermaphroditism, slowly progressing nephropathy, and frequent development of gonadoblastoma. These patients are, however, often diagnosed when evaluated for primary amenorrhea. We report the case of FS in a pre-menarchal girl at the age of 6 years. Ultrasound examinations were performed and were inconclusive as to the presence or size of the gonads. Diagnostic laparoscopy was performed and the presence of bilateral streak gonads was documented and a bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was performed. The postoperative course was uneventful. Histological examination of the streak gonads confirmed the presence of gonadoblastoma. To our knowledge, this is the first case in the literature of a pre-menarchal patient diagnosed with FS and a laparoscopic bilateral gonadoblastoma resection. Laparoscopic aspects regarding safe streak gonad removal in the pediatric population have been elaborated."}
{"id": "16900710", "title": "Epidemiology of genital tuberculosis in infertile population.", "content": "Epidemiology of genital tuberculosis in infertile population. To assess the frequency of genital tuberculosis in infertile women, its clinical presentation and association with socio-economic status and geographical latitude and to compare various modes of diagnosis and efficacy of therapy. This cross-sectional study was carried out in the Gynaecology and Obstetric Department (Unit Ill), Federal Government Services Hospital, Islamabad for a period of two years, from January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2003. A protocol for fertility work-up included complete history, examination, monitoring of ovulation and assessment of male factor. During laparoscopy peritoneal fluid was obtained for cytology and Ziehl-Neelsen (ZN) staining in suspicious cases of chronic inflammation was carried out. Endometrial curettings were obtained for histopathology and culture in Lowenstein-Jensen (LJ) medium. After confirmation of diagnosis, anti-tuberculosis therapy (ATT) was started. Surgical management was done in advanced stage disease with tubo-ovarian masses. Out of 7628 patients who attended the gynae out-patient department, 534 (7%) women were infertile, of which 2.43% had genital tuberculosis. Six patients had early stage disease (46.15%) and were completely cured, but three patients had successful pregnancy outcome (23%). Seven had advanced stage disease (53.85%) and required conservative surgery in addition to ATT. Among these patients, although tuberculosis was cured, yet fertility could not be achieved. All patients belonged to low socio-economic class, and 85% belonged to Northern areas of the country, who were poor and deprived of health facilities. It is essential for a gynaecologist working in developing countries to anticipate possibility of genital tuberculosis in infertile patients."}
{"id": "16897289", "title": "Impact of different pressures and exposure times of a simulated carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum environment on proliferation and apoptosis of human ovarian cancer cell lines.", "content": "Impact of different pressures and exposure times of a simulated carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum environment on proliferation and apoptosis of human ovarian cancer cell lines. This study aimed too evaluate the proliferation and apoptosis of human ovarian cancer cell lines HO8910 and SKOV3 after exposure to a simulated laparoscopic carbon dioxide (CO2) pneumoperitoneum environment at different pressures and lengths of exposure time. The effects of the simulated laparoscopic CO2 pneumoperitoneum environment at different CO2 pressures (0-16 mmHg) and exposure times (1-4 h) on tumor cell growth and apoptosis were assessed by 3-[4,5-Dimethylthiazol]-2; 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) chromometry and proliferative index (PI) staining or Annexin V and PI double-staining flow cytometry. Cells cultured in a standard environment were used as the control group. In this study, HO8910 cell growth tended to slow down with the increase in CO2 pressure and exposure time. A significantly lower PI was observed at 72 h of culture after exposure to both 8 and 16 mmHg of pressure, as compared with the control and 0 mmHg pressure group (p < 0.05). The PI of SKOV3 cells tended to decline after exposure. Significantly lower PI was observed in the group with exposure to 16 mmHg for 4 h over a 72-h period, as compared with the control groups exposed to 0 mmHg (p < 0.05). The inhibition of cell growth was associated with an increase in the proportion of cells at stage G1. The apoptotic index and the percentage of apoptotic cells tended to increase with an increase in pressure and a prolonged time of exposure. The results suggest inhibited cell proliferation and increased cell apoptosis of human ovarian cancer cells were positively related to CO2 pressure and exposure time."}
{"id": "16894298", "title": "The management of borderline tumours of the ovary.", "content": "The management of borderline tumours of the ovary. The treatment of borderline ovarian tumours has been similar to that for their invasive counterparts for a long time. However, in view of the good prognosis for borderline ovarian tumours, their occurrence in a younger age group and the development of less invasive techniques, the question can be asked as to whether a more conservative treatment is warranted. Recent articles discuss the mode of surgery (laparotomy or laparoscopy), the possibility of fertility-sparing surgery, the need for restaging procedures and adjuvant therapy. The ultimate goal in treating patients with borderline ovarian cancer is defining those patients with bad prognostic factors and risk for recurrence and who consequently require more aggressive therapy. A proper staging procedure is crucial to estimate the risk. Translational research might help identify borderline tumours with poor prognosis. Fertility-sparing surgery is often a good option in young patients with F\u00e9d\u00e9ration International de Gyn\u00e9cologie et Obst\u00e9trie (FIGO) stage I disease or in selected cases with noninvasive implants, since long-term survival does not seem to be negatively influenced by conservative surgery."}
{"id": "16893544", "title": "Mature cystic teratoma of the fallopian tube.", "content": "Mature cystic teratoma of the fallopian tube. A mature cystic teratoma within the fallopian tube was discovered at the time of laparoscopy for dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, and infertility. A linear salpingostomy was performed with fulguration of the pedicle attaching the mass to the fallopian tube and removal of the dermoid cyst."}
{"id": "16885660", "title": "Laparoscopic management of the adnexal mass.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of the adnexal mass. Ovarian neoplasms are common in women of all ages. As many as 10% of women in the United States will undergo surgical removal of an adnexal mass sometime in their lifetime. Gynecologic surgeons have pioneered laparoscopic surgery, developing what was originally a diagnostic tool into a safe and effective approach to management of adnexal masses. Accumulating scientific data support the laparoscopic approach to the adnexal mass as the preferred treatment."}
{"id": "16883449", "title": "Comparison of underlying lesions in pediatric and adult ovarian torsion.", "content": "Comparison of underlying lesions in pediatric and adult ovarian torsion. To compare the pediatric and adult ovarian torsion and explore a quantitative value to predict a possible underlying tumor. This study included 32 pediatric and 33 adult female cases diagnosed with ovarian torsion and underwent surgical treatment in Dr. Behcet Uz Children's Research Hospital and Ataturk Education and Research Hospital, Izmir, Turkey between 1989 and 2005. We evaluated the properties of the cases statistically. The mean age of pediatric was 8 years and 3 months and adult cases was 39 years and 8 months. Six cases had an underlying tumor in both pediatric and adult group. The mean diameter and volume difference were 6.84 cm, 91 cc in pediatric and 12.69 cm and 1087 cc in the adult group. In statistical analysis, the diameter and volume increase were significantly higher in cases with underlying tumor in pediatric group. The cut-off value was 7 cm in diameter and 104 cc in volume increase. In the adult group, the diameter and volume increase were not significant in tumor positive and negative group. Torsion of the ovary requiring surgery, is rare and is the mot common reason of abdominal/pelvic mass. These cases are often difficult to decide for surgical procedure especially in pediatric cases. We conclude that an underlying lesion more commonly occurs in children with an increase in ovarian volume of more than 104 cc and a diameter more than 7 cm. Great care should be taken for laparoscopic conservative management especially in these cases. The quantitative analysis is not predictive for the underlying solid lesion in adult cases."}
{"id": "16873081", "title": "[Impact of surgical access on staging of early borderline and invasive tumors of the ovary].", "content": "[Impact of surgical access on staging of early borderline and invasive tumors of the ovary]. The objectives were to evaluate the impact of the surgical approach on the staging of borderline tumors and early-stage malignancies of the ovary. We retrospectively reviewed cases of borderline and invasive ovarian tumors stages Ia through Ic treated surgically between January 1, 1985 and December 31, 2001. We compared the rates of potentially harmful procedures according to the surgical approach. The quality of surgical staging was assessed by examining each required procedure and by determining a score. The influence of variables related to patient characteristics, preoperative workup, and initial surgery on staging quality was tested by univariate analysis. Variables independently associated with staging quality were entered in a logistic regression model. SPPS 7.5 and STATA 8 software was used for statistical tests. Of 118 patients with borderline tumors, 48 (41 %) underwent laparoscopic surgery, 54 (45 %) laparotomy, and 16 (14 %) laparoscopy converted to laparotomy. Surgery was conservative in 57 % of cases overall ; this proportion was significantly greater with laparoscopy than with laparotomy (p < 0.05) and in younger women (p < 0.001). Intraoperative tumor rupture occurred in 9 % of patients, with no significant difference across surgical approaches (p = 0.1). Bag extraction was used in 19 (40 %) of 48 laparoscopically treated patients. Staging was incomplete in 73 % of patients. By univariate analysis, bilateral adnexectomy and, to a lesser extent, age > 44 years, laparotomy, hysterectomy, and treatment after 1995 predicted at least partial staging. Factors independently associated with at least partial staging in the multivariate model were treatment after 1995, bilateral adnexectomy, and hysterectomy. Of 178 patients with invasive tumors, 34 underwent laparoscopic surgery, 114 laparotomy, and 30 conversion from laparoscopy to laparotomy. The laparotomy group was characterized by significantly older patient age and larger tumors, compared to the laparoscopy group. Staging was often inadequate after initial surgery, most notably with low rates of paraaortic lymphadenectomy (0 % in the laparoscopy group, 18 % in the laparotomy group, and 33 % in the conversion group). Staging is often less complete with laparoscopy than with laparotomy. In patients with invasive cancer, inadequate initial staging is common, most notably when laparoscopy is used. The surgeons training seems of major importance."}
{"id": "16866799", "title": "Not all ovarian cysts in young woman are benign: a case series and review of the management of complex adnexal masses in young women.", "content": "Not all ovarian cysts in young woman are benign: a case series and review of the management of complex adnexal masses in young women. While ovarian cancer is a disease that predominately affects postmenopausal women, up to 13% of affected patients are indeed less than 45 years of age. The diagnosis is often delayed because of the non-specific nature of symptoms and a lack of specific and accurate diagnostic tests, that is, CA125 and ultrasound. In premenopausal women these issues are compounded, further reducing the likelihood of an accurate and early diagnosis. It is important for gynaecologists to have a high index of suspicion and appropriately investigate symptomatic patients and interpret test results critically. Not all ovarian cysts in young women are benign, and a low threshold for surgical evaluation is warranted."}
{"id": "16842843", "title": "Re: \"Diagnostic open laparoscopy in the management of advanced ovarian cancer\".", "content": "Re: \"Diagnostic open laparoscopy in the management of advanced ovarian cancer\"."}
{"id": "16828849", "title": "Total laparoscopic hysterectomy for uterine pathology: impact of body mass index on outcomes.", "content": "Total laparoscopic hysterectomy for uterine pathology: impact of body mass index on outcomes. We sought to analyze surgical results of women with uterine cancers having TLH+/-staging, stratifying data by body mass index (BMI). This is a retrospective analysis of data from 9 years, using Pearson and Spearman correlations, ANOVA and Fisher's Exact Test with significance at P<0.05, stratifying by BMI (kg/m2): underweight (<18.5 kg/m2), ideal (18.5-24.9 kg/m2), overweight (25 to 29.9 kg/m2), obese (30 to 39.9 kg/m2) and morbidly obese (40 kg/m2 or more). Of 702 patients having TLH over 9 years, 90 patients had uterine pathology. Two (2%) procedures were converted to laparotomy due to unsuspected widespread metastasis and excluded from analysis. BMI ranged from 18 to 60 kg/m2, with 31 patients having ideal, 19 having overweight and 38 having obese BMI. Of these, 19 patients had hyperplasia, while 63 had endometrial carcinoma, 1 had both ovarian and endometrial carcinoma and 5 had sarcoma. Of these 88 patients, 61 had TLH while 27 patients had indicated pelvic and aortic node dissection. The mean age was 60 years, and mean parity was 1.5 for all BMI groups. There were no significant differences in mean duration of surgery (150 min), blood loss (129 cm3) and days in hospital (1.7 days) for all BMI groups. There was no significant difference in uterine weight (140 gm) or number of nodes dissected (21 nodes). Complications occurred in 4 patients (4.5%): 1 diverticulitis, 1 ureteral injury, 1 laparotomy for bleeding and 1 incisional hernia. Total laparoscopic hysterectomy is feasible and safe for women with uterine neoplasia for every BMI category and extends the benefits of minimally invasive hysterectomy to more women, regardless of BMI."}
{"id": "16803474", "title": "Extraperitoneal laparoscopic para-aortic lymphadenectomy for lymph node recurrence of fallopian tube carcinoma.", "content": "Extraperitoneal laparoscopic para-aortic lymphadenectomy for lymph node recurrence of fallopian tube carcinoma. The endoscopic retroperitoneal approach is a minimally invasive method for surgical staging of cervical cancer. A 57-year-old woman had an intraoperative diagnosis of carcinoma of the left fallopian tube and undergone a retroperitoneal pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy with no peritonization during surgical staging. Small suspicious nodes in the serous membrane of the sigmoid colon and peritoneal washings were positive for malignancy. A total of 12 nodes were obtained, all of which were negative. She received six cycles of paclitaxel and platinum-based chemotherapy and showed a complete clinical response. Thirty-two months after surgery, the abdominal computed tomography scan showed a left para-aortic lymph node, 19 mm in diameter, which was successfully removed through an extraperitoneal laparoscopic approach. The extraperitoneal laparoscopic approach of the para-aortic region is a feasible procedure after previous transperitoneal lymphadenectomy and chemotherapy."}
{"id": "16802080", "title": "Performance of laparoscopy in identifying malignant ovarian cysts.", "content": "Performance of laparoscopy in identifying malignant ovarian cysts. Peroperative identification of malignancy is crucial to management planning for ovarian cysts. The aim of this study was to evaluate the performance of laparoscopy in identifying malignant ovarian cysts. Patients undergoing laparoscopy for ovarian cysts from 1998 to 2001 were enrolled prospectively. Physical findings, Doppler ultrasonography, and serum CA 125 served to compute two risk-of-malignancy indexes (RMI-1 and RMI-2), and laparoscopy findings served to categorize lesions as benign, possibly malignant, or malignant. Frozen sections were examined as needed. Final histology was the reference. Of 313 patients, 294 had benign cysts, six borderline lesions, and 13 malignancies. Sensitivity and specificity were respectively 84 and 93% for RMI-1, 92 and 80% for RMI-2, 100 and 99% for laparoscopy, 91 and 100% for frozen sections, and 100 and 100% for laparoscopy plus frozen sections, which had 100% negative predictive value. Six (1.8%) adverse events occurred. Laparoscopy reliably identifies ovarian cancer and borderline disease. Morbidity is low compared to oncologic surgery."}
{"id": "16800256", "title": "Endometriosis and possible malignant transformation.", "content": "Endometriosis and possible malignant transformation. By examining the cause of infertility for a the period of three years in the two largest hospitals in Belgrade, we found 453 cases of endometriosis out of 683 cases of laparoscopy. During the procedure, removal of endometrial foci, histological examination of the sample and removal of genital and peritoneum abnormalities by laser were carried out. Interestingly, in only 8% of the cases were cancerous changes of the ovary diagnosed. Out of 36 patients with established diagnoses, hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy were performed in four cases."}
{"id": "16794421", "title": "Laparoscopic staging of early ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Laparoscopic staging of early ovarian carcinoma. A European randomized trial on early stage ovarian cancer confirmed the importance of accurate staging to select candidates for adjuvant chemotherapy. Since early-stage disease is often discovered incidentally, staging is not always carried out or inadequately performed at the time of primary surgery. Laparoscopy was reported more than 10 years ago as a method of performing the staging procedure while avoiding the morbidity from a classical midline incision. Several teams have recently published their results on laparoscopic staging. Updated results of an earlier series in addition to other recent studies are discussed. All highlight the advantages and limits of the method. Complete laparoscopic management seems feasible in selected cases of apparently early stage ovarian cancer. Re-staging procedures remain an ideal indication for laparoscopy in early adnexal carcinomas. Due to the critical nature of the information obtained, this approach should only be reserved for teams trained in advanced laparoscopy."}
{"id": "16791447", "title": "A laparoscopy-based score to predict surgical outcome in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma: a pilot study.", "content": "A laparoscopy-based score to predict surgical outcome in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma: a pilot study. Our objective was to set up a more objective quantitative laparoscopy-based model in predicting the chances of optimal cytoreductive surgery in advanced ovarian cancer patients. Sixty-four advanced ovarian cancer patients were submitted to both laparoscopy and standard longitudinal laparotomy sequentially, to define the chances of optimal debulking surgery (residual disease < or = 1 cm). Three patients could not be evaluated by laparoscopy because of the presence of multiple and tenacious adherences. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and overall accuracy were calculated for each laparoscopic parameter. On the basis of the statistical probability of each factor to predict surgical outcome, seven laparoscopic features were selected for inclusion in the final model. Each parameter was assigned a numerical score based on the strength of statistical association, and a total predictive index value was tabulated for each patient. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was used to assess the ability of the model to predict surgical outcome. After debulking surgery, 41 (67.2%) of 61 patients were left with optimal residual disease. The presence of omental cake, peritoneal carcinosis, diaphragmatic carcinosis, mesenteric retraction, bowel and/or stomach infiltration, and liver metastases satisfied the basic inclusion criteria and were assigned a final predictive index value of 2. In the final model, a predictive index score > or = 8 identified patients undergoing suboptimal surgery with a specificity of 100%. The positive predictive value was 100%, and the negative predictive value was 70%. The reliability of laparoscopy in assessing the chance of optimal cytoreduction can be improved by using a simple scoring system."}
{"id": "16787549", "title": "Managing ovarian masses during pregnancy.", "content": "Managing ovarian masses during pregnancy. The management of adnexal masses during pregnancy can be challenging for the patient and the clinician. The specter of a possible malignancy can sway the decision for intervention versus expectant management. The etiologies of ovarian masses are reflective of the patient's age; and, therefore, benign entities such as functional ovarian cysts, benign cystic teratomas, and serous cystadenomas predominate. In the unusual cases when cancer is present, they are typically germ cell and borderline ovarian tumors, and are commonly low stage and low grade. Ultrasound is the primary modality used to detect ovarian masses and to assess the risk of malignancy. Morphologic criteria more accurately identify benign cysts compared with malignant tumors. Tumor markers are used primarily to monitor disease status after treatment rather than establish the ovarian tumor diagnosis as a result of lack of specificity, because several markers can be elevated inherent to the pregnancy itself (eg, CA-125, beta-hCG). Expectant management is recommended for most pregnant patients with asymptomatic, nonsuspicious cystic ovarian masses. Surgical intervention during pregnancy is indicated for large and/or symptomatic tumors and those that appear highly suspicious for malignancy on imaging tests. The extent of surgery depends on the intraoperative diagnosis of a benign versus a malignant tumor. Conservative surgery is appropriate for benign masses and borderline ovarian tumors. More aggressive surgery is indicated for ovarian malignancies, including surgical staging. Although rarely necessary, chemotherapy has been used during pregnancy with minimal fetal toxicity in patients with advanced-stage ovarian cancer in which the risk of maternal mortality outweighs the fetal consequences."}
{"id": "16769104", "title": "Negative laparoscopy is highly predictive of negative second-look laparotomy following chemotherapy for ovarian, tubal, and primary peritoneal carcinoma.", "content": "Negative laparoscopy is highly predictive of negative second-look laparotomy following chemotherapy for ovarian, tubal, and primary peritoneal carcinoma. To determine the negative predictive value of second-look laparoscopy compared to laparotomy for assessment of pathologic complete response (CR) in patients with epithelial ovarian, tubal, and peritoneal carcinoma who achieved a clinical CR. Data were analyzed from patients who participated in two sequential phase II clinical trials following primary cytoreductive surgery. Both trials required surgical evaluation for pathologic CR in those patients who achieved clinical CR. Protocol specified that assessment begin with laparoscopy; if negative, conversion to laparotomy was required. Collection of peritoneal washings was performed laparoscopically. One hundred thirty-six patients entered the 2 sequential clinical trials. Ninety-nine patients achieved clinical CR and 95 underwent second-look surgery (SLO). Seventy patients began SLO with laparoscopy and converted to planned laparotomy after biopsies were negative. Eighteen cases were positive based on laparoscopy with frozen section. Five additional patients had peritoneal washings and/or permanent pathology positive based on laparoscopic findings, yielding a positive SLO rate of 32.9%. Four of the 52 patients who underwent laparotomy (7.7%) were found to have persistent disease that was not detected on laparoscopic biopsy or washings and represent false-negative laparoscopy; all four patients had disease at peritoneal-based sites. The sensitivity and negative predictive value for intraoperative diagnosis of persistent disease by laparoscopy were 66.6% and 82.7%, respectively. The sensitivity and negative predictive value of laparoscopic peritoneal biopsies and washings compared to laparotomy, as determined by final pathology, were 85.2% and 91.5%, respectively. A negative second-look laparoscopy with negative peritoneal pathology and cytology is 91.5% predictive of negative laparotomy and is associated with a low complication rate even in the setting of prior extensive cytoreductive surgery. The small increase in sensitivity and negative predictive value afforded by laparotomy does not warrant the increased morbidity."}
{"id": "16768053", "title": "[Guideline for gynecological malignant tumors I. Standard--a complex therapy of ovarian epithelial malignant tumors].", "content": "[Guideline for gynecological malignant tumors I. Standard--a complex therapy of ovarian epithelial malignant tumors]. Elaboration of guideline for primary and secondary treatment of ovarian cancer. Review, consensus between proposers and opponents. A retrospective review of published data, analysis of Czech statistics and consensus between proposers and opponents. We underline importance of comprehensive approach in therapy of ovarian cancer. We notice importance of expert ultrasound and CA 125 level in diagnostic algorithm. Extension of surgery depends on result of frozen section. All departments which want to perform surgery for ovarian resistance must have possibility to do peroperative histopathology. We can perform conservative fertility sparing surgery in patient with wishing of pregnancy and low stage disease. The effort of maximal debulking with radical surgery including lymphadenectomy is the standard procedure. When we diagnose ovarian cancer during laparoscopy, we have to convert on laparotomy procedure. We define the role of the neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by surgery after 3-4 cycles of chemotherapy. We define adequate surgery treatment, indication for adjuvant chemotherapy and indication for second line therapy. Guideline for the treatment of epithelial ovarian cancer should become directions for clinicians and others, who participate in the process of treatment of the ovarian cancer. The guidelines include all parts of the process from diagnosis, treatment to follow up. All topics of the guidelines arose from a voting of the proposers and opponents."}
{"id": "16740297", "title": "Peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking advanced ovarian cancer: a retrospective review of 22 cases.", "content": "Peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking advanced ovarian cancer: a retrospective review of 22 cases. To evaluate the clinical, laboratory and diagnostic features in women with peritoneal tuberculosis that resembled advanced ovarian malignancy. A retrospective review of women with peritoneal tuberculosis who were managed at TCSB Ankara Etlik Maternity and Women's Health Teaching and Research Hospital from July 1992 to November 2004 was undertaken. Among the 1,826 women treated during the study period, 22 women with peritoneal tuberculosis (1.2%) were identified. The mean age was 36.9 years (range 21-68 years); the mean Ca125 level was 564.95 U/ml (3-2021 U/ml). All patients with peritoneal tuberculosis had ascites, 20 patients (90.91%) had elevated CA125 levels and 17 patients (77.27%) had detectable pelvic masses in the preoperative period. During preoperative diagnostic work-up, pulmonary tuberculosis was diagnosed and antituberculosis therapy had begun in two of 22 patients (9.09%). Among 20 patients, 11 (55%), 8 (40%) and 1 (5%) underwent exploratory laparotomy, diagnostic laparoscopy and laparoscopy converted to laparotomy due to dense pelvic adhesions, respectively. Since frozen section was not available during the surgery in 5 of 20, 3 patients (10%) underwent extended surgery. Frozen section was performed in 15 patients and revealed chronic granulomatous changes and final pathological examination confirmed the diagnosis. Our data indicate that the majority of the cases with peritoneal tuberculosis can be diagnosed intraoperatively through the use of frozen section in conjunction with clinical features. Ascites and high levels of Ca125 do not necessarily indicate that the clinical picture is malignant in reproductive women. Laparoscopic tissue biopsy may be a fundamental tool in the management of such cases to avoid extended surgery."}
{"id": "16736974", "title": "[Laparoscopic management of ovarian teratoma adultum cysticum in second trimester of pregnancy (case report)].", "content": "[Laparoscopic management of ovarian teratoma adultum cysticum in second trimester of pregnancy (case report)]. Ovarian tumors complicating clinical course of pregnancy are rare (approximately 1 per 1000 deliveries). Conservative management, as well as surgical intervention could be associated with high risk for the mother and fetus. In this report we describe diagnosis and therapy of 26 years old primary gravida with 7 cm ovarian teratoma. Extensive ultrasound examination assessing localization and risk of malignancy of the tumor was done before operation. Laparoscopy was performed at 16 weeks gestation and no intra- and postoperative complications were observed. The outcome of the pregnancy was normal. Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian tumors during pregnancy, by experienced team, after appropriate diagnostic process, seems to be safe and effective."}
{"id": "16736959", "title": "[Laparoscopic treatment of benign ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Laparoscopic treatment of benign ovarian tumors]. laparoscopic surgery is one of the most common procedures performed in the presence of benign ovarian tumor. The purpose of our study was to analyze clinical findings, operative procedures, size and histopathologic type of tumors, time of hospitalization and surgical complications. 102 female patients operated for benign adnexal masses by laparoscopic approach, in 3rd Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University of Medicine, L\u00f3d\u017a, between 2001-2004. the most frequent laparoscopic procedure was excision of the tumor (59.8%), and the most common histopathologic type was teratoma adultum (25%), endometroid cyst (21.1%) and serous cyst (20.2%), of 5-7 cm median size. The majority of operated women (75.5%) were under 40 years of age. No intraoperative complications were noted. Postoperatively 1 patient presented with bleeding and was re-operated, 1 had hernia in the place of trocar installation, 5 had rised temperature (complication rate 6.9%). in the case of benign ovarian tumor laparoscopy is recommended procedure due to sparing ovarian function by small tissue traumatisation, shorter time of hospitalization, faster return to the health and low risk of complications. Because of the possibility of encountering an unexpected ovarian malignancy, the laparoscopy should be executed only in the centers where the intraoperative histopathologic examination is a routine procedure."}
{"id": "16735822", "title": "Endometrial cancer and fertility.", "content": "Endometrial cancer and fertility. Endometrial cancer can affect reproductive-age women who may desire fertility preservation. This article discusses the current, available data about conservative management of endometrial cancer in young women. Reproductive-age women with well differentiated endometrial carcinoma have an overall favorable prognosis provided that the tumor is identified at an early, noninvasive stage; however, advanced disease can be present. This article discusses current modalities to evaluate and clinically stage endometrial cancer including hysteroscopy, dilation and curettage, pelvic ultrasound, abdominopelvic computed tomography scan, pelvic magnetic resonance imaging, tumor marker CA125 level, and surgical exploration with laparoscopy or laparotomy. Thorough evaluation is critical as 10 to 29% of young women with endometrial cancer have a synchronous ovarian malignancy. Detailed counseling about the risks and benefits of conservative management, and expectations for fertility after treatment, surveillance, and definitive surgical management is essential. Multiple effective protocols exist for conservative treatment of endometrial cancer, and the initial response rates are as high as 57 to 75%. Successful pregnancies have occurred after conservative management, spontaneously, and with assisted reproductive technologies. There are no standard recommendations for selection of appropriate women, treatment protocols, or long-term surveillance for conservative management of clinical stage I endometrial adenocarcinoma, and larger prospective clinical studies are warranted."}
{"id": "16698532", "title": "Sister Mary Joseph's nodule as the first presenting sign of primary fallopian tube adenocarcinoma.", "content": "Sister Mary Joseph's nodule as the first presenting sign of primary fallopian tube adenocarcinoma. Umbilical metastasis (Sister Mary Joseph's nodule) is often the first sign of intraabdominal and/or pelvic carcinoma. We describe the fourth case reported in the literature of Sister Mary Joseph's nodule originating from fallopian tube carcinoma. In a 54-year-old woman, Sister Mary Joseph's nodule was unexpectedly detected during umbilical hernia repair. Subsequent laparoscopy revealed a 2-cm friable tumor located at the fimbriated end of right fallopian tube and 1-cm peritoneal implant in the pouch of Douglas. Laparoscopic bilateral adnexectomy and resection of the peritoneal implant were performed. Because frozen section examination revealed fallopian tube carcinoma, the procedure was continued with laparotomy including total abdominal hysterectomy, omentectomy, and pelvic lymph node sampling. Final diagnosis was stage IIIB fallopian tube carcinoma. The patient received postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy with single-agent carboplatin and has remained alive and with no evidence of disease. It is concluded that in cases of Sister Mary Joseph's nodule, laparoscopy can be a useful tool in the search of the primary tumor in the abdomen and/or pelvis. Laparoscopy can provide crucial information with respect to the location, size, and feasibility of optimal surgical resection of the intraabdominal and/or pelvic tumors."}
{"id": "16690058", "title": "Outcome of in vitro fertilization/intracytoplasmic sperm injection after laparoscopic cystectomy for endometriomas.", "content": "Outcome of in vitro fertilization/intracytoplasmic sperm injection after laparoscopic cystectomy for endometriomas. To assess the impact of prior unilateral or bilateral endometrioma cystectomy on controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) outcome. Retrospective case-control study. Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, School of Medicine, Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey. Fifty-seven consecutive infertile patients were enrolled who had previously undergone unilateral (n = 34) or bilateral (n = 23) laparoscopic cystectomy for endometriomas more than 3 cm in diameter and underwent ICSI. The control group consisted of 99 patients with tubal factor infertility. Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation and ICSI. Cycle cancellation rate, number of oocytes, fertilization rate, embryo quality, clinical pregnancy rate (PR), and implantation rate. The mean number of oocytes, metaphase II oocytes, and two-pronucleated oocytes were significantly lower in the bilateral cystectomy group compared to the unilateral cystectomy and control groups. However, all other parameters, including fertilization rate, the mean number of embryos transferred, the mean number of grade 1 embryos transferred, the clinical PR per embryo transfer, and implantation rate, were comparable among the three groups. Within the unilateral cystectomy group, the mean number of oocyte retrieved from the operated site was significantly less than in the contralateral nonoperated site. Laparoscopic endometrioma cystectomy does reduce the ovarian reserve. However, diminished ovarian reserve does not translate into impaired pregnancy outcome."}
{"id": "16677839", "title": "[Feasibility and limits of laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumours].", "content": "[Feasibility and limits of laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumours]. Borderline ovarian tumours (BOT) are mainly diagnosed in young women with early stage disease. Due to the absence of specific pre operative criteria for BOT, a laparoscopy is usually performed. A review of the literature found no pejorative data on laparoscopic approach for BOT. Strict surgical procedures must be performed to avoid incomplete surgical staging, cells dissemination and port-site metastases. The limits of the laparoscopic management are the stage of disease and the tumour size. Laparoscopic treatment of BOT for women with early stage disease is feasible. This treatment should be evaluated in specialized centres for women with advanced stage diseases and/or peritoneal implants."}
{"id": "16677594", "title": "Audit of preoperative and early complications of laparoscopic lymph node dissection in 1000 gynecologic cancer patients.", "content": "Audit of preoperative and early complications of laparoscopic lymph node dissection in 1000 gynecologic cancer patients. Establish the reliability and safety of minimal invasive surgery in gynecologic oncology in a large-scale study. Estimate the complication rate on a large sample size. From December 1998 to November 2004, 1000 gynecologic cancer patients underwent pelvic and/or aortic lymphadenectomies by laparoscopy. A total of 1192 pelvic and aortic lymphadenectomies have been performed: 777 pelvic (757 transperitoneal, 20 extraperitoneal) and 415 aortic lymphadenectomies (155 transperitoneal, 260 extraperitoneal). Main indications for laparoscopic lymph node dissection were: early cervical carcinoma (n = 456), advanced cervical carcinoma (n = 219), vaginal carcinoma (n = 4), endometrial carcinoma (n = 182), and ovarian carcinoma (n = 139). Surgical laparoscopic management via laparoscopy was achieved during the same operative session in 372 patients. No lethality occurred. Thirteen open surgeries (1.3%) were required as a result of failure to complete a satisfactory laparoscopic procedure. Intraoperative, early postoperative complication rate, and lymphocyst formation rate were 2.0%, 2.9%, and 7.1%, respectively. A laparotomy was required for complication in seven patients (7 per 1000), including five returns to operating room. Eleven significant intraoperative vascular injuries occurred, but none required a laparotomy. The most frequently encountered visceral complications were bowel complications (n = 7), urinary tract complications (n = 5), and nerve injuries (n = 5). Evidence is given on a large series that laparoscopic lymph node dissection is safe. Laparoscopic surgery may be considered as the gold standard of assessment of the status of regional lymph nodes in gynecologic malignancies."}
{"id": "16673251", "title": "[Clinical management of an androgen insensitivity syndrome].", "content": "[Clinical management of an androgen insensitivity syndrome]. The seldom occurring androgen insensitivity syndrome is characterised by male karyotype in a phenotypical women. We report on a complete androgen insensitivity syndrome with the rare coincidence of bilateral Fallopian tubes and a testicular intraepithelial neoplasia. Additionally we discuss aspects of incidence, molecular background, characteristics, diagnostic pitfalls and therapy against the background of the current literature."}
{"id": "16647380", "title": "Safety of simple cystectomy in patients with unilateral mucinous borderline tumors.", "content": "Safety of simple cystectomy in patients with unilateral mucinous borderline tumors. To report on ovarian carcinoma development after cystectomy for a borderline mucinous ovarian tumor. Case report. A French comprehensive cancer center. One patient who developed recurrence in the form of an invasive ovarian carcinoma after simple cystectomy for a borderline mucinous ovarian tumor. Simple cystectomy. Clinical outcome. A 22-year-old nulliparous patient underwent laparoscopic cystectomy. Histological examination revealed a borderline mucinous ovarian tumor. No additional treatment was prescribed. Two years later, the patient relapsed with a malignant mucinous ovarian carcinoma. She underwent surgical resection and staging, including hysterectomy, bilateral adnexectomy, omentectomy, and pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy, and platinum-based chemotherapy. Recurrence in the form of invasive ovarian carcinoma may occur in the same ovary after cystectomy in cases of borderline mucinous ovarian tumor. An approach combining systematic unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and strict monitoring is preferable to simple cystectomy. Such treatment enables preservation of reproductive potential and reduces the risk of developing invasive carcinoma."}
{"id": "16631341", "title": "Laparoscopic intraperitoneal hyperthermic chemotherapy for palliation of debilitating malignant ascites.", "content": "Laparoscopic intraperitoneal hyperthermic chemotherapy for palliation of debilitating malignant ascites. To report the use of laparoscopic Intraperitoneal Hyperthermic Chemotherapy (LIPHC) in the treatment of malignant ascites. From September 2001 to December 2003, 14 patients between the age of 56 and 78years were treated. Ascites was from gastric cancer (5 cases), colorectal cancer (3 cases), ovarian cancer (3 cases), breast cancer (2 cases) and peritoneal mesothelioma (1 case). The LIPHC was carried out at 42 degrees C for 90 min with 1.5% dextrose solution as a carrier. Chemotherapy was cisplatin and doxorubicin or mitomycin depending on the type of primary tumor. The drains were left in situ after surgery and removed when perfuse drainage ceased. Ascites was controlled in all the treated cases. A CT scan performed in follow-up showed a small, clinically undetectable, fluid accumulation in the pelvis of one patient. This method resulted in benefit for those peritoneal carcinomatosis patients with debilitating malignant ascites who were excluded from cytoreductive surgery. Proficiency in laparoscopic staging procedures and experience in the management of carcinomatosis and intraperitoneal hyperthermic chemotherapy (IPHC) are required for the success of the procedure."}
{"id": "16626792", "title": "A phase I trial of intraperitoneal sustained-release paclitaxel microspheres (Paclimer) in recurrent ovarian cancer: a Gynecologic Oncology Group study.", "content": "A phase I trial of intraperitoneal sustained-release paclitaxel microspheres (Paclimer) in recurrent ovarian cancer: a Gynecologic Oncology Group study. Paclimer is a biodegradable polymer microsphere formulation containing 10% (w/w) paclitaxel that is designed to provide a sustained-release form of paclitaxel after intraperitoneal (IP) administration. The goals of this phase I study were to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of IP paclitaxel microspheres and the pharmacology of paclitaxel after IP paclitaxel microsphere administration. Twelve patients with recurrent or persistent ovarian or primary peritoneal carcinoma were treated. After placement of an IP catheter, patients were treated with escalating doses of IP paclitaxel microspheres administered with 2 l of normal saline following premedication. Treatment could be repeated once, 8 weeks after initial treatment. The starting dose was 60 mg/m2 and no intrapatient dose escalation was used. One dose-limiting toxicity consisting of abdominal pain, ileus and bowel obstruction was seen with the second cycle of therapy in one patient who received 900 mg/m2. Patients received up to 1200 mg/m2 without further evidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLT). The study was discontinued before MTD was defined due to the manufacturer's decision to suspend further clinical development of paclitaxel microspheres. Pharmacokinetic analysis showed a trend toward a dose-dependent effect of IP paclitaxel microspheres on measured plasma paclitaxel levels. Sustained paclitaxel levels were maintained throughout all 8 weeks of therapy; however, paclitaxel concentrations were well below the plasma concentrations associated with toxicity. In one patient, laparoscopy revealed extensive adhesions, fat necrosis, foreign body giant cell reaction and detectable residual polymer filaments 7 months after completion of treatment with paclitaxel microspheres. IP administration of paclitaxel microspheres is well tolerated up to 1200 mg/m2 without defining MTD. The low but persistent detection of plasma paclitaxel indicates that paclitaxel continues to be released for at least 8 weeks after IP paclitaxel microsphere treatment. The finding of significant peritoneal abnormalities, including the presence of residual polymer filaments, months after IP Paclimer treatment suggests that the polymer preparation used in Paclimer degrades slowly."}
{"id": "16616744", "title": "Novel serum inflammatory markers in patients with adnexal mass who had surgery for ovarian torsion.", "content": "Novel serum inflammatory markers in patients with adnexal mass who had surgery for ovarian torsion. To determine the diagnostic value of preoperative levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-8 (IL-8), and E-selectin in patients with an adnexal mass who had surgery for ovarian torsion. Prospective study. University hospital. Fifty consecutive women with adnexal mass who were admitted with a diagnosis of ovarian torsion. All had a single preoperative measurement of IL-6, IL-8, TNF-alpha, and E-selectin by ELISA. To determine if a single preoperative serum sampling of IL-6, IL-8, TNF-alpha, and E-selectin by ELISA can diagnose ovarian torsion. Thirteen patients had proven torsion of the ovary. Serum levels of IL-6 were significantly higher in the 13 patients with proven ovarian torsion compared with the 37 without ovarian torsion. Patients with IL-6 serum values > or =10.2 pg/mL had a 16 times higher risk of having ovarian torsion. No significant difference was found in TNF-alpha, IL-8, and E-selectin between the two groups. The IL-6 levels might assist in the prompt diagnosis of ovarian torsion and allow a timely surgical intervention."}
{"id": "16615133", "title": "Fluorescence staining of human ovarian cancer tissue following application of 5-aminolevulinic acid: fluorescence microscopy studies.", "content": "Fluorescence staining of human ovarian cancer tissue following application of 5-aminolevulinic acid: fluorescence microscopy studies. Application of 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) for fluorescence-guided second-look laparoscopy has been shown to be a promising new procedure in the early diagnosis of ovarian carcinoma metastases. However, for assessing the reliability of this method, information on the microscopic distribution of protoporphyrin IX (PP IX) in the tissue is needed. Additionally, the selectivity of PP IX uptake is essential for a potential photodynamic therapy (PDT) of ovarian cancer metastases. Thirty-six patients with epithelial ovarian cancer and two patients suffering from fallopian tube carcinoma underwent a laparoscopic second-look procedure 5 hours after the application of ALA. In 17 patients 36 fluorescence-guided biopsies were taken from fluorescing and non-fluorescing tissues for further evaluation. Fluorescence microscopy and digital image processing were utilized to determine the presence of PP IX fluorescence. A specificity of 88% and a sensitivity of 100% with a negative predictive value of 100% and a positive predictive value of 91% were calculated for PP IX fluorescence on a microscopic level as marker for ovarian cancer metastases. On a microscopic scale, ALA-induced PP IX fluorescence is confined to ovarian cancer tumor tissue sparing stromal tissues."}
{"id": "16600779", "title": "Gonadoblastoma and Turner syndrome.", "content": "Gonadoblastoma and Turner syndrome. The presence of a Y chromosome in the extrascrotal gonad of patients with intersex disorders has been associated with a high risk of GB and, potentially, GCT. Recently, modern sophisticated genotyping has revealed a subgroup of TS cases with a mosaic karyotype expressing a Y chromosome. We sought to evaluate this group of patients and address their risk of gonadoblastoma. We reviewed the records and genotyping of all females newly diagnosed with TS between 1990 and 2002 at Children's Hospital in Denver. All patients with TS and Y chromosome mosaicism underwent gonadectomy, and the specimens were evaluated for the presence of gonadoblastoma on histological analysis and to identify Y chromosome on genotyping. A total of 192 girls with a clinical diagnosis of TS were identified between January 1990 and December 2002. Seven records were unavailable and 19 patients did not have karyotypic analyses available in the hospital charts. Of the remaining 166 patients 67 exhibited mosaic cell lines, of whom 8 had 45,X0/46,XY mosaic pattern and 59 had mosaic patterns without Y chromosomal elements. All 8 patients with Y mosaicism underwent uneventful laparoscopic gonadectomy on an outpatient basis. One patient observed to have bilateral dysgenetic gonads after gonadectomy was excluded from the study. Gonadoblastoma (bilateral 2 patients, unilateral 1) was detected in 3 of 7 patients (43%) with Y mosaicism. In our series 4.8% of evaluable patients with TS carried a 45,X0/46,XY karyotype. Gonadoblastoma can be evident even at an early age in streak gonads with Y mosaicism and may be bilateral. We recommend prophylactic laparoscopic gonadectomy of streak gonads in patients with TS who carry a Y mosaic genotype, because fertility is not an issue, surgical morbidity is minor and there may be a high potential for malignant transformation of gonadoblastomas in this population."}
{"id": "16598473", "title": "Solid pelvic tumor in a woman with Mayer-Rokitansky-K\u00fcstner-Hauser syndrome.", "content": "Solid pelvic tumor in a woman with Mayer-Rokitansky-K\u00fcstner-Hauser syndrome. A patient with Mayer-Rokitansky-K\u00fcstner-Hauser syndrome was operated laparoscopically to remove a solid pelvic tumor with cystic region, originally diagnosed as an ovarian tumor. Histopathological examination of the removed tumor identified it as a leiomyoma of rudimentary uterus."}
{"id": "16580399", "title": "Pure XY gonadal dysgenesis and agenesis in monozygotic twins.", "content": "Pure XY gonadal dysgenesis and agenesis in monozygotic twins. To report a case of monozygotic twin sisters who had discordant gonadal dysgenesis although each had a normal 46,XY karyotype. Case report. University tertiary hospital. Seventeen-year-old twin sisters, one with gonadal agenesis and the other with pure gonadal dysgenesis followed by dysgerminoma. Blood samples were obtained for karyotyping and short tandem repeat polymorphism analysis (10 markers). Both patients underwent gonadectomy. Both sisters are well at time of report after gonadectomy for the sister with dysgerminoma and diagnostic laparoscope for the other. Dysgerminoma and atrophic ovarian stromal and tubal structures. Monozygotic twins can have discordant gonadal dysgenesis even though they are identical genetically."}
{"id": "16575358", "title": "[Laparoscopy and gynecologic cancer in 2005].", "content": "[Laparoscopy and gynecologic cancer in 2005]. All the surgical procedures, which may be required to treat a gynecologic cancer, can be performed endoscopically. However prospective randomized studies required to confirm the oncologic efficacy of the technique are still lacking in gynecology, whereas such studies are available in digestive surgery. Animal studies suggested that the risk of tumor dissemination in non traumatized peritoneum is higher after a pneumoperitoneum than after a laparotomy. Experimental studies also emphasized two points: the surgeon and the surgical technique are essential, all the parameters of the pneumoperitoneum may influence the postoperative dissemination. Changing these parameters we may, in the future, be able to create a peritoneal environment adapted to oncologic patients in order to prevent or to decrease the risks of peritoneal dissemination and/or of postoperative tumor growth. Until the results of prospective randomized studies become available, the preoperative selection of the patients and the surgical technique should be very strict. In patients with endometrial cancer, the laparoscopic approach should be reserved to clinical stage I disease, if the vaginal extraction is anticipated to be easy accounting for the volume of the uterus and the local conditions. In cervical cancer, the laparoscopic approach should be reserved to patients with favorable prognostic factors: stage IB of less than 2 cm in diameter. Laparoscopy is the gold standard for the surgical diagnosis of adnexal masses. But the puncture should be avoided whenever possible. The surgical treatment of invasive ovarian cancer should be performed by laparotomy whatever the stage. In contrast restaging of an early ovarian cancer initially managed as a benign mass, is a good indication of the laparoscopic approach. The laparoscopic management of low malignant potential tumors should include a complete staging of the peritoneum. Knowledge of the principles of endoscopy and of oncologic surgery is required. Teaching and diffusion of endoscopic oncological techniques are among the major challenges of gynecologic surgery within the next few years."}
{"id": "16562790", "title": "Peritoneal tuberculosis with elevated serum CA 125 level mimicking advanced ovarian carcinoma in an adolescent.", "content": "Peritoneal tuberculosis with elevated serum CA 125 level mimicking advanced ovarian carcinoma in an adolescent. Differential diagnosis between tuberculous peritonitis and peritonitis carcinomatosis is extremely difficult in patients with ascites, peritoneal implants and elevated CA 125 level. A 16-year-old girl presented with abdominal distention, intermittent fever and weight loss. Physical examination and radiologic studies revealed massive ascites, generalized peritoneal thickening and slightly enlarged right ovary with a cystic mass and left pleural effusion. Serum CA 125 was 939 U/L (normal range: 0-35 U/L) and other tumor markers including alpha fetoprotein (AFP) and beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) were within normal range. Acid-fast stain and culture were negative for Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Diagnostic laparoscopy and biopsy were performed with the presumptive diagnosis of peritonitis carcinomatosis, and histologic examination revealed multiple granulomas with epithelioid cells and caseification necrosis which confirmed tuberculosis. Quadruple anti-tuberculosis treatment was administered and the patient's clinical findings and serum CA 125 level returned to normal. In conclusion, tuberculous peritonitis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients with ascites and elevated serum CA 125. This marker may be useful in monitoring treatment response."}
{"id": "16550963", "title": "Clinical outcomes of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and primary debulking surgery in advanced ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Clinical outcomes of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and primary debulking surgery in advanced ovarian carcinoma. Primary debulking surgery (PDS) and paclitaxel-platinum chemotherapy remains the mainstay of treatment for advanced ovarian cancer. However, there is considerable morbidity and even mortality associated with this approach. The concept of primary chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery (IDS) has emerged for advanced stage disease with the aim of improving sensitivity to chemotherapy and improving survival. The purpose of our study was to examine the impact of IDS on clinical outcomes of patients considered unsuitable for PDS and compare them with outcomes of women that had conventional PDS followed by chemotherapy. A non-randomised prospective cohort study of 35 patients who underwent IDS and 29 patients treated with PDS were included. All patients had Stage IIIC or IV disease. The IDS patients were considered unresectable based on an initial laparoscopy or preoperative computed tomography findings. All patients were treated by the same lead surgeons and received the same regimen of chemotherapy. The median intraoperative blood loss, the incidence of pelvic lymphadenectomies, the median hospital stay and the possibility of admission to the Intensive Care Unit were significantly less in the IDS group. Optimal cytoreduction was higher in the IDS compared to the PDS group, but did not reach statistical significance. IDS for advanced ovarian cancer may be associated with less morbidity compared to PDS and appears to require less use of hospital resources. If the ongoing randomised studies confirm that IDS does not adversely affect the long-term survival of these patients, morbidity related to ovarian cancer surgery may evolve as a crucial factor for choosing treatment options."}
{"id": "16537005", "title": "Role of laparoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of adnexal masses.", "content": "Role of laparoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of adnexal masses. Laparoscopy has been accepted for years as a management of benign ovarian tumors. The aim of this study was to estimate the feasibility and safety of laparoscopy in diagnosis and management of adnexal masses. A total of 2083 patients with benign adnexal mass were treated by laparoscopy at Peking Union Medical College Hospital from January 2000 to December 2003. Their clinical data were reviewed retrospectively. All the adnexal masses suspicious of malignancy at the time of laparoscopy were sent for frozen section evaluation intraoperatively. The rates of unexpected intracystic vegetation and low malignant potential (LMP) tumor or malignancy were investigated. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of laparoscopic diagnosis for LMP or ovarian malignancies were calculated. The ratios were compared by Chi-square test and the continuous variables were tested using two-tailed t test. Of the 2083 patients, 16 had LMP or invasive tumors (0.77%), among which 14 were diagnosed histologically intraoperatively and 2 postoperatively. Fifty-five (2.6%) of the 2083 patients had unexpected intracystic vegetations. Their frozen sections showed benign tumors in 41 (74.5%), LMP tumors in 8 (14.5%), and focal invasive ovarian cancers (stage Ic) in 6 (10.9%). The final pathological diagnosis were benign tumors in 41 (74.5%), LMP tumors 7 (12.7%), and focal invasive ovarian cancers (stage Ic) in 7 (12.7%). Laparoscopy achieved a sensitivity of 87.5%, specificity of 98%, positive predictive value of 25.5%, and negative predictive value of 99.9% in the diagnosis of ovarian malignancies. 2067 cases with benign adnexal masses underwent laparoscopy successfully. No conversion to laparotomy, or intra- and postoperative complications in this series. Of the 16 patients with LMP or invasive ovarian cancer, seven underwent laparoscopic surgery including immediate staging laparoscopy in 3. The mean follow-up was 17.3 months for the 16 patients. Among them, 1 developed a recurrent LMP tumor in the contralateral ovary 36 months after laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy, and received subsequent laparoscopic cystectomy and pelvic lymph node sampling; the others had no evidence of recurrent tumor during the follow-up. Laparoscopy is feasible for diagnosis of adnexal masses, and the surgery is safe for patients with benign ovarian tumors."}
{"id": "16527722", "title": "Laparoscopic approach to an endometriotic vault fistula causing posthysterectomy \"menstruation\".", "content": "Laparoscopic approach to an endometriotic vault fistula causing posthysterectomy \"menstruation\". Endometriosis is a commonly prevalent disease but can include rare complaints posing a challenge to surgical treatment. We describe an unreported cause of menstruation after hysterectomy, which was revealed as an endometriotic tubo-ovarian mass that fistulated into the vaginal vault. A 37-year-old woman experienced monthly vaginal bleeding after hysterectomy. At laparoscopy a tubo-ovarian endometriotic mass was revealed with a fistula into the vaginal vault. The mass was adherent to the left ureter and the sigmoid colon. Laparoscopic excision of the mass and fistula after ureterolysis and bowel dissection was performed. This case describes an unreported cause of posthysterectomy menstruation. The management outlines the optimal surgical management of laparoscopic techniques combined with vaginal access to achieve complete excision with minimal patient morbidity."}
{"id": "16527713", "title": "Laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy versus total laparoscopic hysterectomy for the management of endometrial cancer: a randomized clinical trial.", "content": "Laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy versus total laparoscopic hysterectomy for the management of endometrial cancer: a randomized clinical trial. To compare laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy (LAVH) and total laparoscopic hysterectomy (TLH) for the treatment of endometrial cancer. Randomized, controlled trial. Randomized controlled trial (Canadian Task Force classification I). Two gynecologic oncologic units of university hospitals. Seventy-two women with endometrial cancer randomized to undergo either LAVH or TLH. Total laparoscopic hysterectomy or laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, peritoneal washing, and systematic pelvic lymphadenectomy. Parameters of technical feasibility (operating time of hysterectomy phase, estimated blood loss, perioperative complications) were considered as major statistical endpoints. Thirty-seven women were allocated to the LAVH arm, and 35 were allocated to the TLH arm. Mean total operating time was significantly shorter in the TLH than in the LAVH group (184.0 +/- 46.0 vs 213.2 +/- 39.4 minutes, p = .003). The hysterectomy phase was longer in the LAVH than in the TLH group only in overweight (77.9 +/- 9.8 vs 68.1 +/- 9.3 min, p = .005) and obese patients (87.7+/- 13.1 vs. 62.1+/- 9.9 min, p < .0001). The median estimated blood loss during hysterectomy was similar between groups. Intraoperative complications occurred in three (8.1%) patients in the LAVH group and in one patient (2.8%) in the TLH group (p = .61). No difference was found in the postoperative complication rate between women undergoing LAVH and those who had TLH (24.3% vs 17.1%, p = .56). Within a median follow-up period of 10 months (range 3-17 months), 2 patients in the LAVH group developed recurrent disease. No port site metastasis and no vaginal cuff recurrence were detected in either group. Both LAVH and TLH can be performed successfully to manage endometrial cancer, with similar surgical outcomes. Obese patients benefit more from TLH than from LAVH in terms of shorter operating time."}
{"id": "16525789", "title": "Endometriosis associated with Stage IA clear cell ovarian carcinoma in a woman with IVF-ET treatments in the Yale Series.", "content": "Endometriosis associated with Stage IA clear cell ovarian carcinoma in a woman with IVF-ET treatments in the Yale Series. A 42-year-old woman with Stage IA, grade 3 clear cell ovarian carcinoma arising within an endometrioma after multiple ovarian stimulation attempts was a unique case from a total of 900 patients who underwent laparoscopy for infertility and pelvic pain between 1996 and 2002 at Yale University. Her previous treatments included two laparoscopic cystectomies for left ovarian endometriomas and four cycles of IVF-ET that resulted in one miscarriage and two successful pregnancies. Although it has been suggested that controlled ovarian hyperstimulation may predispose to the development of ovarian cancer, more recent studies postulate a protective effect if fertility treatments ultimately result in successful pregnancy. Our unusual case serves as a reminder that clear cell adenocarcinoma may coexist with endometriosis, and that parity does not necessarily protect infertility patients against the development of ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "16515632", "title": "Recurrent ovarian dysgerminoma after laparoscopy.", "content": "Recurrent ovarian dysgerminoma after laparoscopy. To our knowledge, recurrent dysgerminoma at the site of tumor removal by laparoscopy in a patient with stage IA disease has not been previously reported. A woman with ovarian dysgerminoma treated by laparoscopy and tumor removed through the cul-de-sac recurred the 17 months later at the site of tumor removal. She was successfully treated with etoposide, bleomycin, and cisplatin chemotherapy with complete response. This case illustrates the potential for surgical site implant of an ovarian dysgerminoma; surgeons should follow strict guidelines when performing laparoscopic procedures for ovarian malignancies in order to prevent this type of incident."}
{"id": "16515615", "title": "Massive ovarian edema associated with ovarian serous cystadenoma: a case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Massive ovarian edema associated with ovarian serous cystadenoma: a case report and review of the literature. Massive ovarian edema is a rare entity that can be confused with an ovarian neoplasm. A few ovarian lesions have been reported that are associated with massive ovarian edema. This article describes the first case of an ovarian serous cystadenoma associated with a massive ovarian edema. The patient was a 17-year-old female who was referred to the emergency room because of lower abdominal pain. Subsequent ultrasound and computed tomography scanning studies revealed an abdominopelvic cystic mass suggestive of an ovarian neoplasm. She underwent an exploratory laparoscopy, and a left salpingo-oophorectomy was performed. The specimen weighed 1610 g and consisted of a cystic mass measuring 17 x 15 x 8 cm attached to a solid mass measuring 13 x 11 x 4 cm. Microscopy revealed a cystic and a solid lesion. The cystic structure was composed of a flat or cuboidal single-layer lining showing ciliated epithelium and focal areas of papillary structures compatible with a diagnosis of ovarian serous cystadenoma. The solid mass had an intact capsule and diffuse interstitial edema, preserving the overall structure of the ovary and sparing the outer cortex. These findings are compatible with the diagnosis of ovarian massive edema. This report of an association of serous cystadenoma with massive ovarian edema broadens the histologic spectrum in which a massive ovarian edema may be encountered."}
{"id": "16515576", "title": "Image-guided biopsy in women with breast cancer presenting with peritoneal carcinomatosis.", "content": "Image-guided biopsy in women with breast cancer presenting with peritoneal carcinomatosis. When women with a history of breast cancer present with peritoneal carcinomatosis, the differential diagnosis lies between recurrent breast cancer or a new primary tumor. This scenario is of particular relevance to women with a BRCA gene mutation, who have a genetic predisposition to develop second primary tumors of the ovary, fallopian tube, and peritoneum. We describe the use of image-guided core biopsy as an alternative to laparoscopy or exploratory laparotomy in providing minimally invasive diagnosis in this increasingly common clinical dilemma."}
{"id": "16515571", "title": "Epidoxorubicin versus no treatment as consolidation therapy in advanced ovarian cancer: results from a phase II study.", "content": "Epidoxorubicin versus no treatment as consolidation therapy in advanced ovarian cancer: results from a phase II study. To compare the effect of epidoxorubicin given for 4 months versus no treatment in the survival of patients with advanced ovarian cancer and complete pathologic response after first-line surgery and chemotherapy with platinum-based schedules, we conducted a multicenter randomized clinical trial. Patients with histologic diagnosis of epithelial ovarian cancer FIGO stage III or IV at first diagnosis; complete pathologic response at second-look laparotomy/laparoscopy or complete clinic response; and those who have had first-line therapy including surgery and one regimen containing cisplatin or carboplatinum were eligible for the study and were randomly allocated to epidoxorubicin 120 mg/sqm or no treatment. A total of 64 women were allocated to epidoxorubicin and 74 to no treatment. There were 20 and 19 deaths, respectively, in the epidoxorubicin and no-treatment groups. The 3-year percent overall survival was 79.0% and 78.7%, respectively, in the no-treatment and epidoxorubicin groups (log-rank test, P= 0.93)."}
{"id": "16515565", "title": "Role of laparoscopy to evaluate candidates for complete cytoreduction in advanced stages of epithelial ovarian cancer.", "content": "Role of laparoscopy to evaluate candidates for complete cytoreduction in advanced stages of epithelial ovarian cancer. The objective of this study was to evaluate the role of laparoscopy in selecting candidates for complete cytoreduction surgery in epithelial ovarian carcinoma. We performed an explorative laparoscopy in 15 women presenting with advanced ovarian carcinoma, and for whom the preoperative evaluation was considered unsatisfactory, to define the possibility of achieving a complete cytoreduction. We focused on three sites of carcinomatosis: bowel, liver pedicle, and right diaphragmatic dome. Laparoscopic evaluation was successful in all 15 patients. Four patients were considered to have unresectable carcinomatosis because of extensive involvement of the small bowel and therefore had no laparotomy. These women underwent neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the following 2 weeks. Eleven patients were considered to have resectable peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC). Ten women had no macroscopic residual tumor after surgery. A modified posterior exenteration was performed in five patients. The laparoscopic exploration had underestimated the liver pedicle involvement in two patients, but only one had an infracentimetric residual tumor after surgery. Laparoscopy is a reliable method of exploring PC in advanced-stage ovarian cancer. Laparoscopy may obviate the need for unnecessary laparotomy in many cases and may, therefore, contribute to a better quality of life for patients found to have unresectable disease."}
{"id": "16502175", "title": "Transvaginal aspiration of ovarian cysts: long-term follow-up.", "content": "Transvaginal aspiration of ovarian cysts: long-term follow-up. Transvaginal aspiration of ovarian cysts has been advocated as a viable alternative to surgery in patients who are high-risk surgical candidates. We describe a retrospective study evaluating the results of transvaginal aspirations of benign ovarian cysts in patients at increased surgical risk, focusing on long-term follow-up for recurrence of the cyst and/or development of malignancy. Twenty-four women with ovarian cysts underwent 34 transvaginal drainages between October 1998 and December 2004. All patients were referred following diagnosis of a persistent ovarian cyst with a benign appearance on ultrasound. All patients were unsuitable candidates for surgery (history of previous pelvic surgery, n = 21; high risk for anesthesia, n = 1; and unsuitable for laparoscopy due to obesity, n = 2). Patients with a history of pregnancy, acute abdominal symptoms, or previous gynecologic malignancy were excluded. A 20G x 20 cm Chiba needle was used for transvaginal aspiration using an endocavity probe (Acuson XP, Mountain View, CA, USA; Siemens Sololine, Erlangen, Germany) and intravenous sedoanalgesia. Cysts were aspirated to dryness. Long-term follow-up of patients was performed and revealed a recurrence rate of 75%. Eighty-three percent of cysts on the left and 42% of those on the right recurred. Nine of 15 (60%) patients with recurrence required further intervention. Two of 9 underwent surgical intervention only, 4 of 9 had repeat transvaginal aspiration(s) performed, and 3 of 9 had a combination of both transvaginal aspiration and surgery. No patient developed ovarian malignancy. Transvaginal cyst aspiration has many advantages including short hospital stay, rapid recovery, excellent patient tolerance, and a low rate of procedure-related complications. Our study demonstrates that ovarian cyst recurrence following transvaginal drainage is a more significant problem than previously documented, especially if the cyst is on the left side. However, when recurrences do occur, repeat transvaginal aspirations may be considered in the symptomatic patient."}
{"id": "16500357", "title": "Excision of endometriotic cyst wall may cause loss of functional ovarian tissue.", "content": "Excision of endometriotic cyst wall may cause loss of functional ovarian tissue. Management of ovarian cysts is still controversial especially when dealing with endometriomas. Cyst excision was accepted surgical method by many centers; however, relationship between the excision and the loss of functional ovarian tissue is still uncertain."}
{"id": "16498263", "title": "Ovarian fibroma: a review on the clinical characteristics, diagnostic difficulties, and management options of 23 cases.", "content": "Ovarian fibroma: a review on the clinical characteristics, diagnostic difficulties, and management options of 23 cases. We review clinical characteristics, diagnostic difficulties, and our experience in the surgical management of ovarian fibromas. Twenty-three women with the operative diagnosis of an ovarian fibroma managed between January 1995 and August 2004 were reviewed retrospectively. These patients comprised 1% of all benign ovarian tumors seen over this study period. The median age was 45 years, and 11 patients (47.8%) were postmenopausal. The main presenting symptom was abdominal pain (43.5%). The diagnosis of an ovarian fibroma or a solid ovarian tumor was correctly made preoperatively in only 5 patients (21.7%). All patients underwent surgical treatment: 18 by laparotomy and 5 by laparoscopy. All tumors were unilateral, and the median size was 13 cm. Fourteen patients underwent conservative surgery, and 9 had total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Two cases of fibrosarcoma were reviewed on the final pathology. Gynecologists should be aware of this group of ovarian tumors despite their uncommon occurrence. There are clinical clues to differentiate an ovarian fibroma from uterine fibroid and ovarian malignancy. Surgical removal of these solid ovarian tumors is recommended because of the low probability of malignancy. Minimal-access surgery is an option, especially when the tumor is of moderate or small size."}
{"id": "16490239", "title": "Phase I/II study of weekly paclitaxel plus carboplatin and gemcitabine as first-line treatment of advanced-stage ovarian cancer: pathologic complete response and longitudinal assessment of impact on cognitive functioning.", "content": "Phase I/II study of weekly paclitaxel plus carboplatin and gemcitabine as first-line treatment of advanced-stage ovarian cancer: pathologic complete response and longitudinal assessment of impact on cognitive functioning. To determine the pathologic complete response rate of advanced ovarian cancer to weekly paclitaxel plus gemcitabine and carboplatin with filgrastim, and assess the longitudinal impact of this regimen on quality-of-life and cognitive functioning. Fourteen patients with advanced ovarian, peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer were treated in the phase I portion of the study. Initial doses were paclitaxel: 60 mg/m(2) days 1, 8, and 15; gemcitabine: 800 mg/m(2) days 1 and 8; and carboplatin: area under the curve (AUC) 5 day 1, every 21 days for 6 cycles with filgrastim. Twenty-seven patients were treated at the phase II dose. Pathologic response was assessed by second-look laparoscopy in patients with complete response. Patients completed longitudinal assessments of quality-of-life and cognitive functioning. Maximally tolerated doses were paclitaxel: 80 mg/m(2) days 1 and 8; gemcitabine: 800 mg/m(2) days 1 and 8; and carboplatin: AUC 5 day 1, every 21 days. Forty-eight percent of patients (13/27) experienced at least 1 grade 3 nonhematologic toxicity. Fifty percent (95% confidence interval [CI], 31-69%) of assessable patients achieved pathologic complete response. Median progression-free survival was 27.3 months (95% CI, 17.7 months to not reached), and overall survival 43.6 months (95% CI, 42 months to not reached). Cognitive functioning did not decline during or after chemotherapy. More highly educated women reported a perceived decline in concentration and memory while on chemotherapy. Quality-of-life scores were maintained during therapy. Fifty percent of patients with advanced-stage ovarian cancer achieved pathologic complete response to weekly paclitaxel plus gemcitabine and carboplatin. Cognitive functioning did not decline by objective measures, although highly educated women reported subjective impairment."}
{"id": "16473397", "title": "Role of prophylactic hysterectomy in patients at high risk for hereditary cancers.", "content": "Role of prophylactic hysterectomy in patients at high risk for hereditary cancers. Current surgical recommendations for ovarian cancer prophylaxis in women at high risk of developing ovarian cancer include bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy (RRSO)). The role of hysterectomy is unclear. We sought to determine outcomes following prophylactic surgery in high-risk women. We surveyed unaffected members of the Gilda Radner Familial Ovarian Cancer Registry who had undergone oophorectomy from 1981 to 2002. Data were collected and analyzed for statistical significance by the Fisher's Exact Test. Two hundred eighty women were surveyed, and 154 (55%) responded; 97% were Caucasian and 14% reported being Jewish. The median age of the respondents was 51 years (range 29-79); median age at oophorectomy was 41 years (range 15-68). Fifty-eight patients (38%) reported a laparoscopic procedure. One hundred five patients (68%) had a simultaneous hysterectomy, and 4 (3%) had a prior hysterectomy. Forty-four patients (29%) underwent BSO only. Of these 44 patients, 40 (91%) did not require a subsequent hysterectomy. Of the 4 who did, 2 were for leiomyomas, one for menorrhagia and the other was unknown. While not statistically significant, of the 3 patients who developed a subsequent gynecologic malignancy, all had undergone a hysterectomy. There was a statistically significant difference in whether or not the uterus was removed as part of the procedure by time period, whereby women treated prior to 1990 had a higher likelihood of having a hysterectomy (P = 0.03). The women in our study did not require hysterectomy for prevention of malignancy. We conclude that one should screen for benign gynecological indications for hysterectomy when planning a prophylactic BSO for prevention of ovarian cancer. Other potential risk factors for endometrial cancer, including the role of UPSC in HBOC, remain to be elucidated."}
{"id": "16462852", "title": "Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration in a woman with ovarian cancer.", "content": "Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration in a woman with ovarian cancer. A 52-year-old white female presented with sudden onset of light-headedness followed by diplopia, horizontal vertigo and severe nystagmus with oscillopsia. She had previously been in good health. MRI of the brain was normal. Lumbar puncture revealed monocytic pleocytosis. During her initial admission, the patient improved to some degree and was discharged with a possible diagnosis of viral meningitis. After a few weeks, the patient's condition worsened and further evaluation was initiated. Examination revealed an unsteady widespread gait, severe nystagmus and mild dysarthria. A general and gynecological examination was otherwise unremarkable. General physical and gynecological examinations, MRI of the brain, lumbar punctures, electroencephalogram, transvaginal ultrasound, mammogram, tumor markers, anti-neuronal antibodies, colonoscopy, whole-body positron emission tomography scan, laparoscopy and biopsies. Stage IIIC endometrioid adenocarcinoma of the ovary with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. Tumor cytoreduction, plasmapheresis, total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, bilateral pelvic and para-aortic lymph-node dissection, total omentectomy, carboplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy, rehabilitation, and speech therapy."}
{"id": "16455505", "title": "[What is new in the surgical treatment of pelvic gynecologic cancers?].", "content": "[What is new in the surgical treatment of pelvic gynecologic cancers?]. General tendency of modern cancerology is the research of adequacy between extent of disease and treatments. This concept is of course valid for gynaecology and we saw these last months the promising results of fertility-sparing surgery: in initial cervical cancers and in ovarian cancer with good prognosis. Actual Studies should define a clear attitude in patient less than 40 with initial endometrial cancer. At the same time, the development of laparoscopic surgery has continued in cervical cancer staging. If use of sentinel node in endometrial or vulvar cancers remains discussed as for its reliability, importance of staging was stressed for cervical cancer and initial ovarian cancer. Laparoscopic surgery is confirmed in patient at risk with endometrial cancer but it is necessary to stress efforts of French teams which still push back the technical limits of laparoscopic approach like pelvic exenteration or intra-peritoneal chemohyperthermia in advanced ovarian cancer. The adventure continues...."}
{"id": "16455020", "title": "Transperitoneal laparoscopic pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy in gynecologic cancers.", "content": "Transperitoneal laparoscopic pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy in gynecologic cancers. Laparoscopy, a minimally invasive surgery, may benefit select patients more than traditional abdominal approaches. The benefits of this procedure include low morbidity, shorter length of hospital stay, less blood loss, no significant increase in complications, and a shorter postoperative recovery period; this allows patients to begin adjuvant therapy more quickly. Laparoscopy has been used in gynecologic oncology since the early 1990s and has continued to grow and develop. Complex gynecologic oncology procedures can be performed with a low rate of complication and a low rate of conversion to laparotomy. The literature supports the fact that laparoscopy can be performed with short-term benefit with no increase in morbidity. Although the data are limited and emerging, the risk of cancer recurrence does not appear to increase because of this minimal access approach. Currently, advanced laparoscopic techniques are used to evaluate and treat cervical, endometrial, and ovarian malignancies. Specifically, transperitoneal laparoscopic lymphadenectomy including pelvic and paraaortic nodes is a feasible and efficacious procedure in the management of certain gynecologic malignancies."}
{"id": "16446329", "title": "Phase III trial of intraperitoneal therapy with yttrium-90-labeled HMFG1 murine monoclonal antibody in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer after a surgically defined complete remission.", "content": "Phase III trial of intraperitoneal therapy with yttrium-90-labeled HMFG1 murine monoclonal antibody in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer after a surgically defined complete remission. This was a multinational, open-label, randomized phase III trial comparing yttrium-90-labeled murine HMFG1 (90Y-muHMFG1) plus standard treatment versus standard treatment alone in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) who had attained a complete clinical remission after cytoreductive surgery and platinum-based chemotherapy. In total, 844 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage Ic to IV patients were initially screened, of whom 447 patients with a negative second-look laparoscopy (SLL) were randomly assigned to receive either a single dose of 90Y-muHMFG1 plus standard treatment (224 patients) or standard treatment alone (223 patients). Patients in the active treatment arm received a single intraperitoneal dose of 25 mg of 90Y-muHMFG1 (target dose 666 MBq/m2). The primary end point was length of survival; secondary end points included time to relapse and safety. The study had an 80% power to detect a 15% change in survival. After a median follow-up of 3.5 years (range, 1 to 6 years), 70 patients had died in the active treatment arm compared with 61 patients in the control arm. Cox proportional hazards analysis of survival demonstrated no difference between treatment arms. In the study drug arm, 104 patients experienced relapse compared with 98 patients in the standard treatment arm. No difference in time to relapse was observed between the two study arms. Active therapy was associated with occasional grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia and neutropenia and grade 1 or 2 GI symptoms, abdominal discomfort, arthralgia, and myalgia. CONCLUSION A single IP administration of 90Y-muHMFG1 to patients with EOC who had a negative SLL after primary therapy did not extend survival or time to relapse."}
{"id": "16445631", "title": "Prophylactic salpingo-oophorectomy in 51 women with familial breast-ovarian cancer: importance of fallopian tube dysplasia.", "content": "Prophylactic salpingo-oophorectomy in 51 women with familial breast-ovarian cancer: importance of fallopian tube dysplasia. We report our findings on 51 patients with a familial breast and/or ovarian cancer risk who underwent prophylactic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (pBSO). Patients undergoing a pBSO between January 1, 1997, and December 31, 2003, at the University Hospitals Leuven were reviewed retrospectively. Out of 51 patients, 37 (72.5%) underwent genetic testing, while the 14 others (27.5%) underwent pBSO on the sole basis of a positive family history only. BRCA1 mutation was found in 35% of the tested group, while 30% were BRCA2 carriers. Mean age at intervention was 45.3 years; 33 patients were premenopausal. In 44 patients (86%), the pBSO was performed laparoscopically, and in seven patients we decided laparotomy because of technical reasons. In four patients hysterectomy was performed. Histopathologically, the presence of epithelial dysplasia was observed in two patients (dysplasia of the fallopian tube in a BRCA2 patient; discrete focal atypia of tubal and ovarian epithelium in a patient with a negative BRCA1/BRCA2 mutation analysis). Peritoneal cytology specimens (n= 28) were all negative. Laparoscopic pBSO is well tolerated. Concomitant hysterectomy should be considered, given the observed fallopian tube dysplasia and the possibility of a tubal remnant after pBSO."}
{"id": "16445616", "title": "Impact of initial surgical access on staging and survival of patients with stage I ovarian cancer.", "content": "Impact of initial surgical access on staging and survival of patients with stage I ovarian cancer. The aim of this study was to compare staging by laparoscopy and laparotomy, and to compare survival in patients with laparoscopy versus laparotomy as the first surgical access. We conducted a retrospective analysis of patients with stage I ovarian cancer treated surgically between 1985 and 2001, and we included those patients with stage I epithelial cancer for whom follow-up data were available. For each patient, we recorded whether initial surgical staging was by laparoscopy or by laparotomy, the procedures done at initial staging surgery, and the outcomes. The data were evaluated by analysis of variance, Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test, logistic regression, Cox model, and log-rank test, using SPSS 7.5 and STATA. Initial staging was by laparoscopy in 34 patients, laparotomy in 114 patients, and laparoscopy converted to laparotomy in 30 patients. In the laparotomy group, patient age was significantly greater and tumor size significantly larger, as compared to the laparoscopy group. Staging after first surgery was often inadequate; most notably para-aortic lymph node dissection was done in 0% of laparoscopy patients, 18% of laparotomy patients, and 33% of conversion patients. Restaging surgery has been indicated in 88% of laparoscopy patients, 48% of laparotomy patients, and 46% of conversion ones. After a mean follow-up of 40 months, survival rates were not significantly different among the three patient groups. No deleterious influence of laparoscopy as first surgical access was detected by univariate or multivariate analysis. Despite of inaccurate radicality and staging during initial laparoscopy, this study found no harmful influence of laparoscopy as first initial access on outcomes of patients with stage I ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "16442326", "title": "[Laparoscopic management of ovarian cysts during pregnancy].", "content": "[Laparoscopic management of ovarian cysts during pregnancy]. To evaluate the results of laparoscopic surgery in the management of ovarian cysts in pregnant patients. Retrospective study including 26 pregnant patients who underwent the laparoscopic management of ovarian cysts. The indications for surgery were persistent adnexal mass, abnormal ovarian cysts revealed by ultrasound examination, suspicion of cyst complications. The technique used, the immediate postoperative results and obstetrical outcomes were studied. Twelve patients were operated during the first trimester of pregnancy, 13 in the second, and one in the third trimester. A 12 mmHg CO2 pneumoperitoneum was created, using a Veress needle in 22 cases, and an open technique in 4 cases. Trocar sites were decided according to the uterine size and to the cyst situation. A cystectomy was performed in 11 cases, an adnexectomy in 7 cases, an oophorectomy in one case, a cyst aspiration with a biopsy of the cyst wall in 6 cases and an ovarian torsion removal in one case. A conversion to laparotomy was necessary in 3 cases. There were no immediate postoperative complications and obstetrical outcomes were good in all cases. In pregnant patients, laparoscopic management of adnexal masses appears to be safe for both mother and child."}
{"id": "16431324", "title": "Audit of morbidity and mortality rates of 1792 hysterectomies.", "content": "Audit of morbidity and mortality rates of 1792 hysterectomies. To audit morbidity and mortality rates of laparoscopic, abdominal, and vaginal hysterectomy. Retrospective review of monthly morbidity and mortality rates (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). University teaching hospital. One thousand seven hundred ninety-two women who underwent hysterectomy for benign, nonobstetric indications at the Sir Mortimer B. Davis-Jewish General Hospital. Laparoscopic supracervical (LASH), vaginal (VH), and abdominal (AH) hysterectomies. Morbidity outcomes of different types of hysterectomy. Reoperation, admission to the intensive care unit, discordant diagnosis, and prolonged hospitalization also were evaluated. We studied 223 cases of LASH, 1349 AH, and 220 VH. The overall hysterectomy-related morbidity rate was 6.1%. The rate of morbidity was higher in the LASH group (9.4%) than in the AH group (5.2%, p <.01), but no significant difference was noted between AH and VH (8.6%). The incidence of intraoperative bowel injury was 0.4% in the LASH group (a trocar injury in a patient) and 0.3% in the AH group. Bladder injury was encountered in two patients in the LASH group (0.9%) and in another two in the AH group (0.1%). Ureteral injury occurred in a patient in the AH group (0.07%). There were no cases of intraoperative vascular injury. Vaginal hysterectomy was associated with more urinary retention and hematoma formation than the other two groups. Discordant diagnosis was noted in four cases (two missed endometrial cancer, atonic and distended bladder mistaken for an ovarian cyst, and pelvic tuberculosis). The conversion rate to laparotomy was 1.7% in the LASH group and 0.4% in the VH group, and the incidence of reoperation was 0.4% in the AH group. The overall hysterectomy-related morbidity rate in our series is 6.1%. Compared with other types of hysterectomy, more urinary retention and hematoma formation occur after VH. Laparoscopic supracervical hysterectomy is associated with a higher morbidity rate than AH; mainly because of conversion to laparotomy and blood transfusion."}
{"id": "16413810", "title": "[Laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumor: analysis of 54 patients and clinical outcomes. Gynecol Obstet Fertil 2005;33:395-402].", "content": "[Laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumor: analysis of 54 patients and clinical outcomes. Gynecol Obstet Fertil 2005;33:395-402]."}
{"id": "16412760", "title": "A steroid cell tumor outside the ovary is a rare cause of virilization.", "content": "A steroid cell tumor outside the ovary is a rare cause of virilization. To report the case of a female who presented in childhood with symptoms and signs of hyperandrogenism secondary to an extraovarian steroid cell tumor. Case report. Endocrine investigation unit of a university teaching hospital. An 11-year-old female presented with symptoms and signs of hyperandrogenism. Ultrasonography, MRI imaging, bilateral adrenal and ovarian venous sampling, laparoscopy, and laparotomy. Ultrasonography, laboratory tests. Hyperandrogenism was due to an extraovarian steroid cell tumor located in the broad ligament. The tumor was successfully removed at laparotomy with biochemical and clinical resolution of the hyperandrogenism. Extraovarian steroid cell tumor is a rare cause of hyperandrogenism."}
{"id": "16360202", "title": "Laparoscopic findings during adnexal surgery in women with a history of nongynecologic malignancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic findings during adnexal surgery in women with a history of nongynecologic malignancy. To describe the results of laparoscopic management of adnexal masses in women with a history of nongynecologic malignancy. We conducted a retrospective review of 262 patients with history of prior nongynecologic malignancy who underwent laparoscopy for management of an adnexal mass between 1/1992 and 6/2004. Median patient age at laparoscopy was 55 years (range, 20-91 years), and median BMI was 25 kg/m2 (range, 14-41 kg/m2). Of the 262 patients, 145 (55.3%) had prior abdominal/pelvic surgery. Prior cancer history included breast (202, 77.1%), lymphoma/leukemia (16, 6.1%), colorectal (8, 3.0%), lung (7, 2.7%), multiple myeloma (5, 1.9%), head/neck (5, 1.9%), genitourinary (5, 1.9%), upper gastrointestinal (4, 1.5%), and other (10, 3.8%). Median ovarian mass diameter measured on radiologic imaging was 3.8 cm (range, 0.2-13.5 cm); median CA-125 was 17.0 U/mL (range, 1-7000 U/mL). In all, 49 (18.7%) patients had malignancy identified at laparoscopy, with 30/49 (61.2%) diagnosed with metastatic malignancy to the ovary and 19/49 (38.8%) having a new primary ovarian malignancy. Median tumor diameter and CA-125 were significantly higher in women found to have a malignancy (4.7 vs. 3.7 cm, and 35 vs. 14 U/mL, respectively). Overall, conversion to laparotomy occurred in 34 (12.9%) cases. Twenty-one of 49 (42.9%) patients with malignancy were converted to laparotomy compared with 13/213 (6.1%) when benign disease was noted (P < 0.001). Approximately 1 in 5 patients with a history of nongynecologic malignancy who were selected for laparoscopic management of an adnexal mass was found to have malignancy, with 60% being metastatic from other primaries. The majority of cases were managed laparoscopically even if malignancy was identified."}
{"id": "16343732", "title": "Left-right asymmetry in pelvic lymph nodes distribution: is there a right-side prevalence?", "content": "Left-right asymmetry in pelvic lymph nodes distribution: is there a right-side prevalence? To assess whether pelvic lymph nodes have a left-right asymmetric distribution. The oncologic databases of two gynecologic academic departments were used to identify consecutive patients undergoing pelvic systematic lymphadenectomy as part of the treatment for a variety of gynecologic malignancies. All procedures were carried out in a standardized fashion. Lymph node counts were retrieved from pathological reports. Four hundred and twenty-eight women underwent pelvic lymphadenectomy during the study period. The median lymph node count was higher on the right side than on the left side [10 (0-33) versus 8 (0-29); P<0.0001]. A prevalence of right-sided nodes was found in 265 (61.9%) patients, while in 44 (10.3%) cases pelvic nodes were equally distributed on the two sides. The right-sided prevalence was significantly higher than the expected 50% in each type of malignancy and surgical technique subgroup. The right-sided prevalence was statistically significant even when the analysis was performed for different nodal groups [external iliac nodes: 5 (0-23) versus 4 (0-13), P=0.005; hypogastric and obturator nodes: 6 (0-17) versus 5 (0-19), P=0.04]. Moreover, nodal count was higher on the right than on the left in obese [10 (1-33) versus 8 (1-26), P=0.0002] and nonobese women [10 (0-32) versus 9 (0-29), P<0.0001]. Our findings suggest the existence of a left-right asymmetry in pelvic lymph nodes distribution, with right-sided prevalence."}
{"id": "16337997", "title": "Laparoscopic and hand-assisted laparoscopic splenectomy for recurrent and persistent ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic and hand-assisted laparoscopic splenectomy for recurrent and persistent ovarian cancer. Prolonged survival in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer isolated to the spleen has been demonstrated after successful splenectomy. The purpose of this study was to report the outcomes of a series of patients who underwent splenectomy for persistent or recurrent ovarian cancer via laparoscopy or hand-assisted laparoscopy. We reviewed the charts of all patients who underwent laparoscopic or hand-assisted laparoscopic splenectomy for presumed persistent or recurrent ovarian cancer. Demographic, clinical, pathologic, and follow-up information was abstracted. Six patients underwent laparoscopy or hand-assisted laparoscopy for presumed ovarian cancer involving the spleen. In 5 of the 6 cases, laparoscopic or hand-assisted laparoscopic splenectomy was successfully performed. For the 5 laparoscopic cases, operative times varied from 155 to 315 min, and estimated blood loss ranged from 50 to 300 ml. There were no perioperative mortalities or significant complications. Hospitalization lasted from 3 to 5 days. Four patients are alive with no evidence of disease at 2-84 months from the splenectomy, while 1 patient died of disease 20 months after the procedure. The sixth patient underwent initial hand-assisted laparoscopy, and the case was immediately converted to laparotomy for resection of peritoneal carcinomatosis. Laparoscopic and hand-assisted laparoscopic splenectomies are safe and feasible in the management of patients with presumed persistent or recurrent ovarian cancer. Larger studies are necessary and eagerly awaited to help determine the long-term risks and benefits as well as the most appropriate candidates and selection criteria."}
{"id": "16325244", "title": "Diagnostic open laparoscopy in the management of advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Diagnostic open laparoscopy in the management of advanced ovarian cancer. Optimal primary cytoreductive surgery (OPCS) plus adjuvant chemotherapy (AC) represents the standard management for patients with advanced ovarian cancer (AOC). Recently, some authors have suggested the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) followed by interval debulking surgery (IDS) in patients with unresectable AOC. This study has been started to evaluate the role of diagnostic open laparoscopy (DOL) in predicting who are the best candidates to OPCS. All patients newly diagnosed as affected by AOC were submitted to DOL in order to establish the possibility of OPCS considered as no residual tumor left after operation. Patients considered not susceptible of OPCS were submitted to three cycles of NACT, administered every 3 weeks (Carboplatin, targeted AUC = 6, plus paclitaxel 175 mg/mq), followed by IDS and adjuvant chemotherapy. From January 2000 to March 2004, 87 patients with AOC underwent DOL. Fifty-three patients (61%) were judged operable and therefore submitted to primary cytoreductive surgery (Group A). Optimal debulking rate in this group of patients was 96%. Thirty-four patients were judged affected by disease not cytoriducible to absent residual tumor and therefore scheduled for NACT-IDS-AC (Group B). Twenty-five patients were judged with partial clinical response and were therefore scheduled for IDS and AC. Optimal debulking rate (no residual tumor ) in Group B patients was 80%. No major perioperative complications, due to laparoscopy, occurred. All Group B patients received the first cycle of chemotherapy the day after DOL. In 34 patients (39%), an explorative laparotomy was avoided. With a median follow-up of 22 months (range 2-49 months), the proportions surviving were 87% and 60% in Group A and Group B patients, respectively. DOL could be considered a valid diagnostic tool in evaluating the extent of disease in AOC. Our data suggest that the use of DOL leads to decrease the rate of primary cytoreductive surgery for AOC; on the other hand, a higher optimal debulking rate (no residual tumor) at primary surgery is achieved."}
{"id": "16307793", "title": "Management of borderline ovarian tumors: results of an Italian multicenter study.", "content": "Management of borderline ovarian tumors: results of an Italian multicenter study. A rising number of patients affected by ovarian masses suspected of borderline ovarian tumor are operated on primary laparoscopic procedure. From January 1992 to June 2004, 113 patients affected by low malignant ovarian tumor were followed at the Gynecologic Departments of five Italian Institutions. Fifty-two (46.0%) patients were operated on laparoscopic surgery, whereas traditional laparotomic approach was preferred in 61 cases (54%). In 53 patients (46.9%), a fertility-sparing surgical treatment was chosen. The diameter of the ovarian cysts ranged between 20 and 300 mm; in 20 out 113 patients (17.7%), the borderline tumor was bilateral. In 22/113 (19.5%) cases, we observed tumor rupture or spilling during surgery, and this incidence was greater in the group of patients treated by laparoscopy compared to laparotomy, and this difference is statistically significative. In 13/113 (11.5%) patients, we observed a relapse; the incidence of relapse, however, is not dependent on the type of surgical approach. The progression-free survival is higher for stages IA-IC if compared to stages more than Ist and the difference is statistically significant. Type of surgical approach, laparoscopic versus laparotomic, does not seem to influence the PFS; when cystectomy is performed, the PFS is significantly lower if compared with demolitive surgery or monolateral annessectomy. Eight pregnancies were obtained: in one case, miscarriage was observed, whereas 7 healthy babies were born all but two by vaginal delivery. Conservative laparoscopic surgery may be the treatment of choice; an attractive option is that this surgery should be performed by an oncologist surgeon to obtain correct surgical staging and better results in terms of both relapse-free survival and pregnancies."}
{"id": "16216320", "title": "Conservative surgery for borderline ovarian tumors: a review.", "content": "Conservative surgery for borderline ovarian tumors: a review. Borderline tumor of the ovary is an epithelial tumor with a low rate of growth and a low potential to invade or metastasize. This review will outline the most recent information regarding the molecular pathogenesis, pathology, fertility and tumor recurrence rate after conservative management of young women with early-stage borderline ovarian tumors. We performed a MEDLINE literature search of relevant clinical trials for the scope of this review that evaluated conservative treatment of borderline ovarian tumors for young women with low-stage disease who wish to preserve their fertility. Recently, investigators have begun to identify subsets of patients with a worse prognosis, such as patients with aneuploid tumors. A number of oncogenes are under investigation to determine their role in the pathogenesis of borderline ovarian tumors. Previous studies have suggested the safety of conservative surgery with unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy or cystectomy for patients with stage I borderline ovarian tumors. Laparoscopic treatment of adnexal masses has proved to be a safe and effective diagnostic and therapeutic tool in the hands of experienced laparoscopists. For women who are treated conservatively, follow-up is important. Surgery remains the most effective therapy for later stage lesions. Adjuvant therapy for advanced stage of borderline ovarian tumors remains controversial. Conservative management of borderline ovarian tumors is an appropriate therapeutic option for young women with early-stage lesions who wish to preserve their childbearing potential. Available data indicate that in these patients fertility, pregnancy outcome and survival remain excellent."}
{"id": "16185754", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery does not increase the positive peritoneal cytology among women with endometrial carcinoma.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery does not increase the positive peritoneal cytology among women with endometrial carcinoma. The purpose of our study was to find if uterine manipulation at the time of laparoscopic hysterectomy among women with endometrial carcinoma increases the incidence of malignant cells in the peritoneal washings. We conducted a prospective study including women with clinical stage I endometrioid endometrial carcinoma undergoing laparoscopic surgery between 07/01/2000 and 07/01/2004. Surgery on all patients was conducted by the same surgeon using the same technique and instruments. Two sets of peritoneal washings were obtained, one before and one after the insertion of the Pelosi uterine manipulator. The two sets of washings were blindly reviewed by the same cytopathologist for the presence of malignant cells. Correlation was made between the two sets of washings. Forty-two consecutive women (age 46-90, median: 58) were enrolled in the study. The procedure was converted to laparotomy in 3 (7.6%) patients after obtaining the two sets of washings. The preoperative tumor grades were: G1: 22 (52.4%), G2: 12 (28.6%), and G3: 8 (19.0). The incidence of positive peritoneal washings was 14.3%. All patients underwent laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, 30 patients had bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy, and 5 patients had bilateral pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy. There was perfect agreement between the two sets of washings in all patients (100%, P < .001). No patients had positive washings after the insertion of the uterine manipulator if the washings were negative before the insertion. The surgical stages were: IA: 14 (33.3%), IB: 12 (28.6%), IC: 7 (16.7%), IIA: 1 (2.4%), IIB: 1 (2.4%), IIIA: 4 (9.5%), IIIB: 1 (2.4%), IIIC: 1 (2.4%), and IV: 1 (2.4%). Twenty-nine patients received no postoperative treatment, 2 received chemotherapy, 3 received Megace, and 9 received radiation therapy. Patients were followed-up for 7-56 months (median: 28). Two patients had tumor recurrence, and one patient died secondary to her disease. Two other patients died secondary to other causes. We conclude that uterine manipulation at the time of laparoscopic hysterectomy does not increase the incidence of positive peritoneal cytology among women with endometrial carcinoma."}
{"id": "16544721", "title": "[Urachal carcinoma of urinary bladder, simulating ovarial cyst].", "content": "[Urachal carcinoma of urinary bladder, simulating ovarial cyst]."}
{"id": "16525973", "title": "Lift-(gasless) laparoscopic surgery under regional anesthesia.", "content": "Lift-(gasless) laparoscopic surgery under regional anesthesia. The objective of this Chapter was to investigate the feasibility and outcome of gasless laparoscopy under regional anesthesia. A prospective evaluation of Lift-(gasless) laparoscopic procedures under regional anesthesia (Canadian Task Force classification II-1) was done at three endoscopic gynecology centers (franchise system of EndGyn(r)). Sixty-three patients with gynecological diseases comprised the cohort. All patients underwent Lift-laparoscopic surgery under regional anesthesia: 10 patients for diagnostic purposes, 17 for surgery of ovarian tumors, 14 to remove fibroids, and 22 for hysterectomies. All patients were operated without conversion to general anesthesia and without perioperative or anesthesiologic complications. Lift-laparoscopy under regional anesthesia can be recommended to all patients who desire laparoscopic intervention without general anesthesia. For elderly patients, those with cardiopulmonary risks, during pregnancy, or with contraindications for general anesthesia, Lift-laparoscopy under regional anesthesia should be the procedure of choice."}
{"id": "16433164", "title": "Asymptomatic struma ovarii: a case report.", "content": "Asymptomatic struma ovarii: a case report. Struma ovarii is a rare ovarian neoplasm. This tumor is generally benign, although malignant transformation has been reported. The preoperative diagnosis is generally difficult. Thyroid hormones may be produced and in a few cases asymptomatic women may develop definitive clinical hypothyroidism after resection of struma ovarii. We report a case of a 39-year-old woman who underwent laparoscopic resection of an asymptomatic right ovarian mass. The pathologic diagnosis was struma ovarii. The postoperative period was uneventful and her thyroid function remained normal."}
{"id": "16419639", "title": "Ovarian endometrioma complicated by a Salmonella abscess caused by an enteroovarian fistula: a case report.", "content": "Ovarian endometrioma complicated by a Salmonella abscess caused by an enteroovarian fistula: a case report. Salmonella infection occurs primarily in the gastrointestinal tract but may also be found at extraintestinal locations. An ovarian abscess caused by Salmonella is one of the rare extraintestinal infections, and hematogenous spread by bacteremia to a preexisting ovarian cyst has been suggested as the cause of such infections. A 43-year-old woman presented with diarrhea, fever and an ovarian tumor and was treated initially with antibiotics for Salmonella bacteremia, followed by an exploratory laparotomy due to persistent fever and progressive toxic signs. A pus-containing endometrioma with a thick wall densely adhering to an intestinal segment, with a fistula connecting the 2, was found during surgery. The patient underwent a salpingo-oophorectomy and resection of the intestinal segment, took antibiotics and recovered. Bacterial culture of the abscess showed salmonellosis, and pathology reported a fistula between the ovarian tumor and intestine, suggesting that direct spread through a fistula may be one of the causes of extraintestinal Salmonella infections. Salmonella infection located in the ovary is a rare condition, often caused by bacteremia. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of an ovarian Salmonella abscess that occurred through a fistula."}
{"id": "16398230", "title": "Management of ovarian cysts in pregnancy: a case report.", "content": "Management of ovarian cysts in pregnancy: a case report. According to recent epidemiological studies on ovarian cysts during pregnancy one out of 600 are, in most cases, benign neoformations. The most frequent histological type reported is mature cystic teratoma (50% of the cases), followed by functional cysts (13%), benign cystadenomas (20%) and ovarian cancer (0.6%). Most adnexal masses are asymptomatic and spontaneously resolve before the 16th week of amenorrhoea. On the other hand, some cases are persistent forms which can cause complications for the mother and fetus. The objective of this work was to review the existing literature from an epidemiological point of view, with an emphasis on diagnostic and therapeutic management. We have paid particular attention in our review to the use of diagnostic techniques and non surgical therapies such as laparoscopy, which in expert hands and adopting particular skills, can be considered as on approach to ovarian cysts in pregnancy. We present the case of a patient with an ovarian cyst during pregnancy that was a successfully treated with laparoscopy."}
{"id": "16396153", "title": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for ovarian cancer.", "content": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for ovarian cancer. Primary debulking surgery by a gynecologic oncologist remains the standard of care in advanced ovarian cancer. Optimal debulking surgery should be defined as no residual tumor load. In retrospective analyses, neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery does not seem to worsen prognosis compared to primary debulking surgery followed by chemotherapy. However, we will have to wait for the results of future randomized trials to know whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery is as good as primary debulking surgery in stage IIIC and IV patients. Interval debulking is defined as an operation performed after a short course of induction chemotherapy. Based on the randomized European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer-Gynecological Cancer Group (EORTC-GCG) trial, interval debulking by an experienced surgeon improves survival in some patients who did not undergo optimal primary debulking surgery. Based on Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) 152 data, interval debulking surgery does not seem to be indicated in patients who underwent primarily a maximal surgical effort by a gynecologic oncologist. Open laparoscopy is probably the most valuable tool for evaluating the operability primarily or at the time of interval debulking surgery."}
{"id": "16343194", "title": "Positron emission tomography in a premenopausal asymptomatic woman: a case report of increased ovarian uptake in a benign condition.", "content": "Positron emission tomography in a premenopausal asymptomatic woman: a case report of increased ovarian uptake in a benign condition. Positron emission tomography (PET) use is increasing; however, optimal utilization in gynecologic oncology remains unclear. PET is expensive, has limited anatomic detail, and it may be difficult to differentiate benign ovarian lesions from malignant lesions when PET is used. A 43-year-old female volunteer's PET scan revealed increased uptake in the left ovary. A subsequent extensive evaluation was entirely normal; however, the patient pursued excision with only a corpus luteum on final pathology. There is a dearth of information regarding PET scan ovarian abnormalities in asymptomatic premenopausal patients, as much of the literature focuses on women with a known ovarian lesion or cancer. Our case represents an increasingly common situation: evaluation and management of an asymptomatic woman with a positive PET scan. As more clinicians encounter PET scan abnormalities, it is imperative that the medical literature documents the limitations of this technology, especially in premenopausal women."}
{"id": "16343192", "title": "Ovarian neoplasms and pregnancy.", "content": "Ovarian neoplasms and pregnancy. The aim of our study was to investigate the incidence of ovarian malignant neoplasms in pregnancy. In the prospective study, during a 2-year period of time, we had the ethical dilemma concerning the conciliar treatment vs the patient's wish to deliver and save the reproductive capabilities. We examined 37 pregnant women; the incidence of ovarian cancer was 13.5% vs 6.5% in other works. Diagnoses were made by ultrasound criteria and physical examinations. Statistically significant results were obtained by Student t test. Mean gestational age was 20.1 weeks and mean age 31.1 years. Treatment depends on the neoplasms type, grade, and presence of the metastatic pathways. In benign neoplasms, we used laparoscopic treatment with minor invasion. Distribution of benign neoplasms was in the same range as that in other works."}
{"id": "16341120", "title": "Successful pregnancies following fertility-preserving treatment for ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Successful pregnancies following fertility-preserving treatment for ovarian carcinoma. A 30-year-old woman underwent a routine sonogram at 6 weeks of gestation during her first pregnancy and was found to have a 6 cm complex right-ovarian mass, thought to be a dermoid cyst. The pregnancy progressed to term and the patient went on to have a normal vaginal delivery. At 3 months postpartum, she underwent a laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy. Preoperative serum cancer antigen 125 was within the normal range at 23.6 U/ml. Pelvic ultrasound, evaluation of serum cancer antigen 125, abdominal and pelvic CT scans. Stage IA clear-cell epithelial carcinoma of the right ovary. Laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy, dilation and curettage, laparotomy, right salpingo-oophorectomy, infracolic omentectomy, peritoneal biopsy, peritoneal washing, appendectomy, bilateral pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy, adjuvant chemotherapy with paclitaxel and carboplatin."}
{"id": "16337577", "title": "Management of adnexal cystic masses with unexpected intracystic vegetations detected during laparoscopy.", "content": "Management of adnexal cystic masses with unexpected intracystic vegetations detected during laparoscopy. To evaluate a prospective series of consecutive patients with unexpected intracystic vegetations detected during operative laparoscopy for adnexal masses. Prospective series of consecutive patients (Canadian Task Force classification: II-2). Tertiary care university hospitals. Consecutive patients found during surgery to have unexpected intracystic vegetations and treated by operative laparoscopy, out of a total series of 667 patients under 40 years of age with ultrasonographic evidence of an adnexal cystic mass without thick septa, internal wall papillarities, or solid components. Operative laparoscopy and follow-up. Thirty-five (5.2%) of 667 patients were found at surgery to have unexpected intracystic vegetations. A frozen section was sent for pathologic analysis in all 35 patients. Frozen section diagnosis was benign in 32 patients and borderline in 3 patients. Final pathology diagnosis was borderline ovarian tumor in five of the 35 patients (14.3%), and benign in 30 patients (85.7%). No case of invasive carcinoma was diagnosed either at frozen section or at final pathology examination. The patients with borderline tumors are alive with no evidence of disease after a mean follow-up of 60 months. In the present series, with accurate preoperative selection, the rate of adnexal cysts with unexpected intracystic vegetations was 5%, of which 14% were borderline tumors. The laparoscopic management of these adnexal masses did not adversely affect the prognosis."}
{"id": "16316768", "title": "[Laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumor: analysis of 54 patients and clinical outcomes].", "content": "[Laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumor: analysis of 54 patients and clinical outcomes]."}
{"id": "16260204", "title": "Laparoscopic staging in patients with incompletely staged cancers of the uterus, ovary, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneum: a Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) study.", "content": "Laparoscopic staging in patients with incompletely staged cancers of the uterus, ovary, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneum: a Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) study. The purpose of this study was to determine the feasibility of laparoscopically staging patients with incompletely staged cancers of the uterus, ovary, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneum, and to evaluate related effects. Patients without evidence of metastatic disease had laparoscopic bilateral para-aortic and pelvic lymph node dissection. Other procedures were individualized based on extent of the primary surgery; laparotomy was undertaken for identified resectable disease. Ninety-five eligible patients were entered on 2 Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) protocols. Eleven were excluded. Fifty-eight patients (69%) underwent complete endoscopic staging with photographic documentation. Nine others (10%) were incompletely staged. Seventeen patients (20%) had laparotomy. In patients undergoing laparoscopy, 6% had bowel complications; 11% were found to have more advanced disease. Hospital stay was significantly shorter with laparoscopy alone (3 vs 6 days, P = .04). Interval laparoscopic staging of gynecologic malignancies can be successfully undertaken in selected patients, but laparotomy for adhesions or metastatic disease and risk of visceral injury may be anticipated."}
{"id": "16247574", "title": "Laparoscopic radiofrequency thermal ablation for unusual hepatic tumors: operative indications and outcomes.", "content": "Laparoscopic radiofrequency thermal ablation for unusual hepatic tumors: operative indications and outcomes. There is increasing experience with laparoscopic radiofrequency ablation for the treatment of patients with hepatic metastasis from colorectal and neuroendocrine cancer and those with hepatocellular cancer. Little is known about the outcomes for patients with other tumor types. Between January 1996 and March 2005, 517 patients with 1,500 primary and metastatic liver tumors underwent laparoscopic radiofrequency ablation. Among these, 53 patients (10%) had cancers other than the colorectal, neuroendocrine, or hepatocellular types including sarcoma (n = 18), breast cancer (n = 10), esophagus cancer (n = 4), melanoma (n = 4), lung cancer (n = 3), ovarian cancer (n = 2), pancreas cancer (n = 2), unknown primary cancer (n = 2), cholangiocarcinoma (n = 2), rectal squamous cancer (n = 2), renal cancer (n = 2), papillary thyroid cancer (n = 1), and hemangioendothelioma (n = 1). Unlike the criteria for treatment of the more usual tumor types, these patients had a diagnosis of liver-exclusive disease, as diagnosed by preoperative imaging. They also had failed chemotherapy. The 53 patients underwent ablation of 192 lesions, with 8 patients undergoing repeat treatment. The hospital stay averaged 1 day, and there was no 30-day mortality. Complications included one postoperative hemorrhage, one liver abscess, and one wound infection. Tumors recurred locally for 17% of the lesions over a mean follow-up period of 24 months. The overall median survival was 33 months for the whole series, more than 51 months for breast cancer, and 25 months for sarcoma. Laparoscopic radiofrequency ablation can safely and effectively treat hepatic metastasis of these unusual tumor types. The authors believe that this heterogeneous group of patients, selected for their unusual presentation of liver-exclusive disease, may benefit from cytoreduction of their tumor by laparoscopic radiofrequency ablation when other treatment methods have failed."}
{"id": "16212662", "title": "Serous borderline tumor of the fallopian tube presented as hematosalpinx: a case report.", "content": "Serous borderline tumor of the fallopian tube presented as hematosalpinx: a case report. Compared with their ovarian counterparts, serous borderline tumors of the fallopian tube are uncommon, with limited experience about their clinical behaviour. We present a case of serous borderline tumor of the fallopian tube with unusual presentation and summarise all the published cases to date. A case of serous borderline tumor of the fallopian tube in a 34-year old patient is presented, incidentally found during routine gynecologic examination. At laparoscopy the tumor was unusually presented as hematosalpinx and was treated by salpingectomy. Cell-cycle analysis of the tumor tissue revealed a diploid DNA content and a low S-phase fraction. There was no evidence of the disease during the follow-up period of 4.6 years. The current case and review of the literature suggest salpingectomy as the optimal treatment for patients with serous borderline tumor of the fallopian tube."}
{"id": "16202727", "title": "Laparoscopy in patients over 60 years old: a prospective, randomized evaluation of laparoscopic versus open adnexectomy.", "content": "Laparoscopy in patients over 60 years old: a prospective, randomized evaluation of laparoscopic versus open adnexectomy. To compare objective and subjective parameters of surgical stress following laparoscopic and open adnexectomy in patients older than 60 years old. Twenty patients with a benign ovarian tumour were prospectively randomized to undergo adnexectomy by a laparoscopic or an open surgical procedure. Measurements included C-reactive protein; interleukin-6 before, during, and after surgery; intensity and duration of postoperative pain; and complications and recovery period. Statistical analysis consisted of analysis of variance and a Mann-Whitney U test. The levels of the interleukin-6 and C-reactive protein differed significantly between the 2 operative procedures (P = .013) in favor of the laparoscopic approach. The laparoscopic approach was associated with a reduction in operative morbidity, postoperative pain, analgesic requirement, and recovery period. Minimally invasive surgery is of particular benefit to elderly patients if there is a plan in place for appropriate staging and treatment by laparotomy for malignancy. It should be the first choice and may help to reduce postoperative complications."}
{"id": "16184921", "title": "[Laparoscopic surgery for gynecologic malignancy].", "content": "[Laparoscopic surgery for gynecologic malignancy]. The gynecologic laparoscopic surgery that has developed in the reproductive field is performed for most cases of benign disease. Introduction of laparoscopic surgery for a gynecologic malignancy is relatively late in comparison with other surgical regions and does not qualify for insurance. An operation for a gynecologic malignancy is classified roughly into a surgery of internal pelvic organs and lymph nodes. The techniques which extensive technology is pursued involve radical hysterectomy and paraaortic lymph node excision. In the surgeons who performed many laparoscopic surgeries, it seems that a surgical procedure other than these can be performed at present. The experienced laparoscopic techniques and the particular knowledge of pelvic anatomy were necessary to perform laparoscopic surgery for gynecologic malignancy."}
{"id": "16174223", "title": "Port-site metastases after open laparoscopy: a study in 173 patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Port-site metastases after open laparoscopy: a study in 173 patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma. Open laparoscopy was used to diagnose advanced ovarian cancer. Patients with a pelvic mass and an omental cake and/or large-volume ascites were selected for open laparoscopy. One hundred and seventy-three patients with stage III or IV ovarian carcinoma underwent diagnostic open laparoscopy. Seventy-one patients underwent complete excision of port sites at the time of debulking surgery. Thirty (17%) patients developed port-site metastases. However, only 8 (5%) of these port-site metastases were clinically diagnosed, while 22 out of 71 (31%) with complete port-site excision were diagnosed on pathologic examination. There was no significant relationship between the development of port-site metastases and median time to primary chemotherapy or surgery, the presence of ascites, or stage IV disease. All port-site metastases disappeared during primary therapy, and none of the patients developed a second relapse in one of their port sites. We observed a high rate of port-site metastases after laparoscopy in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma. However, prognosis was not worse in this group of patients. Laparoscopy is a convenient technique to diagnose advanced ovarian carcinoma, to exclude other primary tumors, and to refer patients to a tertiary center."}
{"id": "16169063", "title": "Laparoscopic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy in breast cancer patients after transverse rectus abdominus myocutaneous flap reconstructive surgery.", "content": "Laparoscopic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy in breast cancer patients after transverse rectus abdominus myocutaneous flap reconstructive surgery. The aim of this study was to describe the feasibility and outcome of laparoscopic risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy (RRSO) in patients with a history of breast cancer who previously had undergone a transverse rectus abdominus myocutaneous (TRAM) flap reconstruction. We performed a retrospective review of patients with a history of breast cancer who had undergone laparoscopic RRSO between February 1995 and April 2002. Patients who had undergone TRAM flap reconstructive surgery were compared with patients who had undergone laparoscopic RRSO without prior reconstructive surgery. We identified 102 patients with a history of breast cancer who were candidates for a laparoscopic RRSO during the study period. One hundred one of these patients underwent the procedure, including 10 patients with a history of TRAM flap breast reconstructive surgery. One patient did not undergo the procedure because she was noted to be hypotensive prior to the procedure from her bowel preparation. There were no differences between the groups with or without prior history of TRAM flap reconstruction with respect to body mass index, prior abdominal surgery, menopausal status, or preoperative ultrasound characteristics. Operatively, there was no difference between the groups with respect to estimated blood loss, hospital stay, and intraoperative and postoperative complication rates. The only noted difference between the two groups was the estimated operating time (TRAM group, 91 min; non-TRAM group, 70 min [P<0.01]). Laparoscopic RRSO is safe and feasible in patients who have undergone a prior TRAM flap reconstruction."}
{"id": "16167493", "title": "[Peritoneal and intestinal tuberculosis: an ancestral disease that poses new challenges in the technological era. Case report and review of the literature].", "content": "[Peritoneal and intestinal tuberculosis: an ancestral disease that poses new challenges in the technological era. Case report and review of the literature]. Tuberculosis is a public health problem. The most common presentation is pulmonary disease. The diagnosis of any extrapulmonary forms are quite difficult. Clinical manifestations of gastrointestinal tuberculosis are non-specific and compatible with pathologies such as inflammatory bowel disease, advanced ovarian cancer, deep mycosis, yersinia infection and amebomas. Abdominal form is located at 6th place of the extrapulmonary forms, after lymphatic, genitourinary, osteoarticular, miliary and meningeal infections. Eventually, 25 to 75% of patients with abdominal tuberculosis will require surgery. These procedures should be limitated with the purpose to preserve small bowel. Resection should be limitated for complicated cases. The surgical indications include: Intestinal occlusion (15-60%), perforation (1-15%), abscesses and fistulas (2-30%) and hemorrhage (2%). In most of the cases, the diagnosis of peritoneal or intestinal tuberculosis is made during a laparoscopy or laparotomy even during surgery performed by different purposes. Excessive manipulation of the intraabdominal organs may produced unexpected bowel lesions, increasing morbidity and mortality. Medical treatment is highly effective in the resolution of moderate complications such as bowel obstruction. Resectional procedures should be reserved for complications like perforation, bleeding or stenosis non-suitable for stricturoplasty."}
{"id": "16163598", "title": "Juvenile granulosa cell tumour (JGCT) of the ovary in a 6-year-old girl: laparoscopic resection achieves long-term oncological success.", "content": "Juvenile granulosa cell tumour (JGCT) of the ovary in a 6-year-old girl: laparoscopic resection achieves long-term oncological success. Juvenile granulosa cell tumours (JGCT) represent a rare malignancy in childhood and their laparoscopic resection has not been advocated yet. We report on a 6-year-old girl with signs of precocious pseudo-puberty and an abdominal tumour. Work-up revealed premature thelarche, vaginal discharge, elevated estrogen levels, and a solid tumour in the lower pelvis (6 x 4 x 3 cm in MRI). The girl underwent laparoscopy (3 ports, 5-mm instruments), during which a non-invasive, mobile tumour of the left ovary was found. Since all margins of resection could be clearly identified, salpingo-oophrectomy was performed, using the harmonic scalpel for dissection and 5-mm clips to ligate the fallopian tube. Histopathology revealed a JGCT with an intact capsule (FIGO 1 a) which required no further chemotherapy. Within 3 months postoperatively the girl's signs of precocious puberty had resolved and at present, after a follow-up of more than 3 years, there is no evidence of tumour recurrence. Minimally invasive surgery of solid ovarian tumours in children remains controversial. However in the present case, laparoscopic resection did not compromise the surgical and oncological safety."}
{"id": "16145860", "title": "[Bilateral adnexal masses in a pregnant woman--laparoscopic management].", "content": "[Bilateral adnexal masses in a pregnant woman--laparoscopic management]. A case of a 30 years old pregnant woman suffering from bilateral ovary tumour was presented. When she was sixteen weeks pregnant she had both tumours enucleated using the method of laparoscopy. Diagnostic and therapeutic process have been described. Authors are convinced that laparoscopy as a method of treatment can be safely applied to pregnant women provided, that specific rules are obeyed and elaborate precautions during the surgery are taken."}
{"id": "16123189", "title": "Decidualization of ovarian endometriosis during pregnancy mimicking malignancy.", "content": "Decidualization of ovarian endometriosis during pregnancy mimicking malignancy. The purpose of this series is to present deciduosis (the formation of extrauterine decidua) as one of the differential diagnoses of a malignant tumor during pregnancy. Two cases are described in which pregnant patients had a pelvic tumor. The lesions, which were diagnosed in the early second trimester, consisted of complex masses with an extensive blood supply and had a sonographic appearance of a malignant tumor. The high suspicion for malignancy necessitated surgical intervention. During surgery, the lesions were observed to be of an ovarian origin with papillary excrescences covering their exterior. The lesions were excised and sent for histologic examination. The results showed a markedly decidualized endometriotic cyst in both cases. This phenomenon is a diagnostic challenge and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of a malignant mass during pregnancy."}
{"id": "16054202", "title": "Peritoneal recurrences might be less common in advanced stage serous borderline ovarian tumors that were treated by laparotomy.", "content": "Peritoneal recurrences might be less common in advanced stage serous borderline ovarian tumors that were treated by laparotomy."}
{"id": "16050570", "title": "Advances in the surgical management of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Advances in the surgical management of ovarian cancer. Over the past 10 years, significant advances have been made in the treatment of epithelial ovarian cancer in the United States. Women are living longer with ovarian cancer, and the survival for all cases in the U.S. has increased. Some, but not all, of this success is secondary to new surgical approaches. New techniques, new philosophies and new technology have changed the surgical approach to ovarian cancer in a variety of clinical situations, and these changes have affected the care of women with ovarian cancer. Access to specialist surgeons continues to be very important in the care of women with ovarian cancer to ensure adequate staging, optimal cytoreduction and application of secondary cytoreduction when appropriate. Further work needs to be undertaken in screening, prevention, surgery and adjuvant therapy."}
{"id": "16047952", "title": "Malignant struma ovarii: a case report.", "content": "Malignant struma ovarii: a case report. Malignant struma ovarii is a rare form of the ovarian germ cell tumors. Hence, diagnosis and management of malignant struma ovarii have not been clearly defined. We present the case of a 34-year-old woman with papillary carcinoma arising in struma ovarii. The malignant component of this tumor was detected after laparoscopic removal, and a re-staging operation was performed afterwards. There was no evidence of clinical malignancy or metastases. In this paper, clinical features, treatment guidelines, diagnostic features, and immunohistochemical characteristics of this tumor are reviewed."}
{"id": "16043215", "title": "Impact of surgical approach on the management of macroscopic early ovarian borderline tumors.", "content": "Impact of surgical approach on the management of macroscopic early ovarian borderline tumors. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of the surgical approach on the management and outcomes of patients with early borderline ovarian tumors (BOTs). We retrospectively reviewed the medical charts of patients with stage Ia to Ic BOT treated surgically between January 1, 1985, and December 31, 2001. We compared patients initially managed by laparoscopy vs. laparotomy in terms of potentially harmful procedures and quality of staging. Of the 118 included patients, 48 (41%) had laparoscopy for initial surgery, 54 (45%) had laparotomy, and 16 (14%) had conversion from laparoscopy to laparotomy. Conservative treatment (57% of patients) was more common with laparoscopy (vs. laparotomy, P < 0.05) and in women older than 44 years (vs. younger than 44 years, P < 0.001). Intraoperative tumor rupture occurred in 9% of patients and was not associated with the surgical approach (P = 0.1). Bag extraction was used in 19 (40%) of the 48 laparoscopy patients. Staging was incomplete in 73% of patients overall. By univariate analysis, better quality of staging was associated with bilateral adnexectomy, age >44 years, laparotomy, hysterectomy, and treatment after 1995. By multivariate analysis, bilateral adnexectomy or hysterectomy was associated with better staging. Mean follow-up was 40 months, during which recurrence and survival rates were similar in the laparoscopy and laparotomy groups. Staging of macroscopic early stage BOTs was better in patients requiring radical surgery. After adjustment on disease severity, type of surgical access was not related to staging quality."}
{"id": "16036204", "title": "Laparoscopic management of a ruptured benign dermoid cyst during advanced pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of a ruptured benign dermoid cyst during advanced pregnancy. Benign cystic teratomas in pregnant women may be responsible for complications such as torsion, rupture and obstruction of labor. A woman in her 31st week of pregnancy with torsion of a large dermoid cyst and lipogranulomatosis peritonitis due to spilled cyst contents was managed laparoscopically with a favorable outcome. Trocar sites were selected according to the uterine size. Open laparoscopy allowed protection of the gravid uterus from penetrative injuries. Laparoscopic management of a voluminous adnexal mass may be safely performed during advanced pregnancy."}
{"id": "16034946", "title": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for benign ovarian tumours.", "content": "Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for benign ovarian tumours. Over the last ten years laparoscopy has become an increasingly common approach for the surgical removal of benign ovarian tumours. There remains uncertainty as to the value of this intervention. This review has been undertaken to assess the available evidence for the benefits and harms of laparoscopic surgery for benign ovarian tumours compared to laparotomy. To determine the efficacy, safety and cost of laparoscopic surgery compared with laparotomy in women with ovarian tumours assumed to be benign. We searched electronic databases, trials registers and reference lists of published trial reports. Review articles were also searched. All randomised controlled trials comparing laparoscopy versus laparotomy for benign ovarian tumours. Three reviewers independently assessed each study's eligibility and quality and extracted data. Six randomised controlled trials were identified involving 324 patients. Three subgroups of ovarian tumours were considered: any histological type of benign ovarian tumour, dermoid cysts and endometriomata. Surgical outcomes: The mean duration of surgery was longer in the laparoscopy group compared to the laparotomy group overall (WMD 11.39; 95% CI 0.57 to 22.22). However, heterogeneity was present with substantial inconsistency (I(2)=87%) . The heterogeneity found in these analyses was likely to reflect differences in the patient populations. Adverse effects of surgery: The pooled estimate for febrile morbidity decreased for laparoscopy compared to laparotomy (Peto OR 0.34; 95% CI 0.13 to 0.88). The odds of any adverse effect of surgery (total number of complications - surgical injury and/or post operative complications) were decreased after laparoscopic procedures (Peto OR 0.26; 95% CI 0.12 to 0.55). Short-term recovery: VAS pain scores favoured laparoscopy (WMD -2.36; 95% CI -2.07 to -2.03) andt he odds of being pain free were significantly greater for the laparoscopy group compared to laparotomy (Peto OR 7.35; 95% CI 4.3 to 12.56). Mean length of hospital stay was shorter in the laparoscopy group with reduction 2.79 days (95% CI -2.95 to -2.62) compared to laparotomy. Economic outcomes: There was a significant reduction of US$1045 (95% CI -1361 to -726.97) in the laparoscopy group compared to the laparotomy group in one trial of women with any type of benign ovarian tumour. In women undergoing surgery for benign ovarian tumours, laparoscopy is associated with a reduction in the following; febrile morbidity, urinary tract infection, post operative complications, post operative pain, days in hospital and total cost. These findings should be interpreted with caution as only a small number of studies were identified including a total of only 324 women and not all of the important outcomes were reported in each study."}
{"id": "16028379", "title": "[Sclerosing stromal ovarial tumor--a case report and review].", "content": "[Sclerosing stromal ovarial tumor--a case report and review]. Sclerosing stromal tumor (SST) is a rare benign ovarian neoplasm of stromal origin with less than 100 cases reported in the literature. Unlike the other stromal tumors, the comas and fibromas, which tend to occur in the fifth and sixth decades, sclerosing stromal tumors predominantly affect females in the second and third decades. Several unique histologic features including pseudolobulation, sclerosis and prominent vascularity of the tumor are clearly reflected at ultrasonography. We present a case of SST of the ovary in a 26-year-old female, and describe the ultrasound findings with pathologic correlation."}
{"id": "16009186", "title": "Selective ovarian vein sampling to localize a Leydig cell tumor.", "content": "Selective ovarian vein sampling to localize a Leydig cell tumor. To describe a patient with recent onset of rapidly progressive virilization who was diagnosed with an androgen-secreting tumor of the left ovary, localized by selective ovarian vein catheterization and hormonal sampling (SOVHS). Case report. Tertiary community-based medical center. A 32-year-old woman presenting with progressive virilization over a period of 4 months was found to have a Leydig cell tumor of the left ovary. Transvaginal ultrasound of the pelvis, followed by contrast-enhanced computerized tomography of the abdomen and the pelvis. Selective ovarian vein sampling was performed to localize the tumor. Laparoscopic left salpingo-oophorectomy and washings were also performed. Initial serum total T levels were 1,505 ng/dL, and the free serum T levels were 234 ng/dL. After SOVHS, the total serum T levels in the left ovarian vein is reported to be 20,967 ng/dL, and in the right ovarian vein, they were reported to be 1,351 ng/dL. Three months after laparoscopic left oophorectomy, the serum total T levels were 11 ng/dL. Institutional review board approval was obtained. Patient's ovarian tumor removed laparoscopically was reported to be a Leydig cell tumor. Rapid decreases in free and total T followed tumor removal. Selective ovarian vein catheterization and hormonal sampling is an effective diagnostic modality that can help localize small ovarian tumors."}
{"id": "16005945", "title": "Surgical stage, final grade, and survival of women with endometrial carcinoma whose preoperative endometrial biopsy shows well-differentiated tumors.", "content": "Surgical stage, final grade, and survival of women with endometrial carcinoma whose preoperative endometrial biopsy shows well-differentiated tumors. The purpose of our study was to assess the surgical stage, final grade, and survival of women with endometrial carcinoma whose preoperative endometrial biopsy showed well-differentiated (FIGO grade 1) carcinoma. A retrospective study was conducted including all women treated at the University of Vermont between 1992 and 2004 whose preoperative endometrial biopsy was reviewed by the staff at the Pathology Department and diagnosed as FIGO grade 1 adenocarcinoma and who received peritoneal washings, total abdominal (or laparoscopic) hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, and pelvic +/- para-aortic lymphadenectomy as part of their surgery. One hundred eighty-two patients (age: 32-91, median: 60) were enrolled. All patients had total hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, peritoneal washings, and bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy. Fifteen (8.2%) patients had para-aortic lymphadenectomy. There were no operative mortalities. Fourteen patients (7.7%) had major operative or postoperative complications. There was disagreement between the pre- and postoperative grade in 30% of the study group. The surgical stages were: IA: 55 (30.2%), IB: 61 (33.5%), IC: 26 (14.3%), IIA: 9 (4.9%), IIB: 8 (4.4%), IIIA: 10 (5.5%), IIIB: 2 (1.1%), IIIC: 8 (4.4%), and IV: 3 (1.6%). Postoperatively, 131 (72%) patients received no additional treatment, 47 (25.8%) received radiation therapy, 3 (1.6%) received chemotherapy, and 1 (0.5%) received Megace. During a median follow-up period of 6 years, 8 (4.4%) patients had recurrence and 6 (3.2%) died from their disease. The 5-year disease-free and overall survival was 95.2% and 96.4%, respectively. Approximately 30% of women with endometrial carcinoma whose preoperative endometrial biopsy shows grade 1 tumors have grade 2 or 3 in the hysterectomy specimen and 12.6% have advanced surgical stage (stage III and IV) disease. Women with preoperative endometrial biopsy showing grade 1 tumors who undergo surgical staging have excellent survival and acceptable operative morbidity."}
{"id": "15976540", "title": "Laparoscopic treatment of early ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic treatment of early ovarian cancer. Recently some studies have reinforced the arguments supporting the laparoscopic management of early ovarian cancer. These studies and reports questioning the use of laparoscopy in patients with early ovarian cancer will be reviewed. Advances in laparoscopic techniques have enabled the surgeon to meet the staging criteria for early ovarian cancer as proposed by the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) guidelines. Although some reports highlight the risk of ovarian cancer mismanagement, the safety and reliability of laparoscopic surgical staging has been demonstrated with encouraging results. However, the numbers of patients included in these studies are still insufficient to draw conclusions. Clinical evidence supports the use of laparoscopy in the treatment or completion of treatment in patients diagnosed with early ovarian cancer. If strict guidelines are respected, tumor rupture, dissemination and implant on the trocar insertion sites can be avoided and survival outcomes appear not to be jeopardized. Inadequate and hazardous laparoscopic management of early ovarian cancer is to be ascribed to the lack of guidelines and to surgeons without the competence to treat early ovarian cancer rather than to the surgical technique. The excellent outcomes could encourage studies with larger sample sizes to confirm the validity of laparoscopic treatment of patients with early ovarian cancer. Unfortunately, a clinical trial is unlikely to be undertaken due to the low incidence of this disease and the even lower number of events."}
{"id": "15972171", "title": "Feasibility of colectomy with mini-incision.", "content": "Feasibility of colectomy with mini-incision. Laparoscopic resection has been advocated as a method of colectomy for various colon and rectal disease. One advantage claimed by laparoscopy is its smaller incision size. The aim of the present study is to evaluate whether mini-incision is feasible along with the advantage of adequate exploration of the peritoneal cavity. From December 2000 to November 2003, 316 patients with various colorectal diseases receiving colectomies through a skin incision less than 7 cm were analyzed. All of the colectomies were performed by a single surgeon. Exploration of the entire peritoneal cavity was possible for all the cases. There were 153 men and 163 women. Ages ranged from 19 to 90 years, averaging 62.4 years. Two hundred ninety-five patients were operated on for carcinoma of the colon or rectum; 4 had operations for villous tumors with severe dysplasia; 3 each for radiation enterocolitis and diverticulitis; 2 each for malignant stromal tumor and rectal prolapse; and 1 each for lymphoma, actinomycosis, volvulus, angiodysplasia, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, and ovarian cancer with rectal invasion. There were 15 abdominoperineal resections, 97 low anterior resection, 49 anterior resections, 64 sigmoidectomies, 7 left hemicolectomies, 81 right hemicolectomies, 2 subtotal colectomies, and 1 restorative proctocolectomy. No Harmonic scalpel or laser was used during surgery. No hand-port or laparoscope was used in the series. Five patients died of acute respiratory failure, 2 patients died of terminal cancer, and 1 patient died of hypoglycemia due to poor control of diabetes mellitus. Complications included 11 urinary tract infections, 8 intestinal obstructions, 6 anastomotic leakages, 6 wound infections, 5 respiratory failures, 5 pelvic bleedings, 2 pneumonias, 2 gastrointestinal bleedings, and 1 pancreatitis. Small incisions did not prolong operation time. This experience suggests that the majority of colectomies can be accomplished by an incision of less than 7 cm, which is no larger than the incision size used in a laparoscope colectomy if multiple incisions made for trocars are added to the main incision length. The advantages of mini-incision include lower cost, faster completion of procedure, reduced bulkiness of equipment, and the possibility of exploring the entire peritoneal cavity by hand without loss of tactile sensation."}
{"id": "15953871", "title": "Selected adnexal cystic masses in postmenopausal women can be safely managed by laparoscopy.", "content": "Selected adnexal cystic masses in postmenopausal women can be safely managed by laparoscopy. The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of laparoscopic treatment for adnexal cystic masses that were predicted to be benign in postmenopausal women. Postmenopausal women found to have an adnexal cystic mass were retrospectively evaluated with transvaginal ultrasonography, and serum CA-125 levels. The selection criteria were adnexal cystic masses greater than 3 cm but less than 10 cm, the masses were in the benign range (4-8) of Sassone's scoring system for transvaginal ultrasonography, and the patients had serum CA-125 levels less than 65 IU/mL. Two hundred nineteen women fulfilled the criteria and underwent operative laparoscopy. Almost all the masses (99.5%) were accurately predicted to be benign except for one borderline ovarian tumor. Two hundreds thirteen (97.3%) women were successfully managed by operative laparoscopy and six (2.7%) required laparotomy. For the patients managed by laparoscopy, the mean operative time was 51.3 min; the mean hospital stay was 2.5 days. There was no significant morbidity and surgery-related mortality. The combination of the Sassone's scoring system for transvaginal ultrasonography and serum CA-125 level can accurately predict benign cystic masses, and operative laparoscopy is technically feasible and safe for the management of adnexal mass in postmenopausal women."}
{"id": "15948060", "title": "Fitz-Hugh-Curtis-syndrome mimicking acute cholecystitis: value of new ultrasound findings in the differential diagnosis.", "content": "Fitz-Hugh-Curtis-syndrome mimicking acute cholecystitis: value of new ultrasound findings in the differential diagnosis. Fitz-Hugh-Curtis is a rare syndrome characterised by perihepatitis following pelvic inflammatory disease. We report the case of a patient with a right ovarian teratoma, abnormal liver tests and pain in the right abdomen and shoulder, initially attributed to an acalculous cholecystitis. Before gynaecological surgery, a repeat ultrasound scan found several small avascular peritoneal masses at the upper dome of the liver, not reported in the initial examination. This prompted laparoscopic exploration of the subdiaphragmatic space, and the final diagnosis of Fitz-Hugh-Curtis-syndrome was made. Such ultrasound finding appears to be a new diagnostic feature of this syndrome."}
{"id": "15943999", "title": "Laproscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumors.", "content": "Laproscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumors."}
{"id": "15943988", "title": "Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy for gynecologic malignancies using ultrasonically activated shears: analysis of first 100 cases.", "content": "Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy for gynecologic malignancies using ultrasonically activated shears: analysis of first 100 cases. To evaluate the feasibility, safety and utility of the ultrasonic shears for laparoscopic pelvic and para-aortic lymph node retrieval in the treatment of gynecologic cancers. Data on laparoscopic lymphadenectomy performed for gynecologic malignancies using ultrasonic shears over a 5-year period were collected and analyzed prospectively. Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy using ultrasonic shears was performed on 100 patients with a median age of 58 (17-87) years. The types of malignancies included cervical (n = 29), endometrial (n = 48), ovarian (n = 15), fallopian tube (n = 2), malignant mixed mesodermal tumor (n = 2), vaginal (n = 2) and synchronous ovarian and endometrial cancers (n = 2). Sites of lymphadenectomy included pelvic (n = 49), para-aortic (n = 30) or both pelvic and para-aortic (n = 21). The median nodal yield was 22 (0-87). 66/100 were complete lymphadenectomies with a median nodal yield of 28 (2-71). The median length of hospital stay was 2 (1-13) days and the average blood loss was 148 (0-500) ml. Overall complication rate was 13%. There were 3 intra-operative complications, which were all managed laparoscopically. There were no unplanned conversions to laparotomy. There were 10 post-operative complications including port-site metastasis in a patient with positive nodes (n = 1), trocar-site hernia requiring a second laparoscopy (n = 1), deep leg vein thrombosis (n = 1), and a small bowel obstruction (n = 1). This is the largest series to date demonstrating the safety and efficacy of ultrasonic shears in laparoscopic lymphadenectomy for gynecologic malignancies. In addition to the potential for lowering the risk for tissue damage, ultrasonic shears offer multifunctionality which allows for a simpler technique with the use of fewer instruments."}
{"id": "15932823", "title": "Laparoscopic management of extremely large ovarian cysts.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of extremely large ovarian cysts. To assess the feasibility and outcome of laparoscopic surgery for the management of extremely large ovarian cysts. From July 2000 to December 2003, 21 patients with extremely large ovarian cysts were managed laparoscopically. The masses were cystic or complex, reached the umbilicus or higher, and were not associated with ascites or enlarged pelvic or para-aortic lymph nodes on computed tomography scan. Serum CA 125 levels were within the normal range or mildly elevated (< 130 mIU/mL). The mean and median ages of the patients were 45 +/- 20 and 46 years, respectively (range 17-89 years). Seven women were postmenopausal and the rest were premenopausal. The patients underwent cystectomy or adnexectomy depending on each patient's age and obstetric history. Two laparoscopies were converted to laparotomy, one because of ovarian malignancy and the second because of technical difficulties related to morbid obesity and severe intra-abdominal adhesions. The postoperative recovery was uneventful in all women. With proper patient selection, the size of an ovarian cyst is not necessarily a contraindication for laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "15927503", "title": "[Laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumor: analysis of 54 patients and clinical outcomes].", "content": "[Laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumor: analysis of 54 patients and clinical outcomes]. The aim of this study is to assess the clinical outcomes of laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumor (BOT). Retrospective analysis of 54 patients treated using a laparoscopic approach for a BOT between January 1984 and January 2002. A conservative management was initially performed in 45 patients (83%). Twenty-six patients underwent a reassessment surgery and 7 (27%) of them were upstaged following this procedure. Seven (13%) patients recurred in a remaining ovary following conservative surgery (5 patients) or on the peritoneum (2 patients). Three port-site localizations were observed. None of the patients treated with conservative management had recurrent disease under the form of ovarian carcinoma. Nine spontaneous pregnancies were observed in 6 patients from a group of 19 patients desiring pregnancy. All patients are today alive and disease-free. Our study suggests that laparoscopic treatment could be safely performed in young patients with early stage BOT. Such procedure should be further evaluated in patients with BOT and peritoneal implants."}
{"id": "15922981", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery in 12 cases of adnexal disease occurring in girls aged 15 years or younger.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery in 12 cases of adnexal disease occurring in girls aged 15 years or younger. To evaluate the treatment by laparoscopic surgery of adnexal disease occurring in young girls. Retrospective analysis (Canadian Task Force classification II-1). Department of gynecology at a general hospital. Twelve consecutive girls aged 15 years or younger. Laparoscopic surgery. Seven patients had dermoid cysts, and three of these were associated with adnexal torsion. Two patients had ruptured lutein cysts with ovarian bleeding, and one of them was pregnant. Torsion of the tube with paraovarian cyst, torsion of normal ovary, and serous cystadenoma were noted in one patient each. Although the underlying diseases varied, the chief symptom in each of these patients was lower abdominal pain. Because the symptom is nonspecific, the clinical features were confusing, especially in emergency cases; in two patients with adnexal torsion with dermoid cysts and one patient with adnexal torsion of a normal ovary, there was substantial delay in diagnosis, and salpingo-oophorectomy was required as a result. Even in young girls, laparoscopic surgery can be performed in an acceptable manner using regular instruments designed for adults."}
{"id": "15922972", "title": "Primary fallopian tube leiomyoma managed by laparoscopy.", "content": "Primary fallopian tube leiomyoma managed by laparoscopy."}
{"id": "15906901", "title": "Pseudomyxoma peritonei: review on a cluster of peritoneal mucinous diseases.", "content": "Pseudomyxoma peritonei: review on a cluster of peritoneal mucinous diseases. Pseudomyxoma peritonei is an uncommon condition characterized by abundant extracellular mucinous material and peritoneal tumoural implants. A ruptured appendiceal mucinous adenoma seems to be the most common origin, but low grade ovarian malignancies are often associated. Peritoneal gelatinous diseases must be subdivided into disseminated peritoneal adenomucinosis, peritoneal mucinous carcinomatosis and intermediate cases. These entities have significantly different prognosis. Debulking surgery is the most common treatment but some are in favour of an ultra radical surgery with hyperthermic intra-peritoneal chemotherapy, with some encouraging results."}
{"id": "15904606", "title": "The unexpected ovarian malignancy found during operative laparoscopy: incidence, management, and implications for prognosis.", "content": "The unexpected ovarian malignancy found during operative laparoscopy: incidence, management, and implications for prognosis."}
{"id": "15902166", "title": "The safety and efficacy of laparoscopic surgical staging of apparent stage I ovarian and fallopian tube cancers.", "content": "The safety and efficacy of laparoscopic surgical staging of apparent stage I ovarian and fallopian tube cancers. To compare the safety and efficacy of laparoscopic staging of ovarian or fallopian tube cancers to staging via laparotomy for epithelial ovarian carcinoma. We performed a case-control study of all patients with apparent stage I adnexal cancers who had laparoscopic staging from October 2000 to March 2003. The control group consisted of all patients with apparent stage I epithelial ovarian carcinoma who had staging via laparotomy during the same time period. Staging was laparoscopic in 20 patients and via laparotomy in 30. There were no differences in mean age and body mass index. There were also no differences in omental specimen size and number of lymph nodes removed. Estimated blood loss and hospital stay were lower for laparoscopy, but operating time was longer. There were no conversions to laparotomy or complications in the laparoscopic group, compared with 3 minor complications in the laparotomy group. In this preliminary analysis, it appears that patients with apparent stage I ovarian or fallopian tube cancer can safely and adequately undergo laparoscopic surgical staging."}
{"id": "15880570", "title": "Gonadoblastoma in Turner syndrome and Y-chromosome-derived material.", "content": "Gonadoblastoma in Turner syndrome and Y-chromosome-derived material. The identification of Y-chromosome material is important in females with Ullrich-Turner syndrome (UTS) due to the risk of developing gonadoblastoma or other gonadal tumors. There is controversy regarding the frequency of the Y-chromosome-derived material and the occurrence of gonadoblastoma in these patients. The aim of our study was to evaluate a large number of patients with UTS, followed before and during the pubertal age for the prevalence of Y-chromosome derived material, the occurrence of gonadoblastoma, and the incidence of possible neoplastic degeneration. An unselected series of 171 patients with UTS (1-34 years old), diagnosed cytogenetically, was studied for Y-chromosome markers (SRY and Y-centromeric DYZ3 repeats). The follow-up was of 2-22 years; 101 of these patients were followed during pubertal age. Y-chromosome material was found in 14 patients (8%): 12 of these were gonadectomized (2.8-25.9 years). A gonadoblastoma was detected in four patients under 16 years of age: in two, Y-material was detected only at molecular analysis (at conventional cytogenetic analysis, one was included in the 45,X group and one in the X + mar group) and one had also an immature teratoma and an endodermal sinus carcinoma. The prevalence of gonadoblastoma in our series of gonadectomized UTS patients with Y-positive material was of 33.3% (4/12). Our data suggest that the age of appearance and the possibility of malignant degeneration of gonadoblastoma can occur early in life. These patients, in particular those with 45,X or a marker chromosome may benefit from molecular screening to detect the presence of Y-chromosome material; PCR is a rapid and inexpensive technique. At the moment, laparoscopy and preventive gonadectomy performed as soon as possible remain the procedures of choice for patients with UTS, when Y-chromosome has been identified, as we are still unable to predict a future malignant evolution of gonadoblastoma."}
{"id": "15868492", "title": "Stoma formation for fecal diversion: a plea for the laparoscopic approach.", "content": "Stoma formation for fecal diversion: a plea for the laparoscopic approach. The aim of this study was to assess the results of laparoscopic stoma creation for fecal diversion, specifically focussing on feasibility, safety, and efficacy, as well as indications and techniques. Within a 10-year-period, all patients requiring laparoscopic stoma creation were evaluated prospectively. Patients' profiles and indications, procedures and results of operation, conversion, morbidity, mortality and short-term complications (stoma-related, laparoscopy-associated) were analyzed. A total of 80 patients (39 males, 41 females) with a mean age of 55.5 years (range, 17-91) underwent laparoscopic stoma creation. Most common indications were unresectable advanced colorectal cancer (n=20), pelvic malignant cancer (e. g. ovarian, cervix and prostate cancer, n=16), and perianal Crohn's disease with complex fistulas (n=16). Only in one female patient with pelvic malignant disease was the procedure converted to laparotomy due to obesity (conversion rate, 1.3%). 79 patients underwent laparoscopic stoma creation (completion rate, 98.7%) including loop ileostomy (n=30), loop sigmoid colostomy (n=40) and end sigmoid colostomy (n=9). Postoperative complications were documented in 9 patients (overall morbidity rate, 11.4%), including 4 minor complications treated conservatively (2 cases of prolonged atonia and 1 case each of pneumonia and urinary tract infection) and 5 major complications requiring reoperation (reoperation rate, 6.3%): one parastomal abscess (drainage), one stoma retraction following rod dislocation (laparoscopic stoma recreation), small bowel obstruction in two patients (small bowel resection), one port-site hernia (fascial closure), and hemorrhage (managed by re-laparoscopy). Mean operation time was 74 min (range, 30-245 min). Mean blood loss volume was 80 ml (range, 30-400 ml). Patients were discharged from hospital after a mean of 10.3 days (range, 3-47). Within a 1-year follow-up, no further stoma complications were documented. The advantages of laparoscopic stoma creation are low morbidity and reoperation rates, and no procedure-related mortality; our results suggest that laparoscopic stoma creation for fecal diversion is safe, feasible and effective. Therefore, at our institution, laparoscopic stoma creation is the method of choice for fecal diversion."}
{"id": "15854461", "title": "[Evaluation of laparoscopic surgery in the early stage-malignant tumor of ovary with lower risk].", "content": "[Evaluation of laparoscopic surgery in the early stage-malignant tumor of ovary with lower risk]. To evaluate the laparoscopic operation for early ovarian malignant tumor with low risk. Ten patients with ovarian malignant tumor who underwent laparoscopic total hysterectomy, pelvic lymph nodes dissection, bilateral adnexectomy, ovarian aortic and vein high ligation, omentectomy, and additional appendectomy. Eleven patients with the same diagnosis who underwent operation by laparotomy were served as control group. The operation time, intraoperative blood loss, number of pelvic lymph nodes excised, and postoperative recovery were analyzed retrospectively. Frozen section method during operation proved the diagnosis of ovarian malignant tumor and cytological examination proved a negative result of the peritoneal irrigation liquid. The operation time was 298 min +/- 60 min for the laparoscopy group and 182 min +/- 43 min for the laparotomy group (P < 0.05). The intraoperative blood loss was 280 ml +/- 156 ml for the laparoscopy group and 346 ml +/- 170 ml for the laparotomy group (P < 0.05). The number of pelvic lymph node resected was 25 +/- 5 and 27 +/- 7 for the laparoscopy group and laparotomy group respectively (P > 0.05). The postoperative illness rate was 20.0% and 72.7% for the laparoscopy group and laparotomy group respectively (P < 0.01). Seven patients and 1 case in the laparoscopy group and laparotomy group left their beds 48 hours after operation (P < 0.05). The right obtuator nerve was injured and was sutured on 1 patient in the laparoscopy group. The whole procedure of total hysterectomy, bilateral adnexectomy, pelvic lymph node dissection, ovarian aortic and vein high ligation, omentectomy, and additional appendectomy may be performed under laparoscope in the treatment of early stage ovarian malignant tumor with lower risk. The laparoscopic operation has the advantage of less intraoperative bleeding, less morbidity and rapid recovery."}
{"id": "15846567", "title": "Surgical management of the incidentally identified ovarian mass.", "content": "Surgical management of the incidentally identified ovarian mass. Due to the widespread use of sophisticated and detailed diagnostic imaging, pediatric surgeons may encounter incidental ovarian masses on preoperative imaging obtained for abdominal pain, trauma or other indications. Surgeons may also encounter unexpected ovarian masses at laparotomy or laparoscopy. Operative management differs based on the size, type of lesion (cystic, solid or mixed) as well as the age of the child. Neonatal cystic lesions may not require therapy whereas a solid ovarian mass in an adolescent requires appropriate evaluation to differentiate benign from malignant disease. Intraoperative and preoperative evaluation, staging, and management of incidentally identified ovarian masses in children and adolescents will be reviewed."}
{"id": "15841027", "title": "The role of laparoscopy in ovarian tumors of low malignant potential and early-stage ovarian cancer.", "content": "The role of laparoscopy in ovarian tumors of low malignant potential and early-stage ovarian cancer. Although it is feasible today to perform laparoscopic surgical staging and treatment of ovarian low malignant potential tumors and early-stage ovarian cancer safely, it is still generally agreed that a patient with ovarian cancer should have a laparotomy. Concerns related to laparoscopy in managing gynecologic malignancy include the accuracy of intraoperative diagnosis, inadequate resection, significance of tumor spillage, improper or delay in surgical staging, delay in therapy, and the possibility of port-site metastasis. On the other hand, laparoscopy has the advantages of being a minimally invasive surgery, with shorter hospitalization, decreased postoperative pain, and quicker return to normal daily activities. We review the current literature discussing the consequences of laparoscopic surgery in ovarian tumors of low malignant potential and early-stage ovarian cancer. Obstetricians & Gynecologists, Family Physicians. After completion of this article, the reader should be able to list the concerns related to laparoscopic management of ovarian malignancies, to outline the accuracy of the diagnosis of low malignant potential (LMP) ovarian tumors on frozen section, and to summarize the data on the effect of capsule rupture on overall prognosis for patients with ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "15839617", "title": "Fine needle aspiration cytology of ovarian lesions.", "content": "Fine needle aspiration cytology of ovarian lesions. To assess the diagnostic value of fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) in ovarian lesions. Sixty-two fine needle aspirations of varied ovarian masses were performed between January 2000 and February 2003. Aspiration material was obtained from fresh tissues at the time of frozen section before dissection of the specimens. The slides were evaluated by a pathologist who was blinded to the gross findings and histopathologic diagnosis. A total of 62.9% of cases were assessed as malignant and 30.6% as benign. Two false positive and 2 false negative cases occurred. In our series the overall sensitivity and specificity were 95.1% and 90.4%, respectively. Seven benign and 15 malignant lesions could be subclassified specifically. We studied excised specimens, but since ovarian masses are reachable by laparoscopically and ultrasonographically guided aspiration, FNAC can be used for diagnoses of these lesions. If a multidisciplinary approach can be carried out in patients with ovarian lesions, cytopathologic interpretation can provide optimum benefits."}
{"id": "15817239", "title": "Surgical staging of gynecologic malignancies: the role of laparoscopy and sentinel node technology.", "content": "Surgical staging of gynecologic malignancies: the role of laparoscopy and sentinel node technology."}
{"id": "15791705", "title": "Cancer of the ovary.", "content": "Cancer of the ovary."}
{"id": "15790480", "title": "Ascites, pleural effusion, and CA 125 elevation in an SLE patient, either a Tjalma syndrome or, due to the migrated Filshie clips, a pseudo-Meigs syndrome.", "content": "Ascites, pleural effusion, and CA 125 elevation in an SLE patient, either a Tjalma syndrome or, due to the migrated Filshie clips, a pseudo-Meigs syndrome. The combination ascites, pleural effusion, and elevated CA 125 are usually associated with a malignancy. A 38-year-old SLE patient consulted her physician for shortness of breath. On clinical examination, she had a tender abdomen and reduced breathing sounds. X-ray and computed tomography of the chest showed pleural effusion. An adjustment of her SLE maintenance therapy was performed. Vaginal ultrasound and computed tomography of the abdomen revealed massive ascites and an intracavitair myoma of 2 cm, but no obvious mass in the pelvis. CA 125 was 887 U/ml. A laparoscopy was performed showing ascites and 2 Filshie clips embedded in the peritoneum of the vesicouterine pouch, but no sign of malignancy. Both clips were removed. The cytology of the aspirated ascites showed sings of acute inflammation. Within 10 weeks, the pleural effusion was resolved and the CA 125 normalized. The combination of ascites, pleural effusion, CA 125 elevation, and no tumor in an SLE patient is either a Tjalma syndrome or due to the migrated Filshie clips a pseudo-Meigs syndrome."}
{"id": "15790473", "title": "Borderline endometrioid tumor arising in a paratubal cyst: a case report.", "content": "Borderline endometrioid tumor arising in a paratubal cyst: a case report. Paratubal cysts, generally known as hydatid cysts of Morgagni, are small round cysts attached by a pedicle to the fimbriated end of the tube. The following represents the first reported case of an endometrioid tumor of low malignant potential arising in a paratubal cyst. A 45-year-old nulliparous female was referred with a complex right adnexal mass on pelvic sonogram. She underwent laparoscopic bilateral ovarian cystectomy and partial right salpingectomy (for a 3-cm torsed paratubal cyst). All frozen-section diagnoses were benign; however, final pathology revealed a borderline tumor of low malignant potential of endometrioid type in the right paratubal cyst. The patient underwent extensive counseling regarding management options and decided to have a laparoscopic right salpingo-oophorectomy. Final pathologic analysis revealed no evidence of persistent borderline tumor. Paratubal cysts are very difficult to diagnose with sonography; therefore, their management should be approached as any other adnexal mass. Laparoscopic surgery is an option in the management of adnexal masses; however, rupture or puncture of masses should be avoided when possible to prevent potential tumor dissemination in the event of a malignancy."}
{"id": "15790442", "title": "Results after laparoscopic management of serous borderline tumor of the ovary with peritoneal implants.", "content": "Results after laparoscopic management of serous borderline tumor of the ovary with peritoneal implants. The aim of this study is to assess the clinical outcomes of laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumor (BOT) with peritoneal implants. Retrospective analysis of patients treated initially and/or for recurrent disease using a laparoscopic approach for a stage II or stage III BOT between January 2001 and January 2004. Nine patients underwent a laparoscopic pure treatment of stage II/III serous borderline tumor. Three of them had a previous history of BOT. Three patients had a stage II and 6 a stage III disease. A conservative management was performed in 7 patients. Laparoscopic treatment of peritoneal implants included: omentectomy (or omental biopsies) in 4 patients and/or large peritoneal resection in 5 patients (pelvic peritoneum in all patients associated with peritonectomies of paracolic gutters in 2 and of the peritoneum of the right diaphragmatic peritoneum in 3). Implants were nonivasive in 8 patients. Each of implant had a size <5 mm. Four patients recurred, 3 of them had a borderline ovarian recurrence after conservative management. Two patients had peritoneal disease found during a second-look surgery (associated with ovarian recurrence in 1). Three spontaneous pregnancies were observed. All patients are alive without evidence of disease with a median time of follow-up of 35 months following the laparoscopic treatment. Our series suggests that laparoscopic treatment of patients with BOT associated with small size non-invasive implants is feasible and seem to be safe. The main indication of this management consists in young patients treated conservatively to preserve their fertility."}
{"id": "15775686", "title": "Laparoscopic ultrasonography in the management of ovarian cysts.", "content": "Laparoscopic ultrasonography in the management of ovarian cysts. The aim of the study was to determine the role of laparoscopic ultrasonography in the management of ovarian cysts extirpated by means of endoscopic surgery. Laparoscopic ultrasonography was used during endoscopic surgery in 14 consecutive patients with an adnexal mass. The diagnostic accuracies of transvaginal and laparoscopic ultrasonography were compared according to the final pathological diagnosis. Estimations of the exact location of the ovarian mass by means of laparoscopic visualization and laparoscopic ultrasonography were compared. The presence of residual tumor tissue after cyst extirpation was monitored with laparoscopic ultrasonography. Using laparoscopic ultrasound and transvaginal ultrasound the correct diagnosis was made in 12 of 14 (85.7%) and 9 of 14 (64.3%) patients, respectively (not significantly different). With laparoscopic visualization, the exact location of the ovarian tumor could be demonstrated in 57.1% (8/14) of the cases, while with laparoscopic ultrasonography precise visualization of the ovarian mass was achieved in all cases (not significantly different). Two patients were found to have residual tumor tissue in the ovary when laparoscopic ultrasonography was performed again after tumor extirpation. Laparoscopic ultrasonography seems to be useful in patients with an adnexal mass managed by endoscopic surgery, in terms of evaluating the internal characteristics and predicting the histological diagnosis of the ovarian cyst, deciding on the correct placement of the incision to prevent unnecessary trauma to the ovary, and evaluation of the ovary after cyst extirpation to expose any residual tumor tissue."}
{"id": "15755020", "title": "Laparoscopic evaluation of metastatic ovarian cancer: a case report.", "content": "Laparoscopic evaluation of metastatic ovarian cancer: a case report. OBJECTIVE AND CASE: Both noninvasive and invasive methods have limited value in the diagnosis of metastatic ovarian cancer. We present a case with the initial complaint of abdominal distention in whom primary and metastatic tumor sites were safely diagnosed by using laparoscopy: a gastric tumor with ovarian metastasis. Diagnostic laparoscopy by the open technique provides a safe and effective diagnostic option in patients with metastatic ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "15754994", "title": "Possibilities and limitation of endoscopic procedures in oncological gynaecology.", "content": "Possibilities and limitation of endoscopic procedures in oncological gynaecology. In cases of gynaecological cancer, the use of endoscopic techniques, in spite of becoming more frequent, is very controversial. Mainly, the potential risk of dissemination, which worsens the patient prognosis and leads to consequent adjuvant therapy is of concern. Based on data from the literature the authors present the advantages and disadvantages of using hysteroscopy in patients suffering from endometrial malignancy. According to the references and personal experience, the diagnostic and therapeutic value of laparoscopy in cases of cervical, endometrial and ovarian cancer are discussed."}
{"id": "15752668", "title": "[Initial or interval debulking surgery for advanced stage ovarian cancer: state-of-the-art. How to select patients?].", "content": "[Initial or interval debulking surgery for advanced stage ovarian cancer: state-of-the-art. How to select patients?]. The management of advanced stage ovarian cancer has been deeply modified over the last few years. In patients with massive peritoneal spread, the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, followed by interval surgery, reduces the morbidity of radical surgery with an improvement of the quality of life. Nevertheless, results of ongoing randomized studies should be waited before stating about the results on survival of such management compared to initial debulking surgery. Waiting such results, the standard treatment of advanced stage ovarian cancer in 2005 remains initial surgery, performed in order to obtain ideally a total resection of all macroscopic diseases, and followed by adjuvant chemotherapy. However, in patients with massive spread, interval debulking surgery is becoming an interesting option, and will perhaps become a standard management. But criteria to select patients between initial and interval debulking surgery should be clearly defined. Those different points will be studied in this paper."}
{"id": "15742862", "title": "Conservative laparoscopic management of ovarian teratoma torsion in a young woman.", "content": "Conservative laparoscopic management of ovarian teratoma torsion in a young woman. Benign cystic tumors, specifically dermoid or mucinous cysts, are the most frequent causes of ovarian torsion. In clinical practice, adnexal torsion is usually subjected to adnexectomy to prevent embolism of thrombosed ovarian veins and its sequelae. However, this intervention is unsatisfactory for young women who want to preserve their fertility. In such situations, conservative management with untwisting of the adnexa, followed by cystectomy to preserve part of the ovary, would be a better option. In this report, we present a case of adnexal torsion due to cystic teratoma. A 25-year-old unmarried woman with lower abdominal pain and nausea was referred to our emergency room with suspicion of an ovarian mass. Ultrasonography showed a left ovarian mass measuring 9.7 x 6.5 x 6.2 cm with heterogeneous components within it. Laparoscopy showed an enlarged, dusky left ovary with torsion. Detorsion was performed and followed by cystectomy. The pathology revealed cystic teratoma of the ovary. We report this case to emphasize that untwisting of potentially viable adnexa, followed by cystectomy, in patients with adnexal torsion appears to be a safe procedure. This conservative approach should be encouraged in women of childbearing age to reduce the possibility of premenopausal loss of ovarian function."}
{"id": "15727606", "title": "Diagnosis and management of simple ovarian cysts: an audit.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of simple ovarian cysts: an audit. Simple ovarian cysts are common. The aim of clinical management is to optimize the treatment of malignant and premalignant cysts while minimizing intervention for cysts likely to resolve spontaneously. In this retrospective study, ovarian cysts over 30 mm in diameter were detected in 90 women. Of this population, 75 were premenopausal, 13 postmenopausal, and two had undergone a hysterectomy. Thirteen women presented acutely. Family history of breast, ovary or colon cancer was not ascertained in any of the women. None had CA125 levels performed. In 22 cases, the cyst was aspirated; only 10 of these had follow-up ultrasound. Laparotomy was performed in 25 premenopausal women, the two perimenopausal women and eight postmenopausal women. Average cyst size was 71 mm (range 40-80 mm) in the laparoscopy group, and 72 mm (range 36-180 mm) in the laparotomy group. After initial diagnosis at ultrasound, a follow-up scan was performed 4-16 weeks later. The final diagnosis was ovarian neoplasm in 13 and hydrosalpinx in two. None had a malignancy. Documentation at ultrasound was often inadequate, and management of the women with an ovarian cyst was haphazard. Guidelines on management of simple ovarian cysts are likely to improve clinical practice."}
{"id": "15721444", "title": "Solitary fibrous tumor arising in the fallopian tube.", "content": "Solitary fibrous tumor arising in the fallopian tube. Solitary fibrous tumor (SFT) is an uncommon neoplasm that usually arises in the pleura. Although this tumor has been described at other sites, in the female genital tract it is extremely uncommon. We present a case of solitary fibrous tumor arising in the fallopian tube. A 32-year-old woman who presented with acute flank pain had a presumptive diagnosis of leiomyoma of the fallopian tube after abdominopelvic ultrasound. The adnexal mass was excised laparoscopically. Histologic examination showed the characteristic features of a solitary fibrous tumor. Although rare, the diagnosis of solitary fibrous tumor can be considered in the differential diagnosis of adnexal masses."}
{"id": "15721418", "title": "Role of laparoscopy to assess the chance of optimal cytoreductive surgery in advanced ovarian cancer: a pilot study.", "content": "Role of laparoscopy to assess the chance of optimal cytoreductive surgery in advanced ovarian cancer: a pilot study. To investigate whether laparoscopy can be considered as adequate and reliable as standard laparotomy in predicting optimal cytoreduction (RT < or = 1 cm) in patients with advanced ovarian cancer. From March to November 2003, 95 patients with suspected advanced ovarian or peritoneal cancer have been evaluated. Thirty-one cases were excluded due to an anesthesiological class of risk ASA III-IV (51.6%) and for the presence of a large size mass reaching the xiphoid (48.4%). Sixty-four patients completed the study. All patients were submitted to preoperative clinico-radiological evaluation and then to both laparoscopy and standard longitudinal laparotomy, sequentially. Some specific preoperatively defined parameters were analyzed during each procedure in order to obtain the most accurate evaluation on the possibility to get an optimal cytoreduction. The overall accuracy rate of laparoscopy in assessing optimal cytoreduction was 90%. The negative predictive value (NPV) of the clinical-radiologic evaluation corresponded to 73%, whereas in no case was the judgment of unresectable disease obtained by laparoscopy changed by the laparotomic approach (NPV 100%). On the contrary, an optimal debulking was achievable in 34 of 39 cases (87%) selected as completely resectable by explorative laparoscopy. Laparoscopy can be considered super imposable to standard longitudinal laparotomy in identifying not optimally resectable advanced ovarian cancer patients."}
{"id": "15711416", "title": "Update on the role of laparoscopy in the treatment of gynaecological malignancy.", "content": "Update on the role of laparoscopy in the treatment of gynaecological malignancy. To update the available information and to report on how the recent literature has better defined the role of laparoscopy for the management of gynaecological malignancies. When compared with laparotomy, laparoscopy provides a similar outcome with a shorter hospitalization, an earlier recovery, and an improved quality of life for the treatment of endometrial cancer. Recent reports in the literature on cervical cancer management now include follow-up data; however, only one study included a control group. These studies confirm the feasibility of radical hysterectomy by laparoscopy. The 2-year disease-free and overall survivals were similar in patients treated by laparoscopy and laparotomy in the study that included a control group. The role of laparoscopy for early ovarian cancer is limited by the absence of available data on upstaging. For advanced ovarian carcinoma, new applications of laparoscopy, such as laparoscopic fluorescence detection after intraperitoneal application of 5-aminolevulinic acid, have been reported but the real utility needs further investigation. One of the challenges for the development of laparoscopic surgery is the difficulty for physicians of acquiring advanced laparoscopic surgical skills. The feasibility and safety of laparoscopy for most of the surgical procedures that are used for gynaecological malignancies are now established from cohort or case-control analytical studies. The absence of large phase III studies needs to be balanced by the relatively low incidence of cervical and ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "15695978", "title": "Ultrasonography and color Doppler-based triage for adnexal masses to provide the most appropriate surgical approach.", "content": "Ultrasonography and color Doppler-based triage for adnexal masses to provide the most appropriate surgical approach. This study was undertaken to identify whether ultrasonography with color Doppler can identify and triage the patients with adnexal masses to the most appropriate surgical approach. Four hundred fifty-three pelvic masses were included in the study and underwent ultrasonography before surgical treatment for adnexal masses. Masses that showed a typical benign pattern at B-mode ultrasonography (very low risk of malignancy) were treated by conventional laparoscopy without further evaluation. Masses that extended above the umbilicus were consider at very high risk and treated by laparotomy. All other adnexal masses were evaluated with power Doppler. Masses with central vascularization (high risk of malignancy) were submitted to laparotomy or laparoscopy with additional tools, whereas masses with peripheral or absent flow (low risk of malignancy) were submitted to conventional laparoscopy. Among 284 very low-risk, 32 low-risk, 46 high-risk, 91 very high-risk masses, the rate of malignant masses were 0%, 0%, 52%, and 78%, respectively. The use of color Doppler increases the diagnostic accuracy of B-mode ultrasonography in the diagnosis of adnexal malignancies because of a significantly higher specificity (0.91 vs 0.82, P < .001). The evaluation of vessel distribution by color Doppler seems a safe diagnostic procedure, permitting to treat by laparoscopy 91% of benign masses."}
{"id": "15695311", "title": "The accuracy of transvaginal ultrasonography for the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy prior to surgery.", "content": "The accuracy of transvaginal ultrasonography for the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy prior to surgery. To evaluate the accuracy of transvaginal ultrasonography (TVS) for the detection of ectopic pregnancies (EPs) in women undergoing surgery for presumed ectopic pregnancy. A prospective, observational study. Women were diagnosed with an EP using TVS if any of the following were noted in the adnexal region: (i) an inhomogeneous mass or blob sign adjacent to the ovary and moving separately from the ovary; or (ii) a mass with a hyper-echoic ring around the gestational sac or bagel sign; or (iii) a gestational sac with a fetal pole with or without cardiac activity. The final diagnosis was based on the findings at surgery and subsequent histology of removed tissues. 6621 consecutive women underwent TVS during the study; 200/6621 (3.0%) women were diagnosed as having an EP using TVS. Forty-eight non-surgically managed women were excluded from the analysis. 85.5% of women presented with symptoms and 14.5% were asymptomatic. In 88 (57.9%) cases an inhomogeneous mass or blob sign was visualized and in 20 cases (13.2%) an embryo +/- cardiac activity. Thirty-one (20.4%) had a hyper-echoic ring in the adnexa. In 11 (7.2%) cases there was no evidence of either an intra-uterine (IUP) or EP on ultrasound. Two (1.3%) IUPs were subsequently diagnosed as heterotopic pregnancies. There was no association between the presenting complaints and TVS findings. 152 surgical procedures were performed. In 5.9% (9/152) of these cases no EPs were confirmed in fallopian tube or pelvis at laparoscopy. In 9.1% (13/143) of cases an EP was visualized at surgery when not seen on the index ultrasound scan. The sensitivity and specificity of TVS to detect EP were 90.9% and 99.9%, respectively, with positive and negative predictive values of 93.5% and 99.8%, respectively. 90.9% of ectopic pregnancies in this study population can be accurately diagnosed using TVS prior to surgery. The diagnosis of an ectopic pregnancy should be based on the positive visualization of an adnexal mass using TVS. This should in turn result in a decrease in the number of false positive laparoscopies."}
{"id": "15661233", "title": "Additional salpingectomy after previous prophylactic oophorectomy in high-risk women: sense or nonsense?", "content": "Additional salpingectomy after previous prophylactic oophorectomy in high-risk women: sense or nonsense? Since BRCA1/2 germ line mutation carriers are also at a higher risk of developing fallopian tube carcinoma, resection of the fallopian tubes is currently included at the time of risk reducing surgery. In this study, we comment on the need of additional bilateral prophylactic salpingectomy (BPS) following previous bilateral prophylactic oophorectomy (BPO) in women at high risk of ovarian cancer. Retrospectively, the medical files of 42 high-risk women, who had undergone BPO only, were reviewed. In our center, risk-reducing surgery consisted of BPO only for 42 women. Twenty-seven women received an informative letter in which counseling for additional BPS was offered. In total, 15 women opted for additional BPS. Surgery was performed with a mean interval of 65 months (range 6-101) in 10 BRCA1 carriers, one BRCA2 carrier, one BRCA1 and 2 carrier, and three women with non-informative test results. The procedure was readily done by laparoscopy in 13 women and two needed a laparotomy. No post-operative complications had occurred. Histopathological examination revealed no malignancy. We believe that additional risk reduction of cancer necessitates BPS in BRCA1/2 carriers after previous BPO. BPS after previous BPO was easily performed. Today, physicians should include resection of the fallopian tube at prophylactic surgery in high-risk women and should consider additional BPS in women who have undergone BPO only."}
{"id": "15661208", "title": "Vascular anomalies in the paraaortic region diagnosed by laparoscopy in patients with gynaecologic malignancies.", "content": "Vascular anomalies in the paraaortic region diagnosed by laparoscopy in patients with gynaecologic malignancies. Paraaortic infrarenal lymphadenectomy is indicated in patients with gynecologic tumors of high metastasising potential and can be done successfully by laparoscopic approach. Vascular anomalies in this region are incidental findings during these approaches and may increase the surgical complication rate. In this study, we have documented the frequency and pattern of the vascular anomalies in paraaortic region intraoperatively and on cadavers in an attempt to increase surgical safety. A total of 86 consecutive patients underwent laparoscopic infrarenal paraaortic lymphadenectomy by a standardised technique between 1st of January 2002 and 1st of March 2004. Of the 86, 52 were primary cervical, 5 recurrent cervical, 14 endometrial, 14 early ovarian and 1 vulvar tumor with positive groin and pelvic lymph nodes. In the same time, anatomical dissections of the paraaortic region on 18 cadavers were performed at the Institute of Anatomy. Arterial or venous abnormalities were identified in 30.2% (26/86) of patients by laparoscopy. The most frequent anomalies were related to atypical renal arteries (pole arteries-9 patients) and an abnormal course of lumbar veins directly draining in the left renal vein (15 patients). In one of the patients, the complete left renal vein went retroaortic to the inferior vena cava. In cadaveric dissections, vascular anomalies were noted in 44.4% (8/18) which included variations in renal and lumbar vessels and ovarian vessels. Duplicated inferior vena cava was the least common anomaly and was detected in only one case. During laparoscopic paraaortic inframesenteric and infrarenal lymphadenectomy, care must be taken because of possible abnormalities in arterially and venous system to avoid massive hemorrhage, transfusion and conversion to laparotomy."}
{"id": "15653700", "title": "Laparoscopic management of borderline ovarian tumors: results of a French multicenter study.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of borderline ovarian tumors: results of a French multicenter study. Laparoscopy in the management of women with borderline ovarian tumors remains controversial. We therefore evaluated the adequacy of initial laparoscopic staging according to FIGO guidelines, by comparison with laparotomy. In a French retrospective multicenter study of 358 women with borderline ovarian tumors, we compared epidemiological characteristics, sonographic findings, serum tumor marker levels, and surgical and histological parameters between women undergoing laparoscopy and women undergoing laparotomy. One hundred and forty-nine (41.6%) of the 358 women underwent laparoscopy. Mean age, mean gestity and parity, and mean tumor size were higher in the laparotomy group. Forty-two women (28.2%) underwent laparoconversion, mainly for suspected ovarian cancer or large tumor volume. Conservative treatment and cyst rupture were more frequent in the laparoscopy group than in the laparoconversion and laparotomy groups (P < 0.0001). The rate of complete staging was lower in the laparoscopy group than in the laparoconversion and laparotomy groups (P < 0.0001), with no difference between these latter two groups. No difference in the recurrence rate was noted between the groups, but a higher recurrence rate was observed after conservative treatment (P < 0.001). Laparoscopic management of borderline ovarian tumors is associated with a higher rate of cyst rupture and incomplete staging. Recurrence was more frequent after conservative treatment. Whatever the surgical route, the rate of complete initial staging was low, emphasizing the need to respect treatment guidelines for borderline ovarian tumors."}
{"id": "15619309", "title": "Preoperative sonographic features of borderline ovarian tumors.", "content": "Preoperative sonographic features of borderline ovarian tumors. To determine the sonographic findings that distinguish borderline ovarian tumors (BOT) from both benign and invasive malignant tumors, thus allowing conservative treatment and laparoscopic management of these tumors. We reviewed retrospectively transvaginal sonograms of 33 women who, when evaluated further by surgery and histology, were found to have BOT. Twenty-three were premenopausal and 10 were postmenopausal (mean age +/- SD, 45.8 +/- 15.7 years). For each mass, size and morphological features and power Doppler characteristics were evaluated. We compared these findings with those of 337 patients with benign ovarian tumors and those of 82 patients with invasive malignant ovarian tumors. Patients with dermoid cysts were not included in the study. Of the 33 BOT, 15 were mucinous and 18 were serous cystadenomas. The presence of papillae, defined as a small number of solid tissue projections, 1-15 mm in height and 1-10 mm in width (base) and length (base), into the cyst cavity from the cyst wall, was significantly more frequent in BOT (48%) than it was in benign (4%) and invasive (4%) malignant tumors. Intracystic solid tissue (> 15 mm in height or > 10 mm in width or length) was observed in 48% of invasive malignant masses but in only 18% of BOT and in 7% of benign tumors (P < 0.001). No sonographically unilocular, hypoechoic, smooth-walled adnexal cysts were invasively malignant but three unilocular cysts with a diameter of > 6 cm were serous BOT. Although close attention was paid to the cyst wall at ultrasound examination we did not observe in these three cysts the very small papillae which were found at histological analysis. The most frequent diagnostic feature on imaging BOT is the presence of papillae within the cyst. However, neither papillae nor other sonographic features constituted highly sensitive sonographic markers of BOT."}
{"id": "15589610", "title": "A need for laparoscopic evaluation of patients with endometrial carcinoma selected for conservative treatment.", "content": "A need for laparoscopic evaluation of patients with endometrial carcinoma selected for conservative treatment. The aim of this paper was to report two cases of extrauterine disease in patients with early stage endometrial cancer (EC) who desired fertility-sparing management. Two patients presenting an apparent early stage EC and desiring conservative management. The two patients, aged 35 and 36 years old, had a grade 1 and grade 2 EC diagnosed after curettage or hysteroscopic resection of a polyp. Ultrasound (US) imaging was normal (ovary). Once informed about the risk of recurrence, both patients opted for conventional therapy (hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy). A small ovarian carcinoma was found in one patient and isolated positive peritoneal cytology in the other. These cases seem to suggest that laparoscopic evaluation including adnexal exploration and peritoneal cytology (and possibly pelvic lymphadenectomy) should be performed in patients with early stage EC selected for conservative management to confirm the absence of extrauterine disease."}
{"id": "15589609", "title": "Laparoscopic resection of occult metastasis using the combination of FDG-positron emission tomography/computed tomography image fusion with intraoperative probe guidance in a woman with recurrent ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic resection of occult metastasis using the combination of FDG-positron emission tomography/computed tomography image fusion with intraoperative probe guidance in a woman with recurrent ovarian cancer. Positron emission tomography and computed tomography (PET/CT) have a potential role in detecting and locating recurrent ovarian cancer. Precise tumor location during surgical treatment is often difficult, owing to limited tumor size and post-surgical anatomic modifications. The surgical gamma probe, which has become increasing popular in recent years with the development of sentinel node mapping, may improve tumor detection and facilitate resection of occult metastases. We describe the first case of laparoscopic resection of occult metastasis using the combination of FDG-PET/CT image fusion with intraoperative FDG-sensitive probing in a patient with recurrent ovarian cancer. FDG-sensitive probe combined with preoperative PET/CT image fusion can help to detect occult metastasis and guide laparoscopic excision."}
{"id": "15589583", "title": "The utility of hand-assisted laparoscopy in ovarian cancer.", "content": "The utility of hand-assisted laparoscopy in ovarian cancer. The traditional approach to patients with ovarian cancer is cytoreductive surgery and surgical staging through a vertical midline laparotomy. While laparoscopy has become an integral part of gynecologic surgery, debulking procedures have not been feasible to date with standard minimally invasive techniques. Twenty-five patients with ovarian carcinoma underwent surgical staging and cytoreduction using hand-assisted laparoscopy. We review the surgical technique and clinical outcomes. Twenty-five patients were managed during this study time frame with hand-assisted laparoscopy. Six patients had apparent advanced stage ovarian cancer at the time of referral, and 17 patients had apparent early-stage ovarian cancer. Of the 19 patients with presumed early-stage disease, 5 patients were upstaged based on retroperitoneal lymph node involvement, 3 with disease to other pelvic structures, and 2 patients had microscopic disease in the omentum. Twenty-two patients had their surgeries completed via hand-assisted laparoscopy, and three cases required conversion to laparotomy for completion of debulking surgery. Complication rates were low with three complications requiring reoperation or hospitalization. The mean hospital stay was 1.8 days for the 22 patients who had a successful hand-assisted laparoscopic evaluation. Operating times were variable and ranged from 81 to 365 min. Hand-assisted laparoscopy may be employed in the initial management of early and advanced stage ovarian carcinoma. This approach allows for thorough evaluation of peritoneal and retroperitoneal structures and surgical cytoreduction while retaining the advantages of minimally invasive surgery."}
{"id": "14986024", "title": "Malignant struma ovarii mimic clear cell carcinoma.", "content": "Malignant struma ovarii mimic clear cell carcinoma. Struma ovarii are quite unusual lesions that represent less than 3% of all teratomas and its malignant transformation is very uncommon. The clinical manifestations are characteristic of pelvic tumor and the hormonal metabolism is not usually modified. Radiography, employing ultrasound procedures, is the most commonly used pre-surgical detection method but only histological examination makes the diagnosis. The malignance recognition by pathological study not always is easy; in this sense, it requires an exhaustive sampling of the lesion, being specially carefully in some aspects related with malignant transformation such as extending beyond the capsula and involving peripheral tissues. A thyroidal differentiation must be confirmed by immunohistochemical study and other local processes with similar histology should be ruled out. Given the exceptional character of malignant forms, there does not appear to be unanimous agreement on a standard therapy with a somewhat uncertain prognosis. We show a case of a 22-year-old patient with an ovarian tumor that was discovered by ultrasound examination and surgically removed. The histologic study revealed struma ovarii with malignant transformation towards follicular carcinoma and unlike previously published cases, had a prevalence of clear cells. The patient was submitted to a second surgical staging intervention, with conservative surgery and follow-up controls being considered given that was a young woman with a desire to have children. Laparoscopy was employed as the best method capable to facilitate shorter convalescence. Clinical and analytical controls, measuring thyroglobulin levels, has been satisfactory up to the present."}
{"id": "21213506", "title": "Management of borderline ovarian tumours.", "content": "Management of borderline ovarian tumours. Borderline ovarian tumours are known to occur in younger women than invasive cancers and to also have a better prognosis. However, there is also much disagreement about the best approaches to management. At the Queensland Centre for Gynaecological Cancer we have had a particular interest in this disease for some years. Regular reviews of our management have indicated many important guides to management. In our most recent review of 606 cases we have concluded that. Early stage disease can and should be treated conservatively if the patient desires to retain her reproductive function, Treatment should be aimed at leaving no visible disease, Adjuvant therapy does not improve survival, Re-staging laparotomy in clinical Stage 1A patients is not justified as the pick-up is too small, The best prognosis is to be expected in the youngest patients. We will continue to track the progress of these patients in the hope that better management can be offered in the future."}
{"id": "15701189", "title": "Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts: eleven years' experience.", "content": "Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts: eleven years' experience. To compare laparoscopic and open approaches in the management of benign ovarian teratomas (dermoid cysts) with regard to operative outcome, complications, and postoperative follow-up. Factors that predispose to rupture of dermoid cysts during laparoscopic removal and rates of adhesion formation in women with and without cyst rupture during laparoscopic surgery also were considered. Review of cases of women with dermoid cysts who underwent cystectomy either by laparoscopy or laparotomy in our department from 1992 through 2002 (Canadian Task Force classification III). The Infertility and Operative Laparoscopy units of the First Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of the University of Athens, Alexandra Maternity Hospital, Athens, Greece. Two hundred twenty-two women with an ovarian mass requiring surgical management. Of these, 187 women with benign cystic teratomas underwent laparoscopic cystectomy, and 35 underwent cystectomy by laparotomy. Cystectomy either by laparoscopy or laparotomy. Potential benefits of operative laparoscopy include reduced blood loss, less postoperative pain, shorter hospital stay, fast recovery, and an excellent cosmetic result. Laparoscopy should be considered the method of choice for the removal of benign ovarian cystic teratomas as it offers the advantages of fewer postoperative adhesions, reduced pain, shorter hospital stay, and better cosmetic result. It should be performed by surgeons with considerable experience in advanced laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "15673006", "title": "[A rare case of ovarian cancer in a patient treated for secondary sterility].", "content": "[A rare case of ovarian cancer in a patient treated for secondary sterility]. The authors described a rare case of ovarian cancer in a young woman who looked for gynecological help because of secondary sterility. There were found cysts of the both ovaries, which were conservative treated by insistence of the patient for three months. After unsuccessful gestagenic therapy there was performed a gynecological laparoscopy, which showed that on one of the ovaries there was an exophyte growths suspected for carcinoma tissue. It was offered an emergency operation, which was made only after 1,5 months because of personal causes of the patient. It was taken a sample that was with unconvincing data for ovarian cancer. The clinical experience and professionalism of the surgical team were put on the test. It was performed a radical operation with removal of the uterus, adnexa uteri, partial peritoneoectomy, total lymph dissection, appendectomy, total omentectomy. The patient was discharged from hospital in good condition and she is liable to postoperative chemotherapy."}
{"id": "15663234", "title": "[Clinical aspects of mature ovarian teratoma: result of 695 cases].", "content": "[Clinical aspects of mature ovarian teratoma: result of 695 cases]. To evaluate the clinical aspects of mature ovarian teratoma. We retrospectively studied 695 patients operated in PUMC Hospital between January 1990 and December 2000. Laparoscopy surgery had shorter hospitalization day, less blood loss during surgery, shorter operation time compared with laparotomy (P < 0.001). Routine contralateral wedge resection was done in 601 cases, among which 459 had normal inspection and palpatation. Only one (0.22%) was pathologically confirmed bilateral tumor. Torsion was the major complication (7.5%). Average tumor size of torsion was (10.2 +/- 4.5) cm. Probability of torsion increased as the tumor enlarged, which was less than 4.4% when the tumor size was less than 6 cm and greater than 10% if size greater than 8 cm. Rupture, infection, and malignant transformation were rare. Laparoscopy is superior to laparotomy in the treatment of mature ovarian teratoma. If the contralateral ovarian is within normal configuration, contralateral wedge resection is unnecessary. When the tumor size is greater than 8 cm in diameter, it will have more chance to twist."}
{"id": "15656219", "title": "Chronic ectopic pregnancy diagnosed incidentally in an infertile woman: a case report.", "content": "Chronic ectopic pregnancy diagnosed incidentally in an infertile woman: a case report. Chronic ectopic pregnancy is an enigma. The clinical presentation can be mild, with absent or subtle symptoms. The high incidence of negative pregnancy tests and the poor specificity of sonographic patterns can be misleading, and the correct diagnosis is sometimes established only at surgery or even histopathologically after the operation. We report the first case of a woman who was accidentally diagnosed with chronic ectopic pregnancy during diagnostic laparoscopy performed as part of a routine investigation for primary infertility. A 28-year-old woman underwent laparoscopyfor infertility. She had a regular menstrual cycle and was asymptomatic. She gave a history of a possible but unconfirmed miscarriage earlier. Her hormone profile was normal apart from a slightly raised prolactin level. An earlier ultrasound showed a polycystic appearance of the ovaries. Laparoscopy was done on the 25th day of the menstrual cycle, and beta-human chorionic gonadotropin was negative. At laparoscopy, a 2-cm mass wasfound in the right fallopian tube. There was no free blood in the pelvis, and no adhesions. Both tubes were patent at hydrotubation. The mass was excised laparoscopically, and histology confirmed a diagnosis of chronic ectopic pregnancy. A review of articles on chronic ectopic pregnancy confirmed the difficulty in diagnosing this condition preoperatively."}
{"id": "15630884", "title": "[The role of laparoscopy in ovarian carcinoma].", "content": "[The role of laparoscopy in ovarian carcinoma]. Diagnostic laparoscopy is a standard in the surgical management of adnexal masses, and is a tool in the diagnosis of early ovarian cancers. On the other hand, there are a lot of limitations to the use of laparoscopic surgery in the management of early ovarian cancer, and open surgery remains a standard. Laparoscopic surgery is used in there assessment of inadequately staged apparently early ovarian cancers. In the case of obviously advanced ovarian cancer, laparoscopic examination may help to decide whether to propose upfront surgery or neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Laparoscopy may also be used in the follow up of previously treated patients. Prophylactic oophorectomy is routinely performed using laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "15625766", "title": "Ovarian masses during adolescence: clinical, ultrasonographic and pathologic findings, serum tumor markers and endocrinological profile.", "content": "Ovarian masses during adolescence: clinical, ultrasonographic and pathologic findings, serum tumor markers and endocrinological profile. This retrospective study was undertaken to assess the epidemiological and clinical features, laboratory findings, preoperative work-up, surgical treatment and pathologic findings in adolescents with ovarian cysts. All adolescents who were referred to our institution and had been operated on because of a diagnosed ovarian mass, from January 1997 to June 2003, were included in this study. Forty-four cases of women with an ovarian mass were retrospectively analyzed. These patients, aged between 12 and 21 years, had 47 ovarian masses (three patients had bilateral lesions), of which 49% were non-neoplastic and 51% were neoplastic. Of the neoplastic lesions, 62.5% were germ cell tumors, 20.8% were epithelial and 16.7% were sex cord-stromal tumors. Of the neoplastic tumors, 95.8% were benign while 4.2% were malignant. Procedures included 30 operative laparoscopies (68.20%) and 14 exploratory laparotomies (31.8%). Simple excision of the ovarian cyst was performed in 39 cases (88.6%). According to our study, most of the adolescents with an ovarian cyst underwent an operation because of a neoplastic lesion. The majority of ovarian tumors occurring in adolescents are non-epithelial in origin, and germ cell tumors are the most common histological type. Ultrasound examination is one of the most important diagnostic tools. Preoperative diagnostic approach of these patients should always include careful history taking, physical examination, imaging and evaluation of serum assays. Gynecologists who care for young girls must be familiar with the differential diagnosis of ovarian masses whose surgical treatment should be conservative when appropriate, so that hormonal status and future fertility are not compromised in this group of patients."}
{"id": "15611955", "title": "Fluorescein angiography for the detection of metastases of ovarian tumor in the abdominal cavity, a feasibility pilot.", "content": "Fluorescein angiography for the detection of metastases of ovarian tumor in the abdominal cavity, a feasibility pilot. The growth and progression of ovarian tumor metastases at the peritoneal surfaces of the abdominal cavity are coupled with neovascularization. Newly formed tumor vessels show a more diffuse pattern and are more permeable for macromolecules than normal vessels. We investigated the possibility to detect (small) ovarian metastases in the abdominal cavity by means of fluorescein angiography. Eighteen patients known with ovarian cancer or with suspicion for this disease received sodium fluorescein intravenously in different doses (0.4-1.6 ml of a 25% solution), whereafter fluorescence detection by laparoscope was carried out. The distribution pattern of fluorescein was gained from 0 to 120 min by pooling the data collected in different patients at various time intervals. Three phases could be discriminated, that is, rapid filling of blood vessels after administration of fluorescein, diffuse extravasation of fluorescein into surrounding tissues, and clearance of fluorescein from vessels and surrounding tissue. Differences in accumulation of fluorescein could be visualized only after 1 hour or more. Fluorescence imaging more then 60 minutes after administration of fluorescein did not give additional information compared to the inspection using white light, which was confirmed by histology. These observations were dose-independent. The concentration gradient differences of fluorescein between healthy and pathological tissue in the abdominal cavity are too small to indicate tumor neovascularization."}
{"id": "15603984", "title": "Chronic appendicitis diagnosed preoperatively as an ovarian dermoid.", "content": "Chronic appendicitis diagnosed preoperatively as an ovarian dermoid. Recurrent right lower quadrant pain in young women can be a diagnostic dilemma. Chronic appendicitis is often mistakenly excluded from the differential diagnosis. In the present case, pelvic inflammatory disease was diagnosed in a 19-year-old woman with bilateral lower abdominal pain (greater on the right than the left), fever, and elevated white blood cell count. She was treated with intravenous antibiotics until resolution of symptoms. The pain recurred 1 month later, and the patient presented to our emergency department. At that time, she was afebrile and all laboratory results were normal or negative, aside from an elevated white blood cell count. Computed tomography suggested a right ovarian dermoid. At laparoscopy, however, the right tube and ovary were normal, and chronic appendicitis was confirmed. Although computed tomography is often accurate for delineating the cause of pelvic abnormality, it also may be misleading."}
{"id": "15573848", "title": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian dermoid cysts: a review of 47 cases.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian dermoid cysts: a review of 47 cases. Mature cystic teratomas, often referred to as dermoid cysts, are the most common germ cell tumors of the ovary. In the recent years, transvaginal sonographic diagnosis of ovarian dermoid cysts together with laparoscopic approach have greatly improved the treatment of this benign lesion. We retrospectively reviewed the outcome of laparoscopic surgery for suspected ovarian dermoid cysts. The preoperative findings, operative techniques and postoperative complications were retrospectively reviewed in women who underwent laparoscopic surgery for dermoid cysts, between January 2000 and May 2003. In 47 women aged 21 to 53 years (median, 38.8 years), 93.6% had a unilateral cyst with a diameter of 17 to 108 mm (median, 51 mm). Clinical presentations were pain (62%), abnormal vaginal bleeding (21%) and ovarian torsion (2%), whilst 17% were diagnosed incidentally during routine examination. Surgery included cystectomy (57%), total (36%) or partial oophorectomy (6.4%) and laparoscopy-assisted vaginal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (2%). During the cyst extraction, minimal spillage occurred in 42.5% of the cases and none developed chemical peritonitis. In 2 patients, conversion to laparotomy (4.3%) was required, one for sigmoid colon injury and one for malignant ovarian tumor detected via frozen section. The median operating time was 80 minutes (range, 35-180 minutes). Using strict adherence to guidelines for preoperative clinical assessment and intra-operative management, laparoscopic treatment of dermoid cysts appears to be a safe procedure."}
{"id": "15571612", "title": "Laparoscopic port-site metastases in patients with gynecological malignancies.", "content": "Laparoscopic port-site metastases in patients with gynecological malignancies. The purpose of this study is to review all reported cases of laparoscopic port-site metastases in patients with gynecological malignancies. Potential etiologies as well as options for prevention are discussed. We searched the Medline database for English-language articles presenting raw data on laparoscopic port-site metastases in patients with gynecological malignancies. We found 31 articles describing port-site metastases in 58 patients. Forty patients had low malignant potential (seven patients) or invasive ovarian carcinoma (33 patients). The median age of these patients was 50 years (range: 22-79), and 83% had advanced (stage III or IV) disease. Seventy-one percent of the patients (24 of 34) had ascites, and 97% (29 of 30) had carcinomatosis. Seventy-five percent of the laparoscopic procedures in this group were performed for diagnosis. Median time to diagnosis of port-site metastases was 17 days (range: 4-730). Seventy-one percent of port-site recurrences (15 of 21) were isolated to a tissue-manipulating port. Twelve patients had port-site metastases after laparoscopy for cervical cancer. The median age was 44 years (range: 31-74). Eighty percent of cases were squamous cell carcinoma. In 75% of the patients, laparoscopy was performed for therapeutic purposes. The median time to diagnosis of port-site metastases was 5 months (range: 1.5-19). Four patients had port-site metastases after laparoscopy for uterine cancer. The median age was 63 years (range: 56-72). The median time to diagnosis of metastases was 13.5 months (range: 6-21). Half of the recurrences were in the tissue-manipulating port. Port-site metastases after laparoscopy were reported for one patient each with a diagnosis of fallopian tube carcinoma and vaginal carcinoma. Laparoscopic port-site metastases are a potential complication of laparoscopy in patients with gynecological malignancies, even in patients with early-stage disease."}
{"id": "15559350", "title": "Frozen section in laparoscopic management of macroscopically suspicious ovarian masses.", "content": "Frozen section in laparoscopic management of macroscopically suspicious ovarian masses. To study the usefulness of and applications for frozen section in the laparoscopic management of adnexal masses. Historical prospective study (Canadian Task Force classification II-3). Large tertiary care hospital with university affiliation. One hundred forty-one women undergoing laparoscopy for a suspicious adnexal mass. Adnexal masses suspicious on ultrasound were managed by laparoscopy. After laparoscopic diagnosis, frozen sections were used to confirm a diagnosis of malignancy. Treatment was performed by laparoscopy whenever feasible. The results of frozen section were compared with the results of permanent sections, and the consequences of the intraoperative diagnosis on the surgical management were evaluated. The frozen section diagnosis was correct in 125 of the 141 patients (88.7%). In one patient, the result was false negative. Specifically, frozen section diagnosis was correct in 96.8% of cases when a cyst or biopsy was sent for pathologic examination and in 86.4% when the whole adnexa was sent. It was correct in 93% of the cases involving tumors smaller than 100 mm and in 74% of larger tumors. It was correct in 92.3% of the women younger than 50 years and in 81.6% of women older than age 50. Intraoperative pathologic diagnosis was correct in 95.5% of benign tumors, 77.8% of low-malignancy tumors, and 75% of cancer cases. Frozen section is a useful examination for surgical management decision making; however, the limitations and the difficulties should be taken into account."}
{"id": "15559338", "title": "Laparoscopic pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy in gynecologic oncology.", "content": "Laparoscopic pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy in gynecologic oncology. In the early 1990s, different authors independently developed techniques for pelvic and paraaortic lymph node sampling. Since then, laparoscopic lymphadenectomy has been demonstrated to yield the same number of nodes when compared with the laparotomic approach. Only one microscopically involved lymph node was lost at laparoscopic lymphadenectomy when a laparotomic control followed immediately after. It seems bleeding, which is the most serious perioperative complication, is more common during laparoscopic lymphadenectomy than during laparotomy; however, the incidence will decrease with experience of the surgeon. The laparoscopic procedure does not seem to influence negatively the survival of patients with early stage endometrial and cervical cancer. There does not seem to be a significant reduction in overall hospital charges for laparoscopic surgery in oncology, but patients who undergo laparoscopic surgery recover significantly sooner than those who undergo laparotomy."}
{"id": "15527637", "title": "Management of incidental ovarian tumors in patients undergoing gastric bypass.", "content": "Management of incidental ovarian tumors in patients undergoing gastric bypass. Ovarian disease is common in obese women and is usually not screened during routine preoperative evaluation in patients undergoing bariatric surgery. Consequently, surgeons may encounter previously undiagnosed adnexal tumors during bariatric operations. The aim of this study is to report our experience with incidental ovarian tumors in patients during Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGBP). Prospectively collected data on all consecutive patients undergoing RYGBP for clinically significant obesity from July 1998 to September 2003 were reviewed for patients with incidental gynecological tumors. Details of operative treatment and outcomes are reported herein. 460 women underwent RYGBP during the study period. 52 (11%) had a previous hysterectomy and/or bilateral oophorectomy and were excluded from the study. 12 ovarian masses, median tumor size 11 cm (range 4-65 cm) were found in 10 women (2.5%) during 6 open and 4 laparoscopic RYGBPs. Mean age was 40+/-9 years and mean BMI was 58+/-12 kg/m(2). Resection of 9 benign cystic lesions and 2 malignant lesions was undertaken. One patient with polycystic ovary syndrome did not undergo resection. The RYGBP was completed in all but 2 patients who, by appearance and intraoperative frozen biopsy, had evidence of malignancy. No additional morbidity resulted from the added gynecological procedure. Based on these results, an algorithm for the treatment of incidental gynecological tumors is suggested. Although infrequent, incidental ovarian tumors may be discovered in patients undergoing bariatric surgery, emphasizing the importance of thorough exploration of the abdominal cavity. Consultation with a gynecologist is warranted in most instances, and treatment should be on a patient-by-patient basis, especially in women of child-bearing age."}
{"id": "15516851", "title": "Peritoneal carcinoma in women with genetic susceptibility: implications for Jewish populations.", "content": "Peritoneal carcinoma in women with genetic susceptibility: implications for Jewish populations. Women from families with multiple cases of breast and ovarian cancer, specifically those who carry cancer-associated mutations of BRCA1 or BRCA2 are at increased life-time risk for peritoneal carcinoma, even after previous surgery to remove the ovaries, fallopian tubes and uterus. Hereditary breast-ovarian cancer (HBOC) syndrome and the associated BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations are particularly prevalent in women of Jewish lineage, and specific BRCA1 and BRCA2 germline mutations have been linked with peritoneal carcinoma and HBOC syndrome in Jewish populations, especially those of Ashkenazi descent. This review presents the currently available data and looks forward toward further and better understanding of peritoneal carcinoma in women with inherited susceptibility. Over 90% of peritoneal cancer in patients from HBOC syndrome kindreds and associated with BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations are serous carcinomas, which is equivalent with the proportion of ovarian cancers that are serous carcinomas in similar patients. The best indications are that while many peritoneal carcinomas in genetically susceptible women may arise directly from malignant transformation of the peritoneum, others might represent metastases from primary ovarian or fallopian tube carcinomas. Although the incidence of borderline ovarian tumors may not be increased in HBOC syndrome kindreds and those who carry cancer-associated BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, these individuals could be susceptible to malignant transformation of borderline lesions of the ovaries and peritoneum. Moreover, recent reports raise the question of possibly increased risk in Jewish carriers of germline BRCA1 mutations for uterine papillary serous carcinoma, which could be the source of metastasis to the peritoneum in some cases. The penetrance of cancer-associated BRCA1 mutations for ovarian cancer is estimated to be 11%-54%, and for BRCA2 mutations the penetrance for ovarian cancer is 11%-23%. So far, available screening methods appear to be insufficient for early detection of many ovarian cancers. Prophylactic oophorectomy has been found to reduce the risk for ovarian cancer in women from HBOC kindreds and those who carry cancer-associated BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, leaving a residual risk for peritoneal carcinomatosis of well less than 5%. Therefore, surgical removal of the ovaries, fallopian tubes and uterus, after child-bearing has been completed and by early in the fifth decade of life, are appropriate prophylactic procedures in women whose genetic susceptibility puts them at increased risk for cancers of mullerian tract origin, including ovarian and fallopian tube carcinomas and possibly serous carcinoma of the uterus. Hysterectomy, as well as salpingo-oophorectomy, removes the gynecologic organs targeted for malignant transformation in genetically susceptible women and simplifies decisions regarding hormone replacement therapy and chemical prophylaxis and treatment of breast cancer. Unless a transabdominal operative approach is otherwise indicated, laparoscopic-assisted transvaginal techniques are well suited for intra-abdominal exploration, cytology, biopsies and prophylactic salpingo-oophorectomy and hysterectomy in women with hereditary susceptibility to gynecologic cancer."}
{"id": "15516439", "title": "Port-site implantation after laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumors.", "content": "Port-site implantation after laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumors. The aim of this article is to report 3 cases of port-site implantation after laparoscopic treatment of a borderline ovarian tumor. Three patients underwent a laparoscopic procedure for a serous (2 patients) or mucinous (1 patient) borderline ovarian tumor. In 2 patients, the port-site implantation was discovered during a later surgical procedure, and one was discovered clinically 11 months after the initial laparoscopic oophorectomy. Surgical resection of the port-site was the only treatment in all cases. These women are currently alive and disease-free 11, 23, and 51 months after the treatment of the scar metastasis. These results suggest that, unlike port-site metastasis in other gynecologic malignancies, the prognosis in patients with a port-site implantation after laparoscopic management of borderline ovarian tumor is excellent. The treatment of this complication is surgical resection."}
{"id": "15508439", "title": "[Endoscopic surgery for gynecologic malignancy--less invasive, more radical].", "content": "[Endoscopic surgery for gynecologic malignancy--less invasive, more radical]. The development of endoscopic equipment and surgical skills make more complicated procedures possible laparoscopically. The application of these techniques to oncologic surgery, which used to be basically the most invasive procedure, has become an important issue when considering patient well-being. For cervical and endometrial cancer we can perform a simple hysterectomy, type II or a type II radical hysterectomy as well as a pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy. For ovarian cancer endoscopic procedures are advantageous for surgical staging, and even debulking surgery is possible in selected cases. The short-term outcome is excellent because post-operative recovery is quick, resulting in no delays in adjuvant therapy and a quick return to normal activity. As for the long-term results, although the number of cases and the observation period are limited, at present the outcome does not differ greatly from the results of conventional laparotomy."}
{"id": "15498186", "title": "[Epithelial ovarian tumors in adolescence: a study of clinical features and treatment].", "content": "[Epithelial ovarian tumors in adolescence: a study of clinical features and treatment]. To study the clinical feature, diagnosis and treatment of epithelial ovarian tumors in adolescent patients. A retrospective analysis was performed on 29 patients of epithelial ovarian tumors between the age of 13 and 19 during the period of 1983 - 2002 in Peking Union Medical College Hospital. Twenty of the cases were with benign tumors, four with borderline, and five with malignant tumors. The average age was 16.5 years old. The majority of patients presented with abdominal pain, abdominal distention and a large pelvic mass. The histological types included mucinous tumor in twenty-two cases, serous tumor in six, and endometroid tumor in one case. Among the nine cases with borderline or malignant tumors, eight were at stage I and one at stage IIIc. Of benign tumor group, an abdominal unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was performed on nine cases. A laparoscopic cystectomy was undertaken in 11 patients. The nine cases with borderline or malignant tumors underwent cytoreductive surgery and comprehensive staging surgery; fertility was preserved for eight of them. A cisplatin combined chemotherapy was given to four patients with malignant tumors. All of the patients were without evidence of disease recurrence during the follow-up. The incidence of epithelial ovarian tumors during adolescence increases with age. Mucinous tumor is the most common histological type in adolescent patients. A laparoscopic cystectomy could be considered for most benign patients. The therapeutic strategy should be individualized, and surgical approach should consider both cure and preservation of fertility in malignant cases."}
{"id": "15495639", "title": "[Anaphylactic reaction versus carcinoid crisis: the role of octreotide as a vasoconstrictor].", "content": "[Anaphylactic reaction versus carcinoid crisis: the role of octreotide as a vasoconstrictor]. A 35-year-old woman was scheduled for laparoscopic removal of an ovarian tumor. Intravenous metamizol was administered and when pneumoperitoneum was performed she developed severe hypotension and bronchospasm. Anaphylactic reaction was suspected, all drugs were suspended, and 2 doses of intravenous adrenalin (0.2 and 1 mg) were injected followed by continuous perfusion. Because response was slow and given the unknown origin of the tumor, the possibility of a carcinoid crisis was considered. When an intravenous bolus dose of octreotide was administered, pressure recovered, patient was extubated and could be transferred asymptomatic to the recovery ward. Tests later ruled out carcinoid syndrome, whereas tryptase levels in blood extracted during surgery and allergy tests confirmed an anaphylactic reaction to metamizol. Carcinoid crisis can be difficult to distinguish from anaphylactic reaction because the clinical pictures are similar. Anesthetic management of carcinoid crisis has been facilitated by administration of octreotide. Less is known about the use of octreotide to treat hypotension in patients with autonomic neuropathy based mainly on the drug's ability to produce splanchnic vasoconstriction. This is probably the reason why octreotide resolved our patient's shock in a context of systemic vasodilation caused by the anaphylactic reaction."}
{"id": "15494657", "title": "[Management of malignant epithelial tumors of the ovary].", "content": "[Management of malignant epithelial tumors of the ovary]. The notoriously poor prognosis of ovarian cancer requires optimal management by a multidisciplinary gynecologic and oncologic surgical team. Ovarian cancers which appear to be of early stage must be accurately staged to be sure that no potential metastatic sites are missed. Such an omission may have grave consequences for disease progression and may reduce the chances of cure in young patients. With advanced-stage ovarian carcinoma, the challenge is to perform a detailed pre-operative staging of the extent of disease to enable neo-adjuvant chemotherapy when the disease is judged to be inoperable and/or the the general condition of the patient is unsuitable for surgery. Only patients who have had complete cytoreductive surgery to all affected areas in the abdomen can hope to have an acceptable 5 year survival rate of 50%."}
{"id": "15493180", "title": "Outcome at second-look laparotomy: anaesthesia related risk factors.", "content": "Outcome at second-look laparotomy: anaesthesia related risk factors. To identify anaesthesia related risk factors associated with positive second-look laparotomy (SLL) findings in patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma who had previous optimal cytoreduction surgery under general anaesthesia. A retrospective review of the anaesthesia and medical records of patients with epithelial ovarian cancer who underwent SLL at our institution and analysis of patient related (age, haemoglobin, albumin), anaesthesia related (duration of anaesthesia, anaesthetics and dosages, transfusion of blood products), tumour related (stage, grade, presence of ascites, adhesion, histological type, capsule penetration and CA-125) data and outcome of SLL was undertaken. The patients had SLL 305 +/- 215 days after the first operation. Of the 83 patients 28 (33.7%) were SLL (+). SLL (+) patients were significantly more likely to have a mucinous histological subtype, required intraoperative packed red blood cell (PRBC) transfusion and longer anaesthesia duration (p < 0.05). Type of induction agent, whether narcotics were used or not, type of volatile agent used, dosages of induction agents and dosages of narcotic and muscle relaxants did not vary significantly between the patients with and without cancer recurrence (p > 0.05). Duration of anaesthesia (OR, 1.03; CI, 1-1.05, p = 0.031) and histological subtype (OR, 16.1; CI, 1.8-141.7, p = 0.012), were the independent variables predicting cancer recurrence in the multivariate logistic regression. We emphasize that duration of anaesthesia and histological subtype are risk factors for cancer recurrence in early stage ovarian carcinoma. From our data it seems that interventions to shorten the duration of general anaesthesia or reversing immunosuppression induced by anaesthesia and surgery must be carefully considered."}
{"id": "15493168", "title": "Stage I ovarian cancer: comparison of laparoscopy and laparotomy on staging and survival.", "content": "Stage I ovarian cancer: comparison of laparoscopy and laparotomy on staging and survival. The aim of this study was to compare staging accurateness as well as survival when managing early ovarian cancers by laparoscopy or laparotomy. We have conducted a retrospective and multicentric study in France. Only Stage I ovarian epithelial cancers operated on from January 1, 1985 to December 31, 1999 were taken into account. Respondents had to fill in a form detailing in each case the surgical access; the surgical acts performed during the initial intervention as well as data on the patient's follow-up. Lack of follow-up or final Stage > I were considered as exclusion criteria. Data were recorded and analysed with SPSS 7.5 and STATA (Stata statistical sofware 7.0). (ANOVA, chi-square test or Fisher's exact test and log-rank test). 105 cases were included: 14 patients were exclusively operated on by laparoscopy (group 1), 13 other patients were subjected to a conversion from laparoscopy to laparotomy (group 2) and 78 patients exclusively underwent laparotomy (group 3). Patients in group 3 were significantly more frequently postmenopausal and had larger lesions. Cyst rupture was rare during laparoscopy (21%) and the use of an endobag was achieved in only 21% of the patients in group 1. Radical treatment was significantly more frequent in group 3 when compared to group 1 (67% vs 23%, p < 0.05). Laparoscopy was not adequate for staging since no lymphadenectomy was carried out by this approach. However, only 27% of patients subjected to an open approach underwent lymphadenectomy and omentectomy. The outcome in terms of survival was similar in the three groups with a mean follow-up period of 1,221 days (+/- 832) (p = 0.1). Laparoscopic management of early ovarian cancer is poorly efficient in staging although disease-free survival does not seem to be affected. Further evaluation of laparoscopy in this indication is needed."}
{"id": "15491767", "title": "Unexpected metastatic lobular carcinoma of the breast with intraabdominal spread and subsequent port-site metastasis after diagnostic laparoscopy for exclusion of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Unexpected metastatic lobular carcinoma of the breast with intraabdominal spread and subsequent port-site metastasis after diagnostic laparoscopy for exclusion of ovarian cancer. Although lobular carcinomas metastasize primarily to lymph nodes, bone, lung and liver, they can also spread to the gastrointestinal tract, peritoneum and gynecologic organs. We report a case of intraperitoneal carcinomatosis of a lobular breast carcinoma that metastasized primarily to the peritoneum, with a subsequent abdominal wall invasion at the trocar site following laparoscopic surgery for the exclusion of an ovarian carcinoma. Port-site metastases (PSM) have occurred after laparoscopic surgery for endometrial, fallopian tube, ovarian, and cervical cancers. This is the first report of PSM of a lobular breast carcinoma primarily metastasized to the abdominal cavity. Every surgeon should be aware of the metastatic pattern of breast cancer, especially in relation to its histological subtypes. This case report emphasizes that PSM can occur in various kinds of gynecologic tumors, including breast cancer."}
{"id": "15462594", "title": "The role of laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology.", "content": "The role of laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology. In some patients and when performed by a skillful surgeon, gynecologic oncologist familiar with advanced laparoscopic techniques, laparoscopy results with less surgical trauma, reduced blood loss and hospitalization, and faster recovery. The complication rate has been found to increase as the complexity of the operation rises, but it is not higher than in open surgery. Preliminary studies show that recurrence and survival rates are comparable to those reported for patients treated by a standard abdominal approach. Future randomised trials are necessary to deal with long term recurrences and survival data and benefits of laparoscopy in management of gynecologic malignancies. At our institution 97 cancer patients underwent laparoscopic procedures, without complications: explorative and staging laparoscopies with biopsies of ovaries, peritoneal biopsies, retroperitoneal and mesenteric tumours; second look laparoscopy, ovariectomy, laparoscopic assisted vaginal hysterectomy (LAVH). Advanced ovarian cancer was found in 3 patients and laparotomy was performed. No complications were established."}
{"id": "15450265", "title": "[Place and results of frozen section analysis in the management of malignant and borderline ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Place and results of frozen section analysis in the management of malignant and borderline ovarian tumors]. The management of ovarian tumors discovered during laparoscopy depends equally on the surgeon and the pathologist. Thus, the surgeon will undergo a more or less radical surgery depending on frozen section analysis (FSA),which depends mainly on the pathologist's skills, the histopathologic type and the volume and the localization of the tumor. The accuracy of FSA is higher in ovarian cancer than in borderline tumor. In patients treated initially with a laparoscopic approach, if the FSA demonstrates the presence of an invasive carcinoma, a conversion to laparotomy should be performed in order to complete the surgical staging. If the FSA demonstrates the presence of a borderline tumor, an exclusive laparoscopic approach could be discussed."}
{"id": "15450261", "title": "[Primary choriocarcinoma of the ovary: a case report].", "content": "[Primary choriocarcinoma of the ovary: a case report]. A case of primary choriocarcinoma of the ovary in a 32-year-old woman, 1 month after a voluntary interruption of pregnancy, is reported. A review of the literature shows that this tumour is rare and the distinction between a gestational and a non-gestational choriocarcinoma is difficult. The distinction between these two diagnoses and specific treatment are discussed."}
{"id": "15447969", "title": "Isolated torsion of the hydrosalpinx: a rare presentation.", "content": "Isolated torsion of the hydrosalpinx: a rare presentation. Isolated torsion of the Fallopian tube is a rare occurrence, which generally presents in the reproductive age group. It is difficult to diagnose on imaging and the diagnosis is established after laparoscopy. This report describes an unusual presentation of an uncommon condition in a perimenopausal 48-year-old woman who presented with lower abdominal discomfort. The clinical and imaging features led to a suspicion of ovarian neoplasm. Diagnostic laparoscopy revealed torsion of a left sided hydrosalpinx with benign serous cystadenoma of the left ovary. Torsion of the Fallopian tube is a rare event in the perimenopausal age group. It should however be included in the differential diagnosis of lower abdominal pain and recognition of imaging features may allow early surgical intervention."}
{"id": "15385132", "title": "Total laparoscopic hysterectomy for oncological indications with outcomes stratified by age.", "content": "Total laparoscopic hysterectomy for oncological indications with outcomes stratified by age. We hypothesize that there is no difference in surgical outcomes of patients undergoing total laparoscopic hysterectomy (TLH) for various oncological indications when stratified by age categories. Data were analyzed by ANOVA and chi-square test with significance of P < 0.05, stratified by age (young: <50 years, middle: 50-64, senior age 65+). There were 208 patients, age 26-86 years: 85 young, 82 middle, and 41 senior women. Preoperative diagnoses included 13 cases of cervical dysplasia, 10 cervical or upper vaginal carcinoma, 60 endometrial neoplasias, 22 prophylaxes of familial ovarian carcinoma, 95 with complex pelvic mass, and 8 with early ovarian carcinoma. Mean body mass index (BMI) was 27.2 kg/m(2) for all groups. Parity increased with age (1.0, 1.3, and 2.0; P = 0.001). Surgical duration was longer for young than middle or senior (168, 147, and 140 min, P = 0.0095). All groups had a similar mean blood loss (133 cc, ns) and similar mean length of hospital stay (1.8 days, ns). Overall complication rate was 7.7% with no variance by age: one seroma, one hematoma, one diverticulitis, one incisional hernia, one vaginal nonhealing, one adhesive bowel obstruction, and five urologic complications (two bladder, three ureteral; four treated with catheter or stent, one reimplant. Reoperation was required in 2.8%. Null hypothesis accepted: TLH appears feasible and safe for oncological practice indications throughout the life span. This pilot data can facilitate guidelines for a randomized controlled trial of TLH with TAH and laparoscopic assisted vaginal hysterectomy (LAVH)."}
{"id": "15385110", "title": "Introduction of transperitoneal lymphadenectomy in a gynecologic oncology center: analysis of 650 laparoscopic pelvic and/or paraaortic transperitoneal lymphadenectomies.", "content": "Introduction of transperitoneal lymphadenectomy in a gynecologic oncology center: analysis of 650 laparoscopic pelvic and/or paraaortic transperitoneal lymphadenectomies. Lymphadenectomy is an integral part of staging and treatment of gynecologic malignancies. We evaluated the feasibility and oncologic value of laparoscopic transperitoneal pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy in correlation to complication rate and body mass index. Between August 1994 and September 2003, pelvic and/or paraaortic transperitoneal laparoscopic lymphadenectomy was performed in 650 patients at the Department of Gynecology of the Friedrich-Schiller University of Jena. Retrospective and prospective data collection and evaluation of videotapes were possible in 606 patients. Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy was part of the following surgical procedures: staging laparoscopy in patients with advanced cervical cancer (n = 133) or early ovarian cancer (n = 44), trachelectomy in patients with early cervical cancer (n = 42), laparoscopic-assisted radical vaginal hysterectomy in patients with cervical cancer (n = 221), laparoscopy before exenteration in patients with pelvic recurrence (n = 20), laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy or laparoscopic-assisted radical vaginal hysterectomy in patients with endometrial cancer (n = 112), and operative procedures for other indications (n = 34). After a learning period of approximately 20 procedures, a constant number of pelvic lymph nodes (16.9-21.9) was removed over the years. Pelvic lymphadenectomy took 28 min, and parametric lymphadenectomy took 18 min for each side. The number of removed paraaortic lymph nodes increased continuously over the years from 5.5 to 18.5. Right-sided paraaortic, left-sided inframesenteric and left-sided infrarenal lymphadenectomy took an average of 36, 28, and 62 min, respectively. The number of removed lymph nodes was independent from the body mass index of the patient. Duration of pelvic lymphadenectomy was independent of body mass index, but right-sided paraaortic lymphadenectomy lasted significantly longer in obese women (35 vs. 41 min, P = 0,011). The overall complication rate was 8.7% with 2.9% intraoperative (vessel or bowel injury) and 5.8% postoperative complications. No major intraoperative complication was encountered during the last 5 years of the study. By transperitoneal laparoscopic lymphadenectomy, an adequate number of lymph nodes can be removed in an adequate time and independent from body mass index. The complication rate is low and can be minimized by standardization of the procedure."}
{"id": "15369246", "title": "[Borderline ovarian tumors--10-year clinical series and literature review].", "content": "[Borderline ovarian tumors--10-year clinical series and literature review]. Analysis of 10-year clinical series of borderline ovarian tumors (BLT) and literature review. Retrospective clinical study. Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, 1st Medical Faculty, Charles University and General Faculty Hospital, Prague. Analysis of 38 patients from years 1994-2003 regarding age, histological types, tumor duplicities, role of frozen section, Ca125 levels, operation methods, adjuvant treatment, relaps occurrence, follow-up and survival. Median follow-up was 18.5 months (3-122), median age 51 (16-78). 23 serous, 12 mucinous (1 microinvasion), 2 cystadenofibromas and 1 endosalpingiosis. 26 patients of stage IA, 3 of IB, 6 of IC, 1 of IIA, 1 of IIC and 1 IIIB. 3 cases were underestimated by frozen section. 6 tumor duplicities were revealed. Ca125 marker was elevated in 10/23 (43.5%) cases. 12 patients underwent conservative surgery, 3 of them with complete staging including lymphadenectomy. 26 patients had radical operation, 9 of them with full staging. No one lymphonode was positive. 7 patients had primary laparoscopic approach, 6 had more than one operation. Adjuvant chemotherapy was indicated in 3 cases: PTX-CBDCA (IC and IIC) and CBDCA-CFA (IC). 4 patients were lost of evidence. 2/34 evaluated patients (5.9%) had a frank carcinoma recurrence after 3 and 7 years. Both relapsed patients and all 34 evaluable patients live without evidence of disease at present. Our results as well as literature date generate some controversies. Do we need staging lymphadenectomy in all cases (inclusive T1a)? Which parameters identify high-risk group and which patients will benefit from adjuvant (and which one) therapy? Are there not recurrencies of BLT rather second primary malignancies? In spite of 2 recurrences in a group of 34 evaluated cases all patients live without evidence of disease at present. Some management questions are therefore raised."}
{"id": "15350350", "title": "Laparoscopic restaging of early stage invasive adnexal tumors: a 10-year experience.", "content": "Laparoscopic restaging of early stage invasive adnexal tumors: a 10-year experience. Surgical staging of apparent early stage adnexal carcinoma provides indispensable information. A significant number of patients are referred to tertiary centers with inadequate staging information. We report on our experience with late results of laparoscopic restaging procedure in uncompletely managed early adnexal carcinomas. From 1991 to 2001, 53 laparoscopic restaging operations were performed: 42 patients were restaged early after initial surgery for an ovarian carcinoma (OC) in 35 of them, and for fallopian tube carcinomas (FTCs) in 7 others. Eleven patients were assessed as a second-look procedure, after six courses of platinum-based chemotherapy indicated for a high-risk tumor. The procedure systematically followed the guidelines of laparotomy. All except one (adhesions) procedures were successfully completed. Operative room time averaged 238 min and hospital stay 3.1 days. Only one major complication required laparotomy (1.8%). In the primary restaging group, eight patients were upstaged (19%) and were given chemotherapy. After a 54-month median follow-up, 3 out of the 34 remaining patients diagnosed as stage IA grades 1-2 (6.4%) recurred and died. In the group of 11 second-look operations, 4 were found positive after chemotherapy. One of the positive patient recurred and died. Laparoscopy seems to be an acceptable technical option to perform restaging of apparently early adnexal carcinomas. It spares the patients the discomfort of repeat laparotomy. Long-term outcome results suggest that laparoscopic staging, provided it meets the standards, accurately detects the patients who need chemotherapy and safely select the patients who can be proposed surgery only."}
{"id": "15343246", "title": "Results of in vitro fertilization in patients with endometriomas: is surgical removal beneficial?", "content": "Results of in vitro fertilization in patients with endometriomas: is surgical removal beneficial? The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of endometriomas on clinical pregnancy rates of in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer. Infertile patients with endometriosis who underwent in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer were divided into group 1 patients who had a history of ovarian endometriomas and group 2 patients who did not. The patients in group 1 were further divided into group 1A who had their endometriomas removed by laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy before the start of in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer and group 1B who underwent in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer with the presence of endometriomas. The clinical pregnancy rates of these groups were compared. Clinical pregnancy rates per transfer were similar in group 1 and group 2 (40% vs 47%; P =.38) and similar in patients in group 1A and group 1B (47% vs 34%; P =.28), although the direction was toward improved pregnancy rates in the groups of patients without endometriomas present at the time of in vitro fertilization stimulation. When patients >39 years of age were excluded, the overall pregnancy rate was higher in those patients who had no current endometriomas than in those patients who had endometriomas present at the time of stimulation (65% vs 39%; P =.05). For patients with unilateral endometriomas, similar numbers of mature oocytes were aspirated between the affected and unaffected ovaries. Although the history of endometriomas does not appear to affect in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer outcomes adversely, there may be a benefit in the removal of endometriomas before in vitro fertilization."}
{"id": "15304167", "title": "Mucinous adenocarcinoma in an ovarian remnant.", "content": "Mucinous adenocarcinoma in an ovarian remnant. The ovarian remnant syndrome, a complication of bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, is progressively receiving more attention in the gynecological surgery literature. The syndrome is manifested by pelvic pain and a palpable or sonographic finding of a pelvic mass. However, in rare cases, patients can present with large masses and radiographic suggestion of malignancy. We present the case of a 76-year-old white female, 23 months after bilateral salpino-oophorectomy at the same institution, complaining of 3.5 months of right flank and abdominal pain. Clinical and radiological evidence of a right ovarian remnant was discovered. Subsequent laparoscopic resection was consistent with a well-encapsulated mucinous adenocarcinoma in a right ovarian remnant. Curiously, this patient had no history of endometriosis, dense pelvic adhesions, pelvic inflammatory disease, or difficulty encountered during the original hysterectomy. This is the seventh published case report in the international literature about carcinoma developing in an ovarian remnant. However, this case differs in that the patient had no preexisting gynecologic conditions at the time of hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy to account for residual ovarian tissue. Additionally, the oophorectomy was performed vaginally, in contrast to multiple previous case reports."}
{"id": "15304164", "title": "Sentinel node detection in a patient with recurrent endometrial cancer initially treated by hysterectomy and radiotherapy.", "content": "Sentinel node detection in a patient with recurrent endometrial cancer initially treated by hysterectomy and radiotherapy. This is the first article reporting sentinel node identification in a patient with endometrial cancer recurring in the vagina. A 79-year-old woman presented with a midvaginal recurrence of a stage IB, grade II endometroid carcinoma that had been treated 3 years earlier by a total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingoophorectomy, and pelvic lymph node sampling, followed by adjuvant brachytherapy to the vaginal vault. A staging examination under anesthetic was performed. Preoperatively, 60-MBq technetium-labeled nannocolloid was injected in the mucosa at 3, 6, 9, and 12 o'clock just adjacent to the tumor recurrence. Three sentinel nodes were detected, respectively, in the left obturator fossa (two) and the right external iliac region, using a laparoscopic probe (Navigator) and removed for pathological assessment. As they proved to be negative, the patient underwent a total vaginectomy, parametrectomy with pelvic lymphadenectomy. The tumor was completely removed, and all lymph nodes proved to be negative. The accuracy of sentinel node identification in patients with recurrent gynecological tumors needs further evaluation. This unique case shows that sentinel node detection is possible after previous radiotherapy and surgery and hopes to stimulate further research in this field."}
{"id": "15297186", "title": "A phase I study of Adp53 (INGN 201; ADVEXIN) for patients with platinum- and paclitaxel-resistant epithelial ovarian cancer.", "content": "A phase I study of Adp53 (INGN 201; ADVEXIN) for patients with platinum- and paclitaxel-resistant epithelial ovarian cancer. Adenoviral p53 (Adp53) is a replication-deficient adenovirus containing human p53 cDNA. This phase I study was designed as a toxicity study of multiple dosing of Adp53 administered by intraperitoneal (IP) delivery to patients with ovarian cancer. Eligibility criteria included patients with platinum- and paclitaxel-resistant metastatic epithelial ovarian cancer; a Zubrod performance status of 0, 1, or 2; and adequate bone marrow, liver, and renal function. Patients underwent laparoscopy, washings, biopsies, and placement of an IP catheter within 10 days of Adp53 administration. Adp53 was given daily for 5 days every 3 weeks at one of the following four dose levels: 3 x 10(10), 3 x 10(11), 1 x 10(12), or 3 x 10(12) viral particles (vp). Seventeen patients were enrolled in the trial. Fifteen (88%) patients are evaluable for toxicity. The mean age of the study group was 51 years (range 32-67). All but one patient received two or more chemotherapy regimens before study entry. No dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) were observed. Grade 3 toxicities included fatigue (six patients), fever (two patients), chills (one patient), abdominal pain (three patients), nausea (two patients), and sinus congestion (one patient). One patient had Grade 3 edema and headache. There were no hematologic toxicities. Eleven patients (65%) are evaluable for response. Two of 17 patients (12%) had a mixed response. Four patients (24%) had stable disease for up to four courses. Five patients (29%) had progressive disease after one to two courses. Multiple dosing of IP Adp53 was well tolerated in this group of heavily pretreated patients; however, the dosing schedule and the amount cannot be concluded from this study. With a negative randomized trial of ovarian cancer in front-line treatment that included an adenovirus p53 plus chemotherapy, we feel that further refinement of gene therapy is required before additional trials are undertaken. OVERVIEW SUMMARY: Ovarian cancer is the most lethal of the gynecologic malignancies. It also tends to recur and progress within the abdominal cavity. Because of this, regional intraperitoneal therapy for ovarian cancer is attractive. Mutation and/or deletion of the p53 gene are common in advanced ovarian cancer. In this study, we have tested the safety and practicality of using an adenovirus-mediated delivery of the p53 gene to patients with chemo-refractory ovarian cancer via an intraperitoneal catheter. Fifteen patients were treated. Common toxicities were abdominal pain, fever, and chills. Several patients also had catheter infections. One patient had prolonged decrease in CA125 and stable disease. The best mechanism of delivery of gene therapy for patients is unclear, however, no severe toxicities were found using an adenovirus-mediated p53 gene in this group heavily pretreated patients with recurrent ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "15297177", "title": "Are borderline tumors of the ovary safely treated by laparoscopy?", "content": "Are borderline tumors of the ovary safely treated by laparoscopy? To evaluate the risk of the laparoscopic approach to patients with borderline ovarian tumors compared to the laparotomic management. We treated or followed in our institution 479 women with borderline ovarian tumor. Sixty-two patients had fertility-sparing surgery followed by restaging or follow-up intervention: 30 operated by laparoscopy, 32 by laparotomy. Restaging surgery was performed in five cases and second-look surgery in 57. The diameter of the cyst is significantly lower in patients treated by laparoscopy, especially in women who underwent cystectomy (4.7 cm) compared to oophorectomy (10 cm, P = 0.008). Rupture of the cyst and stage IC were more frequent in the laparoscopic group. After a median follow-up of 61 months for the laparoscopic group and 77 months for the laparotomic group, we observed 11 patients (37%) with persistent disease after primary laparoscopy (adnexa, five cases; peritoneal implants, three cases; both patterns, three cases). After primary laparotomy, no patients showed early persistence of tumor, and ovarian relapses were diagnosed in seven women (22%) 33-138 months after laparotomy. The univariate analysis for the risk of neoplastic persistence after primary laparoscopy shows that patients with cysts greater than 5 cm have a higher risk (odds ratio 9.7, P = 0.02) compared to smaller cysts. No other factors proved significant, but the odds ratios for patients with serous tumor (5.8), stage IC (2.0), and those undergoing cystectomy (1.9) suggest a relationship to the probability of persistence. Laparoscopic treatment in borderline ovarian tumors should be reserved to masses not greater than 5 cm. When conservative therapy is desired, the entire affected ovary should be removed. If the neoplasia is bilateral, cystectomy could be allowed in women who wish to preserve fertility, although they are at high risk of relapse."}
{"id": "15297166", "title": "The benefit of video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery before planned abdominal exploration in patients with suspected advanced ovarian cancer and moderate to large pleural effusions.", "content": "The benefit of video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery before planned abdominal exploration in patients with suspected advanced ovarian cancer and moderate to large pleural effusions. To analyze the findings and impact on the management of video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) before planned abdominal exploration in patients with suspected advanced ovarian cancer and moderate to large pleural effusions. We reviewed the charts of all patients with suspected advanced ovarian cancer and moderate to large pleural effusions who underwent VATS from 10/01 to 7/03. VATS was performed under double lumen endotracheal anesthesia. A 2-cm chest wall incision was made in the fifth intercostal space on the side of the effusion. The thoracoscope was introduced and biopsies of suspicious lesions were performed through the single incision. After VATS, all patients had a chest tube placed through the incision, and those with malignant effusions underwent talc pleurodesis either intraoperatively or postoperatively. Twelve patients underwent VATS during the study period. Median operative time for VATS was 31 min (range: 20-49 min) with no complications attributable to the procedure. The median amount of pleural fluid drained was 1000 ml (range: 500-2000 ml). Solid, pleural-based tumor was found in six cases (50%), with nodules >1 cm noted in four patients (33%) and nodules <1 cm noted in two patients (17%). Of the six cases with no grossly visible pleural tumor, the pleural fluid was positive for malignant cells in two patients (17%) and negative in four patients (33%). Further initial patient management included the following: laparotomy with optimal cytoreduction, 6 (50%); diagnostic laparoscopy, 3 (25%); and no abdominal exploration, 3 (25%). Final diagnosis of primary disease site was as follows: ovary, 9 (75%); fallopian tube, 1 (8%); endometrium, 1 (8%); and lymphoma, 1 (8%). Based on the findings during VATS, laparotomy and attempted cytoreduction were avoided in four patients (33%), and the cytoreductive procedure was modified in one patient (8%). Fifty percent of patients with suspected advanced ovarian cancer and moderate to large pleural effusions who underwent VATS had solid pleural-based tumor identified, and in 33% of cases the tumor nodules were >1 cm in diameter. VATS should be considered in these cases to delineate the extent of disease, treat the effusion, and to potentially select patients for either intrathoracic cytoreduction or a neoadjuvant chemotherapy approach."}
{"id": "15295344", "title": "Laparoscopic removal of endometriomas: sonographic evaluation of residual functioning ovarian tissue.", "content": "Laparoscopic removal of endometriomas: sonographic evaluation of residual functioning ovarian tissue. The aim of this study was to determine whether and to what extent laparoscopic removal of ovarian endometriotic cysts is a tissue-sparing procedure. At the University Hospital, 77 women of reproductive age with endometriomas and 55 with dermoid cysts underwent laparoscopic removal of the ovarian disease by stripping. Within 1 month before and within 36 months after surgery all patients underwent transvaginal sonographic evaluation of ovarian volume of the endometriomas or dermoid cysts and measurement of the residual ovarian tissue. The residual ovarian volume after surgery was significantly less for the endometrioma group than for the dermoid group. Comparison of the volume of the treated ovary with that of the untreated contralateral ovary showed a significant difference (4.3+/-2.3 cm(3) vs 9.7+/-3.9 cm(3)) only in the endometrioma group. Ovarian stripping of endometriomas, but not of ovarian dermoids, is associated with a significant decrease in residual ovarian volume which may result in diminished ovarian reserve and function."}
{"id": "15285533", "title": "Role of surgery in ovarian cancer: an update.", "content": "Role of surgery in ovarian cancer: an update. Rupture of an ovarian malignant tumor should be avoided at the time of surgery for an early ovarian cancer. Laparoscopic removal of ovarian cysts should be restricted to patients with preoperative evidence that the cyst is benign. Degree of differentiation is the most important independent prognostic factor in stage I disease and should be used in decisions on therapy in clinical practice and the future FIGO-classification of Stage I. In early ovarian cancer staging adequacy and tumor grade were the only 2 statistical significant prognostic factors for survival in the multivariate analysis of the EORTC ACTION-trial. According to the present data there is no scientific basis to rely only on adjuvant chemotherapy or on optimal staging procedure in medium and high risk stage I ovarian cancer. Primary debulking surgery by a gynecologic oncologist remains the standard of care in advanced ovarian cancer. Optimal debulking surgery should be defined as no residual tumor load. Interval debulking is defined as an operation performed after a short course of induction chemotherapy, usually 2 or 3 cycles. Based on the randomized EORTC-GCG trial, interval debulking by an experienced surgeon improves survival in some patients who did not undergo optimal primary debulking surgery. Based on the GOG 152 data, interval debulking surgery does not seem to be indicated in patients who underwent primarily a maximal surgical effort by a gynecological oncologist. Open laparoscopy is probably the most valuable tool for evaluating the operability primarily or at the time of interval debulking surgery. In retrospective analyses neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery does not seem to worsen prognosis compared to primary debulking surgery followed by chemotherapy. However, we will have to wait for the results of the EORTC-GCG/NCI Canada randomized trial to know whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery is as good as primary debulking surgery in some or all stage IIIc and IV patients. The most suitable candidates for secondary debulking surgery are those who had an initial complete response to chemotherapy, a long treatment-free interval (e.g. more than 12 months), and resectable disease (without diffuse carcinomatosis)."}
{"id": "15285320", "title": "Pelvic lipomatosis complicating ovarian cyst removal: a case report.", "content": "Pelvic lipomatosis complicating ovarian cyst removal: a case report. Pelvic lipomatosis consists of an abdominal capsulated mass containing lipidic tissue, generally with remarkable dimensions, responsible for urinary tract disturbances. Here we describe the first case to our knowledge of accidental intraoperative diagnosis associated to an ovarian cyst in absence of objective symptoms and signs."}
{"id": "15285316", "title": "Adenosarcoma of the ovary. A case report.", "content": "Adenosarcoma of the ovary. A case report. Adenosarcoma of the ovary is a rare condition. We report a case of a 32-year-old patient that has been treated in our Department. The diagnosis of ovarian adenosarcoma was carried out after laparoscopy with removal of an ovarian endometriotic cyst. Laparoscopic homolateral ovariectomy was then performed and conservative treatment was decided on considering the young age, low stage and low grade of the disease. Second-look laparoscopy, clinical evaluation and ultrasound were performed for four years of follow-up. No recurrence has been detected. Conservative treatment should be proposed in fertile age with low-grade ovarian adenosarcoma, but a strict follow-up is always necessary."}
{"id": "15259587", "title": "Laparoscopic management of antenatally-diagnosed abdominal cysts in newborns.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of antenatally-diagnosed abdominal cysts in newborns. We report two newborns each detected to have a large intra-abdominal cyst on antenatal ultrasonography. Postnatal imaging confirmed presence of the cysts and showed a complex cyst with multiple septae in the first patient and evidence of bleeding in both. Laparoscopy performed on the 14th and 19th day of life, respectively, showed ovarian cysts with hemorrhage and torsion. The cysts were treated successfully by laparoscopic oopherectomy. Histopathology revealed an ovarian gonadoblastoma in the first patient and a simple cyst with calcification in the second. Both patients remain well at a follow up of six and four months. Laparoscopic treatment of antenatally detected cystic abdominal masses is a feasible option in the newborn."}
{"id": "15211408", "title": "Video-assisted gonadectomy in children with Ullrich Turner syndrome or 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis.", "content": "Video-assisted gonadectomy in children with Ullrich Turner syndrome or 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis. Patients with dysgenetic gonads carry a high risk for the development of gonadal neoplasia. The aim of the study is to evaluate indications and feasibility of laparoscopy and video-assisted prophylactic gonadectomy in children with Ullrich Turner syndrome (UTS) or 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis (GoDy). Between 1996 and December 2002 five girls with UTS and nine patients with 46,XY GoDy (female gender role) were explored by laparoscopy. Video-assisted salpingo-oophorectomy or gonadectomy was performed using a three-port technique. Prophylactic salpingo-oophorectomy was exclusively performed in UTS patients with proven presence of translocated parts of the Y chromosome. In three patients with 46,XY GoDy laparoscopy was followed by surgical revision of the groin and open gonadectomy in four patients. In two cases with UTS the removed streak gonads contained small unilateral tumours stage pT1a, and in four cases of 46, XY GoDy histopathological investigation revealed bilateral neoplasms stage pT1b. We found the following tumour types: gonadoblastoma, dysgerminoma, testicular intraepithelial neoplasia, and mature teratoma. In conclusion, investigative laparoscopy gives a good image of the internal genital structures and allows the safe removal of the dysgenetic gonads during the same operation. The high rate of gonadal tumours underlines the indication for early gonadectomy in these patients."}
{"id": "15200789", "title": "Genital and peritoneal tuberculosis: potential role of laparoscopy in diagnosis and management.", "content": "Genital and peritoneal tuberculosis: potential role of laparoscopy in diagnosis and management. Genital and peritoneal tuberculosis are rare in developed countries and can mimic ovarian cancer. We report two different cases that came to our attention, both in a month. The first patient was referred to us for an asymptomatic pelvic mass. The second patient came to us because of weight loss, abdominal swelling, and ascites. Unfortunately, the imaging findings were misleading, and the laboratory analyses were not helpful. Only the laparoscopic approach was useful for final diagnosis. We conclude that the symptoms of abdominal tuberculosis vary greatly, and laparoscopy can be essential for its diagnosis and management."}
{"id": "15200788", "title": "Laparoscopic management of teratoma of the round ligament.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of teratoma of the round ligament. This paper describes the case of an asymptomatic woman who underwent laparoscopy as part of a work-up for infertility. A previous transvaginal ultrasound had shown an echogenic adnexal mass, independent of the ovary. The intraoperative finding was a tumor of the round ligament that was resected and determined to be a mature teratoma. The case is reported due to the unusual location for that type of tumor; and in addition, it is the first description of a teratoma in the round ligament managed by laparoscopy."}
{"id": "15200767", "title": "Laparoscopic excision of adnexal masses.", "content": "Laparoscopic excision of adnexal masses. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate a prospective series of consecutive patients with adnexal masses selected with strict preoperative clinical and ultrasonographic criteria. Prospective series of consecutive patients (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). Tertiary care university hospitals. Six hundred and eighty-three consecutive patients under 40 years of age with ultrasonographic evidence of an adnexal cystic mass without thick septa, internal wall papillation, or solid components, except for sonographic pattern suggestive of dermoid. Operative laparoscopy and follow-up. After initial diagnostic laparoscopy in 13 patients with stage 4 endometriosis and extensive bowel adhesions, in 2 patients with large-volume dermoids, and in 1 patient with suspect ovarian and peritoneal implants, the procedure was converted to laparotomy. Therefore, 667 patients were completely managed by laparoscopy. There were 1069 cysts excised. Histologic diagnosis was endometrioma in 57% of the excised cysts, serous cyst in 13%, dermoid in 12%, paratubal in 8%, mucinous cysts in 5.3%, functional cyst in 2.8%, other benign histotypes in 1.1%, and ovarian malignancies (seven borderline tumors and one endometrioma with a microfocus of G1 endometrioid carcinoma) in 0.7% of the cysts and 1.2% of the patients. These last patients are alive with no evidence of disease after a mean follow-up of 62 months. In the present series, with accurate preoperative and intraoperative selection, the rate of unexpected borderline or focally invasive malignancies was 1.2% of the patients, and the laparoscopic management of these adnexal masses did not adversely impact on prognosis."}
{"id": "15198792", "title": "Ovarian cancer detected non-invasively by contrast-enhanced power Doppler ultrasound.", "content": "Ovarian cancer detected non-invasively by contrast-enhanced power Doppler ultrasound. Overall, about one-third of women operated upon because of suspected ovarian cancer turn out to have benign disease. This proportion will be even higher when the tumours are small. A more accurate method of determining which are malignant would reduce the number of unnecessary referrals to the cancer centre and increase the scope for conservative management. This pilot study of ultrasound and intravenous microbubble contrast in 20 women with small ovarian tumours enabled the identification of all four malignant lesions with good inter-observer agreement. These preliminary findings suggest that intravenous contrast improves the ultrasound identification of small ovarian malignancies and may provide an accurate way of selecting women who require to be referred urgently for surgery under the auspices of a gynaecological oncologist. The remainder might be considered for laparoscopic surgery or even for observation in some cases."}
{"id": "15198095", "title": "Observations on post-site metastases after laparoscopic surgery for ovarian malignancy.", "content": "Observations on post-site metastases after laparoscopic surgery for ovarian malignancy."}
{"id": "15192974", "title": "Carcinoma in situ of the fallopian tube presenting as a positive Pap smear.", "content": "Carcinoma in situ of the fallopian tube presenting as a positive Pap smear."}
{"id": "15185603", "title": "[Primitive adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube: a case report].", "content": "[Primitive adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube: a case report]. Tubal carcinoma is rare and its prognosis is poor. His diagnosis before intervention is not easy because clinic is poor and complementary exams not specifics. His treatment is radical surgery by laparoscopy associated with chemotherapy. The prognosis is correlated with cancer stage and residual tumoral volume after surgery. We report a 55 years case who underwent coelioscpic annexectomy for left pyosalpinx. Definitive histology answered tubal cancer. Patient dead after three months because disseminated and parietal metastasis."}
{"id": "15181884", "title": "[Ovarian tumors in pregnancy--proposals of diagnosis and treatment].", "content": "[Ovarian tumors in pregnancy--proposals of diagnosis and treatment]. We present the review of the literature and the proposals of the exact diagnosing and therapy of the ovarian tumors complicating pregnancy. The incidence of ovarian tumors in pregnant women is estimated on 1/1000 deliveries. The coexistence of an ovarian tumor with pregnancy presents problems to both the clinician (obstetrician, oncologist) and the patient. Depending of the increasing uterus during pregnancy, the appropriate diagnosis of adnexal mass is based on the initial pelvic and ultrasound examination. Most of ovarian tumors in pregnant women are asymptomatic and when they are unsuspicious simple cysts or cystic teratomas the conservative management is recommended. In cases of complex masses and/or torsion, rupture, hemorrhage the surgical intervention by laparotomy (in some cases laparoscopy) is required. The possibility of malignancy and its therapeutic implications (hysterectomy, salpingo-oophorectomy, delay to delivery) must be discussed with the patient and her family (the lives of two human beings together are affected)."}
{"id": "15170428", "title": "[Laparoscopic management of adnexal tumors after the first trimester of pregnancy].", "content": "[Laparoscopic management of adnexal tumors after the first trimester of pregnancy]. To study the feasibility, advantages and risks of laparoscopic management of adnexal tumors in the course of the last two trimesters of the pregnancy. Retrospective study of a series of 25 cases of adnexal tumors operated by laparoscopy in the course of the second and the third trimester of pregnancy, during a period of 49 Months from 1st January 1999 to 30 January 2003. Mean gestational age at surgery was 16 weeks 3 days (range 12-29 weeks). The adnexal tumor was an ovarian cyst in 24 cases and in a paratubal cyst in a single case. Conversion was necessary in only one case due to difficult hemostasis. One revision required for borderline malignancy cystadenoma was performed laparoscopically during the same pregnancy. No operative complication was noted. Average post-operative stay was 36 hours (range 24-72 hours). There was one situation of eminent abortion in early the postoperative period but no thromboembolic complications. The pregnancy progress was normal after laparoscopy. Laparoscopic treatment of adnexal tumors is feasible in the course of the last two trimesters of the pregnancy in the hands of an experienced surgeon using advanced techniques. The well-known advantages of laparoscopy are particularly important during the pregnancy."}
{"id": "15167847", "title": "Feasibility of laparoscopic debulking with electrosurgical loop excision procedure and argon beam coagulator at recurrence in patients with previous laparotomy debulking.", "content": "Feasibility of laparoscopic debulking with electrosurgical loop excision procedure and argon beam coagulator at recurrence in patients with previous laparotomy debulking. Our purpose is to assess the feasibility and success of laparoscopic ovarian debulking with electrosurgical loop excision procedure (LEEP) and argon beam coagulator (ABC). Thirty-six consecutive asymptomatic patients with chemosensitive stage III or IV ovarian cancer who had undergone prior laparotomy debulking and chemotherapy, underwent laparoscopic debulking at the time of elevated CA 125. Preoperative abdominal/pelvic computed tomography was negative. Operative laparoscopy was performed through an open technique in the left upper quadrant. Tumors were debulked laparoscopically by using the LEEP and the ABC. Of 36 patients, 34 (94%) underwent successful laparoscopic debulking without requiring laparotomy. Of 34 patients, 32 (94%) had all visible disease resected at laparoscopy; 6% had surgical complications. Median time for surgery was 2.6 hours, median blood loss 70 mL, and median hospital stay 1 day. Seventy-four percent had a complete response after laparoscopic debulking and chemotherapy with a median progression free survival of 1.1 years. We present the first report of laparoscopic ovarian debulking using LEEP and ABC after elevation of CA 125 in chemosensitive, asymptomatic patients who had undergone prior laparotomy debulking. Laparoscopic debulking appears feasible (94%), successful (94%), and safe (6% complications). Prospective randomized trials are needed to determine the optimal management of asymptomatic, chemosensitive patients with elevated CA 125."}
{"id": "15156385", "title": "Minilaparoscopy in the diagnosis of peritoneal tumor spread: prospective controlled comparison with computed tomography.", "content": "Minilaparoscopy in the diagnosis of peritoneal tumor spread: prospective controlled comparison with computed tomography. Early diagnosis of peritoneal spread in malignant disease prevents unnecessary laparotomies. Minimally invasive laparoscopy with the patient under conscious sedation is a new, easily feasible diagnostic technique. This study compares prospective and controlled diagnostic minilaparoscopy with computed tomography (CT) scan for the diagnosis of peritoneal metastases. In this study, 56 patients with malignant disease were prospectively investigated with diagnostic minilaparoscopy and CT scan. The study criteria were fulfilled by 54 patients. Minilaparoscopy detected peritoneal carcinosis in 28 of 54 cases, whereas CT detected the disease in 14 of 54 cases. For 36 patients, the diagnosis could be verified by histologic examination of peritoneal biopsies or laparotomy. In this group, minilaparoscopy detected peritoneal carcinosis in 25 of 36 cases, whereas CT detected the disease in 12 of 36 cases. Minilaparoscopy was more sensitive than CT in detecting peritoneal carcinosis (100% vs 47.8%; p < 0.01). Considering its low grade of invasiveness and superior sensitivity, minilaparoscopy should be regarded as the procedure of choice for the early detection of peritoneal carcinosis."}
{"id": "15156378", "title": "Appendix tumors in the era of laparoscopic appendectomy.", "content": "Appendix tumors in the era of laparoscopic appendectomy. The safety of laparoscopic appendectomy for the management of incidentally discovered appendiceal tumors has not yet been established. Appendiceal tumor cases managed by laparoscopy or laparotomy over a 10-year period were reviewed. The pathological diagnoses were 23 carcinoid and 20 cancerous lesions. The median patient ages were 36 and 69 years, respectively, for carcinoid and other tumors (p < 0.05). Acute appendicitis was present in 70% of carcinoid cases and 35% of other tumors (p < 0.05). Eight patients with carcinoid tumors were operated on by laparoscopy, whereas 15 underwent laparotomy. Laparoscopic and open procedures were performed in three and 17 patients with cancerous lesions, respectively. Invaded surgical margins were seen after laparoscopy in 20% of patients and open surgery in 6%. Synchronous colon carcinoma was detected in 14% of the patients with an appendix neoplasm. The 5-year survival rates were similar after both laparoscopic and open appendectomy for either carcinoid or other tumors. Laparoscopic appendectomy for appendiceal tumors seems to have a slightly higher rate of inadequate resection. However, it is not associated with a significantly worse patient prognosis than open appendectomy."}
{"id": "15151843", "title": "[Diagnostic value of laparoscopy for pelvic masses in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women].", "content": "[Diagnostic value of laparoscopy for pelvic masses in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women]. To evaluate the value of laparoscopy in the diagnosis of pelvic masses in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women. The results of laparoscopic examination performed in 117 perimenopausal and postmenopausal women with pelvic masses were retrospectively analyzed. Malignant tumors in 19 cases (16.2%) and benign tumors were identified in 98 cases, and all of them managed laparoscopically. Laparoscopy is safe and accurate in diagnosing pelvic masses in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women, and may help define the quality of the masse and provides means for early detection and treatment of malignant tumors."}
{"id": "15119657", "title": "The incidence of port-site metastases in gynecologic cancers.", "content": "The incidence of port-site metastases in gynecologic cancers. To determine the incidence of port-site metastases in patients undergoing laparoscopic procedures for gynecologic cancers. The charts of patients treated by laparoscopy for diagnosis, treatment, or staging of gynecologic cancers by the academic faculty attending physicians were studied from July 1, 1997 to June 30, 2001. No patient without a histological or cytological diagnosis of cancer from the index procedure were included. Fisher's exact test was used for statistical analysis. Eighty-three patients were identified accounting for 87 procedures. Types of cancer treated included endometrial (39), ovarian (29), and cervical (14). Twenty procedures were performed for recurrence of ovarian or peritoneal cancer, and ascites was present in 10 cases. Port-site metastases occurred in 2 patients accounting for 8 sites. Five sites were diagnosed in a single patient 13 days after a second-look laparoscopy for stage IIIB ovarian cancer, and 3 sites were diagnosed in a patient 46 days after an interval laparoscopy for stage IIIC primary peritoneal cancer. Ascites was present in both patients. The overall incidences of port-site metastases per procedure and per port placed were 2.3% (2/87) and 2.4% (8/330), respectively. In patients with a recurrence of ovarian or peritoneal cancer, no port-site metastases (0/16) occurred in the absence of ascites, whereas 50% (2/4) of patients with ascites developed port-site metastases (P < .035). The overall incidence of port-site metastases in gynecologic cancers in our study was 2.3%. The risk of port-site metastases is highest (5%) in patients with recurrence of ovarian or primary peritoneal malignancies undergoing procedures in the presence of ascites."}
{"id": "15108578", "title": "[Patients with advanced ovarian cancer after negative second-look laparoscopy--follow up study].", "content": "[Patients with advanced ovarian cancer after negative second-look laparoscopy--follow up study]. Follow-up in 65 patients with stage III-IV ovarian cancer after negative second-look laparotomy. Prognostic factors and causes of failure were also discussed. 65 patients with ovarian cancer stage III-IV were treated with surgery and at least six courses of chemotherapy (cisplatin, adriamycin, cyclophosphamide) and second-look laparotomy. Results of the treatment are presented in a form of 5-year NED (no evidence of disease) survival. Dependence between analyzed factors and survival was assessment based on proportional hazard Cox model. In 30 patients (46.1%) recurrence during 5 year follow-up was observed. In 28 patients out of them (93.3%) it was loco-regional failure and in 2 patients distant metastases were the sole reason of unsuccessful results of the treatment. Adverse prognostic factors found in statistical analysis were: advanced primary stage, residual infiltrations after first laparotomy exceeding 2 cm and low grade of differentiation. 1. In about 50% of patient with advanced ovarian cancer loco-regional recurrence was observed, 2. Adverse prognostic factors were: advanced primary stage, residual masses after first laparotomy above 2 cm and low grade of differentiation."}
{"id": "15104843", "title": "Torsion of a paraovarian myoma in a teenage woman.", "content": "Torsion of a paraovarian myoma in a teenage woman. Myomas are uncommon in adolescence and very rarely occur outside the uterus. Torsion of a paraovarian myoma in an 18-year-old woman was managed laparoscopically. Awareness of the condition and high index of suspicion are keys to early diagnosis and prompt intervention."}
{"id": "15099934", "title": "Systematic review of management options for women with a hereditary predisposition to ovarian cancer.", "content": "Systematic review of management options for women with a hereditary predisposition to ovarian cancer. To develop through consensus and literature review management options for women with a hereditary predisposition to ovarian cancer, outcomes of interest were incidence of ovarian cancer, life expectancy, additional benefits of prophylactic oophorectomy, complications of surgery, and alternatives to prophylactic oophorectomy. MEDLINE, CANCERLIT, and the Cochrane Library databases were searched to September 2003 using the terms ovarian, cancer, neoplasms, prophylactic oophorectomy, ovariectomy, clinical trial, metaanalysis, and systematic review. Four cohort studies (two retrospective, two prospective) examined whether prophylactic oophorectomy reduced the lifetime risk of developing ovarian cancer. All the cohort studies found that prophylactic oophorectomy reduced the lifetime risk of developing ovarian cancer; however, this risk reduction was statistically significant in only two cohort studies. The complication rate of laparoscopic surgery for prophylactic oophorectomy is low (0.22-4.0%). However, there are long-term adverse effects of prophylactic oophorectomy, most notably the onset of early menopause. Based on the evidence from the four cohort studies, prophylactic oophorectomy does protect against the development of ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "15090333", "title": "[Laparoscopic cytoreductive surgery for ovarian carcinoma: report of 4 cases].", "content": "[Laparoscopic cytoreductive surgery for ovarian carcinoma: report of 4 cases]. Four cases of ovarian carcinoma treated with cytoreductive surgery under laparoscopy from October 2002 to June 2003 were reported. According to our preliminary experience, laparoscopy played an important role in diagnosis, staging and follow-up of ovarian carcinoma, and in comparison with conventional laparotomy, laparoscopic cytoreductive surgery may produce similar effect in the treatment of early-stage carcinoma."}
{"id": "15073853", "title": "Laparoscopic fluorescence detection of ovarian carcinoma metastases using 5-aminolevulinic acid-induced protoporphyrin IX.", "content": "Laparoscopic fluorescence detection of ovarian carcinoma metastases using 5-aminolevulinic acid-induced protoporphyrin IX. The aim of the current clinical study was to evaluate the in vivo fluorescence detection of ovarian carcinoma metastases in a second-look laparoscopic procedure after intraperitoneally applied 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA). Five hours before laparoscopic surgery, ALA was applied intraperitoneally via short infusion in a concentration of 30 mg/kg bodyweight in a sterile, 1% solution. Application of ALA resulted in the endogenous production of the fluorescent photosensitizer, protoporphyrin IX (PP IX). The Combilight PDD 5133 system served as a light source, permitting the switch from white light mode to blue light mode to excite the PP IX accumulated in the ovarian tissue specimens. By means of blue light illumination, intraperitoneally located red fluorescent lesions, which were suspected to be metastases, underwent a biopsy. In addition, several biopsy specimens were taken from nonfluorescent areas of the peritoneal cavity. In 13 of 29 patients, ovarian carcinoma was confirmed histologically or cytologically. In 12 of these patients, metastases were visible by red fluorescence. In total, 123 biopsies were performed. Comparison of histologic assessment of the biopsy specimens with the fluorescence detection showed that strong red fluorescence had a sensitivity of 92% for detecting tumor tissue on specimens. In only 2% of all biopsy specimens was endometriosis observed in benign tissue specimens using fluorescence. In four of 13 patients with ovarian carcinoma, lesions were detected under fluorescence, which were not observed under white light illumination. Laparoscopic fluorescence detection of endogenous PP IX after intraperitoneal application of ALA may provide a higher sensitivity of finding peritoneal metastases of epithelian ovarian carcinoma compared with conventional laparoscopy. Direct visualization of in vivo fluorescence after ALA application may improve the early detection of intraperitoneal ovarian carcinoma micrometastases. The high tissue selectivity of PP IX accumulation in tumor tissue specimens also offers the opportunity for therapeutic approaches using photodynamic therapy in the future."}
{"id": "15072738", "title": "Successful infertility treatment in a cancer patient with a significant personal and family history of cancer.", "content": "Successful infertility treatment in a cancer patient with a significant personal and family history of cancer. Infertility can be a devastating problem for a couple desperate to conceive. Unfortunately, these same women with infertility also bear the burden of an increased risk of ovarian and breast cancer. We present a case of a woman with infertility who persevered despite a personal and family history of cancer to achieve her goal of having a family. The patient's father had died of breast cancer at an early age. The patient had been unsuccessfully treated for infertility elsewhere before transferring to our institution. A diagnostic laparoscopy revealed an early ovarian cancer treated by oophorectomy only. After a period of observation, infertility treatment was resumed, leading to the successful cesarean delivery of triplets. Although recurrent ovarian cancer was diagnosed at delivery, the patient remains disease free, with three healthy children, 4 years after optimal tumor reductive surgery for stage IC low malignant potential ovarian cancer. Infertility patients with significant cancer issues may achieve a term delivery and remain disease free for a meaningful length of time with the assistance of their physicians."}
{"id": "15065703", "title": "Management of early ovarian cancer.", "content": "Management of early ovarian cancer. Epithelial ovarian cancer is the leading cause of death from gynecologic malignancies in the United States due, in large part, to the advanced stage at which it is commonly diagnosed. However, approximately one-third of cases are discovered at an early stage, when tumor is limited to the pelvis. Certain prognostic factors have been identified, which place patients with early disease at risk for recurrence and warrant the use of adjuvant therapy. Systemic chemotherapy remains the most commonly used adjuvant therapy in this setting, and several randomized European trials have recently suggested a benefit to its use. These studies, however, suffered from the lack of comprehensive staging, which must be considered when interpreting the literature on early-stage disease. Ideally, these patients should have access to a gynecologic oncologist prior to their initial surgical procedure."}
{"id": "15064540", "title": "[Surgical treatment of advanced epithelial ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of advanced epithelial ovarian cancer]. Primary cytoreductive surgery remains the standard care in advanced ovarian cancer. Optimal cytoreductive surgery is defined as a residual tumor load less than 1 cm. after operation. The randomized clinical trials showed that interval debulking surgery improved survival in patients who did not undergo optimal primary debulking surgery. The retrospective trials have suggested that the outcome for patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery is the same as for patients treated with primary debulking surgery followed by adjuvant chemotherapy. The neoadjuvant chemotherapy should not to be used for clinical practice until the randomized clinical trial carried out by Gynecological Cancer Group of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer and National Cancer Institute of Canada answers this question. There are no data from randomized trials to show the survival advantage in patients who received second-look operation as compared to those who did not."}
{"id": "15063971", "title": "Surgical procedure in patients with ovarian cancer diagnosed at the time of prophylactic oophorectomy. Analysis of two cases, literature review and surgical implications.", "content": "Surgical procedure in patients with ovarian cancer diagnosed at the time of prophylactic oophorectomy. Analysis of two cases, literature review and surgical implications. The aim of this study was to discuss the surgical management for ovarian or tubal cancers diagnosed at the time of prophylactic oophorectomy. Two patients with BRCA1 & BRCA2 mutations carriers had ovarian cancer diagnosed during laparoscopic oophorectomy. Conversion to laparotomy was performed in order to complete surgery (hysterectomy, multiple peritoneal biopsies, omentectomy, pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy). These two patients were upstaged on the basis of para-aortic lymphadenectomy and had massive nodal spread into para-aortic area. One of them had no intra-peritoneal disease and the other one had minor peritoneal disease (only one positive pelvic biopsy in the Douglas pouch). These two patients are alive, one of them with 3.5 years of follow-up after the end of adjuvant treatment. In order to ensure the exact spread of the disease. Lymphadenectomy should be performed in patients with ovarian cancer diagnosed at the time of prophylactic surgery."}
{"id": "15061292", "title": "Laparoscopic cystectomy of an ovarian mucinous cystadenoma in a 12-year-old girl: a possible role of operative laparoscopy for a huge benign adnexal mass.", "content": "Laparoscopic cystectomy of an ovarian mucinous cystadenoma in a 12-year-old girl: a possible role of operative laparoscopy for a huge benign adnexal mass. The case of an obese 12-year-old girl with a huge and mobile pelvic cystic mass is presented. After ultrasonography and determination of tumor markers, a right huge benign adnexal mass was suspected. In order to avoid exploratory laparotomy because severe pain and a large operative scar were expected, an operative laparoscopy was performed. No intra-operative and post-operative complications were observed. With the uneventful recovery, only a one-day hospital stay was needed. Neither residual nor recurrent evidence was suspected after 2-, 6-, 12-, 18- and 24-months follow-up. With proper case selection, good pre-operative counseling and the operation performed under familiarity and good training in laparoscopy, laparoscopic management of a huge suspected benign adnexal mass is technically feasible. The benefits are reducing hospital stay, lowering morbidity, especially less pain and cosmetic acceptance of the operative scar."}
{"id": "15047236", "title": "Laparoscopic treatment of early ovarian cancer: surgical and survival outcomes.", "content": "Laparoscopic treatment of early ovarian cancer: surgical and survival outcomes. To investigate the feasibility and safety of laparoscopic surgery in patients with early ovarian cancer. Between 05-1996 and 06-2003, 24 patients with ovarian cancer FIGO stage IA-B underwent either primary treatment or completion of staging by laparoscopy. Laparoscopic staging was performed according to the FIGO guidelines, which entails one-sided oophorectomy or bilateral salpingo-ophorectomy with laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy, pelvic lymphadenectomy, infrarenal para-aortic lymphadenectomy, complete resection of the infundibulo-pelvic ligament, appendectomy and partial omentectomy. Eleven out of 24 patients (45.8%) underwent completion of staging after a mean of 12 days (range 4-21) after primary surgery, while 13 patients out of 24 (54.2%) underwent primary laparoscopic management of an adnexal mass, diagnosed as ovarian cancer by frozen section. Mean operative time was 166 min (range 118-206) for completion of staging and 182 min (range 141-246) for primary surgery. No major intraoperative complication occurred. One out of 24 patients (4.1%) developed chylos ascites postoperatively, which was managed conservatively. Five out of 24 patients (20.8%) received adjuvant chemotherapy after a median time of 7 days (mean 5-14) following surgery. No trocar metastasis occurred. Median follow-up is 46.4 months (range 2-72). Two out of 24 patients (8.3%) developed recurrence, which was treated with resurgery and chemotherapy. After a median follow-up of 46 months, disease-free survival is 91.6% and overall survival 100%. Laparoscopic management of early ovarian cancer is safe and effective and survival outcome seems acceptable."}
{"id": "15047234", "title": "Laparoscopic extraperitoneal paraaortic lymphadenectomy: a study of its applications in gynecological malignancies.", "content": "Laparoscopic extraperitoneal paraaortic lymphadenectomy: a study of its applications in gynecological malignancies. To describe our experience of laparoscopic extraperitoneal paraaortic lymphadenectomy and to study the feasibility, safety and applications of this technique in managing cervical, ovarian and endometrial carcinomas. Our study included 32 women with cervical, ovarian or endometrial cancers undergoing laparoscopic extraperitoneal paraaortic lymphadenectomy between December 1997 and May 2002. The operating time, nodal yield, hospital stay and complications were recorded prospectively. The impact on the overall management was assessed by comparing the preoperative therapeutic plan with that following surgicopathological staging. The median nodal yield was 12 nodes, median-operating time was 80 min and the median hospital stay was 2 days. The median follow-up was 15.25 months. Lymphadenectomy was successful in all but one woman who had a peritoneal tear causing CO(2) gas leakage. Complications included one case each of pulmonary embolism, umbilical hernia, lymphocoele, pelvic collection and left-thigh cellulitis. In all women, the need for adjuvant chemotherapy or extended field radiotherapy (EFRT) was based on nodal histology. The primary plan of management was changed in 22.6% women. In the endometrial and cervical cancer group, 8.3% women deferred and 20.8% additionally received EFRT. All women with ovarian cancer (stage I) were completely staged and avoided chemotherapy. Laparoscopic extraperitoneal paraaortic lymphadenectomy is feasible with minimal complications, acceptable nodal yield and short hospital stay. It accurately identifies those cervical and endometrial cancers requiring extended field irradiation as part of their adjuvant therapy. It can be effectively applied in staging early ovarian cancers to determine the need for adjuvant chemotherapy."}
{"id": "15047227", "title": "Selective incorporation of total laparoscopic hysterectomy for adnexal pathology and body mass index.", "content": "Selective incorporation of total laparoscopic hysterectomy for adnexal pathology and body mass index. We studied patients undergoing adnexectomy with total laparoscopic hysterectomy (TLH) for ovarian pathology, over a 6-year period. Chart abstraction, analyzed by ANOVA, Fisher's Exact Test with significance at P < 0.05, stratifying by body mass index (BMI, kg/m(2): ideal < 25; overweight 25-29.9; obese 30+). Of 354 patients undergoing TLH, 90 cases had adnexal pathology: 69 complex masses, 16 BRCA1/2 mutations, 5 unstaged ovarian carcinomas; 48 having ideal BMI, 26 overweight, and 16 obese. Mean age (51 years) and parity (1.2 children) were similar between BMI groups. Thirty-four percent were nulliparous. All 90 underwent TLH, adnexectomy, washings; with 14 appendectomies, 5 lymphadenectomies, 3 node samplings, 6 omentectomies, 8 ureterolyses, and 1 Burch. Mean surgery duration (156 min), blood loss (152cc), and hospital stay (1.9 days) were similar across BMI groups. Mean nodal yield from each lymphadenectomy was 14, and 2.6 from sampling. Mean size of pelvic masses was 8 cm (range 3-19 cm). There were seven cases of ovarian carcinoma: 2 Stage IA, 1 IB, 2 IC, 1 IIC, 1 IIIB; 1 recurrent breast cancer, 16 adenofibromas, 15 endometriomas, 10 dermoids, and 41 serous/mucinous cystadenomas. Mean complication rate was 6.6% (ns): 1 seroma, 1 hematoma, 1 obstructive adhesions, and 3 urological injuries. All urological injuries were within the first third of patients. TLH appears feasible for women with adnexal pathology regardless of BMI, in an oncological practice. This pilot data can facilitate guidelines for a randomized controlled trial of TLH with TAH and LAVH, and help surgeons avoid our early complications."}
{"id": "15033667", "title": "Clinical outcome after laparoscopic pure management of borderline ovarian tumors: results of a series of 34 patients.", "content": "Clinical outcome after laparoscopic pure management of borderline ovarian tumors: results of a series of 34 patients. The aim of this study was to assess clinical outcome after laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumor (BOT). Thirty-four patients treated initially and/or for recurrent disease using a laparoscopic approach for BOT from 1984 to January 2002. Thirty-four patients underwent laparoscopic pure treatment (without conversion by laparotomy and/or reassessment surgery by laparotomy) for BOT. Conservative treatment was performed in 31 (91%) patients. Median follow-up time was 45 months (range 6-228). Six (17%) patients recurred (in the remaining ovary following conservative surgery in five patients and in the peritoneum in one patient). Two port-site metastases were observed. None of the patients had recurrent disease in the form of ovarian carcinoma. Nine spontaneous pregnancies were observed in six patients from a group of 15 patients desiring pregnancy. All patients are alive today and disease-free. These results seem to demonstrate that laparoscopic treatment can be safely performed in young patients with early stage BOT. Such a procedure is then feasible, but should be evaluated in patients with BOT and peritoneal implants."}
{"id": "15032282", "title": "Ovarian masses in young adolescents: imaging findings with surgical confirmation.", "content": "Ovarian masses in young adolescents: imaging findings with surgical confirmation. Functional cysts and benign neoplasms are the most common ovarian masses among young adolescents. Ovarian cancer on the other hand, although rare in this age group, is the most common genital tract malignancy. The purpose of this study was to define imaging characteristics of ovarian masses in adolescents between 12 and 21 years old and correlate imaging and surgical findings. Thirty-seven female adolescent patients aged between 12 and 21 years were operated on because of a diagnosed ovarian mass between 1997 and 2002. All patients underwent pelvic ultrasound, five had an abdominal CT scan, two had abdominal MRI, one abdominal X-ray and one intravenous pyelography. Ultrasound was used to define the size of the lesion and to characterize its gross morphologic condition as solid, simple cyst or complex cyst. The records were reviewed for age at presentation, presenting symptoms, diagnostic studies, surgical procedure and pathology findings, which were available for all patients. In our study 32 patients (86.5%) were symptomatic and five asymptomatic (13.5%). The most common presenting symptom was abdominal pain (59.5%). Thirty-four patients (91.1%) had benign lesions, two had malignant tumors (5.4%) and one patient had a borderline lesion (2.7%). The most common ovarian masses detected were germ cell tumors (27.5%) and functional cysts (25%). Twenty patients (54%) underwent operative laparoscopy and 17 patients (46%) exploratory laparotomy. Simple resection of the ovarian mass was achieved in the majority of cases (84%). Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was performed in only one case (2.7%)."}
{"id": "15032281", "title": "Transvaginal laparoscopy proposed as an investigation procedure for patients at high-risk for ovarian cancer.", "content": "Transvaginal laparoscopy proposed as an investigation procedure for patients at high-risk for ovarian cancer. Transvaginal laparoscopy (TVL) was performed in 23 patients at high risk for ovarian cancer (OC). The patients were placed in the lithotomy position after sedation and a veres needle was inserted in the posterior vaginal vault. A trocar followed and warm normal saline was injected into the pelvis. The needle was removed and a telescope connected to a light source and monitor was introduced. Excellent visualization was achieved in all cases examined and the average time of TVL was 30 min. All patients except one found TVL a simple and painless procedure. TVL helped in the diagnosis of six benign ovarian lesions and ruled out OC in the other 17 cases. TVL is an easy method to learn with reliable results. TVL can reduce the number of unnecessary laparoscopies and/or laparotomies and it seems to be useful in ruling out OC."}
{"id": "15032277", "title": "An analysis of different approaches to ovarian cysts in Italy.", "content": "An analysis of different approaches to ovarian cysts in Italy. The management of pelvic masses represent a rising problem due to the need to obtain an early diagnosis and treatment of ovarian cancers. In order to evaluate the clinical and surgical approach to ovarian cysts in Italy, we sent a multiple choice questionnaire to 214 members of the Italian Society of Gynecologic Oncology (SIOG) and to 230 members of the Italian Society of Gynecologic Endoscopy (SEGi). Ninety-six resulted evaluable. Transabdominal and transvaginal ultrasound associated with CA125 determination represent the basis for the diagnosis, even if there is no univocal agreement on the ultrasound aspects that may define an ovarian cyst as doubtful. If an ovarian cyst, classified as suspicious, has been diagnosed in a postmenopausal woman, a wide range of therapeutic options have been reported: laparotomic hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy represent the treatment of choice for 49% of SIOG members, whereas laparoscopic bilateral (45%) or monolateral (39%) salpingo-oophorectomy represents the standard for SEGi members. Ultrasound criteria to distinguish among benign or probably malignant or doubtful ovarian cysts, the treatment of an ovarian cyst during pregnancy, and the management of an unexpected intraoperative diagnosis of borderline ovarian neoplasia are discussed on the basis of answers received by SIOG and SEGi members."}
{"id": "15020662", "title": "Feasibility study of neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval cytoreductive surgery for stage III/IV ovarian, tubal and peritoneal cancers: Japan Clinical Oncology Group Study JCOG0206.", "content": "Feasibility study of neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval cytoreductive surgery for stage III/IV ovarian, tubal and peritoneal cancers: Japan Clinical Oncology Group Study JCOG0206. A feasibility study was started in January 2003 on neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) followed by interval cytoreductive surgery (ICS) and postoperative chemotherapy for stage III/IV m\u00fcllerian carcinomas such as ovarian, tubal and peritoneal carcinomas. The purpose is to assess the safety and efficacy of the treatment starting with NAC and also to know whether we can accurately diagnose these advanced carcinomas by imaging studies, cytologic findings and tumor markers without staging laparotomy or laparoscopy. Fifty-six patients with advanced m\u00fcllerian carcinomas will be recruited to the study. After confirmation of diagnosis by laparoscopic inspection and biopsies, patients undergo four cycles of chemotherapy as NAC, followed by ICS and an additional four cycles of post-surgical chemotherapy. The primary endpoint is proportion of clinical complete remission after accomplishment of the protocol treatment, while the major secondary endpoint is positive predictive value of diagnosis before laparoscopy regarding tumor origin, histology and stage. Based on the results of this study, we will conduct a phase III study to compare the treatment starting with NAC and primary cytoreductive surgery followed by post-surgical chemotherapy."}
{"id": "15009043", "title": "CA 125 elevation in breast cancer: a case report and review of the literature.", "content": "CA 125 elevation in breast cancer: a case report and review of the literature. A 69-year-old postmenopausal woman with newly diagnosed inflammatory breast cancer was evaluated for a pelvic mass found incidentally during staging computed tomography (CT) scans. Her serum cancer antigen (CA) 125 was greater than 900 U/ml, but laparoscopic examination of the ovaries was normal. Her breast cancer was deemed metastatic by virtue of a supraclavicular lymph node, but she had no visceral or bone metastasis. She was begun on primary chemotherapy and her CA 125 normalized. CA 125 is a tumor-associated antigen that is most commonly seen in advanced ovarian cancer. It is predominantly derived from coelomic epithelium, which explains elevations in benign conditions or other malignancies. The significance of CA 125 elevations in breast cancer is uncertain. Although CA 125 production has been demonstrated in the normal breast, it has been reported most often as a marker of pleural involvement with metastatic breast cancer. Further information on CA 125 in breast cancer is required to delineate its role in the management of this disease."}
{"id": "14976796", "title": "Tuberculosis peritonitis mimicking ovarian cancer in a 20-year-old woman. A case report.", "content": "Tuberculosis peritonitis mimicking ovarian cancer in a 20-year-old woman. A case report. Mycobacterium tuberculosis is the most common cause of tuberculosis in the world. Since the mid-1980s the United States has seen an increase in the incidence of tuberculosis, attributed largely to an increase in patients infected with HIV and to the immigration of infected individuals from endemic areas. The disease affects mainly the lungs, but about one-third of patients also have involvement of other sites. The incidence of peritoneal tuberculosis is low in developed countries and is the sixth most common extrapulmonary site. Laparoscopic biopsy provides a rapid and definitive diagnosis. When promptly diagnosed, tuberculosis is one of the few diffuse peritoneal processes for which there is effective therapy with an excellent prognosis. A 20-year-old woman with a diffuse peritoneal process and elevated CA-125, suspected to be secondary to ovarian cancer, as diagnosed as having tuberculosis peritonitis. Diagnostic laparoscopy was invaluable in establishing the diagnosis. Use of CA-125 for diagnosis of ovarian cancer may lead to misdiagnosis and unnecessary, invasive procedures. Suspecting and establishing a diagnosis by laparoscopic biopsy may prevent unnecessary laparotomy."}
{"id": "14968412", "title": "Cytology of human ovarian surface epithelial brushings.", "content": "Cytology of human ovarian surface epithelial brushings. The human ovarian surface epithelium (HOSE) is the putative source of ovarian epithelial cancer, the most lethal gynecologic malignancy that affects women in the United States. The current study was designed to provide a database of normal HOSE cell features for diagnostic and research applications. HOSE was harvested from 42 women undergoing laparoscopy or laparotomy for benign gynecologic disorders, infertility problems, or pregnancy. Of the 42 women, 12 were postovulatory and 20 were receiving hormonal regimens. Cells were harvested with a sterile brush inserted through a laparoscopic port or with a sterile cell scraper at laparotomy. Two HOSE populations were identified, ranging in size from 8 to 10 microm and from 15 to 20 microm, respectively. The cells measuring 15-20 microm exhibited slight anisonucleosis, more prominent nucleoli, fine cytoplasmic metachromasia, and an overall reparative or squamoid morphology. Cells were single or arranged in small clusters, sheets, or papillae. They coexpressed cytokeratin and vimentin but did not overexpress p53. Cellularity and proliferation (up to 3.2% +/- 0.8) were higher and papillae more frequent in postovulatory and cyst-bearing ovaries, including polycystic ovaries, suggesting underlying ovarian or hormonal influences. Representative HOSE brushings yielded a mean of 23,133 cells per patient (range, 4250-64,500 cells), equivalent to an estimated 0.58, 0.46, and 0.14 microg of nuclear protein, cell RNA, and nuclear DNA, respectively. Within 7-10 days of explantation, HOSE cells formed confluent monolayers with immunohistochemical and ultrastructural epithelial features. The current study defined baseline features of HOSE cells important to pathologists and clinicians evaluating women at risk for ovarian epithelial cancer and to researchers investigating the pathobiology of this aggressive gynecologic malignancy."}
{"id": "14965479", "title": "Ovarian teratoma diagnosis and management: case presentations.", "content": "Ovarian teratoma diagnosis and management: case presentations. Ovarian teratomas (OTs) may be of mature or immature morphologies. Mature cystic teratomas (MCTs), often referred to as dermoid cysts, are the most common germ cell tumours of the ovary in women of reproductive age. OTs are usually asymptomatic until they reach considerable size. Frequently, ultrasonography is diagnostic. Women requiring surgery for OTs should be appropriately counselled about the risks and benefits of laparoscopic and open approaches. Case I: An 18-year-old woman presented with hirsutism and irregular menses, both of which reversed after bilateral MCT removal by laparoscopy. Case II: A 47-year-old multigravid woman presented with a large unilateral OT, with a focus of malignancy. Case III: A 19-year-old woman presented with a large unilateral OT associated with gliomatosis peritonei. Experienced laparoscopic surgeons should consider laparoscopy as an alternative to laparotomy in management of OT in selected cases. Women younger than 15 years of age or older than 45 years of age who have large, solid teratomas on ultrasound or positive markers for germ cell tumours are at risk for malignant variants, and for these women laparotomy is the preferred approach."}
{"id": "14751183", "title": "Conservative management of a uterine tumor resembling an ovarian sex cord-stromal tumor.", "content": "Conservative management of a uterine tumor resembling an ovarian sex cord-stromal tumor. Sex cord-stromal tumors usually arise in the ovary but may arise in the uterus. Only 55 cases have been reported thus far. A hysterectomy is typically recommended. We report a case of uterine tumor resembling an ovarian sex cord-stromal tumor managed conservatively. A 32-year-old nulliparous woman presented with infertility secondary to suspected uterine leiomyomata. A laparoscopic resection of the presumed leiomyomata was performed, and the pathology showed a uterine tumor resembling an ovarian sex cord tumor. Because of the patient's desire to preserve fertility, a hysterectomy was not performed. She has been followed for the past 18 months, and there is no evidence of tumor recurrence. Resection of the tumor without hysterectomy and close follow-up may preserve fertility without compromising survival in patients with uterine tumors resembling ovarian sex cord-stromal tumors."}
{"id": "14751178", "title": "Role of laparoscopy in the evaluation of the adnexa in patients with stage IV breast cancer.", "content": "Role of laparoscopy in the evaluation of the adnexa in patients with stage IV breast cancer. To describe the utility of laparoscopic evaluation of adnexal masses in women with stage IV breast cancer. A retrospective review of gynecologic and breast surgery databases at our institution was performed to identify patients with stage IV breast cancer who underwent surgical evaluation for an adnexal mass or bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) between January 1986 and August 2002. Patient demographics and operative and pathologic findings were reviewed. Thirty-one patients were identified. Median age was 47 years (range, 25-79 years). Pathology of the primary breast tumor was infiltrating ductal carcinoma in 58%, invasive lobular carcinoma in 29%, and unspecified in 13%. Median time from diagnosis of stage IV breast cancer to surgical evaluation of the adnexa was 15 months (range, 0-106 months). Surgery consisted of planned laparotomy in four patients and laparoscopic evaluation in 27 patients. Six patients had laparoscopic BSO for hormonal ablation. The remaining 21 patients had laparoscopic evaluation of an adnexal mass. Conversion to laparotomy occurred in three patients based on intraoperative findings of suspected primary ovarian cancer and for technical reasons in one patient. Overall, metastatic breast cancer was diagnosed in 21 (68%) of 31 patients, including two patients with occult metastases undergoing BSO for hormonal ablation. Primary ovarian cancer was found in 3 (10%) of 31 patients, and 7 (22%) of 31 patients had benign findings. Pathologic intraoperative frozen section was obtained in 21 (84%) of 25 patients undergoing laparoscopic evaluation for an adnexal mass. Intraoperative frozen section was concordant with final pathology in 20 (95%) of 21 patients (18 on laparoscopic evaluation, two on laparotomy). The majority of patients with stage IV breast cancer who present with an adnexal mass will be diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer. A small subset of patients will be diagnosed with primary ovarian cancer; thus, the evaluation of an adnexal mass even in this stage IV setting is warranted. Accurate diagnosis of metastatic breast cancer versus ovarian cancer can be made laparoscopically, thereby avoiding laparotomy in the metastatic breast cancer setting."}
{"id": "14691638", "title": "Endosurgical procedures for pediatric solid tumors.", "content": "Endosurgical procedures for pediatric solid tumors. The aim of this study was to evaluate the advantages and complications of endosurgical procedures for benign and malignant pediatric solid tumors. Endosurgical techniques of biopsy and excision were used for diagnosis and treatment of solid tumors, respectively. Since July 1997, a total of 24 biopsies and 24 excisions have been performed laparoscopically for neuroblastoma ( n=24), ovarian solid tumors ( n=10) and other tumors. Seventeen biopsies and six excisions were performed for abdominal neuroblastoma, while ten excisions were performed for ovarian tumor. In these patients, the length of the operation, blood loss, time to start postoperative feeding, time to start postoperative chemotherapy and length of hospital stay were evaluated and compared to the those of the open surgery group. Furthermore, intra- and postoperative complications were analyzed in all patients of both groups. The length of the hospital stay and time to start postoperative feeding were significantly shorter in the group of patients who underwent endosurgical procedures for either abdominal neuroblastoma or ovarian tumor when compared to the open procedure group. The time to start postoperative chemotherapy was shorter only in the abdominal neuroblastoma group. The procedure for two patients undergoing endosurgical tumor excision had to be converted to open surgery due to large tumor size. Two weeks after thoracoscopic excision of a dumb bell-type neurofibroma, one patient underwent open repair of the dura mater because of leakage of cerebrospinal fluid. There were no port-site recurrences in any tumor types. Endosurgical procedures for solid tumors are effective and minimally invasive. However, better indicators are needed for their implementation in order to prevent complications and subsequent conversions to open procedures."}
{"id": "15029751", "title": "[Clinical course of clarocellular ovarian cancer in 27-year old woman. Laparoscopy in management of malignant ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Clinical course of clarocellular ovarian cancer in 27-year old woman. Laparoscopy in management of malignant ovarian tumors]. A case of clarocellular ovarian cancer in 27-year old woman is reported. Authors present the diagnostic and management problems, their experience and the review of current literature. The place of laparoscopy in management of malignant ovarian tumors is discussed."}
{"id": "14968063", "title": "[Surgical treatment for endometriomas].", "content": "[Surgical treatment for endometriomas]. Endovaginal ultrasonography is relevant for the diagnosis of ovarian endometriomas with a good predictive value. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may be recommended if deep endometriosis is suspected. Operative laparoscopic management is the 'gold standard' for surgical treatment, and medical treatment should not be given before surgery. Peritoneal lavage cytology must be performed before cystectomy. First, the cyst is opened and the endometriosic fluid is aspirated. The stripping technique is performed and after hemostasis, the ovarian cortex is reattached with microsurgical sutures. Coagulation or laser vaporization of endometriomas without excision of the pseudocapsule seems to be associated with a significant increase in risk of cyst recurrence. Recurrent ovarian surgery is not recommended in women with infertility, as it might be deleterious for ovarian reserve."}
{"id": "14738647", "title": "Laparoscopic approach to an uncommon adnexal neoplasm associated with infertility: serous cystadenofibroma of the fallopian tube.", "content": "Laparoscopic approach to an uncommon adnexal neoplasm associated with infertility: serous cystadenofibroma of the fallopian tube. A rare case of serous cystadenofibroma of the fallopian tube was discovered during evaluation for in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer. Bilateral tubal occlusion was noted on hysterosalpingogram, and a right adnexal cyst, initially thought to be of ovarian origin, was identified by office transvaginal sonography. Laparoscopy revealed a 5.5-cm, fluid-filled mass involving the distal aspect of the right fallopian tube. Both ovaries and uterine exterior appeared grossly normal. The cyst was decompressed and removed intact without incident through a 5-mm laparoscopic cannula. The mass showed histologic features consistent with benign serous cystadenofibroma. The patient had an uncomplicated postoperative convalescence and continued to do well 3 months after surgery."}
{"id": "14675692", "title": "Ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma arising from endometriosis in a young woman.", "content": "Ovarian endometrioid adenocarcinoma arising from endometriosis in a young woman. The risk of ovarian cancer increases in women with a long history of ovarian endometriosis, particularly in postmenopausal women. We present here a case of malignant transformation of endometriosis occurring over a short time in a young woman. The 27-year-old woman underwent laparoscopic cystectomy and was diagnosed with left ovarian endometrioma with an accompanying high level of serum CA125 (734.6 U/mL). Fourteen months later, she underwent cytoreductive surgery for her ovarian cancer. Histological examination revealed endometrioid adenocarcinoma with transitions between endometriosis and adenocarcinoma. She was diagnosed as having stage IIIc of ovarian cancer with paraaortic lymphnode involvement. We suggest that endometrial cyst of the ovary associated with high levels of serum CA125 should be managed with special care even in a young woman."}
{"id": "14674134", "title": "[Germinal cell tumors in young and adolescent girls].", "content": "[Germinal cell tumors in young and adolescent girls]. Germ cell tumours are the most common ovarian tumours in childhood and adolescence. This diverse group of tumours derives from germ cells. The aim of this work is presentation of germ cell tumours in the material from our clinic with characteristic clinical features, the scope of operation and effects of many years of observation. We treated 109 girls with germ cell tumours of the ovary: 13 had malignant tumours: there were 7 patients with dysgerminomas, 2 with endodermal sinus tumour of the ovary, 3 with immature teratomas, 1 with carcinoma embryonale. Gonadoblastomas was diagnosed 4 patients and mature teratomas in 92 patients. 11 patient had gonadal dysgenesia with abnormal karyotype. These girls had no follicle apparatus in gonads and had elevated levels of gonadotropins. Gonadoblastoma is almost always found in patients with gonadal dysgenesis. Gonadoblastoma often produces estradiol or testosterone. There can be problems with diagnosis of the syndrome, because developmental features imitate the onset of normal puberty. Most patients with dysgerminoma have stage I of disease and surgery is sufficient. It must be suggested that patients of stage I who wish to preserve childbearing function may be treated with unilateral salpingoophorectomy and adjuvant chemotherapy. Monitoring of the treatment is connected with measurement of biochemical markers. Some of these markers are useful for monitoring of response to therapy. When levels of markers are low second look laparoscopic operation should be performed. Cytological smears and biopsy specimens from the remaining ovary, peritoneum and subdiaphragmatic area should be obtained laparoscopically. The sift ultrasonographic investigations can be helpful in the early diagnosis of germ cell tumours of the ovary in girls. Absence of follicle apparatus in the gonads requires determination of levels of gonadotropins and karyotype. Fertility sparing operative treatment is preferred when karyotype is normal."}
{"id": "14674127", "title": "[Radioimmunotherapy in patients with ovarian cancer in complete remission after the first line surgery and chemotherapy after second look laparoscopy procedure].", "content": "[Radioimmunotherapy in patients with ovarian cancer in complete remission after the first line surgery and chemotherapy after second look laparoscopy procedure]. The aim of the study was analysed a chance to successful radioimmunotherapy in patients with ovarian cancer as a consolidation procedure. Between 2000 and 2002 we introduced 56 patients into consolidation study with radioimmunotherapy after second look laparoscopy. 17 patients during screening procedure have failed--mostly with positive CT scans (9/17). We have done 39 laparoscopies. Among 11 patients during laparoscopy we have found in 6 cases a residual disease and in 5 cases adhesions in abdomen or pelvis and this group was excluded from study. The remaining 28 patients were divided into two groups--14 in active and 14 in control arm. Only 50% of patients with ovarian cancer in complete clinical remission after first line surgery and chemotherapy can be candidates to consolidation therapy. Among patients subjected to laparoscopy in 70% there was no evidence of macroscopic disease and adhesions. Only 50% patients in complete clinical remission after first line surgery and chemotherapy have chance to successful radioimmunotherapy."}
{"id": "14674109", "title": "[Granulosa cell tumor in different periods of women's life].", "content": "[Granulosa cell tumor in different periods of women's life]. Ovarian granulosa cell tumor is uncommon malignancies. By virtue of histopathological examination we distinguish two subtype of GCT: adult type granulosa cell tumor typically in older women and juvenile granulosa cell tumor recognized primarily in children and young adults. GCTs behave unpredictably. Depending on histological type patients suffer recurrences in different time after treatment, even many years from diagnosis. The aim of our study is clinical analysis of patients with AGCT and JGCT, especially the problem of choice of treatment, time to occurring recurrences and new possibility in long term follow up. We analyzed 22 patients treated in Department of Gynecological Surgery and Oncology of Adults and Adolescent Pomeranian Academy of Medicine and then observed in our outpatient clinic. Among analyzed 22 patients 18 had adult type of granulosa cell tumor, mean age of these women was 47 years (32-72). Juvenile type of granulosa cell tumor were recognized in 4 patients and they were from 4 to 7 years old. All young girls were underwent sparing surgery, one of them was treated with radiotherapy. In histopathological examination of 4 years old girl atypia and a lot of mitosis was observed and she was treated with chemotherapy. Unfortunately after 18 months from diagnosis she died due to very dynamic recurrence. Remained 3 girls live without evidence of disease and the longest time of follow up is 36 years. 16 women with AGCT were underwent total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and omentectomy, 2 were performed conservative surgery because they wish to preserve their fertility. 16 patients were treated with radiotherapy as an adjuvant treatment, two additionally with GnRH analogues. Recurrences in patients with AGCT were recognized in 5 cases. Mean time to recurrence from diagnosis were 11.7 years. In two patients it happened after 21 and 22 years. Despite of aggressive chemotherapy four of these patients died during one year. Remained 13 women with adult granulosa cell tumours live without evidence of disease and the longest time of observation is 9 years. In histopathological examination of all patients who died were describe cellular atypia and high mitotic rates. During long time follow up our patients were performed second-look laparoscopies, tested of estradiol levels and 5 of them also inhibin B levels which always correlated with actual condition. Granulosa cell tumor is ovarian neoplasm of different behaviour. Patients with this diagnosis should be monitoring for many years. Inhibin is valuable examination in long term follow up."}
{"id": "14662231", "title": "Total laparoscopic hysterectomy: body mass index and outcomes.", "content": "Total laparoscopic hysterectomy: body mass index and outcomes. This retrospective review of patients undergoing total laparoscopic hysterectomy examines whether differences in outcomes exist on the basis of body mass index (BMI). All cases of total laparoscopic hysterectomy performed from September 1996 to July 2002 for benign diagnoses, and microinvasive cervical, early endometrial, and occult ovarian carcinoma were reviewed. There were 330 patients analyzed by BMI category (range, 18.5-54.1): ideal (n = 150) less than 24.9 kg/m(2), overweight (n = 95) 25 to 29.9 kg/m(2), and obese (n = 78) 30 kg/m(2) or more. Seven patients were converted to laparotomy (four ideal BMI, two overweight, one obese) leaving 323 (98%) for analysis. Mean age (50 years), height (65 in.), and parity (1.2) were similar, with 39% nulligravidas in each group. Mean operating time (156 minutes), blood loss (160 mL), and length of hospital stay (1.9 days) did not vary by BMI group. Total complication rates (8.9%), and major (5.5%) and minor (3.4%) complication rates were similar in each BMI group. Urologic injury was observed in 3.1%, with two-thirds occurring in the first one-third of the patient series. Total laparoscopic hysterectomy is feasible and safe, resulting in short hospital stay, minimal blood loss, and minimal operating time for patients in all BMI groups. The laparoscopic approach may extend the benefits of minimally invasive hysterectomy to the very obese, for whom abdominal surgery poses serious risk."}
{"id": "14644836", "title": "Laparoscopy and oncology: where do we stand today?", "content": "Laparoscopy and oncology: where do we stand today? The clinical application of laparoscopic surgery has grown rapidly over the last few years. Since the first documentations of laparoscopic lymphadenectomy, many reports highlight the use of modern laparoscopy in the field of gynecologic oncology. Laparoscopic treatment of early-stage cervical and endometrial cancer, and laparoscopic evaluation and staging of cervical, ovarian, and endometrial carcinomas, are feasible procedures. The place of minimal-access surgery in the arsenal of gynecologic oncological surgery has been established, especially after the recent developments and practical application of video laparoscopy, novel instrumentation, and advanced surgical techniques. Although operative laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology is still in its infancy the potentiality of the procedure is underscored. Many patients may benefit from the treatment or staging of gynecologic malignancies with laparoscopic means. Literature reports highlight that laparoscopy may be an effective procedure with lower morbidity and complication rates than traditional abdominal surgery. The short hospital stay and recovery time have a positive impact in a cancer patient's quality of life, as they return to normal activities rapidly. Many risks, though, may arise from the application of minimal-access surgery in cancer patients, and many questions regarding safety and efficacy need answers, based on prospective clinical trials. We must emphasize that such studies with large patient numbers and long-term follow-up are lacking. Until results from these trials are available, laparoscopic oncologic procedures should be performed only in an investigational setting by expert teams."}
{"id": "14629029", "title": "Evaluation of myeloid and lymphoid dendritic cells in peritoneal fluid in women with non-malignant ovarian tumors.", "content": "Evaluation of myeloid and lymphoid dendritic cells in peritoneal fluid in women with non-malignant ovarian tumors. Identification of myeloid and lymphoid dendritic cells (DCs) in peritoneal fluid (PF) and peripheral blood (PB) of patients with ovarian pathology. PF and PB were collected from 60 patients who underwent laparoscopy because of non-malignant ovarian tumors. Mononuclear cells were separated by gradient centrifugation. The cell surface antigens were determined by flow cytometry using monoclonal antibodies. Both myeloid and lymphoid DCs were detected in PF and PB of women with ovarian tumors. The percentage of myeloid DCs was significantly higher in PF than in PB. The concentration of PF myeloid DCs was the highest (P < 0.05) in patients with dermoid cysts (0.67 x 10(6)/mL PF) in comparison with the other studied groups, excluding patients with normal pelvis. Domination of myeloid and not lymphoid cells in PF may support the hypothesis that local PF immune disturbances may play a role in some non-malignant ovarian pathology."}
{"id": "14619656", "title": "Successful laparoscopic management of a huge ovarian tumor in the 27th week of pregnancy. A case report.", "content": "Successful laparoscopic management of a huge ovarian tumor in the 27th week of pregnancy. A case report. Laparoscopic surgery in the second trimester is very rare. The enlarging uterus impedes surgical procedures and increases the risk of surgery. We report on a woman in the 27th week of pregnancy who developed a huge ovarian tumor. A woman underwent laparoscopic surgery in the 27th week of gestation because of a rapid growing ovarian tumor. After aspiration of its contents, the tumor was extracted, and cystectomy was performed extracorporeally. The postoperative course was uneventful and the woman delivered a healthy infant at 42 weeks. Laparoscopic gynecologic surgery can be performed through the 27th week of gestation, and extracorporeal manipulation makes the procedure much easier."}
{"id": "14616261", "title": "Laparoscopical insertion of intraperitoneal catheters for intraperitoneal chemotherapy.", "content": "Laparoscopical insertion of intraperitoneal catheters for intraperitoneal chemotherapy. Eight patients (seven clinically negative stage Ill ovarian cancer and one peritoneal mesothelioma) respectively underwent second-look laparoscopy for staging, adhesiolysis and insertion of an intraperitoneal catheter and fixation of a portal. All patients had received six courses of cisplatin-paclitaxel-based chemotherapy intravenously. At the end of the laparoscopic staging, a 5-mm catheter was inserted under direct vision through a 5-mm trocar in the abdomen. A preaponevrotic forceps was used to grasp the catheter and bring it to the portal, which is located on the intercostal aponevrosis 2 or 3 cm above the laparoscope entry. Although previously operated, laparoscopy was possible in all patients and the catheters were easily inserted. All patients received intraperitoneal chemotherapy on the second postoperative day. We did not observe any complication after a mean follow-up of 12 months. Laparoscopic insertion of intraperitoneal catheters is a feasible and safe procedure but requires experience in laparoscopic surgery. In many cases it might preclude from performing non-useful laparotomies. It might help to reduce the hospital stay and the morbidity in relation to second-look laparotomies. Compared with the blind surgical technique of insertion of intraperitoneal catheters, this technique also allows intraabdominal staging. Nevertheless, further studies are necessary to confirm our results."}
{"id": "14607039", "title": "Unexpected endometrial cancer at prophylactic hysterectomy in a woman with hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer.", "content": "Unexpected endometrial cancer at prophylactic hysterectomy in a woman with hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer. Hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer is associated with a 40-60% lifetime risk of endometrial cancer. Prophylactic hysterectomy is a reasonable management strategy for women who have completed childbearing. We report a case of a woman with hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer who was found to have an unexpected endometrial cancer at prophylactic hysterectomy. A woman with hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer underwent a laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy for prophylaxis against endometrial cancer. No unusual intraoperative findings were noted. Pathologic examination revealed a mixed clear cell and endometrioid endometrial carcinoma invading into the myometrium and cervix. The patient underwent a subsequent staging laparotomy, in which no additional disease was found. Patients with known hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer undergoing prophylactic hysterectomy are at risk for having occult endometrial cancer. Gynecologists should consider preoperative endometrial biopsy and intraoperative assessment of the endometrium in these high-risk women."}
{"id": "14599858", "title": "A phase II trial of three sequential doublets for the treatment of advanced m\u00fcllerian malignancies.", "content": "A phase II trial of three sequential doublets for the treatment of advanced m\u00fcllerian malignancies. In an effort to improve the results of primary chemotherapy for m\u00fcllerian malignancies a novel chemotherapy program was piloted that delivered three sequential chemotherapy doublets. The primary endpoints were surgically defined response rates and evaluation of toxicity. After primary cytoreductive surgery patients were treated with three sequential doublets including three initial cycles of carboplatin and paclitaxel (doublet 1) and then two cycles of cisplatin (day 1) and gemcitabine (days 1 and 8; doublet 2), and finally two cycles of doxorubicin (day 1) and topotecan (days 3,4, and 5; doublet 3). Cycles 4 through 7 were given with G-CSF (Neupogen) support at a dose of 5 mcg/kg/day. After therapy, all women were clinically staged and evaluated by second-look laparoscopy/laparotomy (SLO) if clinical staging was negative for residual disease. A total of 49 eligible patients were enrolled with a median age of 52 (SD 9). Forty-four women had either ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal carcinoma with 3 women diagnosed with fallopian tube carcinoma and 2 with papillary serous carcinoma of the uterus. Eighty-four percent of patients had stage IIIc/IV tumors, with 29% having >1 cm residual disease after primary cytoreductive surgery. Thirty-nine of 49 (80%) patients completed therapy. A total of 283 cycles of chemotherapy were delivered with acceptable toxicities. There were no toxic deaths. Five women were withdrawn from trial (3 for Taxol hypersensitivity, 1 for gemcitabine pulmonary hypersensitivity, and 1 for serious line infection). Neutropenia, typically without fever, was relatively frequent in the first doublet. Nausea and thrombocytopenia were the predominant toxicities in doublet 2. Thirty-nine women completed all cycles of treatment. Thirty-six women had restaging results consistent with a clinical complete response (CR) and underwent SLO. The pathologic CR rate of the patients undergoing SLO was 38%. Treatment with this sequential doublet regimen is feasible with a 38% pathologic CR rate."}
{"id": "14593299", "title": "[Adnexal torsion: a report of 135 cases].", "content": "[Adnexal torsion: a report of 135 cases]. To evaluate the clinical findings and therapeutic options following adnexal torsion. A retrospective series of 135 patients presenting with adnexal torsion between January 1992 and December 2001 in Sousse- Tunisia- a university teaching hospital. Adnexal torsion accounted for 14.8% of surgically treated adnexal tumors. Pregnancy was associated in 17% of cases and diagnosis was accurate at first clinical examination in only 57.8% of cases. Ultrasound allowed visualisation of Adnexal Diseases in all cases. Operative laparoscopy was successfully achieved in 34% of patients. Conservative management was used in 57% of the premenopausal patients. No major postoperative complication was noted. Clinicians must be aware of a possible adnexal torsion in women with acute pelvic pain. Ultrasound is a useful tool in these situations. Laparoscopy allows diagnosis and surgical management even during pregnancy."}
{"id": "14584668", "title": "A ruptured ovarian endometrioma mimicking ovarian malignancy: case report.", "content": "A ruptured ovarian endometrioma mimicking ovarian malignancy: case report. A 24-year-old single woman was referred to our department due to intermittent abdominal pain. Because her serum CA 125 concentration was extremely elevated an ovarian malignancy was suspected. At the laparoscopic examination, it was determined to be a ruptured endometrioma and serum CA 125 concentrations rapidly decreased after surgery."}
{"id": "14581875", "title": "[Laparoscopic conservative treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts].", "content": "[Laparoscopic conservative treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts]. Two methods for the laparoscopic dissection of dermoid ovarian cysts, less than 10 cm, in 55 fertile women, are compared. Water dissection was performed in 23 patients and bipolar scissors were used in 32 patients, creating a rhomb on the surface of the ovary, just to obtain a good traction for atraumatic dissection. The mean surgical time, complications and hospital stay have been compared. Operative laparoscopy is the technique of choice to remove most, if not all, ovarian dermoid cysts. It is suggested to use particular strategies in order to safely and easily dissect in toto the cysts."}
{"id": "14567805", "title": "Transvaginal three-dimensional ultrasonography combined with serum CA 125 level for the diagnosis of pelvic adhesions before laparoscopic surgery.", "content": "Transvaginal three-dimensional ultrasonography combined with serum CA 125 level for the diagnosis of pelvic adhesions before laparoscopic surgery. To investigate the role of transvaginal three-dimensional ultrasonography combined with serum CA 125 level in diagnosing pelvic adhesions before scheduled laparoscopic surgery. Prospective study (Canadian Task Force classification II-1). Tertiary care academic hospital. Fifty-nine women with an adnexal mass diagnosed by two-dimensional transvaginal ultrasonography. Preoperative transvaginal three-dimensional ultrasonography and serum CA 125 level, followed by laparoscopy or laparotomy. Pelvic adhesions were correctly identified by transvaginal three-dimensional ultrasonography in 26 of 32 women in whom the lesions were confirmed at laparoscopy or laparotomy. Mean serum CA125 level in women with adhesions was 70 +/- 73.7 U/ml, which was significantly higher than that in women without adhesions (24 +/- 16.16 U/ml, p = 0.004). The sensitivity of combined transvaginal three-dimensional ultrasonography and serum CA 125 level was 90%, specificity was 100%, positive predictive value was 100%, and negative predictive value was 89%. The two methods showed strong agreement with surgical results (kappa = 0.889). Eight scheduled laparoscopies (13.6%) were converted to laparotomy due to severe adhesions. One patient (1.7%) experienced colon injury during laparoscopic adhesiolysis. Transvaginal three-dimensional ultrasonography combined with serum CA 125 level is sensitive in detecting pelvic adhesions before laparoscopic surgery. Patients with suspected severe pelvic adhesions should have preoperative bowel preparation to reduce the risk of intraoperative injury."}
{"id": "14566702", "title": "[Ovarian torsion--an unusual cause of childhood urinary retention].", "content": "[Ovarian torsion--an unusual cause of childhood urinary retention]. Acute urinary retention in children may be associated with a broad spectrum of different causes. Acute appendicitis or acute ovarian torsion are rare and complicate the diagnosis. The case of a 6-year-old girl with urinary retention caused by ovarian torsion is reported, in which clinical presentation showed nonspecific complaints and ultrasound demonstrated a retrovesical mass. The long-standing ovarian torsion could only be diagnosed by laparotomy. This case once again demonstrates possible difficulties in obtaining a correct diagnosis, especially when imaging techniques reach their limits. Here, the anatomical structures had become so altered by adhesions of the omentum that they were no longer identifiable, rendering the advantageous, non-invasive laparoscopy ineffective. As a result, laparotomy became the most accurate and reliable method for obtaining a correct diagnosis. The occurrence of acute urinary retention with ovarian torsion can be explained by an earlier disturbance of the vegetative nervous system."}
{"id": "14529690", "title": "Direct laparoscopic venous sampling to diagnose a small Sertoli-Leydig tumor.", "content": "Direct laparoscopic venous sampling to diagnose a small Sertoli-Leydig tumor. Sertoli-Leydig cell tumors (SLCT) constitute only 0.5% of all primary ovarian neoplasms. We report a unique diagnostic method (selective laparoscopic venous sampling) and a rare case of a contralateral second primary tumor. A 14-year-old female presented with hyperandrogenic complaints and an increased serum testosterone. Ovarian origin was confirmed by direct laparoscopic ovarian blood sampling. A right salpingo-oophorectomy was performed. The pathological diagnosis was SLCT of intermediate differentiation. Three years later, the patient presented again with an increased serum testosterone. A solid tumor in the left ovary was excised. The pathology was SLCT of intermediate differentiation. The patient remains disease-free. Direct laparoscopic venous sampling is used to diagnose a small SLCT in a teenage patient."}
{"id": "14529674", "title": "Laparoscopic paraaortic left-sided transperitoneal infrarenal lymphadenectomy in patients with gynecologic malignancies: technique and results.", "content": "Laparoscopic paraaortic left-sided transperitoneal infrarenal lymphadenectomy in patients with gynecologic malignancies: technique and results. Left-sided paraaortic infrarenal lymphadenectomy is indicated in patients with gynecologic tumors of high metastasing potential. We evaluated whether left-sided paraaortic inframesenteric lymphadenectomy can be extended up to the left renal vein by laparoscopy. Between January 2002 and August 2002, 46 consecutive patients with cervical (n = 26), or endometrial (n = 16), or early ovarian cancer (n = 4) underwent right-sided paraaortic lymphadenectomy up to the level of the right ovarian vein and left-sided inframesenteric paraaortic lymphadenectomy. Lymphadenectomy was extended up to the level of the left renal vein in 20 patients with high risk for lymph node metastasis: following elevation of the duodenum and the pancreas infrarenal lymph nodes in the area limited by the vena cava, left renal vein, left ovarian vein, inframesenteric artery, and aorta were laparoscopically removed under preservation of the inferior mesenteric artery. Patients with infrarenal lymphadenectomy (group 1) and without infrarenal lymphadenectomy (group 2) were comparable in body mass index: the age of patients in group 2 was higher (P = 0.023). Duration of lymphadenectomy was 31.3 min (11-57 min) longer in group 1. There was no intraoperative complication. Number of paraaortic lymph nodes was on average 19.6 (range 5-35) in group 1 compared to a mean of 9 lymph nodes (range 2-19) in group 2 (P = 0,0001). Postoperatively 2 patients (10%) in group 1 developed chylascos. Left-sided paraaortic infrarenal lymphadenectomy can be performed safely in adequate duration transperitoneally by laparoscopy. Compared to inframesenteric lymphadenectomy the number of removed lymph nodes can be doubled."}
{"id": "14526159", "title": "[Extrajudicial medicolegal opinions].", "content": "[Extrajudicial medicolegal opinions]. Patients who endured complications due to a presumed or genuine medical error often request an extrajudicial medicolegal opinion. Frequently, the problems appear to originate from an insufficient (preoperative) information of the patient. These expert opinions are an instructive source of learning about possibly avoidable errors. Publishing such cases, in a completely anonymized form, should hopefully contribute to the prevention of the recurrence of certain mistakes. We present and comment on two postoperative events: (1) incisional hernias after abdominal hysterectomy and (2) a sub-diaphragmatic abscess after laparoscopic removal of a dermoid ovarian cyst with intraabdominal spillage of its content."}
{"id": "14515055", "title": "[Functional ovarian cysts in girls].", "content": "[Functional ovarian cysts in girls]. Ovarian masses may result from functional (nonneoplastic) cysts or benign or malignant neoplasms. In 1973, the World Health Organisation classified ovarian neoplasms into nine major categories and 26 subtypes, based on histologic cell type and benign versus malignant state. The literature review concerning functional ovarian cysts in girls has been presented. Functional cysts are not true neoplasms but rather should be considered a variation of a normal physiologic process. Functional cyst include follicular, corpus luteum, and theca-lutein types, all of which are benign and usually self-limited. The incidence of functional cysts in the community is probably even higher than indicated in most series, as percentages are based on referred cases and it is not possible to determine the underlying incidence of nonidentified or asymptomatic cysts. Incidence, etiopathogenesis, clinical symptoms, methods of diagnostics, treatment and results of functional cysts in fetus and newborns, in children and adolescents are discussed."}
{"id": "14513369", "title": "Phase I clinical and pharmacological study of intraperitoneal cis-bis-neodecanoato( trans- R, R-1, 2-diaminocyclohexane)-platinum II entrapped in multilamellar liposome vesicles.", "content": "Phase I clinical and pharmacological study of intraperitoneal cis-bis-neodecanoato( trans- R, R-1, 2-diaminocyclohexane)-platinum II entrapped in multilamellar liposome vesicles. To perform a phase I study of intraperitoneal cis-bis-neodecanoato ( trans- R, R-1, 2-diaminocyclohexane)-platinum II entrapped in multilamellar vesicles (L-NDDP) for peritoneal carcinomatosis or sarcomatosis. Eligible patients had normal renal, hematologic, and liver functions. Laparoscopy was performed on the first two courses for evaluation, adhesiolysis, and chemotherapy administration. Afterwards, chemotherapy was administered through a peritoneal catheter. Up to six courses were allowed. Peritoneal imaging with technetium-labeled sulfur colloid was used to determine adequate distribution prior to each course. Volunteering patients underwent pharmacokinetics studies during the second course. Fifteen of 16 registered patients, seven women and eight men (median age 53 years (range 26-76) and median performance status of 1) were assessable. Diagnoses were: malignant mesothelioma (six patients), signet ring cell (three), colon adenocarcinoma, pseudomyxoma peritonei, gastrointestinal stromal tumor (two each), and ovarian carcinoma (one). Median number of courses was two (range, one to six) Dose-limiting toxicity symptoms were fatigue and abdominal pain. Hematologic toxicities were minimal. Peri-operative complications included one colonic perforation requiring primary closure, a peritoneal catheter malfunction, a port site hematoma, and an ascites leak requiring re-suture. Five patients survived at least 3 years. Pharmacokinetics studies indicated a rapid but low absorption of drug into the systemic circulation, with a prolonged retention of platinum in the plasma compartment. Peritoneal L-NDDP exposure was 17 to 49-times greater than in the plasma compartment. Peritoneal cavity exposure to L-NDDP is prolonged, and systemic absorption is limited, yielding a high peritoneal/plasmatic ratio. The recommended dose for phase II studies is 400 mg/m2 every 28 days."}
{"id": "14506771", "title": "Endometriosis co-existing with bilateral dermoid cysts of the ovaries treated by laparoscopy.", "content": "Endometriosis co-existing with bilateral dermoid cysts of the ovaries treated by laparoscopy. Endometriosis co-existing with bilateral dermoid cysts of the ovaries is a rare occurrence although both benign conditions are said to be common in women in the reproductive age group. We present a case of a young woman with primary infertility associated with incapacitating dysmenorrhoea. Sonographic evaluation revealed bilateral ovarian cysts. Video-assisted laparoscopy was performed which revealed bilateral dermoid cysts and endometriotic deposits in the pelvis. The ovarian cysts were enucleated and the endometriotic deposits were endo-coagulated. The patient was treated with GnRH agonist for three months. There have been only two reports of benign and malignant teratomas co-existing with endometriomas."}
{"id": "12974083", "title": "[Operative approaches, indications, and medical economics evaluation of 4180 cases of hysterectomy].", "content": "[Operative approaches, indications, and medical economics evaluation of 4180 cases of hysterectomy]. To examine the operative approaches, major indications, and medical economic parameters of the hysterectomy. Data on hysterectomy performed due to benign gynecological disorders in Peking Union Medical College Hospital (PUMCH) from 1996 to 2001 were reviewed. The cases were classified into three groups according to the operative approaches: total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH), vaginal hysterectomy (VH), and laparoscopic assisted vaginal hysterectomy (LAVH). The major indications, length of hospital stay, operative cost, and total medical cost were analyzed. Records of 4,180 women who had hysterectomies in PUMCH were examined. Operations included TAH (78.4%), LAVH (13.0%), and VH (8.6%). The use of LAVH increased from 2.4% in 1996 to 17.3% in 2001. The common indications for surgery included uterine leiomyoma (56.2%), adenomyosis (12.2%), benign ovarian tumor (9.2%), genital prolapse (7.7%), endometriosis (6.9%), atypical endometrial hyperplasia (3.0%), and cervical intraepithelial neoplasm (2.0%). The most common indications for TAH and LAVH were uterine leiomyomas and adenomyosis, whereas the most common indication for VH was genital prolapse, followed by uterine leiomyoma. The lengths of hospital stay in TAH, VH, and LAVH were (11.0 +/- 4.9) d, (10.9 +/- 3.9) d, and (8.9 +/- 3.7) d respectively. The total medical cost was (5,666.6 +/- 1,709.4) RMB Yuan for TAH, (5,027.6 +/- 1,067.0) RMB Yuan for VH, and (7,473.8 +/- 1,464.8) RMB Yuan for LAVH. The use of LAVH has been increasing. Although the direct medical cost for LAVH is higher than that for TAH, its indirect benefit appeares superior to TAH. The major indications for LAVH and TAH are similar, whereas the indications for VH are different from those for TAH and LAVH."}
{"id": "12969590", "title": "Peritoneal tuberculosis--an uncommon disease that may deceive the gynecologist.", "content": "Peritoneal tuberculosis--an uncommon disease that may deceive the gynecologist. To document women with peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian malignancy and to review pertinent literature. The records of women with peritoneal tuberculosis who were managed at the Soroka Medical Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel between January 2000 and December 2001 were reviewed. Four patients with peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian malignancy were encountered. Two presented with the classical symptomatology of advanced-stage ovarian carcinoma including ascites, abdominopelvic masses and elevated serum CA-125, and two presented with lower abdominal pain and adnexal mass. Laparoscopy in one patient and laparotomy in three patients revealed peritoneal tuberculosis and no malignancy. Of the three patients who had laparotomy, two underwent unnecessary extended surgery including total hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, omentectomy and bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy, and one had conservative surgery including unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. All patients were postoperatively treated with quadruple anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy. Medical awareness of peritoneal tuberculosis is still lacking and many women with this disease are initially thought to have ovarian malignancy and undergo unnecessary extended surgery. Laparoscopy including biopsies seems to be a sufficient and safe method to provide diagnosis of peritoneal tuberculosis. If laparoscopy is not feasible, laparotomy should be performed. If no malignancy is detected and the diagnosis of peritoneal tuberculosis is confirmed, unnecessary extended surgery is avoided and anti-tuberculosis treatment is started."}
{"id": "12969585", "title": "Luteinizing hormone in peritoneal and ovarian cyst fluids: a predictor of ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Luteinizing hormone in peritoneal and ovarian cyst fluids: a predictor of ovarian carcinoma. The aim of this study was to define the role of luteinizing hormone (LH) as a tumor marker, specific for ovarian cancer. The study included 34 women with functional and benign ovarian cysts, 11 women with borderline ovarian tumors, 22 patients with advanced ovarian cancer and 15 patients with non-ovarian intraperitoneal malignancies. Serum, peritoneal fluid and ovarian cyst aspirates were obtained intraoperatively (laparoscopy or laparotomy) and were subjected to the LH analysis. Peritoneal fluid LH levels were significantly increased in patients with ovarian cancer and those with borderline ovarian tumors as compared to patients with functional and benign ovarian cysts (P=0.005 and P=0.007, respectively). The patients with non-ovarian malignancies demonstrated the same peritoneal fluid LH levels as patients with benign ovarian tumors. There was no significant difference in the level of peritoneal fluid LH between ovarian cancer patients with and without ascites. The patients with functional and benign ovarian cysts demonstrated also significantly lower cyst fluid LH levels as compared to patients with malignant and borderline ovarian cysts (P=0.01 and P=0.03, respectively). Peritoneal and ovarian cyst fluid levels of LH were significantly increased in patients with fibrothecomas as compared to patients with other benign ovarian cysts. There were no significant differences in the serum LH levels comparing patients from all study groups. LH, detectable in peritoneal and ovarian cyst fluids, can be used as a tumor marker for identification of patients with borderline and malignant ovarian tumors."}
{"id": "12959184", "title": "Surgical advances in the treatment of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Surgical advances in the treatment of ovarian cancer. Surgical intervention remains a key component in the diagnosis and management of epithelial ovarian carcinomas. Although the parameters defining \"optimal\" tumor cytoreduction continue to evolve, data validate the concept of complete operative tumor resection to no visible residual disease in all stages of ovarian cancer to prolong disease-free and overall survival. In select patients, recurrent disease also may be managed with surgical cytoreduction. At the other end of the spectrum, prophylactic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy has been shown conclusively to reduce the risk of ovarian cancer in women at high risk. Although BRCA1-associated and BRCA2-associated gynecologic cancer syndromes do not seem to include uterine malignancies, the role of hysterectomy to remove the fallopian tube completely is controversial. Finally, new data support the concept of conservative, fertility-sparing surgery in a select group of women with early-stage disease. Although laparoscopy may be feasible in staging women with disease apparently limited to an ovary, further studies are necessary before it can be considered routinely as an alternative to standard laparotomy."}
{"id": "12920345", "title": "Miliary tuberculous peritonitis mimicking advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Miliary tuberculous peritonitis mimicking advanced ovarian cancer. Primary peritoneal tuberculosis is a rare presentation of this disease. It is usually associated with ascites and raised CA-125 levels. Occasionally a pelvic mass may be present making the preoperative differential diagnosis from advanced ovarian cancer extremely difficult. Acid-fast stains and special cultures of the ascitic fluid for Mycobacterium tuberculosis are frequently negative, and confirmation of the diagnosis commonly requires histologic examination of biopsy specimens, in which epithelioid granulomas with central caseous necrosis can be identified. We present a case of unexplained pyrexial ascites in a postmenopausal woman in whom the diagnosis of miliary peritoneal tuberculosis was confirmed laparoscopically. The role of noninvasive tools such as measurement of ascitic fluid adenosine deaminase levels is also discussed."}
{"id": "12918511", "title": "Fallopian tube hydatidiform mole.", "content": "Fallopian tube hydatidiform mole."}
{"id": "12917064", "title": "A case of gonadal dysgenesis, breast development, Graves' disease, and low bone mass.", "content": "A case of gonadal dysgenesis, breast development, Graves' disease, and low bone mass. To describe a case of XY gonadal dysgenesis with Tanner stage 4 breast development in the absence of a hormone-producing gonadal neoplasm and with Graves' disease and low bone mass. The clinical features, laboratory results, and cytogenetic findings in the patient are presented, and the potential mechanisms of breast development are discussed. A MEDLINE search was performed, and related articles in the English-language literature published between 1955 and 2001 were reviewed. A 23-year-old African American woman was referred to the University of Louisville Hospital for evaluation of hyperthyroidism. About 4 months before this referral, hyperthyroidism was diagnosed, and treatment with methimazole was initiated. She continued to have thyrotoxicosis. Additionally, systemic review disclosed a history of primary amenorrhea. Physical examination revealed a tall phenotypic female patient with Tanner stage 4 breast development. Pelvic examination showed normal findings except for sparse pubic hair. Laboratory evaluation confirmed the diagnosis of Graves' disease as well as primary gonadal failure. Pelvic ultrasonography revealed a small uterus and bilateral adnexal masses (0.9 by 0.6 cm). On chromosomal analysis, a 46,XY karyotype was found. Further analysis of Y-DNA by polymerase chain reaction confirmed the presence of an intact Y chromosome, and no microdeletions were identified. Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry demonstrated a Z-score of -4.7 and -4.2 at the lumbar spine and right hip, respectively. Graves' disease was successfully treated with (131)I. Laparoscopy was performed to resect streak gonads. On histologic examination, no typical ovarian, testicular, or neoplastic tissue was identified. The breast development in this patient remains unexplained. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case report of a tall XY female patient with breast development in the absence of a hormone-producing gonadal neoplasm and without clearly identifiable gonads. Breast development was most likely related to estrogens, possibly produced by either streak gonads at the time of puberty or peripheral conversion of androgens, or to increased sensitivity of breast tissue to estrogens. Graves' disease is likely coincidental and could contribute to bone loss in such subjects."}
{"id": "12907095", "title": "Predictors of clinical outcomes in the laparoscopic management of adnexal masses.", "content": "Predictors of clinical outcomes in the laparoscopic management of adnexal masses. Laparoscopy has become an accepted approach in the management of adnexal masses. We evaluated clinical outcomes of laparoscopic management of adnexal masses thought to be benign preoperatively. We performed a retrospective study of patients undergoing laparoscopic evaluation of adnexal masses over a 7-year period. Regression models evaluated predictors of blood loss, length of stay, complications, mass rupture, conversion to laparotomy, and operating time. Preoperative predictors of malignant and borderline disease were evaluated using a separate model. Complications occurred in 8% of 396 patients undergoing laparoscopic evaluation of adnexal masses and were associated with concurrent hysterectomy (P =.01) and smaller mass (P =.01). Conversion to laparotomy occurred in 25% and was associated with larger mass (P =.001), prior hysterectomy (P =.002), and younger age (P =.002). Mass rupture occurred in 25% and was associated with prior (P <.001) or concurrent (P =.003) hysterectomy and younger age (P =.001). Blood loss greater than 500 mL was associated with concurrent hysterectomy (P <.001). Length of stay was associated with concurrent (P <.001) and prior (P <.001) hysterectomy, larger mass (P =.01), prior abdominal surgery (P =.009), and medical comorbidities (P =.007). Malignancy occurred in 2%, and laparoscopic management was not associated with adverse outcomes. Adnexal masses thought to be benign preoperatively were successfully managed laparoscopically in three fourths of cases and clinical outcomes were acceptable. To a great extent, adverse events were attributable to concurrent hysterectomy rather than removal of the adnexal mass."}
{"id": "12905519", "title": "Pelvic echinococcus mimicking multicystic ovary.", "content": "Pelvic echinococcus mimicking multicystic ovary. An unusual case of pelvic echinococcus cyst is presented, appearing initially on transvaginal ultrasound as a pelvic mass mimicking a multicystic ovary. A similar mass in the liver raised preoperatively the suspicion of echinococcosis, making an open surgical procedure preferable to laparoscopy. Diagnosis was confirmed pathologically after removal of the cyst. Though their location in the pelvis is rare, echinococcal cysts should be considered in the differential diagnosis of pelvic masses, especially in patients from endemic areas. Evaluation of previous medical history and current symptoms, together with the ultrasonographic findings, is important for correct diagnosis and appropriate management."}
{"id": "12903790", "title": "Evaluation of surgery in simple ovarian cysts.", "content": "Evaluation of surgery in simple ovarian cysts. To evaluate the surgery in simple ovarian cysts. From Jan. 1994 to Dec. 1999, 221 women with simple ovarian cysts were admitted into our hospital. The diameter of cysts was < 5 cm in 76 cases, and was > or = 5 cm in 145 cases ultrasonically. One hundred and eighty-four patients underwent laparoscopy, and thirty-seven underwent laparotomy. Histological findings showed no malignancy in this series. Simple cysts, paraovarian cysts and corpus luteum were found histologically in 90.8% of cases with cysts < 5 cm, and 60% of those with cysts > 7 cm respectively, their difference was significant (chi2=37.13, P<0.001). The simple cysts, paraovarian cysts and corpus luteum cysts were found in 81.5% of postmenopausal women and 84.0% of premenopausal women. Patients with cysts > 7 cm are indicated for surgical procedures, while a period of followup is acceptable for patients with cysts < 7 cm, and surgery is advisable if the cyst is persistent during followup. Postmenopausal women with cysts should have operations."}
{"id": "12903553", "title": "[Staging videolaparoscopy of peritoneal carcinomatosis].", "content": "[Staging videolaparoscopy of peritoneal carcinomatosis]. The peritoneal surface malignancy is an high risk condition which implies high postoperative mortality also for simple explorative laparotomy. A technique of staging laparoscopy was assessed and is here described: the technique reveals to be safe, feasible and reliable. The accuracy of the procedure depends our the surgeons experience and familiarity with the concepts of PCI and cytoreduction."}
{"id": "12893216", "title": "Abdominal wall metastasis of a cervical adenocarcinoma at the laparoscopic trocar insertion site after ovarian transposition: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Abdominal wall metastasis of a cervical adenocarcinoma at the laparoscopic trocar insertion site after ovarian transposition: case report and review of the literature. Laparoscopic ovarian transposition is currently used in the preirradiation management of cervical cancer in young women. This surgical technique helps avoid the short- and long-term complications of early menopause. Because there remains a risk of metastasis at the site where the laparoscopic trocar is inserted, more precise indications for this surgery are required. We report the case of a patient with an abdominal wall metastasis that followed laparoscopic ovarian transposition performed before radiation therapy and surgical treatment for a stage IIb cervical adenocarcinoma. Observations during the laparotomy nonetheless led us to resect the transposed ovary during the laparotomy. The pathology examination of the ovary found a microscopic metastasis. Several months later, a left abdominal parietal nodule, corresponding to a metastasis of the adenocarcinoma, was found on the site through which the trocar had been inserted during the laparoscopy and was probably associated with the ovarian transposition. This is the only published case to describe an abdominal wall metastasis due to laparoscopic trocar insertion during ovarian transposition. The decision to perform a laparoscopic ovarian transposition in cervical cancer must take into account the frequency of trocar site metastases, which seems to be higher with advanced-stage cervical cancers, in cases of lymph node involvement and especially in adenocarcinomas."}
{"id": "12893213", "title": "The effects of CO2 pneumoperitoneum on the survival of women with persistent metastatic ovarian cancer.", "content": "The effects of CO2 pneumoperitoneum on the survival of women with persistent metastatic ovarian cancer. The effects of CO(2) pneumoperitoneum on the survival of women with metastatic ovarian cancer have not been documented. We sought to describe the survival of women with persistent stage III-IV ovarian cancer as documented by positive second-look laparoscopy or laparotomy and to see whether the laparoscopic approach with CO(2) pneumoperitoneum has a negative effect on overall survival. We conducted a retrospective review of all patients with FIGO stage III-IV invasive epithelial ovarian cancer who were found to have persistent disease at second-look surgery. All patients underwent primary surgery followed by intravenous chemotherapy and were clinically without evidence of disease prior to second-look surgery. Second-look laparoscopy began to be utilized regularly in 1994. The selection of the second-look surgical approach depended on the surgeon's discretion. CO(2) pneumoperitoneum was utilized for all laparoscopic cases with the maximum intra-abdominal pressure maintained at 15 mm Hg. Patients received a variety of additional intravenous, intraperitoneal, or oral chemotherapy following positive second-look surgery. Between 6/1/91 and 6/30/02, 289 patients were found to have persistent ovarian/peritoneal cancer at second look. Second-look operations included 131 (45%) transperitoneal laparoscopies and 139 (48%) laparotomies. Nineteen (7%) patients underwent laparoscopy followed immediately by laparotomy. The mean age, stage distribution, histology, grade, and size of residual disease at second look did not differ between the two groups. The median overall survival for patients who underwent laparoscopy, 41.1 months (95% CI, 33.2-58.1), did not significantly differ from that of the laparotomy group, 38.8 months (95% CI, 31.9-44.2) (P = 0.742). Transperitoneal laparoscopy with CO(2) pneumoperitoneum does not appear to reduce the overall survival of women with persistent metastatic intra-abdominal carcinoma of ovarian/peritoneal origin. The overall survival appears to be independent of the second-look surgical approach."}
{"id": "12893209", "title": "Surgery as sole treatment for serous borderline tumors of the ovary with noninvasive implants.", "content": "Surgery as sole treatment for serous borderline tumors of the ovary with noninvasive implants. The objectives were to describe the clinical characteristics and prognosis of surgically treated patients with stage II and III serous borderline tumors of the ovary with noninvasive implants. From 1990 to 2000, 16 patients with stage II and III ovarian serous borderline tumors and noninvasive implants were diagnosed and prospectively followed at our center. All patients underwent surgical treatment including staging and their pathology was reviewed. Fifteen patients had thorough surgical staging by laparotomy, while one patient was staged laparoscopically. No patient was treated with adjuvant therapy (radiation or chemotherapy) after surgical treatment and none were lost to follow-up. The mean age at diagnosis was 42 years (range 26-59). Fourteen patients were treated by abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, omentectomy, and multiple peritoneal biopsies, while 2 patients were treated conservatively for fertility preservation. Two patients underwent pelvic and para-aortic lymph node dissection. Fifteen of 16 patients had ovarian surface involvement with tumor. All patients but 2 had clinical evidence of extraovarian disease at the time of surgery. The mean duration of follow-up was 60.7 months (range 2-134 months). Thirteen patients (81%) are alive without evidence of disease. Four patients (25%) required subsequent surgery for recurrent disease and all are still alive. Two patients have been treated with chemotherapy (paclitaxel/carboplatin) for progressive borderline disease, while an additional patient was treated after first relapse with chemotherapy for an invasive recurrence. Carefully staged patients with advanced serous borderline tumors of the ovary and noninvasive implants have a good prognosis without adjuvant therapy."}
{"id": "12893196", "title": "Preoperative diagnosis of malignant transformation arising from mature cystic teratoma of the ovary.", "content": "Preoperative diagnosis of malignant transformation arising from mature cystic teratoma of the ovary. Mature cystic teratoma of the ovary (MCT) is the most common ovarian cystic disease in young women. Although it is a rare occurrence, some cases develop malignant transformation (MT), which results in serious consequences. However, MT is currently diagnosed only by postoperative pathology in most cases. We have conducted a retrospective study in an attempt to seek the factor to diagnose MT from MCT prior to surgery. Eighty-one patients with MCT and 39 patients with MT were entered in this study. Patient's age, tumor size, serum CEA levels, and serum SCC levels were tested by the Mann-Whiteney U test. Sensitivity and specificity were calculated, and the most suitable point was searched from the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. A significant difference was recognized in both patient's age and serum SCC level (P < 0.0001). For a patient less than 40 years old, the sensitivity to MT was 95%, and then the specificity to MT was 63%. When the standard value of the SCC level of the serum was established as 2.5 ng/ml, the sensitivity to MT was 80% and the specificity to MT was 94%. We apply two criteria at the same time (serum SCC levels less than 2.5 ng/ml and patient's age less than 40 years old). The sensitivity for MT was 77% and specificity was 96%. The combination of the two criteria which are patient's age (under 40 years old) and serum SCC level (under 2.5 ng/ml) was considered a suitable marker for differential diagnosis between MCT and MT. Further the possibility for MT is quite low when the patient is 39 years old or younger and the serum SCC level is under 2.5 ng/ml. When any patient satisfies this condition, laparoscopic surgery will be able to be planned safely."}
{"id": "12886864", "title": "Prophylactic surgery in hereditary breast/ovarian cancer syndrome.", "content": "Prophylactic surgery in hereditary breast/ovarian cancer syndrome. The hereditary breast/ovarian cancer syndrome is responsible for approximately 5% of all breast cancers and 10% of all ovarian cancers. Although this accounts for a small portion of these diseases, much attention has been focused on this syndrome because of the abundance of research in this area. The majority of the hereditary breast/ovarian syndrome can be attributed to germ-line mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. Reliable screening techniques for these mutations have been developed and are readily available in clinical practice. For patients who are thought to have the hereditary breast/ovarian cancer syndrome based on family history or genetic testing, options exist for either intensive screening or prophylactic surgery. This review will discuss the mechanisms by which mutations in the BRCA genes lead to the development of cancer, the limitations of currently available screening techniques, and the efficacy of prophylactic surgery. In general, prophylactic oophorectomy can be performed laparoscopically as an outpatient procedure, carrying as its main drawback the associated consequence of surgical menopause. Prophylactic mastectomy is quite effective in reducing the risk of breast cancer but is a more extensive surgical procedure and results in disfigurement. For any given patient, the best estimates of individual risk of breast or ovarian cancer should be weighed against the benefits of prophylactic surgery and the patient's personal wishes."}
{"id": "12865867", "title": "Advanced ovarian carcinoma: usefulness of [(18)F]FDG-PET in combination with CT for lesion detection after primary treatment.", "content": "Advanced ovarian carcinoma: usefulness of [(18)F]FDG-PET in combination with CT for lesion detection after primary treatment. To determine the additional value of [(18)F]FDG-PET in combination with computed tomography (CT) over CT used alone, for evaluating ovarian cancer patients after primary treatment. Twenty-five women (mean age: 53.6 years) had primary debulking surgery followed by chemotherapy for histologically proven ovarian carcinoma. At initial diagnosis, the tumor types were papillary serous adenocarcinoma (n=20), endometroid carcinoma (n=3), mixed mullerian tumor (n=1), and granulosa cell tumor (n=1). All patients underwent [(18)F]FDG-PET and contrast enhanced CT examinations, within 30 days of the completion of chemotherapic treatment. [(18)F]FDG-PET images were interpreted with the knowledge of CT findings (PET+CT); conversely, CT images were evaluated with no knowledge of the [(18)F]FDG-PET results. Within 7 day of imaging studies, 2(nd)-look laparoscopy (n=7) or laparotomy (n=18) was performed for histological confirmation. In all cases, imaging findings were then correlated with results of histopathologic examination. Of the 23 neoplastic viable lesions, all histologically confirmed, 16 could be detected by CT alone and 19 by PET+CT. An inflammatory lymph-node was misdiagnosed as viable tumor with both PET+CT and CT alone; an area of scar tissue in the presacral region was also misinterpreted as malignant tissue with CT alone. Overall lesion-based sensitivity, specificity and accuracy in assessing focal areas of residual tumor were as follows: 69.56%, 83.33%, 74.28% for CT, and 82.60%, 91.67%, 85.71% for PET+CT. The negative predictive value of PET+CT was markedly higher (73.33%), compared to that of CT alone (58.82%). PET used in combination with CT allows to accurately assess tumor response. A major advantage of PET+CT over CT alone is in excluding the presence of residual viable lesions after treatment."}
{"id": "12865596", "title": "Laparoscopy-assisted intrapelvic sonography with a high-frequency, real-time miniature transducer to assess the ovary: a preliminary report.", "content": "Laparoscopy-assisted intrapelvic sonography with a high-frequency, real-time miniature transducer to assess the ovary: a preliminary report. Our purpose was to evaluate the normal and pathologic internal textures of the ovary using laparoscopy-assisted intrapelvic sonography (LAIPS) with a specially developed 20-MHz flexible catheter-based high-resolution real-time miniature (2.4 mm in outer diameter) ultrasound transducer in patients with gynecologic disorders and infertile women. 30 women (19 patients with gynecologic disorders and normal menstrual cycles (2 adenomyoses, 1 cervical cancer, 5 fibromyomas, 5 simple ovarian cysts, 1 endometriosis, 3 benign cystic teratomas, and 2 endometriomas), and 11 patients with infertility including 4 with polycystic ovarian syndrome, PCOS) were studied by intrapelvic sonography using a high-frequency real-time miniature transducer with pelvic saline effusion and laparoscopy. In the normal ovary in the mid-follicular phase, follicles were depicted more distinctly than with transvaginal sonography (TVS). In the late-follicular phase, cumulus oophorus formations were visualized in 6 of 9 patients (54.5%), but were not clear using TVS. In the luteal phase, the corpus luteum was noted in 9 of 12 patients (75%) by both TVS and LAIPS. In patients with PCOS, the thickened capsule of the ovary was distinguished clearly especially in the peripheral type, in which numerous small cysts were aligned in the subcapsular region of the ovary, whereas it could not be detected by TVS. In all 4 cases with PCOS (8 ovaries), the ovarian capsular thickness could be measured by means of LAIPS. In subjects with benign cystic teratoma, minimal high echoic lesions were depicted. In subjects with endometrioma, a diffuse coarse-granular internal texture was visualized. However, depiction of internal structures in large pathologic ovarian lesions was markedly limited because of the shallow scanning range of the high-frequency transducer. LAIPS with a high-frequency real-time miniature transducer might be a useful diagnostic modality to evaluate the normal physiologic textures of the ovary, as well as those with PCOS."}
{"id": "12861132", "title": "Management of port-site metastasis after laparoscopic surgery for ovarian cancer.", "content": "Management of port-site metastasis after laparoscopic surgery for ovarian cancer. The purpose of this study was to define the clinical features and long-term prognosis of port-site metastasis after primary laparoscopic surgery for ovarian cancer. All the patients with epithelial ovarian cancer or borderline malignancy who had undergone primary laparoscopic surgery at our institution were reviewed. The clinicopathologic parameters, flow cytometric parameters, p53, p27, bax, HER-2/neu, and bcl-2 by immunostaining, presentation of port-site implants, management of the individual patient, and long-term outcome were analyzed. CANCERLINE and MEDLINE (1960-2002) were searched for related papers. Between 1993 and 2001, of the 31 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer or borderline malignancy who underwent primary laparoscopic surgery at Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 6 (19.4%) had port-site metastasis. The other 2 patients were referred after port-site metastasis. Tumors with port-site recurrences had higher S-fraction than those without (median: 18.2% vs 9.9%, P =.003; relative risk ratio: >15.5% vs <or=15.5% = 38.33; 95% CI, 3.3-449.2). Those patients who have port-site metastasis develop during chemotherapy (n = 2) or after adequate chemotherapy had been given (n = 2) all died of cancer. Two patients have been currently alive without disease, the tumors of whom were p27-positive and p53-, HER-2/neu -, bcl-2-negative. Port-site metastasis after laparoscopic surgery, during chemotherapy or when adequate chemotherapy has been given, is usually associated with poor outcome. Further investigations are necessary to define the mechanisms and effective management to prevent and treat this serious complication."}
{"id": "12858105", "title": "Ovarian endometriosis: from pathogenesis to surgical treatment.", "content": "Ovarian endometriosis: from pathogenesis to surgical treatment. This review analyzes the literature on ovarian endometrioma, examining the controversies on pathogenesis, malignant transformation and surgical therapy. Recent literature reflects the necessity of clearly defining the ethiologic and pathologic factors that determine the origin of ovarian endometriosis and explain the increase in the condition with the prospect of developing effective prevention therapy. The possibility that ovarian endometriomas undergo malignant transformation is widely reported in the literature. Recent studies underline the importance of detecting histological differences in endometriosis (hyperplasia and atypia) and several studies of molecular biology support the theory of genetic alterations interfering with malignant transformation of ovarian endometriosis. The surgical approach must take into account all this information and, when the therapy is conservative, complete excision of the disease must be laparoscopically performed without affecting the healthy ovarian tissue."}
{"id": "12854858", "title": "Ovarian tumour: ovarian pregnancy. Diagnosis and management.", "content": "Ovarian tumour: ovarian pregnancy. Diagnosis and management. An ovarian mass in a premenopausal patient has many differential diagnoses. In young patients the mass is most likely to be benign. Sometimes patients with an abdominal mass will present as acute abdomen. If the patients have an IUD and a positive test for serum HCG, an ectopic ovarian pregnancy has to be suspected. However one also has to take into consideration the possibility of an ovarian germ cell tumour. The latter occurs in young patients, presents as an ovarian mass and can produce HCG. The preoperative and even intraoperative diagnosis are difficult. In these cases where there is a suspected ovarian mass and no clear diagnosis a laparoscopic approach should be considered. Patients with an ovarian pregnancy have a good prognosis for future fertility and therefore conservative surgical management is advocated. The approach and treatment modalities of an ovarian pregnancy are discussed."}
{"id": "12821363", "title": "Malignant struma ovarii: a case report of laparoscopic management.", "content": "Malignant struma ovarii: a case report of laparoscopic management. Struma ovarii is a rare disease. Malignant transformation is even rarer. Data about its management are lacking. We describe the first reported case of a malignant struma ovarii treated and staged by laparoscopy. A 49-year-old patient was operated by laparoscopy for a right ovarian teratoma. The patient did not show symptoms of hyperthyroidism. The ovarian teratoma was removed in a plastic bag and definitive histology showed foci of papillary adenocarcinoma in a struma ovarii. The patient was then staged by laparoscopic surgery undergoing left adnexectomy, multiple peritoneal and omental biopsies, and common iliac and paracaval lymph node sampling. Hysterectomy was not performed. The postoperative course was uneventful and the patient was released on the second day. Thyroglobulin level was monitored and the patient is free of disease after more than 1 year. The preoperative diagnosis of malignant struma ovarii is difficult. Even with cautious evaluation of the patient, some risk of wrong diagnosis is possible. This is why a meticulous technique of laparoscopic surgery in removing the ovary is important. Laparoscopic staging may also intervene in very limited cases; the expertise to perform open staging of the patient is necessary but the postoperative course is fast."}
{"id": "12816688", "title": "[Benign ovarian tumor with ascites and high serum levels of CA125: report of 3 cases].", "content": "[Benign ovarian tumor with ascites and high serum levels of CA125: report of 3 cases]. To describe the clinical characteristics of benign ovarian tumor/mass which manifest as pelvic mass, ascites and high serum levels of CA(125). Clinical data of 3 cases of such disease in Peking Union Medical College Hospital were analyzed and relevant literatures were reviewed. The patients all were misdiagnosed as ovarian carcinoma, and operations designed for malignant ovarian tumor were performed on all of them. There was no definite proof of malignant tumor, such as positive findings of pathology and/or cytology, in any patients before operation. Among these diseases, pelvic tuberculosis, ovarian endometrioid cyst and ovarian fibroma are the three most common ones, others are: fibrothecoma, thecoma, struma ovarii, adenofibroma, benign Brenner tumor, mature theratoma, ovarian edema and fibromatosis. Pelvic mass, ascites and high serum level of CA(125) can't always result of a diagnosis of ovarian carcinoma. Positive findings of pathology and/or cytology is the only definite proof of a diagnosis of ovarian malignant tumor. On the susceptible case, laparoscopy is a useful and reliable method."}
{"id": "12815914", "title": "Diagnosis of a small, androgenizing Brenner cell tumor in a postmenopausal woman aided by laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy. A case report.", "content": "Diagnosis of a small, androgenizing Brenner cell tumor in a postmenopausal woman aided by laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy. A case report. Rapidly progressive hirsutism or virilization in the postmenopausal woman raises the suspicion of an androgen-secreting tumor. Hormonal testing and imaging studies usually rule out an adrenal tumor. However, small, androgenizing ovarian tumors may not be detectable by imaging studies. A postmenopausal woman presented with rapidly progressive hirsutism and elevated androgens. Imaging studies did not localize the tumor. Bilateral laparoscopic oophorectomy was performed, and a small, androgenizing Brenner cell tumor of the left ovary was demonstrated on histologic examination. Because of the low morbidity associated with laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy, it may be reasonable to remove the ovaries of postmenopausal women who display virilization or rapidly progressive hirsutism and elevated androgens, even if imaging studies do not detect the ovarian tumor."}
{"id": "12807238", "title": "Preoperative serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in ovarian masses.", "content": "Preoperative serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in ovarian masses. To determine the diagnostic value of serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the preoperative assessment of the nature of ovarian masses. A prospective cohort study was conducted from August 2001 to September 2002 on 40 premenopausal and 23 postmenopausal patients with ovarian masses. During preoperative workup, patient age, serum Ca-125 levels, serum VEGF levels, and tumor volume based on ultrasonographic examination were determined. Laparoscopic (n=23) or laparotomic (n=39) approaches were undertaken to obtain the final pathologic result. According to the final ovarian pathology, follicular cysts, corpus luteum cysts and endometriomas were grouped as non-neoplastic ovarian masses (n=40, group I). Serous or mucinous cyctadenomas, dermoid tumors and fibromas were allocated into the neoplastic benign ovarian mass group (n=10, group II). Primary malignant ovarian neoplasms were categorized into the neoplastic-malign group (n=12, group III). Mean ages of cases among groups I, II and III were 39.0 +/- 2.0, 42.2 +/- 5.2 and 56.9 +/- 4.2, respectively. As age of the cases enrolled in this sudy increased, the more likely was the occurrence of neoplastic malign ovarian pathologies (p < 0.001). Among postmenopausal cases diagnosed with an ovarian mass, serum Ca-125 levels were 113.5 +/- 20 IU/ml compared to those in premenopausal cases (85.8 +/- 16.0, p = 0.05). The values for serum VEGF values among pre- and postmenopausal ovarian masses were 46.2 +/- 6.7 pg/ml and 68.2 +/- 7.9, respectively (p = 0.04). In group I, serum VEGF levels of endometriomas (56.5 +/- 1.5 pg/ml) were higher compared to those of follicular or corpus luteum cysts (30.6 +/- 2.8, p = 0.05). In contrast, tumor size appeared to be larger in non-endometriotic. non-neoplastic cysts (10.1 +/- 2.0 cm), compared to endometriomas (6.4 +/- 0.6 cm, p < 0.01). Serum VEGF levels of group III were higher than other groups (p < 0.001). With respect to the discriminating benign or malign nature of the mass, with a specific cut-off value of serum VEGF level of 68.7 pg/ml, the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative likelihood ratios were 92.3%, 88.0%, 3.3 and 0.1, respectively. For serum Ca-125 levels, the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative likelihood ratio with a statistically relevant cut-off value of 102 IU/ml were, 76.9%, 76.0%, 3.21 and 0.3, respectively. Area under curve (AUC) for serum VEGF and Ca-125 values were 0.938 (95% CI: 0.81-0.96) and 0.769 (95% CI: 0.64-0.86), respectively (p = 0.02). Among the postmenopausal group, AUC for serum VEGF and Ca-125 was detected as 0.902 (95% CI: 0.70-0.98) and 0.873 (95% CI: 0.66-0.91) (p = 0.14). Serum VEGF has the potential to be considered as a tumor marker with a good diagnostic relevance in differentiating the nature of ovarian masses."}
{"id": "12807227", "title": "Reflections on the FIGO surgical staging of invasive epithelial ovarian cancer.", "content": "Reflections on the FIGO surgical staging of invasive epithelial ovarian cancer. The main aims and requirements of any staging system are: to determine the anatomical extent of disease, to allow uniform reporting of treatment results, comparison of their efficacy and pooling of data from various institutions. It should be based on the mode of spread of the neoplasm, take into consideration prognostic risk factors and be of prognostic value. A critical review of the FIGO staging system for ovarian carcinoma indicates that these aims and requirements are not entirely fulfilled. Following are some examples. It does not include exact recommendations for comprehensive surgical staging in apparently early ovarian cancer and staging is therefore not performed uniformly. The presence of parenchymal liver and lung metastasis may be facilitated by modern imaging devices. However, according to FIGO rules only simple X-ray procedures are allowed preoperatively. The correlation between increasing stage and survival is inconsistent and sometimes contrary to that expected. Many known prognostic factors are not included in the present staging system. Although the aims of data pooling and of uniform reporting of treatment results have been achieved, the validity of some comparisons are questionable in view of the variations in staging. The intent of this review was not to belittle the major contribution of staging to research, understanding and management of ovarian carcinoma, but to highlight its deficiencies. New data have accumulated since the FIGO staging system of ovarian carcinoma has been adopted and should prompt consideration of modifications such as incorporation of modern diagnostic procedures and of some established prognostic markers and reshuffling of certain substages."}
{"id": "12798483", "title": "No recurrence of mature ovarian teratomas after laparoscopic cystectomy.", "content": "No recurrence of mature ovarian teratomas after laparoscopic cystectomy. Recurrence of ovarian teratomas was evaluated in a randomised trial to determine whether laparoscopic cystectomy had the same efficacy as laparotomy. Forty premenopausal non-pregnant women with a unilateral teratoma no larger than 10 cm were randomised to laparoscopy or laparotomy. Post-operative pain, duration of stay in hospital and duration of convalescence were compared. Women were reviewed every six months for five years. A higher proportion had milder pain, faster hospital discharge and faster recovery following laparoscopy than laparotomy. There were no recurrences of teratomas in both arms of the study, suggesting that laparoscopy has the same efficacy as laparotomy."}
{"id": "12782940", "title": "Long-term results of paclitaxel in FIGO stage III ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Long-term results of paclitaxel in FIGO stage III ovarian carcinoma. The combination of platinum and paclitaxel is the standard treatment of advanced ovarian carcinoma; however, recent studies have questioned the actual role of the combination as compared to either of the two agents alone. We report an open-label, two-center, phase II study of upfront paclitaxel for patients with histological diagnosis of stage III ovarian carcinoma. Treatment consisted of paclitaxel at 175 mg/m2 administered in a 3-h infusion every 21 days. Response was evaluated after the third course by either laparoscopy or exploratory laparotomy. Patients with stable or progressive disease discontinued treatment, whereas responding patients continued treatment until a maximum of six courses. Response, toxicity, time to progression (TTP) and survival were evaluated. From November 1993 to December 1995, 30 patients were accrued. All patients underwent primary cytoreduction; 17 (57%) and 13 (43%) patients had residual tumors <2 and >2 cm, respectively. Of 27 patients evaluable, objective responses were seen in 18 (66.4%) (95% CI 49.5-83.2)--12 complete (45%) and six partial (22%). Four patients had stable disease (15%) and five (18%) patients progressed. A total of 149 courses were administered to 30 patients, median 4 (range 1-6). Grade 3/4 neutropenia was seen in 13% of courses, peripheral neuropathy, myalgia and arthralgia were frequent, but transitory and relieved with analgesics. At a median follow-up time of 44.5 months (0-99) the TTP and median survival were 16.6 and 43.1 months, respectively. We conclude that single-agent paclitaxel is an effective and well-tolerated first-line treatment for advanced ovarian carcinoma."}
{"id": "12781415", "title": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses in pregnancy: a case series.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses in pregnancy: a case series. To determine the feasibility, safety, limiting factors, and advantages of laparoscopic management of adnexal masses in pregnancy. During a 12-year period, 48 laparoscopic procedures were performed in 47 patients with adnexal masses in pregnancy. Laparoscopic surgery was done during the first trimester of pregnancy in 17 cases, the second trimester in 27 cases and the third trimester in four cases. All the procedures were performed with general anesthesia and curarization. The laparoscopic cystectomies were performed either with the intra-peritoneal or the trans-peritoneal technique. The indications were: persistant or sonographically abnormal ovarian cyst (36 cases), torsion or rupture of ovarian cyst (8 cases), and symptomatic pelvic mass (3 cases). Two borderline tumors were discovered. The laproscopic procedure could not be performed in two cases due to dense adhesions and difficulty of hemostasis. No patient encountered complications during the intra- and post-operative periods. The mean hospital stay was 3.8 days. The outcome of the pregnancy was normal in all cases except one fetal loss 4 days after the laparoscopy. Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses in pregnancy by an experienced team, is a safe and effective procedure that allows, compared to the traditional surgery, a shorter hospital stay, a reduced rate of post-operative complications and a decreased maternal and fetal morbidity."}
{"id": "12775541", "title": "Laparoscopic adnexectomy of a persistent ovarian tumor in a girl with acute lymphoblastic leukemia relapse.", "content": "Laparoscopic adnexectomy of a persistent ovarian tumor in a girl with acute lymphoblastic leukemia relapse. The management of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) relapse and an ovarian tumor remains controversial. The authors report about a 4-year-old girl who developed a late bone marrow and cutaneous relapse of her pre-B-cell ALL and revealed an enlargement of her left ovary (4 x 3 x 2 cm). Chemotherapy (ALL-REZ-BFM pilot-protocol 2002) achieved effective remission, but the ovarian mass depicted no regression. Laparoscopic adnexectomy was performed and the tumor could be extracted in a specimen-bag through a 12-mm umbilical incision. Histology detected no viable lymphoblasts, but a fibrotic enlargement due to previous cellular infiltration. The authors conclude that in children with ALL relapse and an ovarian tumor, malignant infiltration as well as local response to chemotherapy can be judged only by surgical excision and histopathologic examination. Laparoscopic oophoradnexectomy is a valuable management option in these children."}
{"id": "12756880", "title": "[Carcinoma of the fallopian tube after prophylactic laparoscopic ovariectomy in a patient with a BRCAI mutation].", "content": "[Carcinoma of the fallopian tube after prophylactic laparoscopic ovariectomy in a patient with a BRCAI mutation]. A 48-year-old woman with a distended abdomen appeared to have ascites and was admitted to the gynaecological ward. At the age of 31 years she had been diagnosed with breast cancer and had undergone surgical breast conservation of the right breast. There was a history of both ovarian cancer and breast cancer in her family. Genetic evaluation showed that she was carrying a BRCAI germline mutation. At the age of 42 years she underwent a prophylactic bilateral laparoscopic ovariectomy and 5 years later she underwent a complete mastectomy due to breast carcinoma of the left breast. Two months later she developed ascites, a raised CA125 level and on a CT scan carcinoma of the peritoneum. During the laparotomy a fallopian tube carcinoma was found. After the uterus, fallopian tubes and omentum had been surgically removed, chemotherapy took place. The patient tolerated this well and the CA125 value decreased. Recently, the first molecular evidence was found that linked fallopian tube cancer to germline mutations in BRCAI patients. Patients harbouring a BRCA germline mutation not only have an increased risk of ovarian carcinoma but also of fallopian tube carcinoma. Therefore, in patients with a BRCA mutation, prophylactic surgery should take the form of an adnexectomy, not an oophorectomy."}
{"id": "12755523", "title": "Bilateral seminomas in a 45X/46XY mosaic with Turner's phenotype: an unusual case of mixed gonadal dysgenesis.", "content": "Bilateral seminomas in a 45X/46XY mosaic with Turner's phenotype: an unusual case of mixed gonadal dysgenesis. A wide spectrum of phenotypic manifestations are seen in cases with 45X/46XY mosaicism. We present a case with 45X/46XY having female phenotype with Turner's stigmata. Prophylactic laparoscopic gonadectomy was performed and the patient was found to have mixed gonadal dysgenesis with bilateral gonadoblastomas. Microinvasive seminomas were also detected in both gonadoblastomas. The presence of Y cell line in karyotype prompted early and prophylactic gonadectomy, a procedure which is life-saving for these individuals."}
{"id": "12746993", "title": "Primary extrarenal rhabdoid tumor of the ovary. A case report.", "content": "Primary extrarenal rhabdoid tumor of the ovary. A case report. Malignant rhabdoid tumors are rare, aggressive neoplasms that consist of both renal and extrarenal subtypes. Although extrarenal rhabdoid tumors have been documented at multiple extrarenal sites, to our knowledge no primary ovarian cases have been reported. An 18-year-old, Caucasian woman was diagnosed with a pure primary extrarenal rhabdoid tumor of the ovary following diagnostic laparoscopy for pelvic pain. The tumor exhibited rapid growth, failed to respond to chemotherapy and led rapidly to death. Although no other reports on primary ovarian extrarenal rhabdoid tumor have been published, the aggressive behavior of the tumor in this patient was similar to that seen in patients with metastatic disease."}
{"id": "12732763", "title": "Laparoscopic approach to dermoid cysts: combined surgical technique and ultrasonographic evaluation of residual functioning ovarian tissue.", "content": "Laparoscopic approach to dermoid cysts: combined surgical technique and ultrasonographic evaluation of residual functioning ovarian tissue. To estimate how and if laparoscopic removal of ovarian dermoid cysts is a tissue-sparing procedure. Prospective study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). University-associated hospital. Fifty-five women. Laparoscopic removal of ovarian dermoid cysts by a combination of hydrodissection and blunt dissection, and transvaginal sonographic (TVS) evaluation of residual ovarian tissue. Within 1 week before surgery all recruited patients underwent TVS evaluation of ovarian volume, size, and morphology of dermoid cysts and measurement of surrounding ovarian cortex. Mean cyst diameter was 5.5 +/- 2.2 cm (range 2.1-15.0 cm). Within 6 to 12 months after laparoscopic excision, TVS measurements of residual ovarian tissues were obtained. Ovarian residual cortex surrounding the cyst was not visible at TVS in 24 ovaries, whereas in 56 ovaries residual tissue volume was greater than 3 cm3 after laparoscopic excision. We propose laparoscopic removal of dermoid cysts by combining hydrodissection and blunt dissection with maximum tissue sparing, even when the cyst seems to fill the ovary and no surrounding ovarian cortex can be seen on ultrasound."}
{"id": "12706785", "title": "[Pelvic embryonal tumor].", "content": "[Pelvic embryonal tumor]."}
{"id": "12691323", "title": "Synchronous fallopian tube and breast cancers: case report and literature review.", "content": "Synchronous fallopian tube and breast cancers: case report and literature review. A case of fallopian tube cancer was intraoperatively diagnosed in a patient submitted to laparoscopic hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy because of an ultrasound diagnosis of a probable endometriotic cyst of the right ovary. Postoperatively a complete staging was performed and a synchronous carcinoma of the breast was diagnosed. Consequently the patient completed laparotomic debulking and a left mastectomy. A case of a premenopausal woman with fallopian tube cancer and synchronous breast cancer is reported together with a review of the most recent literature."}
{"id": "12680799", "title": "Blood-based screening and light based imaging for the early detection and monitoring of ovarian cancer xenografts.", "content": "Blood-based screening and light based imaging for the early detection and monitoring of ovarian cancer xenografts. We report a novel technology for in vivo early detection, identification, and monitoring of ovarian cancer in live mice leading to better treatment outcome. A genetic dualistic reporter system that uses an adenoviral (Ad) vector to transfer the genetic reporters to the ovarian cancer is described. Infection of the cancer cells leads to expression of one reporter that is detected in blood, namely, secreted human placental alkaline phosphatase (SEAP). A second reporter, namely, enhanced green fluorescent protein (GFP) is also delivered by the Ad, leading to expression at the site of ovarian cancer. The SEAP gene under control of the cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter element is linked to the GFP gene with an IRES element. A diagnostic adenoviral vector (Ad) encoding the SEAP and GFP (Ad5-SEAP-GFP) is produced. Efficacy of newly developed diagnostic vector is tested in cell culture and animal models. SKOV3ip.1 cells are infected with Ad5-SEAP-GFP. Over time the cells are monitored for fluorescence and SEAP is also measured in the growth media supernatant. For animal experiments, SKOV3ip.1 cells are implanted first in nude mice either subcutaneously (SC) or intraperitoneally (IP) separately. After 4-7 days, the Ad5-SEAP-GFP is administered. Control mice do not receive any Ad vector. All mice are imaged with a fluorescent stereomicroscope after 24 h, and blood is collected for SEAP analyses. Increasing green fluorescence is detected in all SKOV3ip.1 cells infected with Ad5-SEAP-GFP, while SEAP levels in growth media increase over monitoring period. Expression of GFP in both SC and IP tumors is detected by 24 h in the live mice. At this time, the SEAP blood levels are more than 2-3 fold greater than blood levels of control group. GFP fluorescence and SEAP levels continue to increase in all mice that are injected with Ad5-SEAP-GFP until termination. Control mice (both SC and IP) do not express GFP or SEAP throughout the experiment. GFP contrast is necessary to differentiate between micro-sized early stage non-palpable ovarian tumor nodules and surrounding normal tissue. While the studies are conducted in mice, it is envisioned that the dual-based approach will eventually be translated into human applications for routine diagnosis and monitoring of ovarian cancer when an ovarian cancer specific promoter will be available. Due to the thickness of the abdominal wall in human laparoscopy or laparotomy will be necessary. This system will provide gynecologic oncologists with a more effective tool for treating patients. The blood-based screening assay provides a quick test to determine the presence of the ovarian cancer at its earliest stage. The location of the ovarian cancer is afforded by the light-based imaging component, which represents a new and improving technology with tremendous advantages of sensitivity and spatial resolution to localize micro-sized tumor nodules. The novelty of the dualistic system is the linkage of blood-based reporter screening as a selection criteria for subsequent light-based imaging procedures. This combination will lead to an accurate and widely applicable method for the early detection and monitoring of ovarian cancer, especially in high-risk women"}
{"id": "12629933", "title": "A comprehensive look at the early detection of ovarian cancer.", "content": "A comprehensive look at the early detection of ovarian cancer. Ovarian cancer is the leading cause of gynecologic cancer deaths and the fifth leading cause of cancer deaths among American women. Advances in surgery and treatment modalities have slightly improved five-year survival rates, but the prognosis for most women continues to be poor. Rectovaginal examination, ultrasound, and the CA-125 blood test are three modalities currently used to screen for ovarian cancer, although no universal ovarian cancer screening guidelines are recommended for the general population. Developments in the early detection of ovarian cancer are emerging and include blood tests that could lead to identifying asymptomatic, early-stage ovarian cancer. Nurses should be knowledgeable about these developments in ovarian cancer as they educate women about ovarian cancer risk, prevention, and early detection."}
{"id": "12618166", "title": "Laparoscopic restaging of borderline ovarian tumours: results of 30 cases initially presumed as stage IA borderline ovarian tumours.", "content": "Laparoscopic restaging of borderline ovarian tumours: results of 30 cases initially presumed as stage IA borderline ovarian tumours. To review our experience with the laparoscopic restaging procedure of presumed early stage borderline ovarian tumours. Retrospective study. Cancer centre. Thirty patients with presumed stage I borderline ovarian tumours after limited initial surgery. From April 1991 to May 2001, the patients were laparoscopically reassessed. The procedure involved peritoneal cytology, exploration of the peritoneal cavity, infracolic omentectomy, directed or random peritoneal biopsies, and when appropriate, contralateral oophorectomy and hysterectomy and appendectomy. Medical records were reviewed for patients' age, interval time between procedures, tumour stage, histological type, operative time, hospital stay, peri-operative complications and follow up. Seroperative and postoperative data, pathology and clinical follow up. Laparoscopic restaging was completed in all 30 (100%) identified patients. The mean age was 34.8 (10.5) years; the delay between initial operation and restaging laparoscopy averaged 9.8 (6.6) weeks. The mean operative time was 165.4 (53.8) minutes, and the mean hospital stay was 2.7 (1.3) days. There were two (7.0%) major complications related directly to the procedure. Eight (26.6%) patients were upstaged. Mean follow up was 29.1 (6.6) months, all patients are alive and one (3.2%) recurrence was observed. Laparoscopic approach of restaging for borderline ovarian tumours is an accurate safe procedure. It is associated with an acceptable rate of minor complications, it has similar morbidity associated with laparotomy and it minimises the incidence of infertility in the young patients. Whenever staging of borderline ovarian tumours is to be considered in an individual patient, laparoscopy provides a suitable alternative approach."}
{"id": "12574929", "title": "Chemical peritonitis: a rare complication of an iatrogenic ovarian dermoid cyst rupture.", "content": "Chemical peritonitis: a rare complication of an iatrogenic ovarian dermoid cyst rupture. Laparoscopy is the standard method for the diagnosis and treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts, which represent 10% to 15% of all ovarian tumors. This procedure offers many advantages including less postoperative pain, lower risk of wound complication, early ambulation, and more rapid convalescence. The risk of adhesion formation also is reduced. However, in the case of an ovarian dermoid cyst, the laparoscopic approach could result in chemical peritonitis caused by the spilled contents of a ruptured dermoid cyst. We report a case of chemical peritonitis after rupture of an ovarian dermoid cyst during laparoscopy. Two operations were required, and medical treatment was not beneficial. We discuss a possible new medication for the treatment of this complication and compare this case with other recent reports."}
{"id": "12557716", "title": "[A surgically resected case of advanced gastric carcinoma with peritoneal dissemination after treatment with combined chemotherapy of TS-1 and CDDP].", "content": "[A surgically resected case of advanced gastric carcinoma with peritoneal dissemination after treatment with combined chemotherapy of TS-1 and CDDP]. A 60-year-old female had undergone laparoscopic oophorectomy for right ovarian tumor. At the time of surgery, peritoneal dissemination and ascites was observed. Histological examination revealed that the resected ovary, peritoneal nodes and floating cells in the ascites were metastatic adenocarcinomas. Later, the primary malignant lesion was found to be a type 4 gastric carcinoma. The carcinoma was judged to be unresectable and treated by combination chemotherapy with TS-1 and CDDP every 6 weeks. After 3 courses of treatments, upper gastrointestinal series and endoscopic examinations were conducted and revealed a marked reduction of the tumor size. No carcinoma cells were detected by endoscopic biopsy. CT-scan showed complete disappearance of metastatic lesions. Staging laparoscopy was performed for evaluation of the effects of chemotherapy, and no adenocarcinoma cells at peritoneal nodes or ascites were found histologically. We performed total-gasterectomy with D1 + alpha lymph node dissection. Histopathologically, resected specimens showed severe fibrosis in most parts of the stomach. Following chemotherapy, the carcinoma was judged to be Grade 2 by histopathological examination."}
{"id": "12555008", "title": "Midgut carcinoid tumor identified from a metastasis in the uterosacral ligament.", "content": "Midgut carcinoid tumor identified from a metastasis in the uterosacral ligament. Chronic pelvic pain is common in women of reproductive age and accounts for more than 40% of all laparoscopic procedures. In up to 40% of these patients laparoscopic findings are negative. As a result, many gynecologists frequently excise portions of the uterosacral ligaments and biopsy inconspicuous pelvic lesions in an effort to perform uterosacral nerve ablation and also to identify subclinical endometriosis. During diagnostic laparoscopy for chronic intermittent pelvic and abdominal pain, a 37-year-old woman was noted to have an incidental, 5-mm, pink-white nodule in the right uterosacral ligament. Pathologic examination reported features typical of a carcinoid tumor. Further evaluation by computerized tomographic scan and indium-III octreotide scan identified a 1.6-cm lesion in the mesentery. At laparotomy a 2-cm primary mucosal tumor in the terminal ileum and a 2-cm nodule in the adjacent mesentery were present. Carcinoid tumor was confirmed in 2 nodules and in 7 of 17 mesenteric lymph nodes. Liver and lung metastases were not seen."}
{"id": "12404052", "title": "Use of a new energy-based vessel ligation device during laparoscopic gynecologic oncologic surgery.", "content": "Use of a new energy-based vessel ligation device during laparoscopic gynecologic oncologic surgery. Achieving hemostasis may sometimes be challenging, especially in minimal access surgery. The objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a new ligation device. The LigaSure vessel sealing system, consisting of a bipolar radio frequency generator and a 5-mm laparoscopic Maryland-style grasper-dissector (LigaSure Lap), was used in 15 patients undergoing advanced laparoscopic gynecologic procedures. Reliable vessel sealing was achieved in all the patients, with minimal sticking, charring, and lateral thermal spread. A decrease in blood loss and operating time was noted. This new energy-based vessel ligation device appears to be effective in advanced laparoscopic gynecologic procedures. Larger studies are needed to evaluate the complication rate and the cost effectiveness of this new technology."}
{"id": "12722472", "title": "Gliomatosis peritonei with mature teratoma of the ovary.", "content": "Gliomatosis peritonei with mature teratoma of the ovary. We report a case of menstrual mature teratoma of ovary with implants of glial tissue in peritoneum and its adnexa. After resection of the tumour and omentum laparoscopic examination was performed and revealed reduction, fibrosis of glial implants and massive cellular reaction."}
{"id": "12722400", "title": "[Three dimensional sonography and 3D power angiography in differentiation of adnexal tumors].", "content": "[Three dimensional sonography and 3D power angiography in differentiation of adnexal tumors]. Three-dimensional sonography is a novel diagnostic method proposed to be an additional non-invasive tool in the assessment of ovarian tumors. To study diagnostic potential of 3D sonography and power Doppler angiography in the preoperative differentiation of adnexal masses. One hundred twenty-eight women with tumors thought to be of adnexal origin were examined preoperatively. Following morphological (papillae, septae, tumor size and volume) and color Doppler (PI, RI, Vmax and TAMX) assessment, 3D ultrasound of adnexal tumors according to Kurjak et al. (2000) was performed. Various scanners were used and included: ATL 5000 HDI (Phillips, USA) and Combison 530 and Voluson 730 (Kretztechnik, Austria) machines. Following variables were studied: inner wall structure, presence of papillae, thickening > 3 mm of septa as well as vascular branching pattern, number and localization of small blood vessels and the presence of vascular anastomoses. Twenty-one tumors were malignant (3 FIGO stage I) and 101 masses were benign. Power Doppler combined with 3D sonography predicted malignancy with a sensitivity of 92.6% (25 of 27 patients). Commonly used morphological and Doppler criteria produced lower sensitivity, the values being in range of 45% to 87.5%. Negative predictive value of 97.2% was the highest for 3D sonography (> 7 points in Kurjak's scale). Selective use of 3D ultrasound and power Doppler angiography could be used to better characterize adnexal tumors. Detailed 3D sonography may help to identify women who, if needed, may have less invasive surgical procedure such as laparoscopy or be referred to gynecological oncologist."}
{"id": "12613345", "title": "[Laparoscopic treatment in a case of torsion of ovarian benign mature teratoma. Clinical case and review of the literature].", "content": "[Laparoscopic treatment in a case of torsion of ovarian benign mature teratoma. Clinical case and review of the literature]. Benign mature teratomas account for approximately 10-17% of all ovarian neoplasms and are the type of ovarian neoplasm most likely to occur during a woman's reproductive life. Bilateral localization is observed in some 10-15% of cases and the estimated incidence of malignant degeneration is 0.5-1.8%. The authors report a case of a 35-year-old woman admitted with discontinuous abdominal and pelvic pain. Imaging procedures showed an adnexal mass with the appearance of a dermoid cyst. The patient underwent laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy with preservation of the adnexal gland. After a review of the international literature and a description of the clinical features of the disease the authors go on to stress the advantages of laparoscopic management of benign ovarian teratomas."}
{"id": "12554262", "title": "Current practice of hysterectomy and oophorectomy in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland.", "content": "Current practice of hysterectomy and oophorectomy in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland. The purpose of this study was to estimate current surgical practice of hysterectomy and prophylactic oophorectomy of UK and Irish consultant gynaecologists. Individual and regional variation in surgical practice and factors influencing surgical practice were assessed. A postal questionnaire was sent to all 1536 consultants in obstetrics and gynaecology currently practising in the United Kingdom and Ireland, with a 52.7% response rate. Approximately 60% of hysterectomies were abdominal, 37% vaginal and 4% laparoscopic-assisted, with junior consultants performing a greater proportion of hysterectomies vaginally. There was a wide variation in method of hysterectomy, both individually and regionally. Only 21% of consultants would routinely consider performing prophylactic oophorectomy and of these the majority would perform this procedure in women aged between 46 and 50 years old. This large variation in surgical practice indicates a need to form a consensus on optimal surgical techniques and to ensure adequate surgical training for all gynaecologists."}
{"id": "12519038", "title": "Granulomatous chemical peritonitis on the ileocecum after laparoscopic surgery of an ovarian mature cystic teratoma: case report.", "content": "Granulomatous chemical peritonitis on the ileocecum after laparoscopic surgery of an ovarian mature cystic teratoma: case report. The possibility of granulomatous peritonitis should be considered when laparoscopy is necessary in patients with ovarian mature cystic teratoma."}
{"id": "12473577", "title": "Phase I study of intraperitoneal recombinant human interleukin 12 in patients with M\u00fcllerian carcinoma, gastrointestinal primary malignancies, and mesothelioma.", "content": "Phase I study of intraperitoneal recombinant human interleukin 12 in patients with M\u00fcllerian carcinoma, gastrointestinal primary malignancies, and mesothelioma. The purpose is to determine dose-limiting toxicity, pharmacokinetics,pharmacodynamics, and immunobiology after i.p. injections of recombinant human IL-12 (rhIL-12). rhIL-12 was administered to 29 previously treated patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis from M\u00fcllerian carcinomas, gastrointestinal tract carcinomas and peritoneal mesothelioma in a Phase I trial. rhIL-12 doses were increased from 3 to 600 ng/kg. Three or more patients at each level received weekly i.p. injections of rhIL-12. Dose-limiting toxicity (elevated transaminase) occurred in 2 of 4 patients at the 600 ng/kg dose. More frequent toxicities included fever, fatigue, abdominal pain, nausea, and catheter-related infections. Ten patients received 300 ng/kg with acceptable frequency and severity of side effects. Two patients (one with ovarian cancer and one with mesothelioma) had no remaining disease at laparoscopy. Eight patients had stable disease and 19 progressive disease. At 300 ng/kg i.p., IL-12 was cleared from peritoneal fluid in a biphasic manner with a terminal-phase half-life of 18.7 h; peritoneal fluid levels of IL-12 5 min after i.p. injection were 100-200 pg/ml, and serum levels reached approximately 10 pg/ml between 24 and 36 h. IL-1-alpha, IL-2, IL-10, tumor necrosis factor alpha, and IFN-gamma were determined in serum and peritoneal fluid. IFN-gamma, IL-10, and tumor necrosis factor alpha were detected most frequently. Immunobiological effects included peritoneal tumor cell apoptosis, decreased tumor cell expression of basic fibroblast growth factor and vascular endothelial growth factor, elevated IFN-gamma and IFN-inducible protein 10 transcripts in peritoneal exudate cells, and increased proportions of peritoneal CD3(+) relative to CD14(+) cells. rhIL-12 at 300 ng/kg by weekly i.p. injection is biologically active and adequately tolerated for Phase II studies."}
{"id": "12468342", "title": "Pathologic findings in prophylactic oophorectomy specimens in high-risk women.", "content": "Pathologic findings in prophylactic oophorectomy specimens in high-risk women. To ascertain the frequency of significant pathologic alterations in prophylactic oophorectomy specimens in high-risk women referred to a tertiary care center. Surgical cases for prophylactic oophorectomy referred to a gynecologic oncology clinic from November 1996 to January 2001 were reviewed. Serial sections of entirely submitted tubes and ovaries were procured and reviewed by a pathologist with expertise in gynecologic malignancies. All patients had undergone genetic counseling and either underwent mutational analysis of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes or had family history suggestive for ovarian and breast cancer susceptibility. Thirty women with either a documented deleterious BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation or a suggestive family history underwent prophylactic oophorectomy during the study period. Seventy-three percent of women had undergone genetic testing. Of those, 63.5% harbored a BRCA1 mutation, 13.5% were BRCA2 carriers, and the remaining 23% tested negative. Five of the 30 women (17%) were found to have clinically occult malignancy. Four of the five were diagnosed only on histologic review. A single patient had grossly apparent primary peritoneal carcinoma at the time of laparoscopy. Three patients were found to have primary fallopian tube malignancy, two with in situ papillary serous carcinoma, and one with early invasive disease. Each of the fallopian tube neoplasms measured less than 1 cm. The final patient was diagnosed with an ovarian adenofibroma with a focus of low malignant potential neoplasm and clear cell features. Three of the five were known BRCA1 mutation carriers, one had a documented BRCA2 mutation, and one has not yet been tested. The high rate of occult malignancy detected in this series suggests that this finding in women at heightened risk for ovarian cancer is relatively common. Further, clinically occult tumors were not limited to ovarian origin, and the majority of cases harbored malignant foci less than 1 cm in greatest dimension that were not recognized at the time of surgery. These findings support the recommendations that in this high-risk population (1) the fallopian tubes and ovaries should be submitted entirely and be evaluated by a pathologist with expertise in gynecologic malignancies in serial sections; (2) laparoscopy and laparotomy are the surgical modalities of choice to allow inspection of the peritoneal surfaces at time of prophylactic oophorectomy and collect fluid for cytologic evaluation; (3) despite the rarity of fallopian tube carcinoma in the general population, BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers may be at increased risk for tubal cancers."}
{"id": "12468334", "title": "PET-CT localizes previously undetectable metastatic lesions in recurrent fallopian tube carcinoma.", "content": "PET-CT localizes previously undetectable metastatic lesions in recurrent fallopian tube carcinoma. Fallopian tube carcinoma is a rare malignancy that commonly recurs after initial surgical resection. New combined instrumentation with co-registered PET and CT is a new technique that combines functional and anatomic imaging to detect metastatic disease that may be difficult to detect with either modality alone. We present two cases of suspected fallopian tube carcinoma recurrence demonstrating the unique potential of combined PET-CT using 18F-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG). These cases demonstrate the unique capability to detect and localize metastatic disease when serum CA-125, laparoscopy, and CT scan alone were unable to detect recurrence. PET-CT with FDG may prove to be a sensitive and accurate method for detection of metastatic disease and may influence the clinical management of recurrent fallopian tube carcinoma."}
{"id": "12457142", "title": "[Peri-hepatitis abscess secondary to pelvic peritonitis].", "content": "[Peri-hepatitis abscess secondary to pelvic peritonitis]. To report the case of a 42-year-old patient referred for exploration of a tumor of the right flank and evidence of inflammation. and methods. Ultrasonography and computed tomography showed a liver mass associated with a heterogeneous adnexal mass. Serum CA-125 was elevated and ovarian cancer with liver metastasis was suspected. An alternative diagnosis was salpingitis complicated by Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome in this patient wearing an intra-uterine contraceptive device. Exploratory laparoscopy was performed and confirmed the diagnosis of salpingitis complicated by an ovarian abscess and Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome with rare abscess formation. Outcome was favorable after adapted antibiotic treatment. Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome can take on an atypical aspect and should be entertained as a possible diagnosis in young women presenting pain of the right flank and fever."}
{"id": "12457141", "title": "[Explosive growth of uterine leiomyomas and carcinologic ovarian risk in a non-menopausal patient with BRCA1-BRCA2 mutation treated by tamoxifen].", "content": "[Explosive growth of uterine leiomyomas and carcinologic ovarian risk in a non-menopausal patient with BRCA1-BRCA2 mutation treated by tamoxifen]. To report the case of significant growth of a myoma in a premenopausal woman with a suspicion of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation, treated by tamoxifen for a hormonodependent breast cancer and to point out the carcinologic ovarian risks with a mutation BRCA1-BRCA2 in this context. Case. Four months after surgical treatment, chemotherapy and the beginning of tamoxifen, an explosive growth of the abdomen justified pelvic echography and laparoscopy confirming the diagnosis of uterine myoma. A polymyomectomy by laparotomy was performed. Use of tamoxifen in premenopausal woman with subjacent gynecological pathologies, whether BRCA1-BRCA2 mutation is present or not can prove to be delicate. A regular clinical and echographic monitoring is necessary."}
{"id": "12413936", "title": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for the management of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for the management of ovarian cancer. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy refers to the administration of chemotherapy before definitive surgery is performed; this approach was introduced into the management of ovarian cancer approximately one decade ago, initially for use in women who were medically unable to tolerate aggressive cytoreductive surgery. Subsequently, neoadjuvant chemotherapy was employed in women who, by diagnostic imaging analysis, were unlikely to undergo successful optimal cytoreductive surgery. Only very limited data are available on the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the management of women with apparent advanced ovarian cancer; these data are derived mainly from single institution experiences and suggest that this approach may increase disease-free survival but does not improve overall survival for the patient. However, it has consistently enhanced the feasibility of optimum surgical cytoreduction once neoadjuvant chemotherapy has been administered. Reduced blood loss, and shorter operations, intensive care unit stays and overall hospitalizations have been well documented. The methods for selecting candidates for neoadjuvant chemotherapy vary among institutions. Non-optimal surgical cytoreducibility has been assessed on the basis of diagnostic imaging studies, laparoscopic assessment and/or laparotomies. Currently, neoadjuvant chemotherapy is most beneficial for women who are medically impaired and unable to tolerate aggressive cytoreductive surgery and for women who are found to have such aggressive cancers that optimal cytoreductive surgery does not appear by diagnostic imaging or direct visualization to be possible."}
{"id": "12365221", "title": "Cystic adult ovarian granulosa cell tumor as a potential source of false negative diagnosis in ovarian cytology. A case report.", "content": "Cystic adult ovarian granulosa cell tumor as a potential source of false negative diagnosis in ovarian cytology. A case report. Adult granulosa cell tumors (AGCT), unilocular or multilocular, with thin-walled cysts, are extremely rare. They can be erroneously diagnosed as follicular cysts by sonography and fine needle aspiration and therefore may be a source of false negative results. Laparoscopy was performed on a 29-year-old woman in whom a cystic ovarian mass, probably benign, was diagnosed by transvaginal sonography. The smears obtained from the cyst revealed a moderate amount of regular, small cells with scant cytoplasm and round to oval nuclei with finely granular chromatin without longitudinal grooves. These granulosa cells were arranged singly and in small groups. Very scarce cellular aggregates, microfollicular or rosettelike, some containing amorphous material and resembling Call-Exner bodies, were identified. Histologic study of the cystic wall confirmed the diagnosis of multilocular cystic AGCT with a microfollicular pattern. The finding of a moderate to abundant amount of regular granulosa cells, with or without nuclear longitudinal grooves, during cytologic examination of ovarian cysts considered benign by ultrasonography requires a careful search for microfollicular differentiation and Call-Exner bodies due to the rare but possible occurrence of cystic AGCT."}
{"id": "12359199", "title": "Clinical experience of prophylactic mastectomy followed by immediate breast reconstruction in women at hereditary risk of breast cancer (HB(O)C) or a proven BRCA1 and BRCA2 germ-line mutation.", "content": "Clinical experience of prophylactic mastectomy followed by immediate breast reconstruction in women at hereditary risk of breast cancer (HB(O)C) or a proven BRCA1 and BRCA2 germ-line mutation. Women with a proven BRCA1 or BRCA2 germ-line mutation or with a 50% risk of carrying the mutation, have an increased risk of breast cancer. Regular surveillance, chemoprevention or prophylactic mastectomy (PM) are options to detect breast cancer at an early stage or to reduce the risk. We describe the management of women who have opted for PM, the postoperative complications of PM, especially in combination with immediate breast reconstruction (IBR), and the oncological follow-up. The medical records of all women who underwent a PM from December 1993 to December 1999 have been reviewed with respect to management, patient characteristics, complications and oncological follow-up. During the study period 112 women with a median age of 38.8 years opted for a PM: 76 were germline mutation carriers. After PM, 79 women without breast or ovarian cancer in their medical history, were free of disease after 2.5 years (median). Before PM, 29 women had been treated for breast cancer, 3.9 years (median) previously; 5 of these women had developed metastatic disease by the last consultation. Before PM, 2 patients had been treated for DCIS and 2 patients for ovarian cancer. Four DCIS were found; none of these women had evidence of disease 4.0 years (median) after PM. In 59 women laparoscopic prophylactic bilateral oophorectomy (PBO) was performed; 36 simultaneously with PM and 23 separately. A total of 103 women (92%) opted for IBR. After PM, the complication rate for IBR was 21%: 11% within 6 weeks and 10% at long-term follow-up (median 3.5) after PM, including the removal of 10 prostheses. Women with an increased risk of breast cancer due to a genetic predisposition should be adequately informed about the different treatment options in the setting of a multidisciplinary approach. PM can simultaneously be combined with PBO and IBR. IBR can facilitate the decision to undergo a PM. PM followed by IBR has an acceptable complication rate."}
{"id": "12355638", "title": "[Management of dermoid ovarian cysts. Report of 58 cases].", "content": "[Management of dermoid ovarian cysts. Report of 58 cases]. To assess diagnosis and therapeutic problems of der mo id cysts.' A retrospective study of 58 patients having undergone surgery for dermoid cyst between 1991 and 1999. Clinical, ultrasonographic and therapeutic data were analysed. Dermoid cyst accounts for 21.8% of all ovarian tumours. The mean age of patients was 34.75 years (17-73 years). 48 patients (82.7%) presented symptoms. In 10 cases (17.3%), the cysts were discovered during gynaecological and or ultrasonographic examination. The pre-operative diagnosis was precised with the help of ultrasonography in 52 cases, with standard abdominal X-ray in 19 cases and with computed tornography scan in 4 cases. Laparotornic and laparoscopic treatment were performed in respectively 51 and 7 cases. One case of granulornatous peritonitis after laparoscopic surgery was observed. Histological findings were 64 dermoid cysts and 2 serous cysts. Dermoid cysts were bilateral in 6 cases (10.34%) and associated with contro-laterally serous cyst in 2 cases. Dermoid cysts are tumors encountered mainly in young patients. After a careful pre-operative assessment, the laparoscopic approach is very interesting. However, a laparotomy should be considered in case of suspected malignancy."}
{"id": "12239764", "title": "[Laparoscopic treatment of benign ovarian cysts].", "content": "[Laparoscopic treatment of benign ovarian cysts]. Laparoscopic surgery is the most frequent indication for the management of benign ovarian cysts in the obstetric and gynaecological field. On the basis of their experience the authors address the clinical classification of benign ovarian pathology and the surgical laparoscopic procedures utilised in the treatment of adnexal cysts. Forty-two patients underwent laparoscopic surgery after a preoperative clinical and biological evaluation and imaging in order to exclude the presence of ovarian malignancies. All surgical procedures were carried out laparoscopically, with a conversion index of 0%. The morbidity was 2.3% (one case of haematoma of the umbilical trocar site) and there was no mortality. No late complications were observed. In conclusion, laparoscopic surgery in the management of ovarian cysts is technically feasible. On the basis of these findings laparoscopic surgery is the treatment of choice for adnexal cystic tumours after careful exclusion of malignancy."}
{"id": "12217767", "title": "Primary extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma of the fallopian tube.", "content": "Primary extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma of the fallopian tube. Only 2% of all extranodal primary lymphomas affect the female genital tract. Involvement of the fallopian tubes by primary lymphoma is extremely rare. A 34-year-old patient presented with the symptoms of salpingitis. Laparoscopy with salpingectomy was performed. Salpingitis caused by Acinetobacter species was diagnosed and antibiotic treatment was administered. Histologic examination of the fallopian tube revealed primary extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (MALT-type lymphoma) of the fallopian tube. After 12 months no tumoral recurrence occurred. Although the female genital tract is rich in mucosa and the existence of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) has been demonstrated previously, extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma of the fallopian tube is exceptional. To our knowledge only two cases with extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma of the fallopian tube have been previously reported. Existence of inflammation close to the tumor is interesting to emphasize."}
{"id": "12214736", "title": "Brain metastasis of ovarian cancer after negative second-look laparotomy.", "content": "Brain metastasis of ovarian cancer after negative second-look laparotomy. We present a case of ovarian carcinoma that had brain metastasis seven months after having a negative second-look laparotomy and 13 months after the onset of diagnosis. Despite intense multidisciplinary treatment with surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy, the patient died seven months after second-look laparotomy."}
{"id": "12214731", "title": "Epidermoid cyst and primary trabecular carcinoid of the ovary: case report.", "content": "Epidermoid cyst and primary trabecular carcinoid of the ovary: case report. In the literature and in our experience epidermoid cysts and carcinoids of the ovary are rare benign pathologies which occur more frequently in younger women. They probably are a one-sided development of a teratoma, which arise from germ cells after the first meiotic division due to either a meiosis I or a meiosis II non dysjunction. Diagnosis is possible only with histological examination and immunohistochemistry which allow us to differentiate carcinoids from sex-cord tumors and ependymomas. Prognosis is very good because the rate of malignant transformation is 1.4%-2% and the rate of complications is 14%. Thus conservative surgical therapy associated with long-term follow-up is the treatment of choice."}
{"id": "12214726", "title": "CT findings in two cases of port-site metastasis after laparoscopy for ovarian cancer.", "content": "CT findings in two cases of port-site metastasis after laparoscopy for ovarian cancer. Two patients with histologically proven port-site metastasis following laparoscopic procedures for ovarian cancer underwent a CT scan. These two patients were initially treated for a stage IA and III ovarian cancer. Port-site recurrence occurred six and 19 weeks following the laparoscopic procedure. In one patient, the abdominal wall recurrence was associated with peritoneal carcinosis. In both patients, CT scan revealed the presence of an heterogeneous nodular lesion inside the left oblique muscle. Histologic analysis confirmed the diagnosis of port-site recurrence. Port-site metastases could be observed in the treated patients with a laparoscopic approach for ovarian cancer. When this diagnosis is clinically suspected, a CT scan should be performed in order to precise the diagnosis of port-site metastasis and to evaluate potential intra-abdominal recurrent disease. However, only histologic examination can confirm a diagnosis of port-site recurrence."}
{"id": "12214460", "title": "[Latest information in the diagnoses of ovarian carcinoma].", "content": "[Latest information in the diagnoses of ovarian carcinoma]. Despite improvements in median and overall survival from a combination of improved operation techniques and chemotherapy with platinum-compounds and paclitaxel, long-term survival rates for patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma remain disappointing, and ongoing efforts are aimed at developing more effective primary therapies. In early ovarian carcinoma, conservative management is used to denote surgery that preserves reproductive potential without compromising curability. With some exceptions, such a strategy may be applicable for women younger than 40, who wish to bear children. A major dilemma facing gynecologic oncologists is to determine whether the accurate staging laparotomy is needed for apparent low-risk stage I ovarian carcinoma and how many cycles of chemotherapy will be needed for high-risk stage I ovarian carcinoma. In advanced ovarian carcinoma, main objectives of salvage therapy include: a improvement in quality of life and symptoms; b. tumor load reduction and survival advantage; c. evaluation of potentially active new drugs to be included in first-line treatment. We need to evaluate the potential benefit on survival of systematic pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy during primary or secondary cytoreductive surgery in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma. Paclitaxel/cisplatin is considered to be the international standard treatment based on the data of GOG 111 trial showing that paclitaxel/cisplatin has provided a survival benefit better than that of cyclophosphamide/cisplatin. This choice of standard therapy might, however, be questioned based on the results of the largest randomised study, ICON3. There were no statistically significant differences in progression-free or overall survival among paclitaxel/carboplatin and carboplatin only or a platinum combination (cyclophosphamide/doxorubicin/cisplatin). The best selection for adjuvant chemotherapy is still controversial and a large number of studies are now ongoing."}
{"id": "12197548", "title": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian dermoid cysts. A series of 83 cases.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian dermoid cysts. A series of 83 cases. We did a retrospective survey of 83 patients who had laparoscopic removal of a benign dermoid cyst in our hospital since 1994. Preoperative transvaginal sonography led to the correct diagnosis in 57 cases (69%). In 59 cases cystectomy with ovarian conservation was performed; spillage of cyst contents occurred in 39 cases (66%). Salpingo-oophorectomy was performed in 24 patients with spillage in 8 cases (24%). The mean tumor size (n=83) was 4.5+/-1.6 cm and 4.9+/-2.8 cm for unspilled and spilled cysts, respectively. The tumor was placed in an endobag in 62 cases. No intra- or postoperative complications occurred. No case of chemical peritonitis was noted."}
{"id": "12196887", "title": "SOGC clinical guidelines. Hysterectomy.", "content": "SOGC clinical guidelines. Hysterectomy. To identify the indications for hysterectomy, preoperative assessment, and available alternatives required prior to hysterectomy. Patient self-reported outcomes of hysterectomy have revealed high levels of patient satisfaction. These may be maximized by careful preoperative assessment and discussion of other treatment choices. In most cases hysterectomy is performed to relieve symptoms and improve quality of life. The patient's preference regarding treatment alternatives must be considered carefully. The areas of clinical practice considered in formulating this guideline are preoperative assessment including alternative treatments, choice of method for hysterectomy, and evaluation of risks and benefits. The risk-to-benefit ratio must be examined individually by the woman and her health practitioners. Optimizing the decision-making process of women and their caregivers in proceeding with a hysterectomy having considered the disease process, and available alternative treatments and options, and having reviewed the risks and anticipated benefits. Using Medline, PubMed, and the Cochrane Database, English language articles were reviewed from 1996 to 2001 as well as the review published in the 1996 SOGC guidelines. The level of evidence has been determined using the criteria described by the Canadian Task Force on the Periodic Health Examination. Hysterectomy is the treatment of choice for certain gynaecologic conditions. The predicted advantages must be carefully weighed against the possible risks of the surgery and other treatment alternatives. In the properly selected patient, the result from the surgery should be an improvement in the quality of life. The cost of the surgery to the health care system and to the patient must be interpreted in the context of the cost of untreated conditions. The approach selected for the hysterectomy will impact on the cost of the surgery. Benign Disease 1. Leiomyomas: For symptomatic fibroids, hysterectomy provides a permanent solution to menorrhagia and the pressure symptoms related to an enlarged uterus. (I-A) 2. Abnormal uterine bleeding: Endometrial lesions must be excluded and medical alternatives should be considered as a first line of therapy. (III-B) 3. Endometriosis: Hysterectomy is often indicated in the presence of severe symptoms with failure of other treatments and when fertility is no longer desired. (1-B) 4. Pelvic relaxation: A surgical solution usually includes vaginal hysterectomy, but must include pelvic supporting procedures. (II-B) 5. Pelvic pain: A multidisciplinary approach is recommended, as there is little evidence that hysterectomy will cure chronic pelvic pain. When the pain is confined to dysmenorrhea or associated with significant pelvic disease, hysterectomy may offer relief. (II-C) Preinvasive Disease 1. Hysterectomy is usually indicated for endometrial hyperplasia with atypia. (I-A) 2. Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in itself is not an indication for hysterectomy. (I-B) 3. Simple hysterectomy is an option for treatment of adenocarcinoma in situ of the cervix when invasive disease has been excluded. (I-B) Invasive Disease 1. Hysterectomy is an accepted treatment or staging procedure for endometrial carcinoma. It may play a role in the staging or treatment of cervical, epithelial ovarian, and fallopian tube carcinoma. (I-A) Acute Conditions 1. Hysterectomy is indicated for intractable postpartum hemorrhage when conservative therapy has failed to control bleeding. (II-B) 2. Tubo-ovarian abscesses that are ruptured or do not respond to antibiotics may be treated with hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy in selected cases. (I-C) 3. Hysterectomy may be required for cases of acute menorrhagia refractory to medical or conservative surgical treatment. (II-C) Other Indications 1. Consultation with an oncologist or geneticist is recommended when considering hysterectomy and prophylactic oophorectomy for a familial history of ovarian cancer. (III-C) Surgical Approach 1. The vaginal route shoe should be considered as a first choice for all benign indications. The laparoscopic approach should be considered when it reduces the need for a laparotomy. (III-B) VALIDATION: Medline searches were performed in preparing this guideline with input from experts in their field across Canada. The guideline was reviewed and accepted by SOGC Council and Executive. The Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada."}
{"id": "12189478", "title": "Impact of pneumoperitoneum on tumor growth.", "content": "Impact of pneumoperitoneum on tumor growth. To compare intraperitoneal tumor growth after CO2 laparoscopy (L), gasless laparoscopy (GL), midline laparotomy (ML), and general anesthesia (GA) as a control. A prospective randomized trial was carried out in nude rats. A carcinomatosis was obtained by intraperitoneal injection of either one of the two human ovarian cancer cell lines IGR-OV1 or NIH:OVCAR-3. Rats secondly underwent randomly different kind of procedures: CO2 L (8 mmHg, 60 min), GL (traction by a balloon for 60 min), ML (bowel removed and let on a mesh for 60 min), or GA. The rats were finally killed 10 or 35 days after surgery (respectively in IGR-OV1, or NIH:OVCAR-3 models). Tumor growth was assessed by the weight of the omental metastasis and MIB1 immunostaining. Peritoneal dissemination as well as abdominal wall metastases were assessed by pathological examination. Statistical analysis used the chi-square test (or Fisher exact test) and Bonferroni method for multiple comparison between groups. Fifteen rats were included in each group. Mean omental weight was significantly increased after surgery (3.1 to 5.6 g), when compared to control (2.4 g), but no significant difference was recorded between the three surgical accesses. MIB1 immunostaining was poor in the PNP group (37%), whereas it was higher after midline laparotomy (51%), but the difference was not significant (p = 0.07). Similarly, no significant variation was recorded in the NIH:OVCAR-3 model for omental weight or MIB1 staining. CO2 pneumoperitoneum significantly increased right diaphragmatic dome involvement in the NIH:OVCAR-3 model. Abdominal wall metastases were significantly more frequent after surgery when compared to the control group, but no significant difference could be demonstrated between surgical groups in each model. In these solid tumor models, CO2 pneumoperitoneum had no deleterious effect on tumor growth when compared to gasless laparoscopy or midline laparotomy."}
{"id": "12181732", "title": "Solitary splenic metastasis from ovarian cancer successfully treated by hand-assisted laparoscopic splenectomy: report of a case.", "content": "Solitary splenic metastasis from ovarian cancer successfully treated by hand-assisted laparoscopic splenectomy: report of a case. Solitary splenic metastasis is an extremely rare phenomenon for which splenectomy is generally indicated because a good prognosis can be achieved if chemotherapy is given postoperatively. We report herein a case of solitary splenic metastasis from ovarian cancer, which was completely removed by hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "12165898", "title": "Therapy of advanced ovarian juvenile granulosa cell tumors.", "content": "Therapy of advanced ovarian juvenile granulosa cell tumors. Gonadal sex cord-stromal tumors are rare tumors that develop from the gonadal non-germ cell component such as granulosa, Sertoli or Leydig cells. Among these, juvenile granulosa cell tumors (JGCT) constitute the largest subgroup of ovarian sex cord-stromal tumors during childhood and adolescence. In local disease (FIGO stage I), the beneficial role of tumor-ovarectomy is well established. In contrast, life expectancy in patients with advanced JGCT (FIGO stage >/= II) is short even after complete tumor resection. The current literature provides only limited and inconclusive data regarding the value of adjuvant chemotherapy in such patients with advanced disease. Therefore, we analyzed the patients with FIGO stage >/= II JGCT who were prospectively documented as follow-up patients of the German MAKEI trials for non-testicular germ cell tumors and received the recommended cisplatin-based chemotherapy in an adjuvant setting. From 1988 until 2000, 7 patients (age, 4;2 - 18;11 years, median 14;8 years) were registered. Three patients were stage IIc, one stage IIIa, and three stage IIIc. 5 patients underwent laparatomy with adnectomy, which was complete in only two patients. Two patients received laparoscopic tumor resection, which was incomplete in both. All patients received 4 or 6 cycles of adjuvant cisplatin-based three-agent chemotherapy in analogy to the current therapeutic concept applied in malignant germ cell tumors. One patient with a large tumor and multiple peritoneal metastases additionally received 40 Gy abdominal irradiation. All patients achieved complete clinical remission after initial surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy. 4 out of 7 patients are currently remaining in first continuous complete remission after 15 to 111 months follow-up. One patient developed a metachronous tumor of the contralateral ovary after 126 months follow-up and is still alive but currently in therapy of another recurrence. Another patient suffered a tumor recurrence after 12 months but achieved a second complete remission with cisplatin chemotherapy after a follow-up of currently 4 months. One patient achieved complete clinical remission but suffered a diffuse peritoneal tumor recurrence with massive ascites and finally died as a result of tumor progression. In summary, at the time of this report 6 of 7 patients are alive after a median of 47 (15 - 138) months. This analysis clearly demonstrates that advanced JGCT can be successfully treated with surgery followed by adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy. Therefore, this study reveals encouraging therapeutic perspectives in these otherwise fatal tumors that merit further investigation in a prospective cooperative trial."}
{"id": "12165827", "title": "Early experiences of robotic surgery in children.", "content": "Early experiences of robotic surgery in children. Laparoscopic surgery using a robotic system (Da Vinci) was recently introduced into surgical practice for adult patients. To investigate the feasibility of this system in pediatric surgery, laparoscopic fundoplication (Thal and Nissen), cholecystectomy, and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy were performed. Eleven children with a mean age of 12 years (range, 7-16 years) underwent either laparoscopic anterior partial fundoplication (Thal, n = 8) or Nissen fundoplication (n = 3) for correction of gastroesophageal reflux disease in the presence of uncontrolled symptoms of regurgitation and pulmonary infection. Two children underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy due to symptomatic cholecystolithiasis. One child underwent bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy due to a gonadoblastoma. Mean operating time for fundoplication was 146 min (range, 105-180 min), the operating times for cholecystectomy were 150 and 105 min, and that for salpingo-oophorectomy was 95 min. No complications were registered during either the robotic procedures or the postoperative courses. Compared to conventional laparoscopy, the three-dimensional high-quality vision, advanced instrument movement, and improved ergonomic position of the surgeon appear to enhance surgical precision. Robotic surgery in children using the Da Vinci system seems to be feasible and safe. However, the technique is limited due to the fact that instruments adapted to the size of small children are not available. Furthermore, the high costs and prolonged system setup are disadvantages."}
{"id": "12153670", "title": "Impact of a multiparameter, ultrasound-based triage on surgical management of adnexal masses.", "content": "Impact of a multiparameter, ultrasound-based triage on surgical management of adnexal masses. To prospectively evaluate the accuracy of a multiparameter, ultrasound-based triage and its impact on surgical management of adnexal masses. Masses evaluated as normal according to Ferrazzi's sonographic morphological score were considered as being at low risk of malignancy and eligible for laparoscopic treatment without further evaluation. Masses evaluated as abnormal, but without additional risk factors such as ascites, diameter > or = 10 cm, bilaterality, immobility, resistance index < or = 0.6 and serum CA 125 > 35 IU/mL were considered at moderate risk and eligible for laparoscopic evaluation and treatment. Masses with abnormal morphological score and any of these additional risk factors were considered at high risk and treated by laparotomy. The results of pathological examination were obtained for each mass. Two hundred and four (87%) masses were benign and 30 (13%) were malignant. Among 182 low-risk, 19 moderate-risk and 33 high-risk masses, the odds of malignancy were 1 : 90, 1 : 18 and 4.5 : 1, respectively. To calculate the diagnostic accuracy of this algorithm, low- and moderate-risk groups were considered together: the sensitivity was 90%, specificity 97%, positive predictive value 82% and negative predictive value 99%. The new algorithm was significantly more accurate than was morphological score alone (P = 0.0002). Ninety-six percent of benign masses were treated by laparoscopy. All three patients with malignant masses that were incorrectly assigned to laparoscopy underwent laparoscopic adnexectomy and frozen section. The accuracy of this new algorithm was higher than that of the sonographic morphological scoring system alone. In the present series, it allowed the treatment by laparoscopy of 96% of benign adnexal masses without mismanagement of any cases of ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "12152291", "title": "[Laparoscopic cystectomy during pregnancy--a case report].", "content": "[Laparoscopic cystectomy during pregnancy--a case report]. We present z case report of a pregnant patient in whom a laparoscopic cystectomy was performed at 11 weeks' gestation. Included in the report is the diagnostic work-up, pharmacotherapy, review of laparoscopic technique employed as well as the course of pregnancy, labor and delivery and postpartum."}
{"id": "12152285", "title": "[Ovarian tumors in pregnancy].", "content": "[Ovarian tumors in pregnancy]. The presence of adnexal tumours in pregnancy is a significant problem for obstetricians requiring quick diagnosis and operation. The paper presents 22 cases of ovarian tumours diagnosed and treated during pregnancy. In 12 cases laparoscopical cystectomies were performed, in 10 cases laparotomies were done. Fifteen patients delivered at term, 7 of them by the natural way. In 8 cases cesarean sections were performed: in 4 cases because of obstacle to labour in the next 4 because of other obstetricians reasons. Benign ovarian tumors were found in 20 cases (cystis dermoidalis 18%, cystis follicularis 13.8%, cystoma serosum 13.8%, cystis simplex 18%, cystis corporis lutei 9.2%, cystis picea 18%). In 1 case borderline malignancy cystadenoma papillare mucinosum were diagnosed and in 1 case during laparoscopy in 21 weeks of pregnancy ovarian malignant metastatic tumors were found. Two patients miscarriage in 11 and 13 weeks of pregnancy. Last two pregnancies are still observed. Ovarian tumors diagnosed during pregnancy have to be removed because of the thread of malignancy and pregnancy or labour complications."}
{"id": "12151833", "title": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses: a gold standard?", "content": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses: a gold standard? To review recent literature on the laparoscopic management of adnexal masses, when this approach may be considered as a gold standard. Cyst rupture was recently demonstrated to be a significant prognostic factor in stage I invasive epithelial carcinoma, and it was recommended to restrict the laparoscopic approach to patients with preoperative evidence that the cyst was benign. The laparoscopic approach is still highly controversial in masses suspicious at ultrasound. The limits of the laparoscopic approach are discussed reviewing recent literature and our experience. The laparoscopic management of adnexal masses appears to be safe in most hospitals even in developing countries. This approach is being used with increasing frequency in unusual indications such as newborns, children, adolescents and pregnant women. The learning curve for endoscopic surgery appears to be longer than expected. Many patients with benign adnexal masses, such as ovarian endometrioma, are still treated by laparotomy or with an inadequate endoscopic technique. Several studies have suggested that the stripping technique is a tissue-sparing procedure. The laparoscopic puncture of malignant ovarian tumours confined to the ovaries is uncommon, and should be avoided whenever possible. The teaching of endoscopy is essential to promote adequate procedures performed according to the principles of microsurgery and to preserve postoperative ovarian physiology."}
{"id": "12140633", "title": "Laser laparoscopy for endometriosis and endometriotic cysts.", "content": "Laser laparoscopy for endometriosis and endometriotic cysts. Endometriosis is a common and debilitating condition involving women during their reproductive years. It is characterized by the occurrence of endometrial glands and stroma outside the uterine cavity. Presenting symptoms include chronic nonmenstrual pelvic pain, dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, and subfertility. The condition is diagnosed at laparoscopy, and operative laparoscopic surgery for endometriosis is also possible. This article critically evaluates the evidence for the laparoscopic management of endometriosis and endometriotic cysts. It focuses on laser laparoscopy and reviews the contribution made by the Minimal Access Therapy Training Unit, Guildford, UK, to the treatment of this condition. Few randomized controlled trials have been undertaken to evaluate the surgical management of endometriosis. The studies that have been done show that laparoscopic surgery, including laser laparoscopy, is effective in the management of painful symptoms and subfertility and preventing cyst recurrence. Several of the landmark studies in this area have been carried out in Guildford. Laparoscopic surgery is the treatment of choice for patients with endometriosis and endometriotic cysts."}
{"id": "12109222", "title": "[Laparoscopic colostomy: experience in patients with ovarian or ano-rectal cancer, non-operable or with rectovaginal fistula].", "content": "[Laparoscopic colostomy: experience in patients with ovarian or ano-rectal cancer, non-operable or with rectovaginal fistula]. Between August 1995 and May 2001 laparoscopic colostomy was successfully carried out in 23 patients with advanced ovarian cancer, inoperable carcinoma of the anorectum or rectovaginal fistulas. There were no intraoperative or postoperative complications and postoperative recovery was rapid with all patients having function of the colostomy within 24 hrs and regaining their preoperative state of mobility on the second postoperative day. The laparoscopic approach allows the careful selection of the colostomy site, easy mobilisation of the colon, causing only little disruption to the intestinal function hence improving postoperative recovery. From Authors' experience, laparoscopic colostomy is a simple and safe operation in most cases and can be used as the preferred technique of intestinal diversion."}
{"id": "12106750", "title": "Gonadoblastoma and dysgerminoma associated with XY gonadal dysgenesis in an adolescent with chronic renal failure: a case of Frasier syndrome.", "content": "Gonadoblastoma and dysgerminoma associated with XY gonadal dysgenesis in an adolescent with chronic renal failure: a case of Frasier syndrome. To report a rare reason for primary amenorrhea, a Frasier syndrome, XY gonadal dysgenesis associated with renal failure with eventual development of gonadoblastoma. To study immunohistochemical analysis of gonadoblastoma and dysgerminoma. To analyze the possibility of androgen receptor mutation in this rare syndrome. We report a case of a 16-yr-old female with this syndrome. She underwent a laparoscopic bilateral gonadectomy and salpingectomy. A histopathological examination revealed gonadoblastoma with focal malignant dysgerminoma in the left dysgenetic gonad and an immunohistochemical of these fairly rare, malignant tumors. An androgen receptor was coded. Analysis was done. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that inhibin was strongly positive in gonadoblastoma but negative in dysgerminoma. No mutations of the androgen receptor gene were found. Inhibin positivity in gonadal stroma and in gonadoblastoma may indicate hormonal activity causing advanced puberty in patients with XY gonadal dysgenesis."}
{"id": "12101341", "title": "Laparoscopic diagnosis and treatment of a well-differentiated papillary mesothelioma of the peritoneum.", "content": "Laparoscopic diagnosis and treatment of a well-differentiated papillary mesothelioma of the peritoneum. Well-differentiated papillary mesothelioma is a rare neoplasm of peritoneum, found mainly in women of reproductive age, and usually misdiagnosed as an ovarian mass. A 46-year-old woman was clinically suspected of having an adnexal mass. Peritoneal mesothelioma was diagnosed and successfully removed at laparoscopy. Laparoscopy allows differentiation from ovarian serous tumors and treatment of the lesions. Long follow-up is recommended because of the tendency to recur."}
{"id": "12069748", "title": "Lymphangioma of the ovary after radiation due to Wilms' tumor in the childhood.", "content": "Lymphangioma of the ovary after radiation due to Wilms' tumor in the childhood. To report a case of lymphangioma of the ovary after radiation due to Wilms' tumor in the childhood. A 19-year-old nulliparous female. The vaginal ultrasound showed the left ovary enlarged to 4.4 cm x 2.9 cm x 4.5 cm in size including a 3.5 cm x 2.6 cm x 3.2 cm measuring cystic solid tumor without hypervascularity. For exclusion of a malignant tumor, a laparoscopy for excision of the tumor and deep incision of the left ovary with a bipolar needle was performed to exclude deeper tumor of stromal origin. The histological examination of the tissue showed a lymphangioma beside normal ovarian tissue. To our knowledge, this is the first report of lymphangioma of the ovary after radiation due to Wilms' tumor in the childhood. The impact of this finding on the patient's fertility remains unclear. As in other organs exposed to radiation, lymphangioma can also occur in the ovary. Careful follow up should be considered to this patients, because malignant transformation can not be excluded."}
{"id": "12051886", "title": "Port site metastasis of ovarian carcinoma remote from laparoscopic surgery for benign disease.", "content": "Port site metastasis of ovarian carcinoma remote from laparoscopic surgery for benign disease. The use of laparoscopic surgical procedures has continued to expand due to the many advantages that this surgical approach offers. However, as we continue to realize the benefits and expand the scope of laparoscopic procedures, new complications may occur. This is the case of a 77-year-old gravida 2 para 2 who underwent exploratory laparotomy and surgical staging with optimal cytoreduction for Stage IIIC papillary serous ovarian carcinoma in February 1998. Her past surgical history was significant for total abdominal hysterectomy and left salpingo-oophorectomy in 1955 for symptomatic leiomyomata and for a laparoscopic cholecystectomy in July 1997. After initial platinum-based chemotherapy, she presented with an enlarging nodule at the right upper quadrant laparoscopic port site. Fine needle aspiration confirmed recurrent papillary serous ovarian carcinoma. After a discussion of her options, she elected to undergo surgical resection with postoperative salvage chemotherapy. Port site recurrences have been previously reported in patients who underwent initial surgical evaluation for ovarian carcinoma utilizing the laparoscopic approach. However, it is unusual for recurrent cancer to appear in port sites or operative incisions not related to the initial cancer surgery. This report serves to caution the gynecologic oncologist that the first evidence of recurrence may be at a laparoscopic port site from prior benign gynecologic or nongynecologic surgery."}
{"id": "12013109", "title": "Intraperitoneal cancer spread after laparoscopic cystectomy for mature teratoma with malignant transformation.", "content": "Intraperitoneal cancer spread after laparoscopic cystectomy for mature teratoma with malignant transformation. Laparoscopic surgery for ovarian dermoid cysts has been accepted. However, its potential limitations should be considered, including technique difficulty, intraoperative tumor spillage and malignant transformation. We report a case of ovarian dermoid cysts with malignant transformation that was initially treated using laparoscopic cystectomy, but was complicated by intraperitoneal tumor dissemination."}
{"id": "12013106", "title": "Peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian carcinoma with ascites and elevated serum CA-125: case report and review of literature.", "content": "Peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian carcinoma with ascites and elevated serum CA-125: case report and review of literature. Peritoneal tuberculosis is rare in the western world, although its incidence has been increasing in recent years. The presenting signs and symptoms, imaging examinations and CA-125 status in peritoneal tuberculosis may resemble that of ovarian carcinoma. Thus, the possibility of peritoneal tuberculosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of ovarian carcinoma, especially in women immigrants from countries with a high prevalence of tuberculosis. A case of peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking ovarian carcinoma in a young woman immigrant from India is described. The patient presented with ascites, abdominopelvic masses and elevated serum CA-125 (1,081 U/ml). Laparoscopy confirmed the diagnosis of peritoneal tuberculosis and no malignancy, and thereby unnecessary extended surgery was avoided. Following treatment with the 4-drug anti-tuberculosis regimen, the patient recovered with disappearance of ascites and abdominopelvic masses, and return of CA-125 to normal range. It is concluded that laparoscopy, if feasible, seems to be a sufficient and safe method to provide diagnosis of peritoneal tuberculosis."}
{"id": "11979412", "title": "Laparoscopy in gynecologic emergencies.", "content": "Laparoscopy in gynecologic emergencies. Laparoscopy is ideal for the diagnosis of acute pelvic pain and the treatment of gynecologic emergencies. It is as safe and effective as laparotomy for the treatment of ectopic pregnancy, ovarian cysts, dermoid cysts, and adnexal torsion. Treatment with laparoscopy results in shorter hospital stay and faster recovery. Future fertility is not compromised and in some cases may be improved with laparoscopic treatment. There are also studies suggesting that laparoscopy can be used safely for the diagnosis and treatment of gynecologic emergencies in the first and second trimester of pregnancy."}
{"id": "11976573", "title": "[Carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum and peritoneal carcinosis: review].", "content": "[Carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum and peritoneal carcinosis: review]. The aim of this work was to demonstration the relations between CO(2) laparotomy and peritoneal carcinosis. The first part of this review presents published observations of disseminated peritoneal carcinosis after laparoscopy with CO(2) insufflation. The second part deals with the possible effects of CO(2) laparoscopy on the mechanism of carcinosis. We made a Medline search for cases of peritoneal dissemination after CO(2) laparoscopy. We present here the published results as well as data from comparative studies conducted in humans and animals on the effects of each step of CO(2) laparoscopy on carcinogenesis and the progress of carcinosis. Most of the published cases on peritoneal dissemination after CO(2) laparoscopy concerned management of ovarian carcinomas where malignancy was not diagnosed before the operation and not treated immediately with laparotomy. The significance of peritoneal dissemination appears to be related to the delay between laparoscopy and laparotomy. No comparative study in humans has been published. For animal studies, it has been difficult to design valid animal modes. Those we present show that laparoscopy has no negative influence on tumor growth but that it may affect peritoneal dissemination. Laparoscopy can participate in diffusion of tumor cells either due to repeated manipulation with contaminated instruments or because of the insufflation itself. These cells can be seeded on traumatized areas of the peritoneum or parietal wall or on the port tracts. The recent work by Volz has proven the effect of CO(2) which can cause a change in the ultra-structure of the peritoneum. This may facilitate peritoneal seeding of the malignant cells. No other study has shown any evidence of increased intraperitoneal tumor growth. Only primary results of post-laparoscopy liver metastasis have diverged. Laparoscopy does not seem to have a negative effect on general immunity, but possible changes in intraperitoneal immunity remain to be elucidated. Observations concerning peritoneal dissemination are found in cases where CO(2) insufflation was used for laparoscopy, but no studies have proven certain risk greater for laparoscopy than for laparotomy. Maximum precautions must be taken during the management of suspicious ovarian lesions."}
{"id": "11928042", "title": "Impact of different gases and pneumoperitoneum pressures on tumor growth during laparoscopy in a rat model.", "content": "Impact of different gases and pneumoperitoneum pressures on tumor growth during laparoscopy in a rat model. The influence on intraperitoneal tumor growth of the choice of gas and pneumoperitoneum pressure during laparoscopy is still unknown. This study compared tumor growth after laparoscopy with different gases and pneumoperitoneum pressures in an immunodeficient model. In an initial experiment, 60 nude rats were randomly allocated to undergo laparoscopy at different pneumoperitoneum pressures (gasless, 4 mmHg, or 8 mm Hg.) In a second experiment, 23 nude rats were randomly allocated to undergo laparoscopy with different gases (carbon dioxide or helium). Surgery was carried out 7 days after intraperitoneal injection of IGR-OV1 cells. The rats were killed 7 days after surgery. Tumor growth was assessed by the weight of the omental metastasis. For statistical analysis, we used analysis of variance (ANOVA). Mean omental weight was similar for all groups, regardless of the pneumoperitoneum pressure (p = 0.86) or the type of gas (p = 0.80). Physical parameters of gas have a limited impact on tumor growth."}
{"id": "11925146", "title": "Successful laparoscopic removal of a solitary adrenal metastasis from ovarian carcinoma: a case report.", "content": "Successful laparoscopic removal of a solitary adrenal metastasis from ovarian carcinoma: a case report. The adrenal gland is a site of metastatic spread of some tumors. Usually the presence of adrenal metastasis signals widespread disease; however, isolated adrenal metastases have been reported. The adrenal gland, along with certain other organs, is considered a pharmacological sanctuary. Several reports describe long-term survival after adrenalectomy due to isolated adrenal metastases, in particular from non-small-cell lung cancer. There are several reports of laparoscopic resection of isolated adrenal metastases. We present a rare case of a laparoscopically resected solitary adrenal metastasis originating from ovarian carcinoma. To the best of our knowledge there was no report in the literature of an isolated adrenal metastasis from ovarian carcinoma. The patient described developed an isolated left adrenal metastasis 11 months after completion of adjuvant chemotherapy for stage III ovarian cancer. The serum CA125 dropped from 365 to 35 postoperation. Isolated adrenal metastasis from ovarian cancer is a rare event, never before described in the literature. This case report describes a laparoscopic resection of an adrenal metastasis from ovarian cancer, and the drop of CA125 levels indicated complete resection of the metastasis."}
{"id": "11857512", "title": "Borderline cystic tumors of the ovary: gray-scale and color Doppler sonographic findings.", "content": "Borderline cystic tumors of the ovary: gray-scale and color Doppler sonographic findings. The aim of the study was to determine the value of gray-scale and color Doppler sonography in distinguishing borderline cystic tumors (BCTs) from benign cysts and malignant tumors of the ovary. The gray-scale and color Doppler sonographic features of 383 ovarian lesions in 374 nonpregnant women were retrospectively studied. Sonography was performed transvaginally for all but 7 lesions, which were imaged suprapubically. All of the lesions were surgically resected via laparoscopy or laparotomy. The histopathologic diagnoses were 27 BCTs, 35 ovarian carcinomas, and 321 benign cysts. Sonography diagnosed 24 (89%) of 27 BCTs as malignant lesions. Patients with BCTs, were younger than those with ovarian cancer (p < 0.001). BCTs showed intracystic papillae in 17 cases (63%), diffuse internal echoes in 11 (41%), intracystic septa in 8 (30%), a heterogeneous echo pattern in 7 (26%), and a solid pattern in 4 (15%). BCTs showed blood flow in 24 cases (89%) and lower pulsatility and resistance indices (RI) compared with benign lesions (p < 0.001 for both). Multivariate analysis revealed intracystic papillae as the only independent predictor of BCTs (p < 0.001). When a cystic mass has papillae, this is the only abnormal finding detected by gray-scale transvaginal sonography, and color Doppler imaging shows low RI values within the mass, a BCT should be suspected."}
{"id": "11845360", "title": "Feasibility study to detect ovarian cancer micrometastases by fluorescence photodetection.", "content": "Feasibility study to detect ovarian cancer micrometastases by fluorescence photodetection."}
{"id": "11838308", "title": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses. Safety and effectiveness.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses. Safety and effectiveness. To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of the laparoscopic approach to adnexal masses. Sixty-one patients who underwent laparoscopic intervention due to various types of adnexal masses between March 1997 and April 1999 in a teaching hospital were assessed retrospectively. Patients with strong evidence of advanced ovarian cancer, such as large masses, ascites or omental cake, were excluded. Frozen section was performed intraoperatively, if indicated. In cases of malignancy, laparotomy was performed. Mean operation time was 67.2 minutes; average hospital stay was 1.2 days. Cyst enucleation was performed in 34% of patients. Two of 61 patients were diagnosed as having malignant disease and converted to laparotomy. Chemical peritonitis was encountered after dermoid cyst removal due to spillage of contents in spite of using an endobag and irrigating copiously with saline. No other complications were seen. Laparoscopy is a safe approach to adnexal masses and may decrease the rate of unnecessary laparotomies for benign cysts, which give no suspicious ultrasonographic signs."}
{"id": "11834867", "title": "Influence of pelvic endometriosis and ovarian endometrioma on fertility.", "content": "Influence of pelvic endometriosis and ovarian endometrioma on fertility. We investigated the influence of pelvic endometriosis and ovarian endometrioma on pregnancy outcome in women associated with infertility. A total of 237 women with endometriosis were reviewed, and their fertility rate was assessed by both r-AFS staging and TOP classification as previously proposed by our group. There was no significant difference in pregnancy rate among r-AFS stages. However, the pregnancy rate was mostly affected by the tubal condition according to the TOP classification as follows: no adhesive lesion (T0), 53% (69/129); unilateral lesion (T1), 46% (18/39); bilateral lesion with at least one tube patent, (T2), 37% (10/27); bilateral tubal occlusion (T3), 0% (0/8) (p < 0.05, Mantel-Extension test). The absence (O0-O1) or co-existence (O2-O3) of ovarian endometrioma and different gradings of cul-de-sac obliteration (P2-P3) showed no significant differences in pregnancy rate. The resulting conception rate was also not affected by the size or location of ovarian endometrioma. In addition, the higher adhesion score of ovarian endometrioma involving the fallopian tube and as described in r-AFS classification had a significant detrimental effect on fertility. These observations suggest that our TOP classification describing individual tubal condition has a clinically predictive value in assessing the reproductive outcome of women with endometriosis."}
{"id": "11748999", "title": "Peritoneal implantation of squamous cell carcinoma following rupture of a dermoid cyst during laparoscopic removal.", "content": "Peritoneal implantation of squamous cell carcinoma following rupture of a dermoid cyst during laparoscopic removal. In recent years, there has been a move toward using laparoscopy in the management of presumed benign ovarian masses. This paper discusses the use of laparoscopy for ovarian masses (particularly dermoid cysts). The focus is on the implications for unexpected malignancies. We report here a case involving a dermoid cyst that was removed at laparoscopy and was subsequently found to contain a squamous cell carcinoma. Spillage of the cyst's contents occurred at the time of removal. At staging laparotomy, peritoneal implants of the tumor were found, upgrading the tumor from FIGO stage Ia to IIc. Spillage rates of dermoid cyst content with laparoscopic removal are inevitably higher than with excision at laparotomy. It remains controversial whether upstaging from FIGO stage Ia to IIc affects prognosis; however, in this case it led to aggressive adjuvant therapy which imposed significant additional morbidity, including loss of fertility, on the patient. One should be aware of the possibility of unexpected malignancy when the decision to manage an ovarian mass laparoscopically is made."}
{"id": "14758880", "title": "Port site metastasis subsequent to laparoscopy for chronic pelvic pain.", "content": "Port site metastasis subsequent to laparoscopy for chronic pelvic pain. We present an interesting case of port site metastasis is a menopausal women subsequent to diagnostic laparoscopy undertaken for chronic pelvic pain, which later proved early ovarian malignancy as the source of primary. While cases of port site metastasis have mostly occurred after extensive disease the possbility of such complication should be in mind at laparoscopy of early cancer."}
{"id": "14574170", "title": "Prophylactic oophorectomy in Ontario.", "content": "Prophylactic oophorectomy in Ontario. To determine the indications, patterns of practice, and complication rates for prophylactic oophorectomy in Ontario. From hospital discharge abstracts, 82 hospitals were identified where at least one patient had a prophylactic oophorectomy since 1992. Ethics approval for the chart review was obtained from 41 hospitals (50%), was denied at 10 (12%) and is pending at 31 facilities. Using the International Classification of Disease diagnostic code for family history of ovarian cancer (V16.4) and prophylactic oophorectomy (V50.42), the medical records departments were asked to retrieve the charts. One abstractor reviewed the charts using a standard form to collect demographic information, indications for surgery, details of surgery and complications. From 1992-1998, 263 women underwent PO in 41 hospitals. A BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation was recorded in 16 cases. Thirty-six patients had a past history of breast cancer. In 127 women, a family history was the sole reason for surgery; the remaining 136 women had a coexisting gynecologic complaint. Laparotomy was used exclusively in 155 cases, laparoscopy in 79 and vaginal access in 12 cases. Seventeen women required conversion to laparotomy during the operation. The mean length of hospital stay was 3.7 days (0-14 days). Thirty-six women (14%) had complications. We have described the indications for surgery, trends in surgical practice and surgical complications for women receiving prophylactic oophorectomy in Ontario. Prior to prophylactic oophorectomy, the indications and benefits should be clear to both patient and physician. Optimally, all women should receive genetic counseling to help define risk for ovarian and breast cancer, medical and surgical options, impact of oophorectomy on cancer risk, risk of surgical complications, and the consequences and management of surgical menopause."}
{"id": "12731160", "title": "[The use of Sono-Surgery in breast cancer surgery].", "content": "[The use of Sono-Surgery in breast cancer surgery]. Of this research is presenting the using of Sono-surg as a technic possibility in breast cancer surgery. Are presented and analyzed cases of mastectomy and laparoscopic oophorectomy in which since 1999, was used like element of hemostasis Sono-surg. In 23 cases of laparoscopic oophorectomy using Sono-surg, was reduce the time of intervention, incidence or usually complications. The idea of using Sono-surg in mastectomy too, make sure a perfect hemostasis even if the time of the intervention is longer. Introducing Sono-surg in surgical treatment of breast cancer is a therapeutic solution which may be used with postoperative profits."}
{"id": "11977327", "title": "Diagnostic value of US and CT in the assessment of ovarian teratomas and their qualifications for surgical treatment with laparoscopic method.", "content": "Diagnostic value of US and CT in the assessment of ovarian teratomas and their qualifications for surgical treatment with laparoscopic method. In the group of 17 women after surgery with histopathologically confirmed diagnosis of teratomas diagnostic usefulness of US and CT was analysed. Differentiated echostructure of tumours was correlated with different densities of pathologic tissues in CT examination, also after their contrast enhancement. In 2 patients teratomas of both ovaries were recognised, in the remaining 15 women tumours were unilateral. In total morphologic pictures of 19 teratomas were assessed, 9 times tumours with prevailing liquid component had the picture of a thick-walled cyst, 7 times these were hyperechogenic fatty foci and in 3 cases had the character of solid tumours. Teratomas had different morphologic pictures, but it was possible to show the prevalence of one element and classify the tumour to one of the three types of teratomas. It was found that US examination, due to its high frequency, lets early diagnose teratomas before they are accessible in the clinical exam, in the symptomless period or when they give indirect symptoms, usually dysuric ones. CT examination, due to its high sensitivity in recognising fatty tissue and calcifications, is necessary before laparoscopic operation requiring fragmentation of big tumours to determine their character."}
{"id": "11930686", "title": "[Association between renin activity, angiotensin II and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome].", "content": "[Association between renin activity, angiotensin II and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome]. To investigate the association between renin-like activity (RA) and angiotensin II (A II) and the ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). Blood samples were taken from 42 patients undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF). According to the ovarian stimulating response, the patients were divided into 4 groups: group I, low responders, 7 cases; group II, moderate responders, 8 cases; group III a high responders without using albumin, 7 cases, group III b, high responders with albumin, 10 cases; group IV, severe and moderate OHSS, 10 cases. 5 patients for intrauterin insemination with natural cycle as control. Follicular fluid (FF) was collected at oocyte retrieval from 28 IVF patients (including 7 OHSS patients). Fluid from ascites and hydrothorax was obtained from 3 OHSS patients, and peritoneal fluid obtained from 5 infertility patients by laparoscopy and ascitic fluid obtained from 6 ovarian carcinoma patients served as control. RA and A II levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Plasma RA and A II levels at mid-luteal phase from OHSS patients [(19.9 +/- 19.0) micrograms.L-1.h-1 and (397.0 +/- 378.2) ng/L] were significantly higher than those from the other patients (P < 0.01-0.05), also the levels at mid-luteal phase from IVF patients were significantly higher than those at late-follicular phase [(4.1 +/- 2.9)-(4.9 +/- 3.2) micrograms.L-1.h-1 Vs (1.5 +/- 0.9)-(1.9 +/- 1.0) micrograms.L-1.h-1, (85.5 +/- 49.5)-(109.4 +/- 46.0) ng/L Vs (33.6 +/- 15.9)-(37.0 +/- 17.1) ng/L, P < 0.01-0.05]. RA and A II levels in FF were significant higher than those in plasma (P < 0.01-0.05). A II in ascitic fluid in OHSS patients was 4 to 8 times higher than that in plasma, while RA in ascitic fluid was 1.5 to 3 times higher than that in plasma, but the levels of A II and RA in controls were very low. The plasma RA and A II levels dropped very significantly along with clinical improvement (P < 0.01). These findings suggest that RA and A II are associated with the pathogenesis of capillary leakage in OHSS."}
{"id": "11918456", "title": "Elevated serum cancer antigen 125 levels in advanced abdominal tuberculosis.", "content": "Elevated serum cancer antigen 125 levels in advanced abdominal tuberculosis. A 48-yr-old female presented with a 1-yr history of pain in the hypochondrium and epigastrium. All routine investigations and computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen were done. CT findings revealed a well-defined cystic mass in the right ovary, and ascitis with features suggestive of secondaries over the omentum and peritoneal surface. The serum CA125 was 1255 U/mL (normal range 0-35 U/mL), which was indicative of ovarian malignancy. An exploratory laparotomy was performed. Histopathological examination of organs revealed the presence of granuloma. The patient was advised to undergo antitubercular treatment (ATT) and follow-up every month. After 1 mo of ATT, the CA125 level came down to 42 U/mL, which was near normal. As tuberculosis requires only a conservative management, we suggest that in cases of abdominopelvic mass with or without ascitis, high serum CA125 should always raise a suspicion of tuberculosis and a laparoscopy combined with peritoneal biopsy should be performed to confirm the diagnosis. This will prevent unnecessary laparotomies. Moreover, serum CA125 can be used to monitor the response of disease to antitubercular treatment."}
{"id": "11917382", "title": "[Ovarian cysts assumed benign in the peripubertal period (10 to 16 years)].", "content": "[Ovarian cysts assumed benign in the peripubertal period (10 to 16 years)]. Ovarian cyst is a rare disease in infancy and childhood. Functional cysts are the most common benign ovarian tumor observed during childhood. Ultrasound examination in children with abdominal pain has improve diagnostic accuracy with an associated increase in the frequency of functional cysts (60% of the cases). Diagnosis of organic cysts is often made late. Germ cell tumors, often dermoid cysts, occur more frequently than in adults. Ultrasonography and laparoscopy are important diagnostic tools for ovarian cysts in children. Serum CEA, alpha-fetoprotein and beta HGC are routine tests for organic tumors. Laparoscopy is generally proposed for treatment except for small functional cysts with a transonic structure. Spontaneous involution is generally observed."}
{"id": "11917378", "title": "[Operative technique for assumed benign ovarian cysts].", "content": "[Operative technique for assumed benign ovarian cysts]. Assumed benign ovarian cysts are best treated by laparoscopy rather than laparotomy (NP1). A peritoneal sampling for cytology should always be performed first (NP5). Frozen section diagnosis for suspicion of malignancy requires specific conditions (NP5). Laparoscopic treatment of macroscopically functional cysts can not be limited to needle aspiration (NP5). There is not enough evidence to privilege cystectomy after needle aspiration over attempt to achieve enucleation of the cyst; however, uncontrolled rupture of the cyst is the risk associated with the latter procedure (NP5). Authors usually recommend extraction of the cyst through a bag (NP5). There is not enough evidence for or against ovarian suture. Benefits of adhesion barriers after ovarian cystectomy has to be proved. The majority of the authors perform a bilateral oophorectomy in case of unilateral postmenopausal cyst (NP5). As much parenchyma as possible should be preserved in case of large ovarian cysts. For women with small controlateral dermoid cysts, the validity of surgical abstention is not established. Conservative surgery is the rule in case of premenopausal mucinous cysts."}
{"id": "11917377", "title": "[Ovarian cyst: surgical indications and access].", "content": "[Ovarian cyst: surgical indications and access]. Laparoscopic treatment of adnexal masses is indicated when all criteria of a benign lesion are present: transvaginal ultrasound demonstrates a mass < 5 cm, with liquid or dermoid content, with less than 3 fine partitions (< 3 mm), a thin wall (< 3 mm), no vegetations, normal Doppler. Laparoscopy is also indicated for \"benign\" cysts measuring 5 to 10 cm if laparoscopy is feasible. Peroperative exploration is the rule. Since the benign or malignant nature of an ovarian mass cannot be determined macroscopically, precaution must be taken to avoid potential laparoscopic dissemination: use of an extraction pouch, instrument cleaning, cytotoxic agent (chlorexidine or povidone-iodine) for trocar tracts, prevention of gas leakage, 3-plane suture of trocar orifices measuring > 10 mm, short interval between laparoscopic diagnosis of cancer and onset of chemotherapy or complete surgery (1 week). In case of pre- or peroperatively suspected malignancy, cytology examination of the peritoneal fluid and careful peroperative exploration of the abdomen and pelvis with peritoneal biopsy as needed are required. Simple cystectomy or adnexectomy may be performed, depending on the age of the patient, while waiting for the final pathology report. Peroperative intraperitoneal rupture must be avoided, converting to laparotomy if needed. If several suspicious elements are found, median laparotomy is often recommended, particularly in case of suspected cancer with extra-ovarian involvement, or if there is a risk of peroperative rupture. Peroperative pathology of the adnexectomy specimen and peroperative exploration will depend on the operator's experience and the availability of pathology examination in the operating room. First line laparoscopy allows an analysis of the operability and choice of the most appropriate access."}
{"id": "11917373", "title": "[Doppler ultrasonography in the diagnosis of ovarian cysts: indications, pertinence and diagnostic criteria].", "content": "[Doppler ultrasonography in the diagnosis of ovarian cysts: indications, pertinence and diagnostic criteria]. To discriminate ovarian lesions is of particular importance in gynecological practice. Two main problems need answers: discrimination of benign and malignant adnexal masses and choice of the appropriate surgical treatment if necessary. Nearly 2% of the adnexal masses are ovarian carcinomas or border line tumors. It is now well established that ultrasonography is the gold standard for ovarian cyst diagnosis. The purpose of this work was to review the literature and to establish, with the evidence based medicine model, which parameters and existing diagnostic models using ultrasound and Doppler performs best in the evaluation of adnexal masses. Transvaginal sonography has demonstrated considerable advantage over conventional transabdominal sonography. However, transparietal sonography is still useful in large tumors. It is no longer reasonable to subject all patients undergoing pelvic sonography to bladder distension. Functional ovarian cyst characterization seems easy using sonography and Doppler. In case of complication, discrimination of such functional cyst may be difficult but spontaneous regression confirms usually the expectative management. Dermoid cysts and endometriomas seem to be easier to discriminate from other adnexal masses. Papillary formations on the inside of the cyst wall and masses with a non hyperechoic solid component are the most statistically significant predictors of a malignant ovarian mass. Ultrasound and morphologic parameters have a sensitivity of 80% and a specificity of 93%, that make this exam the gold standard for ovarian masses diagnosis. Another parameter is important: experienced hands with subjective evaluation seems to be one of the best ultrasound method for adnexal masses discrimination. Scoring system help differentiate benign from malignant masses (sensitivity 90%, VPP 50%). Doppler flow measurement and assessment of tumor vascularity by doppler energy increase the confidence with which a correct diagnosis is made. Moreover, combined US techniques and a diagnostic algorithm perform significantly better than morphologic assessment, color doppler or CA125 measurement alone. Logistic regression and neural network models are good methods and may be useful for malignancy prediction but the improvement is small and the concordance with histology far from 100%. In front of a benign and maybe functional cyst, spontaneous resolution may be controlled by sonographic exam at 3 and 6 months. Three-dimensional ultrasound and power doppler, contrast enhanced sonography, and sonography during the laparoscopic procedure are not still validated. Every suspicious ovarian mass needs sonography by an expert which can first use all the techniques and the different parameters to discriminate benign and malignant tumors. Secondly, after control if necessary, he can propose the patient for appropriate surgical treatment."}
{"id": "11917371", "title": "[Ovarian cysts and pregnancy].", "content": "[Ovarian cysts and pregnancy]. FREQUENCY AND HISTOLOGY: In the first trimester of pregnancy, ovarian cysts are often functional without complications. After 16 weeks of gestation, frequency of ovarian cyst is reported between 0.5 and 3.0%. Histological results are identical to those observed in non pregnant women between 15 and 44 years, essentially dermoid cysts and functional cysts. Frequency of ovarian cancer is reported between 1 out of 15,000 and 1 out of 32,000 pregnancies. A surgical intervention is necessary if suspect signs are observed at ultrasonographic examination. Almost all unilocular cyst with a diameter < 5 cm and persistent in second and third trimester are not associated with complications and are regressive during pregnancy; in this cases, abstention seems warranted. Conclusions are similar for dermoid cysts with diameter < 6 cm and without malignant criteria but there are a few studies on theses topics. No prospective studies are available to assess the risk of cancer or complications for cyst with diameter > 6 cm without malignant criteria. Evacuation by puncture is not well evaluated and is not recommended during pregnancy. If an intervention is decided, laparoscopy is warranted until 16-17 weeks. After 17 weeks, laparotomy is the most evaluated method. They are uncommon and caesarean section is warranted only if a cyst in the pelvis will obstruct labour. During caesarean section, removal of a cyst should be performed."}
{"id": "11883277", "title": "[The place of laparoscopy in gynecological practice--useful technique for diagnostic and treatment of infertility and endometriosis].", "content": "[The place of laparoscopy in gynecological practice--useful technique for diagnostic and treatment of infertility and endometriosis]. The objective was to evaluate indications for laparoscopy performed in Department of Gynecological Surgery of Polish Mother's Memorial Research Institute. We have analyzed hospital charts of 342 patients who had been treated with laparoscopy in 1991-1999. During last years a progressive frequency in performing laparoscopic procedures has been noted (4.7% of all surgical treatment in 1991-93, 6.4% in 1994-96, 16.3% in 1997-99, and 25.2% in 1999). An increased percentage of operative laparoscopic procedures has also been observed (11.9% in 1991-93 vs 59.8% in 1994-96 vs 86.9% in 1997-99). The major indication for performing laparoscopy was: infertility (145--42.4%), endometriosis (90--26.4%) and benign ovarian tumors. Most of laparoscopic operations were performed due to benign pathological changes found in adnexa (218--68.6%). Laparoscopy has been recently introduced in surgical treatment of uterine myoma (enucleation, laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy-LAVH) and diagnosis of ovarian carcinoma. Complications were found in 19 (5.5%) cases: 11 cases (3.2%) intraoperative and 8 (2.3%) cases postoperative. Bleeding from abdominal wall vessels was the most often intraoperative complications, whereas an infection was the most common postoperative one. Because of complications laparoscopy turned into laparotomy in four cases. Laparoscopy is a safe and useful technique for treatment some gynecological pathology (especially infertility and endometriosis) with a small number of complications."}
{"id": "11843398", "title": "Resection of recurrent bulky gynaecological side wall malignancy with iliac vessel reconstruction.", "content": "Resection of recurrent bulky gynaecological side wall malignancy with iliac vessel reconstruction."}
{"id": "11828663", "title": "[Recurrent adhesive ileus after surgical treatment of ovarian teratoma, malposition of an intrauterine device and dolichosigmoid--case report] ].", "content": "[Recurrent adhesive ileus after surgical treatment of ovarian teratoma, malposition of an intrauterine device and dolichosigmoid--case report] ]. A 30-year-old woman was operated for ovarian teratoma and repeatedly for adhesive ileus during 1995-1999. A partial left ovarectomy, extirpation of an intrauterine device (IUD) in malposition (greater omentum) and appendectomy were performed during the first operation. Early adhesive ileus developed on the fourth postoperative day. Adhesectomy was performed in the region of the terminal jejunum. A new adhesive ileus developed after twenty seven months when patient underwent laparoscopy for gynaecological problems with conversion to laparotomy because of greater adhesions intraperitoneally another adhesectomy was performed. During the next eleven months new adhesive obstructions of the bowel developed and a third operation had to be performed incl. resection of the dolichosigmoideum on account of chronic problems during defaecation. A special tube as a intraluminal splint was inserted as prophylaxis of mechanical ileus in the postoperative period. But during next thirteen months subileous conditions and mechanical ileus developed again (up to now). The picture of intraperitoneal conditions was disastrous: almost total fibrotic changes allowed only partial adhesectomy. The passage through bowel is limited and is restricted to dietetic and medicamentous preparations. This case-report demonstrates postoperative adhesions a very old and very serious problem at the beginning of the third millennium."}
{"id": "11816533", "title": "[Laparoscopic management of ovarian borderline tumors].", "content": "[Laparoscopic management of ovarian borderline tumors]. The objective of this communication is to present a patient case with ovarian borderline tumor. The conservative management for laparoscopy, and we performed an analysis of the mundial literature in which respect to the conservative and laparoscopy management, in spite of the laparoscopy management are of controversy."}
{"id": "11813026", "title": "[Can the ovarian tumor approached by video laparoscopy?].", "content": "[Can the ovarian tumor approached by video laparoscopy?]."}
{"id": "11802556", "title": "[Laparoscopy and gynecologic cancer: is it still necessary to debate or only convince the incredulous?].", "content": "[Laparoscopy and gynecologic cancer: is it still necessary to debate or only convince the incredulous?]. Many papers suggested that laparoscopic treatment of cancer could be achieved and taught safely. Although cases reports about trocar site metastasis and national survey about inadequate management of early ovarian cancer suggested that laparoscopic management of cancer may be dangerous. The current literature may be summarized as follows. An inadequate surgical management performed by laparoscopy as well as by laparotomy may worsen the prognosis of an early ovarian cancer. If the abdominal wall is protected with a bag and the tumour is not morcellated, the incidence of trocar site site metastasis is about 1%. Animal studies demonstrated that the laparoscopic management of cancer has both advantages and disadvantages. Preliminary results from prospective randomised trials in the treatment of colon cancer suggested that the survival rate is similar after laparoscopy and after laparotomy. The risk of dissemination appears high when a large number of malignant cells are present in patients operated using an increased abdominal pressure and a CO2 pneumoperitoneum. These data suggest that laparoscopic treatment of gynaecologic cancer is not dangerous if an adequate surgical technique is used. However morcellation of suspicious solid tumours, treatment of adnexal tumours with external vegetations but without peritoneal dissemination and of bulky lymph nodes should be considered as contra-indications to CO2 laparoscopy, puncture of an ovarian tumour with intracystic vegetations is a high risk situation which should be avoided whenever possible."}
{"id": "11760544", "title": "[Recurrent mucineous cystadenoma in an 11-year-old premenarchal girl].", "content": "[Recurrent mucineous cystadenoma in an 11-year-old premenarchal girl]. A case of a recurrent ovarian mucinous cystadenoma in an 11-year-old, premenarchal girl is described. The treatment of choice was cystectomy, partly because of the patient's age and partly because malignancies are uncommon in this population. The operative approach can either be by laparotomy or laparoscopy when technically feasible. But it is important to keep in mind the possibility of recurrence even of benign cysts."}
{"id": "11744902", "title": "Effect of carbon dioxide on human ovarian carcinoma cell growth.", "content": "Effect of carbon dioxide on human ovarian carcinoma cell growth. Laparoscopy may be associated with increased risk of ovarian carcinoma wound metastases. This study was designed to determine whether carbon dioxide exposure increases the growth of human ovarian cancer cells in vitro. Immortalized ovarian epithelial carcinoma cell (SKOV-3 cell line) cultures were exposed to carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, or culture media with decreased pH for up to 3 hours. Cell growth was determined with the use of a spectrophotometric assay, and the results were compared with control cells by paired t tests and linear regressions analysis. Carbon dioxide exposure increased SKOV-3 cell growth by 52% after 4 days in culture. The increased cell growth had a linear relationship to the length of carbon dioxide exposure. Cells that were exposed to either nitrous oxide or media with pH 6.3 showed a trend toward decreased growth. Carbon dioxide exposure increases the in vitro growth of human ovarian carcinoma cells by an effect that is independent of the carbon dioxide-related decrease in the culture media pH."}
{"id": "11730763", "title": "Ovarian sex cord tumor with annular tubules in a woman with premature ovarian failure.", "content": "Ovarian sex cord tumor with annular tubules in a woman with premature ovarian failure. To report a case of premature ovarian failure (POF) associated with an ovarian sex cord tumor with annular tubules. Case report. Reproductive endocrinology unit in a tertiary academic center. A 20-year-old woman with POF. Biopsy of the rudimentary ovary by laparoscopy. Protocol for POF investigation and histological study of the ovarian sample. An ovarian sex cord tumor with annular tubules was detected in the rudimentary right ovary. The rare ovarian sex cord tumor with annular tubules, which may be hormonally active, was detected in a case of POF."}
{"id": "11727148", "title": "Description of two new human ovarian carcinoma models in nude rats suitable for laparoscopic experimentation.", "content": "Description of two new human ovarian carcinoma models in nude rats suitable for laparoscopic experimentation. Experimental laparoscopic trials require relevant models of ovarian carcinomatosis. Female nude rats were inoculated intraperitoneally either with the IGR-OV1 or the NIH:OVCAR-3 human adenocarcinoma cell lines. Serial clinical checks and sacrifices were used to evaluate the rates of tumor take, survival, and patterns of tumor spread. Finally, laparoscopies with various pneumoperitoneum pressures were performed to verify the \"surgical\" relevancy of out models. The learning curve was measured. The best results were obtained when twenty-seven 106 IGR-OV1 cells and thirty-six 106 NIH:OVCAR-3 cells were injected in 28-day-old rats. The IGR-OV1 model provided a mean survival of 17.8 days (range, 13-22 days), with a high take rate (94%). The NIH:OVCAR-3 model resulted in a longer mean survival (59 days; range, 49-77) and also a high take rate (83%). The two models differed in their patterns of tumor spread: solid bulky omental metastasis having a diffuse microscopic peritoneal carcinomatosis with the IGR-OV1 line (the weight of the omental cake correlated significantly with the stage of development) and diffuse macroscopic peritoneal carcinomatosis having no large solid tumor, but visceral and paraaortic metastases, with the NIH:OVCAR-3 line. In both models, CA125 was high. Anesthesia could be performed and repeated in healthy and tumor-bearing rats. Laparoscopy was feasible, with pneumoperitoneum pressures as high as 8 mmHg lasting 1 h. Laparoscopy provided a reliable evaluation of the tumor spread into the peritoneal cavity. The plateau of the learning curve was soon obtained for take rate and survival after laparoscopy. We report two new human ovarian carcinoma xenografts in nude rats suitable for laparoscopy. The IGR-OV1 model mimics an advanced stage of the disease, and the NIH:OVCAR-3 model presents an earlier stage. These two models appear useful for experiments involving laparoscopy."}
{"id": "11704124", "title": "Fertility and tumor recurrence rate after conservative laparoscopic management of young women with early-stage borderline ovarian tumors.", "content": "Fertility and tumor recurrence rate after conservative laparoscopic management of young women with early-stage borderline ovarian tumors. To evaluate the efficacy of laparoscopic conservative surgery in young women with borderline ovarian tumors who want to preserve their childbearing potential, and to assess whether pregnancy influences the recurrence rate during the follow-up evaluation period. Retrospective study. Center for Reconstructive Pelvic Endosurgery, Reproductive Medicine Unit, S. Orsola Hospital, University of Bologna, Italy. Nineteen women (mean age 27.4 +/- 4.7) with borderline ovarian tumors who underwent laparoscopy between January 1995 and January 1998. All of the women wanted to preserve their fertility. A standardized conservative laparoscopic approach and a strict follow-up schedule. A complete preoperative examination. Follow-up evaluations (mean 42 +/- 19 months) were made available to all patients. Among 19 patients, 10 attempted pregnancy and 6 conceived spontaneously. All six pregnancies went to term and the disease did not affect the gestation or the follow-up period after the pregnancy (24.5 +/- 15.7 months). Conservative laparoscopic management of borderline ovarian tumors is a potentially safe alternative in young women who want to retain their childbearing potential. Fertility and pregnancy outcome remain excellent in these women. Our preliminary data seem to indicate that the recurrence rate after pregnancy is not influenced by this approach."}
{"id": "11685927", "title": "Gynecologic laparoscopy.", "content": "Gynecologic laparoscopy. Laparoscopic techniques are slowly gaining acceptance in gynecologic oncology. Usage in early stage endometrial and ovarian cancer and in the evaluation of suspicious adnexal masses is increasing, but large prospective series have not been performed. Laparoscopic procedures carry a steep learning curve and there are a limited number of centers currently performing these procedures for oncologic indications. It seems clear, however, that for the well-selected patient, in experienced hands, laparoscopic procedures in gynecologic oncology offer many potential benefits."}
{"id": "11685875", "title": "Role of laparoscopy in the management of the adnexal mass and staging of gynecologic cancers.", "content": "Role of laparoscopy in the management of the adnexal mass and staging of gynecologic cancers."}
{"id": "11677466", "title": "[Poorly differentiated Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor of the ovary: imaging with pathologic correlations. A case report].", "content": "[Poorly differentiated Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor of the ovary: imaging with pathologic correlations. A case report]."}
{"id": "11603247", "title": "Heterotopic bone in the ovary associated with a mucinous cystadenoma.", "content": "Heterotopic bone in the ovary associated with a mucinous cystadenoma. Bone formation in the ovary, with the exception of developing in the setting of a mature cystic teratoma, is exceedingly uncommon. We report a case of bone formation within a mucinous cystadenoma of the ovary. A 19-year-old active duty female presented with an asymptomatic pelvic mass; sonographic imaging revealed a 5.7-cm complex right adnexal mass. A laparoscopic cystectomy was performed. Pathologic evaluation of the cyst revealed a mucinous cystadenoma. Contained within several of the thick fibrous septae were areas of well-formed bone. Although a benign finding, bone formation and associated fibrosis may lead to sonographic findings of concern during the evaluation of patients with a pelvic mass."}
{"id": "11594544", "title": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses the opportunities and the risks.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses the opportunities and the risks. Suspected ovarian neoplasm is a common clinical problem affecting women of all ages. Although the majority of adnexal masses are benign, the primary goal of diagnostic evaluation is the exclusion of malignancy. It has been estimated that approximately 5-10% of women in the United States will undergo a surgical procedure for a suspected ovarian neoplasm during their lifetime. Despite the magnitude of the problem, there is still considerable disagreement regarding the optimal surgical management of these lesions. Traditional management has relied on laparotomy to avoid undertreatment of a potentially malignant process. Advances in detection, diagnosis, and minimally invasive surgical techniques make it necessary now to review this practice in an effort to avoid unnecessary morbidity among patients. Here, we review the literature on the laparosopic approach to the treatment of the adnexal mass without sacrificing the principles of oncologic surgery. We highlight potentials of minimally invasive surgery and address the risks associated with the laparoscopic approach."}
{"id": "11591422", "title": "Successful in vitro fertilization pregnancy after conservative management of endometrial cancer.", "content": "Successful in vitro fertilization pregnancy after conservative management of endometrial cancer. To report a successful IVF pregnancy in an infertile couple after conservative treatment of endometrial cancer. Case report and literature review. University teaching hospital. A 29-year-old infertile white woman. Successful pregnancy after conservative management of endometrial cancer. Grade 1 endometrial adenocarcinoma diagnosed at hysteroscopy, followed by dilatation and curettage (D&C). On follow-up D&C, pathologic examination was normal after high-dose progesterone therapy. The patient subsequently underwent an IVF cycle with transfer of three blastocysts. The patient delivered triplets by cesarean section. Laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was then done. No residual endometrial cancer was evident in the hysterectomy specimen, but a 1.1-cm cystic mixed endometrioid and clear cell-type adenocarcinoma was discovered in the left ovary. The patient is doing well after 3 cycles of chemotherapy; her CA-125 level is normal. The triplets are also doing well. In carefully chosen situations, deferring surgery in infertile patients with endometrial cancer may be a viable option permitting subsequent successful pregnancy."}
{"id": "11591271", "title": "Clomiphene citrate in the twenty-first century.", "content": "Clomiphene citrate in the twenty-first century. Clomiphene citrate is the drug most commonly prescribed for ovulation induction. It is the first choice medication in normogonadotrophic oligo/amenorrhoeic infertility (WHO group 2), essentially associated with polycystic ovaries. Anovulatory women who are responsive to clomiphene citrate should be treated for at least six cycles and the treatment should probably be limited to a maximum of 12 cycles. It is necessary to monitor at least the first cycle with ultrasonography because of the risk of multiple pregnancy and the variable response of patients to different doses of clomiphene. In addition, the risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome should not be underestimated. More triplets and higher order pregnancies result from ovulation induction than from in vitro fertilization, and multiple pregnancy has many risks for both mother and babies. The role of empirical clomiphene in the treatment of unexplained infertility is debatable and the present data are inconclusive. Obesity, hyperandrogenaemia and insulin resistance are important factors in clomiphene-resistant patients. Failure to ovulate in response to clomiphene has been approached by either medical or surgical treatment. An effective alternative medical treatment is gonadotrophin injections. Treatment with metformin and the new generation of insulin-sensitizing drugs is under evaluation. The most widely used surgical treatment today is laparoscopic ovarian drilling, which appears to be as effective as gonadotrophin therapy."}
{"id": "11569420", "title": "[Ovarian implantation of the embryo in IVF and ET--early mole with proliferative trophoblast].", "content": "[Ovarian implantation of the embryo in IVF and ET--early mole with proliferative trophoblast]. Case report of a very rare case of ovarian implantation after IVF and ET treated by laparoscopy. Case report. Institute for the Care of Mother and Child, Prenatal Diagnostic Centre and Trophoblastic Disease Centre, Prague, Institute for Postgraduate Medical Education, Prague. We observed implanted product of conception found within the ovarian stroma 35 days after ET. At laparoscopy, the genital sac appeared as an inconspicious haemorrhagic cyst, 2 cm in diameter. After dissection, in the intact sac appeared amorphous 2 mm embryo and 3 mm yolk sac. The trophoblast of the anchoring chorionic villi exhibited marked hyperproliferation and was classified as a proliferating mole. The intact early product of conception exhibited trophoblastic hyperplasia."}
{"id": "11553899", "title": "Fluorescence spectroscopy for in vivo characterization of ovarian tissue.", "content": "Fluorescence spectroscopy for in vivo characterization of ovarian tissue. The objective of this study was to explore whether fluorescence spectroscopy signatures differed between normal variations within the ovary, benign neoplasms, and ovarian cancer. Ovarian tissue fluorescence emission spectra were collected sequentially at 18 excitation wavelengths ranging from 330 to 500 nm from 11 patients undergoing oophorectomy and assembled into fluorescence excitation emission matrices (EEMs); biopsies corresponded to the area interrogated. Spectral areas that could differentiate normal ovary, benign neoplasms, and cancers were evaluated, using histopathology as the reference standard. The most promising measurements are (1) the integrated fluorescence intensity from 400 to 430 nm excitation at 460 nm emission, and (2) the ratios of fluorescence intensities at 330 nm excitation, 385 and 500 nm emission, and at 375 and 415 nm excitation, 460 nm emission. Simple systems to visualize these optical signatures at laparoscopy could be designed. Fluorescence spectroscopy may have the ability to distinguish ovarian cancers from normal ovarian structures and benign neoplasms, as well as differentiate between normal variations and metaplastic structures and should be further explored as a device for the early detection of ovarian cancers."}
{"id": "11548835", "title": "Laparoscopic extracorporeal oophorectomy and ovarian cystectomy in second trimester pregnant obese patients.", "content": "Laparoscopic extracorporeal oophorectomy and ovarian cystectomy in second trimester pregnant obese patients. To determine whether a modified technique for laparoscopic extracorporal oophorectomy is less complicated and safer than traditional laparoscopic oophorectomy. Four obese patients in their second trimester underwent open laparoscopy for treatment of large ovarian cysts. A Cook Ob/Gyn special cyst aspirator with a 14-gauge aspirating needle was inserted into the abdomen to drain the ovary through a separate 10-mm port; the site of insertion depends on the location of the ovary. After the cyst was decompressed, the 10-mm incision was enlarged to 3 cm, and either extracorporal oophorectomy or cystectomy was performed. No complications occurred. Average blood loss was less than 15 cc; average carbon dioxide insufflation time was less than 20 minutes. Average operating time was 40 minutes, which was significantly less than traditional laparoscopic oophorectomy. The patients were discharged in less than 23 hours. Patient A had a 500-cc dermoid cyst, and subsequently had a normal vaginal delivery at term. Patient B had a 1600-cc cyst removed. She had a cesarian delivery due to cephalopelvic disproportion. Pathological analysis of the specimen identified the mass as a dermoid cyst and serous cystadenoma. Patient C had a 3200-cc ovarian cyst. Currently, she is in her 24th week of gestation. Patient D had a 700-cc simple ovarian cyst removed at her 16th week of gestation. Laparoscopic extracorporal oophorectomy requires significantly less CO2 insufflation time and a shorter operation time, hence, decreasing the adverse effects on the fetus. The enlarged second trimester uterus made traditional laparoscopy more complicated. Performing the procedure extracorporally decreased the possibility of operative complications."}
{"id": "11526783", "title": "[The assessment of dendritic cells cultured from peritoneal fluid macrophages: first report and new perspectives in the treatment of endometriosis].", "content": "[The assessment of dendritic cells cultured from peritoneal fluid macrophages: first report and new perspectives in the treatment of endometriosis]. Dendritic cells represent discrete leukocyte subpopulation of specialist or \"professional\" antigen-presenting cells (APC). They play a crucial role in the activation of naive T cells \"in vivo\" They have monocyte/macrophages origin. There are no data in literature on the presence of dendritic cells derived from peritoneal fluid monocytes/macrophages. In our study we tried to culture PF macrophages from patients who undergone surgery so that to obtain dendritic cells. PF was aspirated during laparoscopy from patients with endometriosis, unexplained infertility or benign noninflammatory ovarian tumor. Peritoneal macrophages were isolated using adherence method then were cultured and stimulated with GM-CSF and IL-4. Phenotype of cultured cell was estimated using flow cytometry after incubation with monoclonal antibodies CD45/14, CD 40/HLA-DR, CD28/3, CD3/40L, CD25/5 and CD69/HLA-DR. Morphology of cultured cells was confirmed microscopically after May-Grunvald-Giemsa staining. PF leukocytes concentration varied from 1.2 x 10(6) cells/mm3 to 22.6 x 10(6) cells/mm3. Cultured monocytes/macrophages from PF had morphology typical for dendritic cells. We also found that only dendritic cells from patients with endometriosis had higher expression HLA-DR antigen (93.6% of cells) and low expression of CD40 (2.7% of cells) on their surface in comparison to reference group. It is worthy to notify that dendritic cells from patients with endometriosis expressed also CD25 antigen characteristic for T leukocytes. To our data it is the first report in literature on dendritic cells obtained from PF macrophages."}
{"id": "11526777", "title": "[Ovarian endometriomas during pregnancy].", "content": "[Ovarian endometriomas during pregnancy]. Endometriomas are rare in pregnancy. May be difficult to diagnose and may cause significant complications at any stage during gestation. The author presents 2 cases of ovarian endometriomas diagnosed and treated surgically in 14 and 18 weeks of pregnancy. In the first case laparoscopy was performed, in the second case laparoscopy and then laparotomy due to massive adhesions were performed. In both cases histopathological examinations showed: cystis picea endometriotica ovarii. Both patients delivered at term. Ovarian endometriomas does not exclude fertility. Surgical management of ovarian endometriomas does not complicate pregnancy course."}
{"id": "11526721", "title": "[Role of echo-guided aspiration of ovarian cysts. Our experience].", "content": "[Role of echo-guided aspiration of ovarian cysts. Our experience]. Ultrasound-guided puncture is a simple and easy to perform procedure. This study was undertaken to verify the role of fine-needle aspiration (FNA) followed by cytological examination as a possible alternative to surgery in case of cystic pelvic masses. Ovarian cysts are conventionally managed by laparoscopy or laparotomy. From January 1993 to December 1997, 224 patients with a proven cystic pelvic mass underwent surgical intervention and have been retrospectively analysed for FNA under sonographic guidance. The sediment aspirated was examined by a cytological method and when possible it was also correlated to a histological test. Eight patients (34.8%) had been submitted to one needle cyst aspiration before surgical intervention and 15 (65.2%) to more than one aspiration. Patients with an history of only one aspiration were submitted to surgical intervention with urgency statistically more than the group with an history of more than one aspiration. Anatomo-pathologic examination showed a significative relevance of serous and endometriotic cysts. We conclude that FNA might be proposed in young women with a unilocular ovarian cyst to avoid a surgical procedure. In all instances the ultrasonographic appearance of the cyst and the characteristics of aspirated fluid are the most important findings."}
{"id": "11526711", "title": "[Second-look in ovarian cancer: laparoscopy or laparotomy?].", "content": "[Second-look in ovarian cancer: laparoscopy or laparotomy?]. The aim of the present study was to compare the laparoscopic second-look with laparotomic second-look as regards the consistency of diagnosis of residual tumoral disease after first step treatment in patients affected by ovarian cancer, and to evaluate the feasibility of the laparoscopic second-look. Twenty-one patients affected by ovarian cancer underwent laparoscopic second-look followed by laparotomic second-look. Six months after the first surgical intervention all the patients showed no contraindications to laparoscopic second-look. All the surgeries were performed with the same procedure: after the introduction of the trocars the lysis of adherences was carried out, the whole abdominal cavity was explored, 18 abdominal-pelvic sites were examined, direct biopsies were performed and samples for the cyto- and histological analysis were obtained. Positive predictive value for laparoscopy was 100% (6 out of 6 cases), while negative predictive value was 84% (2 false negative cases out of 12). The complete abdominal-pelvic examination was possible in 95% of cases with laparotomy while in 41% of cases with laparoscopy, because of post-operative severe adherences. Laparoscopic second-look has a good consistency as regards the diagnosis of residual tumoral disease, but its feasibility is lower than laparotomy owing to the presence of severe adherences and the high risk of intra- and post-operative compliances."}
{"id": "11520146", "title": "Laparoscopic pelvic and paraaortic lymph node dissection: analysis of the first 100 cases.", "content": "Laparoscopic pelvic and paraaortic lymph node dissection: analysis of the first 100 cases. The aim of this study was to analyze the first 100 cases of planned laparoscopic pelvic and paraaortic lymph node dissection (LND) done for staging of gynecologic cancers. The goal of the study was to assess prognostic factors for conversion to laparotomy and document complications. A retrospective review of patients who had planned laparoscopic bilateral pelvic and bilateral paraaortic LND for staging of their gynecologic cancer was performed. Patients were identified by our institutional database and data were collected by review of their medical records. Data were obtained regarding demographics, stage, histology, length of stay, and procedural information including completion rates, operating room time, estimated blood loss, assistant, lymph node count, and complications. Associations between variables were analyzed using Student t tests, analysis of variance, and chi(2) testing (Excel v7.0). A total of 103 patients were identified from 12/15/95 to 8/28/00. Demographics included mean age of 66.2 (25-92) and mean Quetelet index (QI) of 30.8 (15.9-56.1). A total of 34/103 (33.0%) had > or =1 previous laparotomy. Ninety-five patients had endometrial cancer and 8 had ovarian cancer. Eighty-six of 103 (83.5%) were stage I or II. The length of stay was shorter for those who had laparoscopy than for those who needed conversion to laparotomy (2.8 vs 5.6 days, P < 0.0001). Laparoscopy was completed in 73/103 (70.9%) of the cases. Completion rates were 62/76 (81.6%) with QI < 35 vs 11/27 (40.7%) with QI > or = 35, P < 0.001. Significantly more patients had their laparoscopy completed when an attending gynecologic oncologist was the first assistant compared to a fellow or a community obstetrician/gynecologist (92.9%, 69.0%, 64.5%, P < 0.0001). The top three reasons for conversion to laparotomy were obesity, 12/30 (29.1%), adhesions, 5/30 (16.7%), and intraperitoneal disease, 5/30 (16.7%). Pelvic, common iliac, and paraaortic lymph node counts did not differ when compared to those of patients who had conversion to laparotomy (18.1, 5.1, 6.8 vs 17.3, 5.7, 6.8, P = ns). Complications included 2 urinary tract injuries, 2 pulmonary embolisms, and 6 wound infections (all in the laparotomy group). Two deaths occurred, 1 due to a vascular injury on initial trocar insertion and 1 due to a pulmonary embolism after a laparotomy for bowel herniation through a trocar incision. Laparoscopic bilateral pelvic and paraaortic LND can be completed successfully in 70.9% of patients. Age, obesity, previous surgery, and the need to perform this procedure in the community were not contraindications. Advantages include a shorter hospital stay, similar nodal counts, and acceptable complications."}
{"id": "11517866", "title": "Torsion of benign serous cystadenoma of the fallopian tube: a challenge in differential diagnosis of abdominal pain in women during their childbearing years--a case report.", "content": "Torsion of benign serous cystadenoma of the fallopian tube: a challenge in differential diagnosis of abdominal pain in women during their childbearing years--a case report. The differential diagnosis of abdominal pain in women during their childbearing years is still a challenge. Abdominal pain caused by isolated tubal torsion is extremely rare. In the report, we presented a case of isolated tubal torsion caused by benign serous cystadenoma. A 28-year-old married woman (G0) having lower abdominal pain and nausea was referred to our Emergency Room with suspicion of ovarian mass. Physical examination, transvaginal ultrasound and computed tomography showed a 4-cm right adnexal cystic mass. Other laboratory data were all within normal limits. She was managed by laparoscopic examination due to a lack of improvement in her clinical symptoms and inclusive diagnosis after 48-hours' conservative treatment. Laparoscopy showed isolated torsion of right fallopian tube but the right ovary was normal without torsion. Initially, detorsion was performed but necrotic change of the fallopian tube persisted because of permanent darkened color tube without blood flow redistribution, so salpingectomy was performed 30 minutes later. Final pathology showed benign serous cystadenoma of fallopian tube. The present case is the first case of benign serous cystadenoma with resultant necrotic tubal torsion. We reported this case to emphasize the possible value of early performance of laparoscopy in aiding an accurate diagnosis."}
{"id": "11509794", "title": "Laparoscopic unwinding and cystectomy of twisted dermoid cyst during second trimester of pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic unwinding and cystectomy of twisted dermoid cyst during second trimester of pregnancy. A woman in the sixteenth week of pregnancy experienced acute abdominal pain, and magnetic resonance imaging suggested a dermoid cyst. Laparoscopic unwinding and cystectomy of the twisted cyst was performed successfully."}
{"id": "11509792", "title": "Incarcerated hernia in a 5-mm cannula wound.", "content": "Incarcerated hernia in a 5-mm cannula wound. Laparoscopic suturing and repairing of the fascial opening at 10- to 12-mm cannula puncture sites is well established; however, closing a 5-mm cannula wound is not well documented. We often leave the wound open without suture and cover it with gauze after removing the surgical drainage tube. An unusual early postoperative complication of laparoscopic surgery was an incarcerated hernia in a 5-mm cannula site. The 9-year-old girl underwent laparoscopic surgery due to an 8-cm ovarian mature teratoma. After 7 days, she came to our hospital because of a protruding mass in the left cannula wound. The mass was excised, and incarcerated fallopian tube torsion with necrotic change was diagnosed."}
{"id": "11501784", "title": "Ovarian tumors in young females. A laparoscopic approach.", "content": "Ovarian tumors in young females. A laparoscopic approach. Ovarian tumors are one of the major preoccupations in the everyday practice of gynecology. During the period January 1997 through December 2000, 54 cases of ovarian tumors in young females aged 14-20 years were diagnosed and managed laparoscopically in our institution. Twenty-two cases of mature cystic teratoma, 12 cases of endometriosis, eight cases of serous cystadenoma, five cases of mucinous cystadenoma, three cases of fibroma-thecoma, two cases of serous low-malignant tumors and one case of mucinous low-malignant tumor were found. The management of ovarian tumors during this age by laparoscopic techniques represents an efficient and safe procedure."}
{"id": "11499346", "title": "Prognostic factors in stage I ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Prognostic factors in stage I ovarian carcinoma. Most studies on prognostic factors in stage I ovarian carcinoma have been hampered by a relative small number of patients included. In this study we identified the most important independent clinical and pathological prognostic factors in stage I epithelial invasive ovarian carcinoma in a large data base of 1545 patients with stage I epithelial ovarian carcinoma. The patients were treated in 6 different countries but were analysed in the same way. Because of the increasing use of endoscopy to remove possibly malignant cysts and the reports on rapid spread of ovarian carcinoma in the peritoneal cavity after laparoscopic removal of ovarian cancers, special attention was made to the presence and timing of the cysts before or during surgery. The multivariate analyses identified degree of differentiation as the most powerful prognostic indicator of disease-free survival, followed by rupture before surgery, rupture during surgery, International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) 1973 stage and age. When the effects of these factors were accounted for, none of the following were of prognostic value for disease-free survival: histological type, dense adhesions, extracapsular growth, ascites, FIGO stage 1988, and size of tumour. In conclusion, degree of differentiation was the most powerful prognostic indicator in Stage I ovarian cancer and should be used when deciding therapy in clinical practice. We also strongly advocate the inclusion of degree of differentiation in a new FIGO classification of stage I ovarian carcinoma. In addition, rupture before and during surgery, FIGO Stage 1973 (Ib versus Ia) and age were shown to be independent prognostic factors. Hence, every effort should be made to avoid rupture during primary surgery of malignant ovarian tumours confined to the ovaries."}
{"id": "11497293", "title": "Effect of pneumoperitoneum on circulating tumor DNA.", "content": "Effect of pneumoperitoneum on circulating tumor DNA. Release and circulation of tumor DNA could be favored by surgery. No data is available for the effect of laparoscopy on this phenomenon. The aim of this study was to assess the impact of CO2 laparoscopy on circulating tumor DNA. Two xenografts of ovarian cancer were obtained by intraperitoneal inoculation (IP) of IGR-OV1 or NIH:OVCAR-3 cells in nude rats. CO2 laparoscopy (L), gasless laparoscopy (GL), midline laparotomy (ML) or general anesthesia as a control (C) were randomly carried out when the tumor graft was present in the peritoneal cavity. A sterile blood sample was taken in each case as soon as the experiment was completed. DNA was subsequently extracted and amplified (PCR, primers HLA GH 26 and HLA GH 27 specific for human DNA). In each model, we compared the influence of each surgical approach on circulating tumor DNA. Statistics were performed with the Wilcoxon test and Fisher exact test. 1: Eighteen rats were included in each group. Our protocol could detect an amount of tumor DNA equivalent to 10 cells/ml of blood. This technique was specific. Circulating tumor DNA was frequently observed in the IGR-OV1 model (45 to 50%), without significant difference between groups (p=0.6). In the NIH: OVCAR-3 model, the detection rate ranged from 22% (control group) to 64% (gasless group); but the overall comparison between the four groups was not significant (p = 0.2). In this experimental trial, CO2 laparoscopy had no deleterious effect on circulating tumor DNA. Biologic characteristics of tumors could also play a role."}
{"id": "11491380", "title": "Ovarian cancer in a woman previously diagnosed with endometriosis and an extremely high serum CA-125 level.", "content": "Ovarian cancer in a woman previously diagnosed with endometriosis and an extremely high serum CA-125 level. Follow-up of a woman with a serum CA-125 level > 1000 U/mL where laparoscopy only found endometriosis. Case report-- re-evaluation several years later. Extensive clear-cell carcinoma of ovary with metastases leading to death. This case suggests that bilateral oophorectomy should be performed in women not desiring any more children if the serum CA- 125 level is very high even if only endometriosis is found initially."}
{"id": "11462205", "title": "Mycobacterium bovis peritonitis mimicking ovarian cancer in a young woman.", "content": "Mycobacterium bovis peritonitis mimicking ovarian cancer in a young woman. We describe a 27-year-old woman with peritonitis due to Mycobacterium bovis that initially appeared to be ovarian cancer. Clinicians should include this disease in the differential diagnosis of ovarian cancer and should consider laparoscopic diagnosis in the appropriate epidemiologic setting."}
{"id": "11458938", "title": "Cyst rupture during surgery.", "content": "Cyst rupture during surgery."}
{"id": "11452201", "title": "The cystic adnexal mass: patient selection, surgical techniques and long-term follow-up.", "content": "The cystic adnexal mass: patient selection, surgical techniques and long-term follow-up. The continuous change in the treatment and management of ovarian tumours is an excellent example of the changes that have occurred in gynaecological laparoscopic surgery. This paper evaluates the management of the adnexal mass in 2001. Second, it reviews ovarian tumours treated at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Kiel, between January 1997 and December 1998, and the place of laparoscopy in the management of these lesions. Third, the review attempts to give an insight into the long-term follow-up of patients treated laparoscopically for the removal of ovarian cysts. Finally, a retrospective survey is given of the clinical pathology and prognostic features of adnexal masses operated on during pregnancy. With regard to long-term follow-up, no difference was found between laparoscopic or laparotomic treatment of ovarian tumours."}
{"id": "11449615", "title": "[Operative standard therapy of micro- and macro-invasive carcinoma of the cervix].", "content": "[Operative standard therapy of micro- and macro-invasive carcinoma of the cervix]. Radical hysterectomy with bilateral lymphonodectomy represents one of the most important strategies in the treatment of cervical cancer, especially in early stage disease with small tumor volume. Nowadays, 5-year survival rates of patients with stage IB and IIA range between 87% and 92%. Ovary preserving management in cervical cancer is justified in early stage disease and younger women (< 45 years), and regarded as standard treatment. Therapy of microinvasive cervical cancer (Stage Ia1 und Ia2) depends on depth of invasion, superficial spread of lesion, and other prognostic criteria. Exact work-up of the cone is the basis for successful treatment. A great variety exists in regard to radicality of surgery in patients with cervical cancer--ranging between modified radical hysterectomy and radical hysterectomy with resection of the parametria to both pelvic side walls. Assessment of lymph node status is mandatory for individual treatment. Pelvic lymphonodectomy represents standard treatment at radical hysterectomy, and if positive, paraaortic lymphonodectomy is indicated. Micturition disorders, urinary incontinence, lymph cysts, bowel problems, thrombophlebitis, urogenital fistulas, and pulmonary embolism are the most frequent complications following radical hysterectomy. Today, there is an increasing competition between different therapy strategies in cervical cancer such as primary irradiation, chemoradiation, neoadjuvant chemotherapy, laparoscopic radical hysterectomy, vaginal radical hysterectomy combined with laparoscopic surgical staging. All these treatment modalities have to be compared with the \"golden standard\" comprising survival and recurrence rates functional results, morbidity, mortality and quality of life."}
{"id": "11446479", "title": "Preoperative discrimination between malignant and benign adnexal masses with transvaginal ultrasonography and colour blood flow imaging.", "content": "Preoperative discrimination between malignant and benign adnexal masses with transvaginal ultrasonography and colour blood flow imaging. Ovarian cancer is one of the causes of death in women, and in about 70% of cases is recognized only in advanced stages. This study was undertaken to evaluate distinctive values of transvaginal and color Doppler ultrasonography in differentiating malignant and benign adnexal masses through analysis of ultrasonic morphological features of malignancy and estimation of location and intensification of angiogenesis as well as values of resistance of flow in examined masses. 329 women with malignant and benign adnexal masses underwent ultrasonographic and colour Doppler examination 1-5 days before surgery (laparotomy, laparoscopy) thus allowing histological verification of diagnosis. The ultrasonographic structure was assessed using a morphological scoring system devised by Sassone, Jain and Benacerraf. Regions showing vasculature, especially within septae and solid parts of tumours were examined by means of transvaginal colour Doppler. Location and intensification of angiogenesis as well as resistance index (RI) were investigated. Sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV of both techniques were assessed. Statistical analysis of obtained data were based on the Student's t test; p < 0.05 level was considered significant. Postoperatively 255 (77.5%) benign and 74 (22.5%) malignant tumours were seen. In the group of benign masses the average age of women was 42.6+/-12.3 and in the malignant it was 53.1+/-12.6 (p<0.0001). The transverse dimension of benign lesions was 77.2+/-19, whereas for malignant it was 107.0+/-31 (p<0.0001). Benign tumours in 63.0% were cystic, in 26.0% mixed cystic-solid and in 11.0% solid echostructures while in malignant they were respectively, 6.8%, 56.8% and 36.4% (p<0.0001). Doppler flow within the tumour was 74.5% in benign and 98.6% in malignant masses (p<0.0001). In benign lesions homogenous superficial or peripheral vasculature was visualized, and in the majority of cases (82.7%) it was of medium intensification. However in malignant central, peripheral or mixed vascularisation. in the majority intensified character was found. Average value of the resistance index in all benign masses amounted to 0.77+/-0.14, however in malignant it was 0.39+/-0.07 (p<0.0001). We contend that complete ultrasonographic estimation of ovarian neoplasms outside the qualification of structural details should include Doppler analysis of vasculature parameters. Most important is the qualification of resistance of flow, and location and intensification of vascularisation in examined masses which permit the differentiation of malignant and benign lesions. Preoperatively recognizing malignant processes with colour Doppler ultrasonography shows higher accuracy, specificity and PPV."}
{"id": "11446470", "title": "An isolated abdominal wall metastasis of ovarian carcinoma ten years after primary surgery.", "content": "An isolated abdominal wall metastasis of ovarian carcinoma ten years after primary surgery. This report describes the case of a woman with early stage ovarian carcinoma who developed an isolated metastasis in the anterior abdominal wall following an apparent disease-free interval of ten years. The management of the case is discussed and important factors are highlighted. Comparison is also made to the phenomenon of port-site recurrence following laparoscopy in cases of ovarian carcinoma."}
{"id": "11443459", "title": "Abdominal malignancies missed during laparoscopic cholecystectomy.", "content": "Abdominal malignancies missed during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. We present our experience with intra-abdominal malignancies different from gallbladder cancer not diagnosed preoperatively and undiscovered during laparoscopic cholecystectomy This study involved retrospective analysis of 10 patients hospitalized in the Second Department of General Surgery between 1993 and 2000. In all of them, laparoscopic cholecystectomy had been performed between one week and 21 months earlier. Primary or metastatic neoplasms were diagnosed in five men and five women patients ages 38 to 79 years. In three patients with colorectal cancer, a radical resection was possible. Nonresectable pancreatic cancer was found in three patients. In one of two patients with gastric cancer, palliative, distal gastrectomy was performed. In a patient who had small bowel cancer with metastasis to the ovary, a radical operation was possible. In one patient, liver metastasis from lung cancer was found. In patients with atypical symptoms of gallbladder lithiasis, a thorough workup before laparoscopic cholecystectomy should be performed. During the laparoscopic procedure, a detailed examination of the whole peritoneal cavity is essential. In cases of prolonged convalescence after laparoscopic cholecystectomy, a source of symptoms different from cholelithiasis should be suspected."}
{"id": "11420840", "title": "[Laparoscopy as part of the evaluation and management of ovarian and cervix neoplasms].", "content": "[Laparoscopy as part of the evaluation and management of ovarian and cervix neoplasms]. Surgery is the treatment of choice in most early stages of cervical cancer and advanced stages of ovarian cancer. Failing to preoperatively diagnose para-aortic and parametrial metastases in cervical cancer or a non-resectable, ovarian cancer, may results in a superfluous laparotomy. To evaluate the advantage of using laparoscopy in cervical and ovarian cancer. Study population includes patients with ovarian or cervical cancer referred between 1997-1999. A CT scan and a trans-vaginal sonography were used to detect involvement of pelvic and para-aortic lymph nodes, parametrium and other metastases. In patients with cervical cancer, para-aortic lymph node dissection was laparoscopically performed. When para-aortic nodes were negative and parametrium was clear, radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymph nodes dissection was conducted through laparotomy. When para-aortic lymph nodes or parametrium were positive, patients were referred for radiation therapy. In ovarian cancer patients, the upper abdomen and the pelvis were examined laparoscopically to evaluate the possibility of optimal debulking surgery. Staging was done for patients who were not candidates for optimal debulking surgery and second debulking surgery was considered. Nine patients with stage 1b-11a cervical cancer were included. Preoperatively, 2 of them were suspected for lymph node involvement. Following laparoscopy one was confirmed to have para-aortic lymph node involvement and the other did not. In the remaining 8 patients, one was found to have parametrial involvement and laparotomy was avoided, while the rest were treated surgically. Eighteen ovarian cancer patients were included in this study. Laparoscopy revealed an extensive disease in 7 patients and therefore staging laparoscopy was completed. In the remaining 11 patients, laparotomy was performed, operable disease was found and complete debulking surgery was conducted. In only one patient of the 11 complete debulking surgeries was not possible. In accordance with the experience and skills of the surgical team, we propose utilizing laparoscopy in cases where laparotomy may be avoided."}
{"id": "11413522", "title": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for unresectable ovarian carcinoma: a French multicenter study.", "content": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for unresectable ovarian carcinoma: a French multicenter study. Initial debulking surgery followed by chemotherapy is the current treatment for International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics Stage IIIC/IV ovarian carcinoma but has a limited efficacy when optimal cytoreduction is not achieved at the end of the surgical procedure. An alternative treatment for these patients could be neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The purpose of this retrospective study was to report the results of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in operable patients (no medical contraindication to surgery) presenting with primary unresectable tumors. Between January 1996 and March 1999, operable patients presenting with Stage IIIC or IV ovarian carcinoma underwent, in six French gynecologic oncology departments, surgical staging to evaluate tumor resectability. When the tumor was deemed unresectable by standard surgery, the patient received three to six cycles of platinum-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy according to the response and the center's usual protocol. Patients were surgically explored after completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy when the tumor did not progress during treatment. Debulking was performed during this secondary surgery when a response to chemotherapy was observed. Fifty-four patients were treated by neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The first surgical staging procedure was laparoscopy in 33 patients (61%) and laparotomy in 21 patients (39%). The median number of neoadjuvant chemotherapy cycles was 4 (range, 0-6). Forty-three patients (80%) responded to neoadjuvant chemotherapy and then tumors were debulked. Optimal cytoreduction was obtained in 39 patients (91% of the patients who underwent debulking) and with standard surgery in 32 patients (82%). For patients whose tumors were optimally debulked, blood transfusions were administered to 17 patients (43%), median intensive care unit stay was 0 days (range, 0-7 days), and median postoperative hospital stay was 10 days (range, 4-62 days). Median overall survival for the total series was 22 months. Survival was better for patients debulked after neoadjuvant chemotherapy compared with patients with nondebulked tumors (P < 0.001). Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for primary unresectable ovarian carcinoma leads to the selection of a subset of patients sensitive to chemotherapy in whom optimal cytoreduction can be achieved after chemotherapy by standard surgery in a high proportion of cases. Conversely, aggressive surgery can be avoided in patients with initial chemoresistance, in whom the prognosis is known to be poor regardless of treatment."}
{"id": "11406930", "title": "[Ovarian fibrothecal tumors. Apropos of 12 cases].", "content": "[Ovarian fibrothecal tumors. Apropos of 12 cases]. To identify diagnosis, therapeutic and histological particularities of ovarian fibro-thecomas. A retrospective study of 12 patients who underwent surgical treatment for ovarian fibro-thecoma between January 1994 and December 1999 was reported. Clinical, ultRasonographic, tumour marker, therapeutic and histologic data were analysed. Mean age of patients was 46.83 years. Three patients were in perimenopausal period and six were menopausal. Ultrasonographic findings were: ovarian echogenic tumor in six cases, hypoechogenic tumor in three cases, mixed tumor in three cases and anechogenic tumour in one case. CA 125 level measured in 11 cases was normal. Nine patients underwent laparotomy. Three patients underwent laparoscopy, however, one was converted to laparotomy due to a suspected tumour. A conservative treatment was performed for three patients and radical treatment for nine patients. Histological findings were eight fibromas and five fibro-thecomas. Ovarian fibro-thecoma is uncommon. These lesions occur often in perimenopausal and menopausal patients. Clinical, ultrasonographic and tumour marker data remains the best preoperative approach currently available for ovarian tumours. However, the diagnosis remains histological. Tumorectomy is well indicated for young patients, however radical treatment is indicated for perimenopausal and menopausal patients."}
{"id": "11402752", "title": "[Role of lymphadenectomy in the surgery of gynecologic cancer].", "content": "[Role of lymphadenectomy in the surgery of gynecologic cancer]. Complete surgical removal of cancer tissue is a goal in modern cancer treatment, and this is one of the arguments for total lymphadenectomy in gynaecologic cancer surgery. Review of the literature identified through limited searches on Medline, Cochrane, Bibsys and the Internet. Lymphadenectomy improves the staging and represent advanced surgical treatment with considerable complication rates, related to the surgeon's experience. It is likely that lymphadenectomy directly influences survival for vulva and cervical cancer. The effect on survival among endometrial and ovarian cancer patients is unsettled, but prospective randomized trials are ongoing. Correct staging is especially important in randomized trials of treatment alternatives, and it is the basis for individualised treatment. However, the effect of available treatment is not always well documented, hence the mortality and complication rates related to the procedure should be considered in relation to the potential benefit from the relevant treatment in each patient. Special training in the surgical technique is necessary. For rare conditions, this implies centralization. There are promising new approaches like the sentinel node and laparoscopic techniques, and studies of prognostic tumour markers, that may partially replace total lymphadenectomy in the future."}
{"id": "11396379", "title": "Laparoscopic management of Sertoli-Leydig cell tumors of the ovary. A report of two cases.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of Sertoli-Leydig cell tumors of the ovary. A report of two cases. Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor is a rare ovarian tumor with an incidence of < .5% of all ovarian tumors. Laparotomy is the standard approach to these cases. Sertoli-Leydig cell tumors were diagnosed in two young, nulliparous, infertile women. Both presented with secondary amenorrhea. Virilization was found in one. Their testosterone levels were high, and sonography revealed a solid, echogenic mass in the fornix. Laparoscopic removal was performed. Both women achieved normal menstruation one month after the operation, and one became pregnant and gave birth to a healthy infant. There are very few case reports of laparoscopic removal of such tumors. Laparoscopic surgery, which is minimally invasive and cosmetically acceptable and has a speedy recovery, should be the approach of choice for these patients."}
{"id": "11394427", "title": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses. Although laparoscopic surgery for removal of adnexal masses is common, controversy exists about the safety and efficacy of this procedure for patients with malignancies. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of laparoscopic surgical treatment for patients with adnexal masses. This was a retrospective chart review of one surgeon's experience in managing patients diagnosed with adnexal masses at 2 urban referral teaching hospitals in New York City. We reviewed the charts for 100 consecutive patients who underwent operative laparoscopy for management of adnexal masses between March 4, 1996 and November 9, 1998. Conversion to laparotomy, malignancy rate, complications, length of stay, and blood loss were recorded for each patient. Laparoscopic management was successfully completed for 81 of the 100 patients in this study; however, 19 required conversion to laparotomy. All 81 patients managed laparoscopically had a benign diagnosis, whereas 7 of the 19 patients who underwent laparotomy were diagnosed with malignancy. The median length of stay, estimated blood loss, and operating room time were significantly lower for those treated by laparoscopy alone compared with those converted to laparotomy (2 vs. 7 days; 100 vs. 500 ccs; 130 vs. 235 minutes, respectively; P < 0.05). Though few patients were in the laparotomy group, that data are presented for completeness. A total of 10 complications occurred, 4 in the group of patients managed laparoscopically (2 enterotomies, 1 pneumothorax, and 1 vaginal cuff cellulitis). Six complications occurred in those managed with laparotomy (2 enterotomies, 2 wound infections, 1 pneumonia, and 1 postoperative fever). The indications for conversion to laparotomy were: 7 malignancies (5 ovarian cancers and 2 uterine cancers), 7 dense adhesions, 2 small bowel enterotomies, 1 intraoperative bleeding, 1 secondary to a large uterus (880 grams), and 1 secondary to a large myoma (13 cm x 14.5 cm x 6 cm). The laparoscopic approach is effective and safe for managing patients with adnexal masses of unknown pathology. Malignancies can be diagnosed accurately, converted to laparotomy, and staged appropriately. Adequate surgical skills along with timely use of frozen sections are required for successful operative management."}
{"id": "11393262", "title": "The role of laparoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis: a case report.", "content": "The role of laparoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis: a case report. A patient presented with deep venous thrombosis and an elevated CA-125 level, but normal pelvic ultrasound and abdominal and pelvic CT scans. Laparoscopy revealed diffuse carcinomatosis and a diagnosis of stage IIIc, poorly differentiated epithelial ovarian carcinoma was made. Laparoscopy may provide an alternative means of diagnosis when conventional imaging fails, and may facilitate the placement of catheters for subsequent intraperitoneal therapy."}
{"id": "11382955", "title": "T2-weighted MRI of the female pelvis: comparison of breath-hold fast-recovery fast spin-echo and nonbreath-hold fast spin-echo sequences.", "content": "T2-weighted MRI of the female pelvis: comparison of breath-hold fast-recovery fast spin-echo and nonbreath-hold fast spin-echo sequences. In 49 patients who had pelvic abnormalities, breath-hold T2-weighted fast-recovery (FR)-fast spin-echo (FSE) (imaging time = 24 sec) and nonbreath-hold FSE MR images (2 min 8 sec) were compared qualitatively (on a four-point scale) and quantitatively (using signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) and contrast ratios (/SIs of the lesions-SIs of the myometrium/SIs of the myometrium)). Motion artifacts were reduced on breath-hold FR-FSE (3.8:3.2 = breath-hold FSE:nonbreath-hold FSE, P < 0.01) and image quality was comparable (3.8:3.7, NS). In all patients, pathology (leiomyoma [N = 26], adenomyosis [N = 10], endometrial carcinoma [N = 8], and ovarian cystic lesions [N = 21]) was recognized with comparable lesion conspicuity (3.8:3.7, NS) and better delineation of the structures (3.9:3.6, P < 0.05) on the FR-FSE images. There was no significant difference in contrast ratios, although SNRs (e.g., myometrium 18.3:25.8, P < 0.01) were better and the uterine zonal anatomy was recognized better on the nonbreath-hold FSE (3.4:3.7, P < 0.05). These differences did not affect the diagnosis. Breath-hold FR-FSE provides the benefits of motionless imaging and a short examination time, although lower SNRs were noted. J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2001;13:930-937."}
{"id": "11342741", "title": "Laparoscopic-assisted surgery for benign ovarian cyst in a young girl.", "content": "Laparoscopic-assisted surgery for benign ovarian cyst in a young girl. A 7-year-old girl was admitted to our hospital because of sudden lower abdominal pain and vomiting. Emergency laparoscopy and cystectomy were performed, with a diagnosis of torsion of an ovarian cyst. All manipulations were possible through a 2-cm incision in the abdominal wall."}
{"id": "11342738", "title": "Benign or malignant ovarian neoplasms and ovarian endometriomas.", "content": "Benign or malignant ovarian neoplasms and ovarian endometriomas. To investigate clinical features and biologic behavior of ovarian cancer that might be closely related to endometrioma and/or endometriosis. Retrospective study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). University hospital. All 324 women who were operated for endometriomas and/or ovarian tumors 5 cm or greater in diameter between January 1988 and December 1997. One hundred twelve women underwent laparoscopic surgery and 212 had laparotomy. All tissues were evaluated histologically. Clinical examinations including ultrasound and serum tumor makers were performed in all patients preoperatively. No malignancies were found at laparoscopic surgery (76 endometriomas, 36 ovarian tumors). The frequency of endometriosis in benign, borderline malignant, and malignant tumors was 9.7%, 12.5%, and 11.4%, respectively. Endometriosis was present most frequently (40%) in women with endometrioid adenocarcinoma. It was present in 81 patients with endometriomas and 25 with ovarian neoplasms. Of these, nine women (8.5%) had malignant tumors, including borderline malignancy. Among patients with malignant tumors, those without endometriosis were significantly older (mean +/- SD age 54.9 +/- 16.2 yrs) than those with endometriosis elsewhere in the pelvis (45.9 +/- 8.9 yrs). Endometriosis may be closely related to ovarian tumors such as endometrioid adenocarcinoma. Surgeons should be aware of this possibility, and candidates for laparoscopic surgery should be carefully selected based on preoperative evaluations."}
{"id": "11338132", "title": "[Management of adnexal tumors: role and risks of laparoscopy].", "content": "[Management of adnexal tumors: role and risks of laparoscopy]. The laparoscopic management of adnexal tumeurs remains controversial because of the potentials risks of cancer dissemination suggested by many case reports and national surveys. From experimental data, the laparoscopic treatment of gynecologic cancer has potential advantages and disadvantages. The risk of dissemination appears high when a large number of malignant cells are present so that adnexal tumors with external vegetations, and bulky lymph nodes may be considered as contra-indications to CO2 laparoscopy. Laparoscopic surgery has become the gold standard in the treatment of benign adnexal tumeurs, whereas laparotomy remains the standard for the treatment of malignant tumors. The surgical diagnosis is the key to adequate management of adnexal tumeurs. In our experience, after a careful preoperative evaluation, the laparoscopic diagnosis of malignancy is reliable. Moreover in national surveys, many malignant tumeurs were considered as benign despite suspicious laparoscopic findings. Using strict guidelines, laparoscopic diagnosis can be proposed for both non suspicious and complex tumeurs, thus avoiding many unnecessary laparotomies for benign tumeurs suspicious at ultrasound. The more controversial limits of laparoscopic treatment are discussed. If a laparotomy was performed for all tumeurs suspicious at surgery, 80% of the cases would be treated by laparoscopy. The role of laparoscopy for restaging and second look operations for ovarian cancer requires further evaluation."}
{"id": "11330971", "title": "Inguinal lymph node metastasis: an unusual presentation of fallopian tube carcinoma.", "content": "Inguinal lymph node metastasis: an unusual presentation of fallopian tube carcinoma. Inguinal metastasis is a hitherto unreported presenting feature of fallopian tube adenocarcinoma. We describe a case of a 69-year-old patient whose first manifestation of fallopian tube adenocarcinoma was an enlarged inguinal lymph node. This was excised and confirmed to be metastatic adenocarcinoma. She was investigated by diagnostic laparoscopy and subsequently underwent laparotomy with total abdominal hysterectomy, omentectomy, and pelvic and para-aortic lymph node dissection. All but two of the lymph nodes extirpated were negative. Fallopian tube adenocarcinoma may rarely present with metastatic inguinal lymphadenopathy."}
{"id": "11328220", "title": "Impact of second look laparotomy and secondary cytoreductive surgery at second-look laparotomy in ovarian cancer patients.", "content": "Impact of second look laparotomy and secondary cytoreductive surgery at second-look laparotomy in ovarian cancer patients. Currently, no prospective study supports or refutes the value of secondary cytoreductive surgery in patients with ovarian cancer. We therefore reviewed the surgical data of patients who underwent second-look laparotomy (SLL) with or without secondary cytoreductive surgery at our department. Analysis is based on the data of 179 patients who had FIGO stage II (suboptimally staged), stage III or IV ovarian cancer, who received a platinum-based first-line chemotherapy, who were clinically considered to be tumor-free or had at least a clinically partial response to first-line chemotherapy, and who underwent SLL. In patients with macroscopic tumor the diagnostic SLL was followed by a secondary cytoreductive surgery in order to remove as much tumor as possible. Patients with a positive SLL were given second-line chemotherapy. Survival from SLL until death was considered the primary statistical endpoint. In 78 out of 179 (43.5%) a negative SLL could be confirmed pathologically. Patients with negative findings, with microscopic, and macroscopic disease at SLL had a median survival of 66.6, 57.2, and 19.0 months, respectively (p=0.0001). In patients who underwent a secondary cytoreductive operation and in whom residual tumor was none, less than 2 cm, or more than 2 cm, the median survival was 22.9, 17.8, and 15.5 months, respectively (p=0.325). The presence of macroscopic tumor at SLL is an adverse prognostic factor whereas the role of secondary cytoreductive surgery at SLL appears to be limited in the routine management of ovarian cancer patients."}
{"id": "11319502", "title": "[Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian cysts in women over 40].", "content": "[Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian cysts in women over 40]. Laparoscopy constitutes the main surgical method for treating benign ovarian pathology in women under 40 years of age. The discussion is about the possibility of extending this surgical method to patients over 40 in whom the risk of malignant ovarian pathology is either borderline or considerably higher. The objective of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of laparoscopic treatment for these patients, who have been submitted to adequate screening, comparing the results of echographic diagnosis, laparoscopy and histology. This study includes 65 patients, all over 40 (average age 51 years, range 41-71 years): 34 were in menopause and 31 had a normal menstrual cycle. All were suffering from ovarian pathology. They were selected on the basis of a diagnostic protocol and then submitted to laparoscopic treatment and a follow-up check. The laparoscopic approach led to a clear improvement of the diagnosis compared to echography and dosage of the markers. The percentage of similarity between echographic and laparoscopic diagnosis was 84.6% while in the case of echographic diagnosis and histological examination this was 78%. The percentage of similarity between laparoscopic and histological diagnosis was 94%. Only one case of conversion to laparotomy occurred. Patients over 40 years of age can present a wide range of pathologies that can be treated by means of laparoscopy. Never the-less, also when confronted with an unclear diagnosis, which would otherwise require laparotomy, the laparoscopic approach significantly improves of the diagnosis without any ultimate worsening of the prognosis."}
{"id": "11311766", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery of dermoid cysts--intraoperative spillage and complications.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery of dermoid cysts--intraoperative spillage and complications. To assess the risks of complications including intraoperative spillage following laparoscopic dermoid cyst enucleation. A retrospective case series comparison of 390 patients who had surgery at our hospital from 1992 to 1998 for teratomas of the ovary. 43 patients were treated with laparotomy. Two malignant teratomas were observed in this group. In seven patients, the dermoid cysts were removed as part of a vaginal hysterectomy. Three hundred and forty patients had surgery via laparoscopy. Enucleation of the dermoid cyst in toto using a salvage bag for removal was only possible in few cases without contamination of the abdominal cavity by spillage of cyst contents. There were no serious complications in any patients including those with laparoscopic cystectomies and intraperitoneal spill. The laparoscopic treatment of benign teratomas is a safe procedure. Primary laparotomy as well as adenectomy is also to be taken into consideration with young patients, if suspicion of malignancy, rapid growth, doubtful infiltration or large size of tumor is present."}
{"id": "11279390", "title": "[Sonographic characterization, Doppler ultrasonography and tumor markers in the diagnosis of malignancy of ovarian masses].", "content": "[Sonographic characterization, Doppler ultrasonography and tumor markers in the diagnosis of malignancy of ovarian masses]. The study analyses the diagnostic possibilities regarding ovarian neoplasms offered by different clinical approaches: B-mode morphological ultrasonographic examination, colour Doppler and Doppler pulsed ultrasonography, and lastly the assay of a number of tumour markers. A prospective study was carried out in 125 selected patients attending the Ultrasonography unit of the Obstetrics and Gynecology Clinic at Parma University between June 1997 and June 1999 who presented an adnexal mass . All patients underwent transvaginal ultrasonography (multifrequency vaginal probe 5.0-6.5 MHz, Esaote Idea, Genova) to characterise the mass, applying 5 different ultrasonographic scores: Granberg, Sassone, Di Priest, Lerner, Ferrazzi. Colour Doppler imaging was then performed to analyse the vascularisation of the mass, also using pulsed Doppler to study a number of velocimetric parameters: pulsatility index, index of resistance, systolic and diastolic peak velocity, mean velocity. All the patients underwent surgery using laparotomy or video laparoscopy, accompanied by histological analysis. A number of different tumour markers were assayed prior to surgery: Cal25, CA19-9, CEA, beta-HCG, alpha-fetoprotein. Out of 127 pelvic masses examined, histological analysis showed that 19 were malignant and 108 benign. The diagnostic accuracy of malignancy was comparable for the 5 scores studied, with a minimum of 57.48% for Lerner and a maximum of 77.16% for Di Priest. The central importance of vascularisation was the only significant parameter among those analysed using colour Doppler which was useful for the diagnosis of a malignant neoplasm, with a diagnostic accuracy of 82.95%. No indicator obtained using pulsed Doppler was useful for diagnostic purposes. CA125 was the only tumour marker that revealed a statistically significant difference emerged between the benign (21.6 U/ml) and malignant (220.8 U/ml) masses. Its diagnostic accuracy was 75.58%. This study confirmed that the three methods analysed do not differentiate substantially in their overall diagnostic capacity of malignant ovarian neoplasms. The best performances for ecographic scores (Di Priest) did not exceed a sensitivity of 89.47% with a 21.25% incidence of false positives; this was comparable to CA125 with a sensitivity of 85.71% and false positives in 22.09%. In relation to the central importance of vascularisation, colour Doppler achieved a lower sensitivity (55.55%), but this was confirmed by a low incidence of false positives (7.95%). This revealed its importance as a useful method, especially for excluding the presence of malignant tumours."}
{"id": "11277654", "title": "Complications associated with intraperitoneal chemotherapy catheters.", "content": "Complications associated with intraperitoneal chemotherapy catheters. The goal of this work was to determine the complication rate and any predisposing risk factors associated with subcutaneous intraperitoneal (ip) catheters used in the treatment of patients with advanced ovarian cancer. We retrospectively reviewed the charts of 301 patients who had a subcutaneous Bardport catheter placed for administration of ip chemotherapy at Memorial Sloan--Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) from December 1989 to May 1997. Thirty (10%) patients were identified as having catheter-related complications, with 19 (6.3%) experiencing inflow obstruction and 11 (3.6%) experiencing infection. Only 21 of 301 (7%) required cessation of chemotherapy prior to its expected completion, with 14 (4.6%) occurring in the malfunction group and 7 (2.3%) in the infection group. Three hundred thirteen patients received an ip catheter; however, 12 patients who received their ip chemotherapy elsewhere were excluded when determining the complication rate. Overall, 218 of 313 (69.6%) catheters were placed at the time of laparotomy, 61 of 313 (19.5%) catheters were placed at the time of laparoscopy, and 34 of 313 (10.9%) were placed as a separate procedure. In the malfunction group, 18 of 19 (94.7%) patients had their catheters placed at the time of laparotomy, none were placed at the time of laparoscopy, and 1 of 19 (5.3%) was placed as a separate procedure. In the infection group, 8 of 11 (72.7%) catheters were placed at laparotomy, 2 of 11 (18.3%) were placed at the time of laparoscopy, and 1 of 11 (9.0%) was placed as a separate procedure. Complications occurred in 3 of 54 (5.5%) patients who received platinum alone, 11 of 134 (8.2%) who received platinum in combination, 2 of 43 (4.7%) who received paclitaxel alone, 13 of 61 (21.3%) who received mitoxantrone alone or in combination, and 1 of 9 (11.1%) who received other regimens. Subcutaneous ip catheters are associated with a lower rate of catheter-related complications than previously reported, perhaps due in part to both avoiding insertion of ip catheters at the time of bowel surgery and placing ip catheters at the time of laparoscopy."}
{"id": "11263935", "title": "High incidence of positive peritoneal cytology in low-risk endometrial cancer treated by laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy.", "content": "High incidence of positive peritoneal cytology in low-risk endometrial cancer treated by laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy. Laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy (LAVH) has evolved into an alternative form of surgical management in the treatment of low-risk endometrial cancer. The purpose of this study was to determine whether low-risk endometrial cancer patients are subject to a higher incidence of positive peritoneal cytology when treated with LAVH compared to total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH). We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of patients with low-risk endometrial cancer (grade 1--2 endometrioid type with no evidence of extrauterine spread or grade 3 with <50% myometrial invasion (MI), no cervical or adnexal involvement, and negative lymph nodes when sampled) treated at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center from January 1993 to September 1999. We compared 131 patients treated with LAVH to 246 controls who underwent TAH. The two groups were compared for known prognostic factors including grade, MI, vascular space involvement, and lower uterine segment extension. The mean age of patients who underwent LAVH (61 years) was similar to that of the controls (62 years). Fourteen (10.3%) of the patients treated with LAVH had positive peritoneal cytology compared to only 7 (2.8%) of the control population. Factors including FIGO grade, myometrial invasion, and preoperative hysteroscopy did not influence the final results. When stratifying for these factors, the odds ratios of having positive peritoneal washings in those patients treated by LAVH were 5.2, 5.2, and 3.7, respectively. Treatment of low-risk endometrial cancer by LAVH is associated with a significantly higher incidence of positive peritoneal cytology. This may be due to the retrograde dissemination of cancer cells into the peritoneal cavity during uterine manipulation. The clinical significance of these findings is yet to be determined."}
{"id": "11213011", "title": "Excision of mature teratoma using culdotomy, with and without laparoscopy: a prospective randomised trial.", "content": "Excision of mature teratoma using culdotomy, with and without laparoscopy: a prospective randomised trial. To compare the results of removing mature teratoma with laparoscopy or without laparoscopy. A prospective, randomised trial. Medical centre. Seventy-nine women with mature teratomas identified using results of ultrasound examinations and biochemical markers. Cystectomy with laparoscopic approach or without laparoscopic approach through a culdotomy. Patients were randomly assigned to have their cysts removed via vaginal cystectomy without laparoscopy (n = 37, Group A) or laparoscopic cystectomy via culdotomy opening (n = 42, Group B). Inclusion criteria were history of vaginal delivery, no previous abdominal surgery, no history of pelvic inflammatory disease, no medical illness, and no presenting symptoms. Eight women randomised to Group A withdrew before surgery. The laparoscopically resected tumours were each put into a cellulose bag, and tumours without laparoscopic-assistance were removed directly via the vagina. Blood loss in Group A (88 +/- 37 ml) was significantly more than that in Group B (64 +/- 20 ml, P = 0.000). The post-operative recovery times were 20 and 17 hours, respectively (P = 0.030). The rates of successful surgery were 58.6 and 97.6%, respectively (P = 0.002). The spillage rates were 44.8% and 19.0%, respectively (P = 0.006). There were no significant differences in tumour size, patient age, and operative time between groups. Cystectomy without assistance of laparoscopy could be applied to manage mature teratoma of the ovary; however, because of the difficulty of this technique, we had high percentages of tumour spillage and more blood loss during operation and a high percentage of patients who required conversion to laparotomy compared with laparoscopic cystectomy. We favoured laparoscopically assisted cystectomy to manage mature teratoma."}
{"id": "11206227", "title": "Phase II trial of debulking surgery and photodynamic therapy for disseminated intraperitoneal tumors.", "content": "Phase II trial of debulking surgery and photodynamic therapy for disseminated intraperitoneal tumors. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) combines photosensitizer drug, oxygen, and laser light to kill tumor cells on surfaces. This is the initial report of our phase II trial, designed to evaluate the effectiveness of surgical debulking and PDT in carcinomatosis and sarcomatosis. Fifty-six patients were enrolled between April 1997 and January 2000. Patients were given Photofrin (2.5 mg/kg) intravenously 2 days before tumor-debulking surgery. Laser light was delivered to all peritoneal surfaces. Patients were followed with CT scans and laparoscopy to evaluate responses to treatment. Forty-two patients were adequately debulked at surgery; these comprise the treatment group. There were 14 GI malignancies, 12 ovarian cancers and 15 sarcomas. Actuarial median survival was 21 months. Median time to recurrence was 3 months (range, 1-21 months). The most common serious toxicities were anemia (38%), liver function test (LFT) abnormalities (26%), and gastrointestinal toxicities (19%), and one patient died. Photofrin PDT for carcinomatosis has been successfully administered to 42 patients, with acceptable toxicity. The median survival of 21 months exceeds our expectations; however, the relative contribution of surgical resection versus PDT is unknown. Deficiencies in photosensitizer delivery, tissue oxygenation, or laser light distribution leading to recurrences may be addressed through the future use of new photosensitizers."}
{"id": "11182659", "title": "[New gynecologic surgery techniques and methods in oncology].", "content": "[New gynecologic surgery techniques and methods in oncology]."}
{"id": "11176227", "title": "Risk of spread of ovarian cancer after laparoscopic surgery.", "content": "Risk of spread of ovarian cancer after laparoscopic surgery. The incidence of the spread of ovarian cancer after laparoscopic surgery is difficult to establish from the current literature. The prognosis incidence of a trocar site metastasis without peritoneal dissemination is not known. Data from general surgeons in prospective studies from a single institution suggested that in colon cancer the risk is low, whereas it seems to be much higher in multicentric studies of undiagnosed gallbladder cancer. Experimental studies suggested that laparoscopy has advantages and disadvantages. However, the risk of dissemination is high when a large number of malignant cells and a carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum are present, a situation encountered when managing adnexal tumours with large vegetations. Animal studies will allow the development of a peritoneal environment adapted to the treatment of cancer. The ovary is an intraperitoneal organ and ovarian cancer a peritoneal disease, so the risk of peritoneal spread may be higher in ovarian cancer than in other gynecological cancers. A careful preoperative evaluation appears to be the best way to prevent these risks. It should also be used to choose which patient should be operated by which surgical team. The second step is a careful and cautious laparoscopic diagnosis, so that more than 98% of ovarian cancers encountered can be treated immediately and effectively. The laparoscopic management of ovarian cancer remains controversial; it should be performed only in prospective clinical trials. Until the results of such studies become available, an immediate vertical midline laparotomy remains the gold standard if a cancer is encountered."}
{"id": "11174478", "title": "Preoperative assessment of unilocular adnexal cysts by transvaginal ultrasonography: a comparison between ultrasonographic morphologic imaging and histopathologic diagnosis.", "content": "Preoperative assessment of unilocular adnexal cysts by transvaginal ultrasonography: a comparison between ultrasonographic morphologic imaging and histopathologic diagnosis. Our purpose was to evaluate the risk of malignancy in surgically removed ovarian cysts that were characterized before the operation as unilocular according to transvaginal ultrasonography. This prospective analysis included 927 premenopausal women and 377 postmenopausal women operated on at 2 European university hospitals between January 1992 and December 1997. On the basis of ultrasonographic findings the cysts were characterized either as echo-free, without solid parts or papillary formations (group 1), or as having echogenic cyst content, with solid parts or papillary formations (group 2). Ultrasonographic and macroscopic appearances of the cysts were compared with histopathologic diagnosis. In group 1, in premenopausal women 3 of 413 cysts (0.73%) proved to be borderline or malignant, and in postmenopausal women 4 of 247 cysts (1.6%) proved to be borderline or malignant. The figures for cysts in group 2 were 11 of 514 cysts (2.1%) and 13 of 130 cysts (10.0%), respectively. It was not possible to differentiate by transvaginal ultrasonography between benign, borderline, and malignant cysts when solid parts or papillary formations were visualized. This study confirmed that the risk of malignancy associated with unilocular echo-free cysts (group 1) was low. Serial ultrasonographic follow-up should therefore be the standard procedure with unilocular echo-free cysts <50 mm in diameter. In cysts with a mean diameter of >50 mm, papillary formations or solid parts may be missed by transvaginal ultrasonography. The risk for malignancy in cysts containing papillary formations or solid parts (group 2) was 3 to 6 times higher than that in unilocular echo-free cysts."}
{"id": "11172118", "title": "Laparoscopic management of 641 adnexal tumors in Kiel, Germany.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of 641 adnexal tumors in Kiel, Germany. To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of laparoscopic and laparotomic management of ovarian tumors. Retrospective analysis (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). University-affiliated hospital. Six hundred forty-one women with benign and malignant ovarian tumors. Laparoscopy and laparotomy. Between January 1997 and December 1998, 493 (76.9%) ovarian tumors were treated laparoscopically and 138 (21.5%) by laparotomy. Criteria for laparotomy were high suspicion of malignancy and tumors larger than 10 cm that were technically too difficult for the laparoscopic approach. The mean size of tumors treated laparoscopically was 4.5 cm (range 1.1-11 cm) and by laparotomy 8.2 cm (range 3-20 cm). Mean operating times were 75.7 minutes (range 30-200 min) and 126 minutes (range 30-235 min), respectively, and mean blood loss was 193 ml (range 50-1200 ml) and 431 ml (range 50-2500 ml), respectively. Twelve laparoscopies were converted to laparotomy, six because of technical reasons such as severe adhesions, bleeding, or tumor size, and six for intraoperative suspicion of malignancy. Of the latter, four (66.7%) turned out to be ovarian carcinoma and two (33.3%) borderline tumors. Histologic evaluation clearly revealed predominance of functional ovarian cysts, endometriomas, and dermoid cysts in the group treated by laparoscopy, whereas ovarian carcinomas, large endometriomas, and serous cysts prevailed in the laparotomy group. With careful preoperative screening, the rate of laparoscopies for treatment of benign ovarian cysts can be increased. (J Am Assoc Gynecol Laparosc 8(1):74-82, 2001)"}
{"id": "11172117", "title": "Major complications of operative and diagnostic laparoscopy for gynecologic disease.", "content": "Major complications of operative and diagnostic laparoscopy for gynecologic disease. To compare complication rates of diagnostic and operative laparoscopy. Design. Retrospective study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). One medical center and three teaching hospitals. Six thousand four hundred fifty-one women with various indications for laparoscopic diagnosis and/or laparoscopic surgery from January 1994 through June 1999. Diagnostic and operative laparoscopies. Forty-two major complications occurred that directly resulted in one death. One patient had stomach injury, 3 had major vessel injuries, 5 had ureter injuries, 10 had intestinal injuries, and 23 had bladder injuries. The overall complication rate for all laparoscopies was 0.65% (42/6451); however, it rose to 0.80% (39/4865) for operative laparoscopy compared with 0.19% for diagnostic laparoscopy (3/1586; p <0.001, Fisher's exact test). Laparoscopic surgery is appropriate for managing various gynecologic diseases and has an acceptable complication rate. However, operative laparoscopy should be performed carefully because its rate of complications is significantly higher than that of diagnostic laparoscopy, especially for laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy. (J Am Assoc Gynecol Laparosc 8(1):68-73, 2001)"}
{"id": "11163832", "title": "Microsatellite DNA assays reveal an allelic imbalance in p16(Ink4), GALT, p53, and APOA2 loci in patients with endometriosis.", "content": "Microsatellite DNA assays reveal an allelic imbalance in p16(Ink4), GALT, p53, and APOA2 loci in patients with endometriosis. To detect allelic imbalance on specific genetic loci occurring in endometriosis. Microsatellite analysis. Paraffin-embedded tissues histologically confirmed as endometriotic or normal endometrium. Premenopausal women undergoing laparoscopy for suspected endometriosis. Laparoscopic excision of specimens. Allelic imbalance and alterations of intensity of microsatellite alleles. Five of 17 microsatellite DNA markers (29.4%) showed allelic imbalance. Eight samples (36.4%) showed allelic imbalance in at least one locus. Loci 9p21, 1q21, and 17p13.1 exhibited imbalance in 27.3%, 4.5%, and 4.5%, respectively. A 3-fold increase of the fractional allelic loss was observed from disease stage II to III and IV, whereas only 1.3-fold was found between patients of 41-50 and 20-40 years. We found that loss of heterozygosity on p16(Ink4), GALT, and p53, as well as on APOA2, a region frequently lost in ovarian cancer, occurs in endometriosis, even in stage II of the disease. The occurrence of such genomic alterations may represent important events in the development of endometriosis. The 9p21 locus may contain a gene associated with the pathogenesis of the disease, and therefore its loss may be a prognostic marker of the disease."}
{"id": "11158655", "title": "Endometriosis: radiologic-pathologic correlation.", "content": "Endometriosis: radiologic-pathologic correlation. Endometriosis is an important gynecologic disorder primarily affecting women during their reproductive years. Pathologically, it is the result of functional endometrium located outside the uterus. It may vary from microscopic endometriotic implants to large cysts (endometriomas). The physical manifestations are protean, with some patients being asymptomatic and others having disabling pelvic pain, infertility, or adnexal masses. Symptoms do not necessarily correlate with the severity of the disease. Ultrasonographic (US) features are variable and can mimic those of other benign and malignant ovarian lesions. Low-level internal echoes and echogenic wall foci are more specific US features for endometriomas. Magnetic resonance imaging improves diagnostic accuracy, with endometriotic cysts typically appearing with high signal intensity on T1-weighted images and demonstrating \"shading\" on T2-weighted images. The ovaries are the most common sites affected, but endometriosis can also involve the gastrointestinal tract, urinary tract, chest, and soft tissues. Small implants and adhesions are not well evaluated radiologically; therefore, laparoscopy remains the standard of reference for diagnosis and staging. Both medical and surgical treatment options are available depending on the patient's specific case."}
{"id": "11158183", "title": "Prophylactic oophorectomy in the genome age: balancing new data against uncertainties.", "content": "Prophylactic oophorectomy in the genome age: balancing new data against uncertainties."}
{"id": "11140864", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery during pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery during pregnancy. In the last decade, operative laparoscopic procedures are performed increasingly in both gynecology and general surgery. The major advantages of this newer minimally invasive approach are: decreased postoperative morbidity, less pain and decreased need for analgesics, early normal bowel function, shorter hospital stay, and early return to normal activity. With the advancement of laparoscopic surgery, its use during pregnancy is becoming more widely accepted. The most commonly reported laparoscopic operation during pregnancy is laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC). Other laparoscopic procedures commonly performed during pregnancy include: management of adnexal mass, ovarian torsion, ovarian cystectomy, appendectomy, and ectopic pregnancy. The possible drawbacks of laparoscopic surgery during pregnancy may include injury of the pregnant uterus and the technical difficulty of laparoscopic surgery due to the growing mass of the gravid uterus. Also, the potential risk of decreased uterine blood flow secondary to the increase in intraabdominal pressure and the possible risk of carbon dioxide absorption to both the mother and fetus should be taken into account. To date, data on laparoscopic surgery during pregnancy are insufficient to draw conclusions on its safety and exact complication rate. This is due to the few cases reported and the lack of prospective studies. Furthermore, there is a common tendency to underreport unsuccessful cases. Finally, most reports in the literature come from centers and surgeons with special interest, experience, and skills in laparoscopy, and their results may not reflect the real complication rates. We have reviewed the pertinent English literature from the last decade. The cumulative experience suggests that laparoscopic surgery may be performed safely during pregnancy, although more studies are needed to establish its exact rate of adverse events."}
{"id": "11136568", "title": "The role of laparoscopy in second-look evaluations for ovarian cancer.", "content": "The role of laparoscopy in second-look evaluations for ovarian cancer. The aim of this study was to evaluate the accuracy and safety of laparoscopic second-look operations in patients with ovarian cancer. We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of all patients who have undergone laparoscopic second-look procedures for ovarian cancer at our institution. From July 1993 to December 1998, 150 patients underwent laparoscopic second-look operations. The mean age of patients was 53 years (range, 25-78 years). The majority of patients (87%) had Stage III or IV disease at initial surgery; the remainder were Stage II or unstaged. Eighty-two patients (54%) had had optimal cytoreduction at the time of their initial surgery. All patients had completed primary chemotherapy and were clinically disease-free based on imaging studies and CA-125 levels at the time of second look. Sixty-nine patients (46%) were found to have pathologically negative second looks; thus, the rate of positive second-look evaluations was 54%. The rate of conversion to laparotomy was 18/150 (12%). In 3 cases this was secondary to bowel injury; one patient sustained a bladder injury; the remainder of conversions to laparotomy were for secondary cytoreduction. There was only 1 case where the patient was found to have extensive adhesions and laparoscopy was abandoned. The overall rate of major complications was 2.7%. In our experience, laparoscopy is a safe and accurate method of second-look assessment in patients with ovarian cancer. The incidence of complications is low, particularly in this group of patients, all of whom have undergone prior abdominal surgery. The rate of negative evaluations and the rate of recurrences in patients with negative second looks are equivalent to those described in studies of second-look assessment by laparotomy."}
{"id": "11136562", "title": "Response and toxicity to topotecan in sensitive ovarian cancer cases with small residual disease after first-line treatment with carboplatinum and paclitaxel.", "content": "Response and toxicity to topotecan in sensitive ovarian cancer cases with small residual disease after first-line treatment with carboplatinum and paclitaxel. The objective of this open uncontrolled study was to evaluate the toxicity and efficacy of topotecan in ovarian cancer cases with microscopic small residual disease to a first-line treatment, given as sequential treatment, including carboplatinum and paclitaxel. Inclusion criteria were laparotomically or laparoscopically documented microscopic or macroscopic (<2 cm) residual disease after first-line chemotherapy including carboplatinum plus paclitaxel in patients with histologically documented epithelial ovarian cancer FIGO stage III or IV at first diagnosis. All patients had a response >50% after first-line treatment. Eligible patients received 1.25 mg/m(2)/day of topotecan intravenously as a 30-min infusion for 5 consecutive days every 21 days for four cycles. A total of 38 women entered the study. Surgical \"third-look\" laparotomy or laparoscopy was performed in patients without clinical/instrumental evidence of progressive disease within 1 month from the last topotecan administration. A complete response was observed in 10 cases (28.6%, 95% confidence interval, based on the Poisson's approximation, 15.6-59. 5), a partial response in 1 (2.5%), progressive disease in 11 (31. 4%) and no change/stable disease in 13. The median duration of response was 8 months (range 5-20). The overall 1-year survival after treatment was 82.8% (SE 6.4). This study indicates that sequential therapy with carboplatin plus paclitaxel followed by topotecan, all given at standard doses, is feasible and provides favorable response rates."}
{"id": "12057051", "title": "Advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Advanced ovarian cancer. State-of-the-art treatment for advanced ovarian cancer requires a multimodality approach. Aggressive surgical debulking with the goal of optimal cytoreduction is the initial step. After primary cytoreductive surgery, standard treatment for patients with stage III and IV disease is systemic combination chemotherapy consisting of six cycles of paclitaxel and carboplatin. Approximately 70% of patients enter a clinical remission with this approach, yet less than 30% remain disease free. Options following primary therapy include observation or second surgical assessment if no clinical evidence of disease is present. Novel strategies for consolidation are needed. Second-look surgery can be performed safely and effectively laparoscopically, and this is the most accurate means of identifying patients who appear to be clinically free of disease but actually harbor persistent cancer. Although this procedure is an extremely accurate means of identifying these patients, women who have pathologically negative second-look surgery are still at risk for relapse. Patients can receive additional treatment following second-look surgical assessment via the intraperitoneal route if they are pathologically negative or if they have microscopic or small volume disease. Alternatively, additional systemic chemotherapy can be given with non-cross-resistant systemic agents, but no current standard approach for consolidation therapy exists for patients following the completion of primary treatment. Unfortunately, most patients relapse. Multiple agents with similar activity in phase II trials are available to treat patients with advanced recurrent disease. Combination therapy in this setting has not been shown to have significantly superior progression-free or overall survival compared with single agents. The selection of treatment for patients with recurrent disease is currently based on a determination of the treatment-free interval since last treatment, as well as the route, schedule, and expected side effects of the agent."}
{"id": "11535981", "title": "Early-stage epithelial ovarian cancer: an overview.", "content": "Early-stage epithelial ovarian cancer: an overview. The clinical treatment of malignant epithelial ovarian cancer limited to the gonad(s) involves many problems that have given rise to analyses in recent literature and to different approaches: i. intensive anatomo-radio-surgical staging, evaluation and clinical incidence of prognostic risk factors; ii. re-staging of patients after inadequate and incomplete surgery; iii. indications, role and topicality of second-look surgery; iv. conservative surgery in patients of a fertile age wishing to have children and retain activity of the gonads; v. laparoscopic surgery for treatment, staging, re-staging and surveillance; vi. the lymph node issue; vii. adjuvant therapy: indications, options, type of drugs, doses and length; viii. quality and frequency of surveillance; ix. malignant epithelial ovarian cancer limited to the gonads in pregnancy. The clinical handling of these tumours entails many complex problems causing emotional involvement since it is most frequent at a fertile age."}
{"id": "11287988", "title": "Delayed recognition of inadvertent gut injury during laparoscopy.", "content": "Delayed recognition of inadvertent gut injury during laparoscopy. Bowel injuries, which may occur as a result of the insertion of an insufflation needle or trocar, are a rare complication of laparoscopy. They are generally recognized either immediately or a few days after the operation. We present a case of laparoscopic perforation of the small intestine in a patient who had undergone previous pelvic surgery for an ovarian carcinoma. On ultrasound (US), the patient had multiple hepatic lesions resembling hepatic metastases. To confirm the diagnosis, laparoscopy with guided liver biopsy was performed on the grounds that this procedure is regarded as more appropriate than CT- or US-guided hepatic biopsy. Veress needle and trocar insertion were performed at a proper distance from the abdominal scar. However, the abdominal cavity was not visible after the trocar's insertion due to the unexpected presence of adhesions. This precluded the continuation of the procedure. In the following days, the patient experienced only mild abdominal discomfort. However, 2 weeks after laparoscopy, the patient presented signs of peritoneal reaction and underwent laparotomy. Adhesion-fixing jejunal loops to the anterior abdominal wall were discovered at the site of the trocar puncture. Moreover, two hiatuses of these loops were observed and sutured. The follow-up was uneventful. As this case illustrates, laparoscopic bowel injuries remain an unpredictable event. Recognition of this complication may occur several days after the procedure, as the tamponating effect of adhesions on the jejunal hiatus delays the involvement of the peritoneum."}
{"id": "11174120", "title": "[Port-site metastases following laparoscopic surgery].", "content": "[Port-site metastases following laparoscopic surgery]. Laparoscopy for malignancy resection has been followed by description of metastatic laparoscopic port sites. Recently published clinical, experimental studies and case reports related to this problem are reviewed. Frequency of port-site metastases for gallbladder, colorectal and ovarian cancers seem to differ. Ascites and staging during laparoscopy are probably risk factors for port-site metastases. Clinical presentations of port-site metastases are exposed and experimental studies show that pneumoperitoneum, nature of gas as well as local factors were probably implicated. Hypothetical mechanisms of port-site metastases are discussed; it is likely that the aetiology are multifactorial. Preventive strategies of port-site metastases are proposed. Further research in this area is necessary to understand mechanisms of port-site metastases."}
{"id": "11173751", "title": "[Imaging of benign ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Imaging of benign ovarian tumors]. A positive diagnosis of benign ovarian tumor indicates a laparoscopic approach or a conservative treatment. Benign ovarian tumors are often easy to recognize with non ionizing modalities such as US and MRI. The most common benign ovarian tumors are: mature teratomas including dermoid cysts, tumors in the fibro-thecal group including fibromas and thecomas, benign serous and mucinous tumors (cystadenomas). Apart from ovarian tumors, endometriomas are more commonly extra ovarian, but may involve the ovarian stroma."}
{"id": "11169353", "title": "Diagnosis of abdominal tuberculosis by transabdominal ultrasound-guided needle biopsy.", "content": "Diagnosis of abdominal tuberculosis by transabdominal ultrasound-guided needle biopsy. Laparotomy and laparoscopy have been used for biopsy of pelvic masses in the differential diagnosis between abdominal tuberculosis and ovarian cancer. We suggest the use of transabdominal needle biopsy under ultrasound guidance in such cases. Two women developed abdominal distention, one of whom had been receiving medical treatment for known tuberculosis. In both cases, ultrasonography showed a pelvic mass and ascites associated with high levels of CA 125. A transabdominal ultrasonographically-guided biopsy of the masses with a trucut needle established their tuberculous origin. The transabdominal sonographic needle biopsy is a reliable diagnostic procedure in the differential diagnosis between abdominal tuberculosis and ovarian malignancy. This minimally invasive procedure saves the patient with tuberculosis from unnecessary laparotomy."}
{"id": "11155944", "title": "Reproduction post-chemotherapy in young cancer patients.", "content": "Reproduction post-chemotherapy in young cancer patients. High-dose chemotherapy and radiotherapy has increased long-term survival of young patients with cancer. Sometimes however, the price paid is ovarian failure and sterility. It is highly important to detect who are the patients at risk in order to verify when fertility preservation is indicated. With conventional chemotherapy, there is significant differences in ovarian failure rate according to patients age, disease for which patients are treated for, and the drugs used. Bone marrow transplantation in cancer patients almost invariably induced ovarian failure, irrespective of patient age, treatment protocol or administration of hormonal treatment. Moreover, normal reproductive parameters post-chemotherapy does not necessarily imply that the ovaries escaped damage; ovarian injury is not an all or none phenomenon--partial loss of primordial follicle reserve can result in premature menopause as a delayed reaction to treatment. This should be taken into account while consulting former cancer patients about future planed pregnancies. The direct mechanisms of chemotherapy induced ovarian failure are poorly understood. An in vitro study has demonstrated that in the human ovary chemotherapy acts primarily on primordial follicles through induction of apoptotic changes in pregranulosa cells which lead to follicle loss. Protecting fertility potential in females exposed to chemotherapy with IVF and embryo cryopreservation or cryopreservation of ovarian tissue is practiced. Ovarian tissue cryopreservation: A recent study has demonstrated that laparoscopic ovarian biopsy performed with the round biopter is a safe and efficient method for collecting ovarian tissue for cryopreservation in cancer patients. In order to avoid possible hazards of transferring malignant cells, genetic and immunohistochemical markers for detection of minimal residual cancer cells in ovarian tissue are currently used. However, the reproductive potential of this method is still questionable. IVF: IVF and embryocryopreservation is currently used in infertile patients, however, several obstacles prevent it's wide implementation in cancer patients such as the need for male partner and the time needed for ovarian stimulation. A highly important issue is the possible risk of performing IVF and embryo cryopreservation to preserve fertility in females already exposed to chemotherapy. An animal study has raised serious concerns regarding the consequences of chemotherapy on future pregnancies. High abortion and malformation rates related to the different stages of oocyte maturation at the time of exposure to chemotherapy were demonstrated. These results should be taken into account when considering the use of IVF and embryo cryopreservation following chemotherapy treatment in cancer patients."}
{"id": "11141421", "title": "[Pleural effusion associated to gynecological laparoscopy for an ovaric endometrioma].", "content": "[Pleural effusion associated to gynecological laparoscopy for an ovaric endometrioma]."}
{"id": "11128910", "title": "Managing mature cystic teratomas of the ovary.", "content": "Managing mature cystic teratomas of the ovary. Mature cystic teratomas (MCT), commonly called dermoid cysts, are the most common benign germ cell tumors of the ovary in women of reproductive age. Future fertility is of major concern among these women; therefore, the surgical management must focus on preserving ovarian tissue and minimizing adhesion formation. Patients requiring surgery should be appropriately counseled about the risks and benefits of laparoscopy and laparotomy, the risks of intraoperative MCT spillage and adhesion formation. In addition, the risks of recurrence and malignant transformation should be discussed. The parents of children with MCTs have the same concerns as older women and a similar discussion should take place. The goal of this article is to review these issues and provide the physician with the information to counsel their patients preoperatively."}
{"id": "11127118", "title": "Laparoscopic excision of ovarian dermoid cysts with controlled intraoperative spillage: safety and effectiveness.", "content": "Laparoscopic excision of ovarian dermoid cysts with controlled intraoperative spillage: safety and effectiveness."}
{"id": "11098043", "title": "The management of mature cystic teratomas in children and adolescents: a retrospective analysis.", "content": "The management of mature cystic teratomas in children and adolescents: a retrospective analysis. Mature cystic teratomas (MCT) are the most common ovarian tumours seen in children and adolescents. Fifty-two patients <21 years of age had surgical removal of an MCT, 14 of whom were approached laparoscopically. Compared with laparotomy, those patients managed laparoscopically had a significantly shorter hospital stay. Intra-operative tumour spillage occurred in 27 (52%) patients; there were no cases of chemical peritonitis. Available follow-up data on 34 (65%) patients revealed seven pregnancies occurring at a median of 70 months (46-123) postoperatively, including four in patients with intraoperative MCT spill. There were no cases of tumour recurrence during the follow-up period among the 27 (52%) patients managed with ovarian cystectomy. These results demonstrate that some of the conclusions regarding the contemporary management of MCT in adults are applicable to children and adolescents."}
{"id": "11094240", "title": "The Filshie clip in nonsterilization gynecologic laparoscopy.", "content": "The Filshie clip in nonsterilization gynecologic laparoscopy."}
{"id": "11091991", "title": "Female sterilization. Evidence.", "content": "Female sterilization. Evidence. The literature review herein reveals substantial information regarding the safety, efficacy, short-term complications, long-term complications, and noncontraceptive benefits of sterilization. This information should be helpful for providers and potential sterilization candidates. The review also reveals areas where the data are unclear. Points to keep in mind during counseling include the following: The vast majority of women are satisfied with the decision to undergo sterilization. The fact that regret occurs underscores the importance of counseling and adequate individual deliberation before the procedure. In addition to the difficulty and expense associated with sterilization reversal, the woman should thoroughly understand the permanence of the procedure. Although failure is a rare event, it can occur many years after the procedure. Although evidence suggests that hysterectomy rates are higher in sterilized women aged less than 30 to 35 years, it is unlikely that there is a plausible biologic effect of sterilization on hysterectomy risk. An association between tubal sterilization and menstrual cycle changes does not seem valid for changes noted up to 2 years after the procedure. Data are unclear and inconsistent among studies observing women more than 2 years after the procedure. Evidence consistently shows that sterilization is associated with a reduced incidence of ovarian cancer and pelvic inflammatory diseases. Most studies show no effect or improvement of sexual satisfaction after sterilization. Complications during and postprocedure are rare. Sterilization provides no protection against the acquisition of sexually transmitted disease. Patients and their physicians should recognize that sterilized women may need more targeted preventive efforts for health screening and to reduce high-risk behavior than women who use other contraceptive methods. The surgeon's experience and the woman's preferences should govern the ultimate decision regarding the approach and occlusion method. Level II-2 evidence indicates comparable safety between interval laparoscopy and minilaparotomy. Data consistently show that in experienced trained hands, tubal sterilization is safe and highly effective regardless of the approach or occlusive method. Attention to the subtleties of technique seems to be most important in ensuring procedure safety and efficacy. Reanalysis of the CREST data shows that the cumulative failure rate of bipolar coagulation is comparable with the failure rate of unipolar coagulation if a substantial length of tube is adequately coagulated. The data discussed herein can be used to guide management decisions that may increase accessibility and reduce cost of the procedure. Low-resource settings and office settings have maintained an excellent safety record for this procedure through performance of sterilization under local anesthesia. The use of local anesthesia enables a change in procedure location from an inpatient operating room to a free-standing surgical clinic or adequately equipped office. Local anesthesia, with or without preoperative medication, is an excellent option associated with a lower complication risk, reduced cost, and shorter, easier recovery. The surgeon should have specific training in the effective use of local anesthetics, preoperative medications, and management of rare complications in low-resource settings. Little additional research is needed regarding the safety and efficacy of standard sterilization approaches and occlusion methods. There is a need for continued development of nonsurgical methods of sterilization, microlaparoscopic approaches performed in the office setting, and the feasibility and acceptance of service provision by nonspecialist health care providers. The evidence indicates that female sterilization can be performed safely in a variety of resource settings ranging from rural sterilization camps in developing countries to high-tech, resource-rich operating rooms in developed c"}
{"id": "11084462", "title": "[Predictive value of abdominopelvic scan for optimal surgery of ovarian carcinoma].", "content": "[Predictive value of abdominopelvic scan for optimal surgery of ovarian carcinoma]. Some patients undergo laparoscopy without optimal debulking surgery as initial treatment for advanced ovarian carcinoma. The amount of residual tumor following primary surgery is an important prognosis factor. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy is a new therapeutic approach. Secondary, optimal surgery could be done in better conditions. To access the ability of preoperative abdominopelvic CT to predict success of debulking surgery for ovarian carcinoma: less than 1cm of residual tumor size after initial surgery. We reviewed 39 patients (two stage Ic, 1 stage IIc, 22 stage III and 14 stage IV) operated on for ovarian carcinoma between January 1992 and December 1997. Surgical criteria of inability to perform optimal surgical cytoreduction were compared with abdominopelvic CT done the month before. CT scans were prospectively assessed by radiologist A and retrospectively (3 months to 6 years delay) reviewed separately by radiologists A and B without surgical data. Nineteen patients underwent optimal debulking surgery: 13 no residual tumor and 6 with residual lesions under 1cm. The interreader (0.73) and intrareader (0.9) agreement, worked out by Kappa coefficient, was judged good to very good. The sensitivity of CT was 91% with a specificity of 95%. These results allowed us to determine which CT criteria were accurate and reproducible to be a helpful for therapeutic choice and to avoid laparotomy without optimal surgery."}
{"id": "11082998", "title": "[Laparoscopy and laparotomy in the operative treatment of ovarian cysts].", "content": "[Laparoscopy and laparotomy in the operative treatment of ovarian cysts]. The purpose of our study was to compare operative procedures, histologic types of tumours, and intra- and postoperative complications of patients operated for benign ovarian cysts by laparotomy or laparoscopy. 257 patients with different types of ovarian cysts underwent operations by laparoscopy (51 cases) or laparotomy (206 cases). Careful selection for operative treatment was made on the basis of clinical findings, ultrasound scans (using colour Doppler), patient's age and history. Operative laparoscopies were performed in patients with \"unsuspected\" ovarian cysts with diameter < or = 8 cm. During every operation, a histologic examination of tumour was performed. In 42 patients the cysts were found in both ovaries. Remaining 215 women had unilateral ovarian tumours. Adnexectomy was carried out in 142 cases, cystectomy in 131, ovariectomy in 18, and aspiration and electrocoagulation of ovarian cysts in 8 cases. The most common laparoscopic procedures were cystectomy (41) and aspiration and electrocoagulation of ovarian cysts (8); while by laparotomy: adnexectomy (142) and cystectomy (131); p < 0.0001. The histopathological assessment showed as follows: serous cysts in 98 cases, dermoid cysts in 75, endometrial cysts in 63, mucous cyst in 23, and others (mainly haemorrhagic, functional cysts and fibrothecomas) in 40 cases. The incidence of operative complications (3/257--all due to insufficient hemostasis) and postoperative complications (infection--7/257, anaemia--4/257, peritonitis--1/257) was rather low and similar in patients operated by laparoscopy and laparotomy. Patients were generally discharged from the hospital on the fourth (median) postoperative day after laparoscopies and the seventh (median) day after laparotomies (p < 0.0005). Operative treatment of ovarian benign cysts is connected with a very low risk for intra- and postoperative complications. The operative laparoscopy brings better cosmetic effects and seems to be safe and effective method of treatment of ovarian benign cysts."}
{"id": "11082987", "title": "[Laparotomy performed in pregnant women due to non-obstetrical causes].", "content": "[Laparotomy performed in pregnant women due to non-obstetrical causes]. The clinical characteristics of laparotomy during pregnancy were investigated. A series of 24 cases of laparotomy during pregnancy was investigated with respect to clinicopathologic features and outcome. Among 23 cases there were 20 ovarian tumors, 2 acute appendicitis and 2 uterine fibroid. Gestational ages at the time of surgery ranged from 16 to 24 weeks of patients with ovarian tumors and from 30 to 32 weeks in others. No intraoperative or postoperative maternal or fetal complications occurred. One patient had a stage III ovarian carcinoma and went to total hysterectomy, and other patient had a stage IA ovarian carcinoma. Appendectomy can be performed without additional risk to the fetus for those who require surgical intervention during pregnancy. Ovarian surgery in pregnancy for persistent masses is important to obtain a final histologic diagnosis."}
{"id": "11081691", "title": "Port site metastasis after laparoscopy for gynecological cancer: report of two cases.", "content": "Port site metastasis after laparoscopy for gynecological cancer: report of two cases."}
{"id": "11077634", "title": "Port-site metastasis after laparoscopic surgery for gynecologic cancer. A report of six cases.", "content": "Port-site metastasis after laparoscopic surgery for gynecologic cancer. A report of six cases. Port-site metastasis after laparoscopic surgery for gynecologic cancer is a recognized entity. Five patients underwent laparoscopic peritoneal biopsies for a stage III (n = 4) or IV (n = 1) ovarian cancer with moderate or poor differentiation. The sixth patient underwent a laparoscopic lymphadenectomy for vaginal carcinoma with bulky metastatic pelvic lymph nodes. In order to avoid port-site metastasis, patients with an obviously malignant ovarian tumor and ascites should not be treated with laparoscopy using pneumoperitoneum. If a malignant ovarian tumor is discovered during laparoscopy, the interval between initial surgery and complete cytoreductive surgery (with resection of laparoscopic ports) followed by chemotherapy should be as short as possible. For patients with uterine cancer and bulky nodes, laparoscopic lymphadenectomy should be avoided to avoid trocar implantation metastasis."}
{"id": "11077633", "title": "Torsion of the uterine adnexa. Pathologic correlations and current management trends.", "content": "Torsion of the uterine adnexa. Pathologic correlations and current management trends. To evaluate the clinical and pathologic correlates of specimens removed for the diagnosis of adnexal torsion and to evaluate trends in the management of torsion. Cases of ovarian or adnexal torsion (N = 104) were identified retrospectively over a period extending from January 1987 to March 1998 by the coding of ovarian, fallopian tube or adnexal torsion. Statistical evaluation was by chi 2 analysis using the Bonferroni inequality correction when appropriate. Neoplastic and functional tumors of the ovary composed > 90% of the diagnoses at microscopic evaluation, with cancer diagnosed in < 1% of cases. Laparoscopy was attempted in 47 (46%) cases, and adnexasparing procedures were performed in 20 (19%) patients. Patients treated in the latter half of the study were not less likely to undergo laparotomy than those treated in the first half; however, conversion from laparoscopy to laparotomy was significantly less common in the latter half. Patients in this study were more likely to receive an adnexa-sparing operation than historical controls, but there was no improvement in this rate from the first to the second half of this study. A history of previous abdominal surgery was the most common associated condition, but 47% of patients had no known risk factors. Ovarian hyperstimulation, previously omitted in series reports, was an antecedent factor in 9% of patients. Adnexal torsion is most commonly associated with a benign process. A more-conservative approach to the treatment of this process is becoming increasingly common, as seems warranted in light of the low incidence of malignancy. The need for conversion from a laparoscopic to an open approach appears to have been waning over the last decade; that may correlate with an increased comfort level in gynecologists with laparoscopic approaches."}
{"id": "11063666", "title": "Laparoscopic port-site recurrence following surgery for a stage IB squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix with negative lymph nodes.", "content": "Laparoscopic port-site recurrence following surgery for a stage IB squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix with negative lymph nodes. Port-site metastases are commonly reported after laparoscopic surgery for ovarian cancer, but have also been reported in patients with cervical or endometrial cancer with positive lymph nodes. Recently, a case of port-site recurrence after laparoscopic surgery for a patient with node-negative early-stage adenocarcinoma of the cervix was reported. We report the first case of port-site metastasis in a patient with stage IB squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix with negative lymph nodes. A 31-year-old woman had a laparoscopy for pelvic pain. Under anesthesia, she was noted to have a grossly abnormal-looking cervix and a biopsy revealed squamous cell carcinoma. She was referred to a gynecological oncologist and underwent radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection through a transverse lower abdominal incision 6 weeks later. Nineteen months postoperatively, she presented with a soft tissue mass in a suprapubic laparoscopic trocar site. It is postulated that cells dislodged at the time of cervical manipulation and biopsy may have passed through the fallopian tubes and implanted in the laparoscopic port site due to the \"chimney effect\" caused by the pneumoperitoneum."}
{"id": "11056130", "title": "Successful transfer of frozen-thawed embryos obtained immediately before radical surgery for stage IIIa serous borderline ovarian tumour: case report.", "content": "Successful transfer of frozen-thawed embryos obtained immediately before radical surgery for stage IIIa serous borderline ovarian tumour: case report. A stage IIIA borderline serous ovarian tumour was treated conservatively by laparoscopy to preserve the fertility of a 21 year old nulligravid woman. Six months later, recurrent lesions were resected. An 'urgent' IVF was performed to obtain frozen embryos. Oncological treatment was then completed by radical surgery with uterine conservation. Fifteen months later, two thawed embryos were successfully transferred and the patient delivered one baby. From this observation, the authors discuss an alternative to oocyte donation in cases of bilateral ovariectomy for stage IIIA borderline serous ovarian tumour."}
{"id": "11044509", "title": "Ovarioscopy, a technique to determine the nature of cystic ovarian tumors.", "content": "Ovarioscopy, a technique to determine the nature of cystic ovarian tumors. To test the value of ovarioscopy as an additional step in the diagnostic work-up of probably benign cystic ovarian tumors before laparoscopic intervention, and to compare its diagnostic accuracy with that of transvaginal ultrasonography (TVUS) and tumor markers. Cross-sectional study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). Gynecologic endoscopy unit at a university hospital. Sixty-eight women with unilateral or bilateral ovarian cystic swellings without clinical, sonographic, or laparoscopic suspicion of malignancy. Preoperatively, TVUS and tumor markers were estimated. Intraoperative endocystic ovarioscopic visualization ovarioscopy and ovarioscopy-guided biopsy were done before laparoscopy. Ovarioscopy had the highest specificity for detecting benign ovarian cysts (98%) compared with (72.6%) and (72%) for tumor markers and TVUS, respectively. Its positive predictive value was 50% compared with 5% and 6% for tumor markers and TVUS, respectively. Its findings agreed with the histopathologic diagnosis in 39 patients (57%, p = 0.000, k = 0.85). Ovarioscopy is a simple, rapid maneuver that should precede laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy. It is superior to tumor markers and TVUS for predicting the benign nature of ovarian cysts."}
{"id": "11025466", "title": "The role of laparoscopy in the management of gynecologic malignancies.", "content": "The role of laparoscopy in the management of gynecologic malignancies."}
{"id": "10976443", "title": "[Endoscopic surgery in obstetrics and gynecology].", "content": "[Endoscopic surgery in obstetrics and gynecology]. There are three types of endoscopic surgery in obstetrics and gynecology: laparoscopy; hysteroscopy; and salpingoscopy. The main indications for laparoscopic surgery are myoma uteri, ovarian tumors, ectopic pregnancy, infertility, and endometriosis. Currently the indications are limited to benign disease. The main indications for hysteroscopic surgery are submucous myoma uteri, uterine anormalies, and Asherman syndrome. During hysteroscopy the uterine cavity is dilated with liquid and then a resectoscope or hysterofiberscope is used. Salpingoscopy is useful in examining the tubal cavity and a potent tool for tubal recanalization. Endoscopic surgical techniques will develop rapidly in the near future to serve the various needs of female patients."}
{"id": "10975556", "title": "Surgical standards in the management of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Surgical standards in the management of ovarian cancer. Surgery is the cornerstone of management of epithelial ovarian cancer and has broad applications throughout the clinical course of disease, from initial diagnosis to palliative care. Comprehensive surgical staging is essential for precise prognostic determination and treatment planning for patients with apparent early-stage ovarian cancer. Although randomized trials are lacking, the survival advantage associated with optimal primary cytoreduction has been consistent and reproducible. With increasing radicality of cytoreductive surgical techniques and sophistication of postoperative care, it appears that an \"optimal\" surgical procedure is that which leaves the patient with no visible residual disease. The survival benefits of cytoreductive surgery are also applicable to women with stage IV ovarian cancer, although the rate of success is somewhat attenuated compared with patients with stage III disease. Recent data also indicate that with appropriate surgical selection criteria, secondary cytoreduction is associated with a significant prolongation of survival for patients with recurrent ovarian cancer. Unfortunately, several recent publications illustrate how the decentralization of health care may have significant ramifications on the ability of women with known or suspected ovarian cancer to avail themselves of the surgical standard of care."}
{"id": "10968359", "title": "Removal of a voluminous serous papillary paraovarian cystadenoma by endoscopic surgery. A case report.", "content": "Removal of a voluminous serous papillary paraovarian cystadenoma by endoscopic surgery. A case report. A case of a right paraovarian cystadenoma (7.3 litres) in a young woman, 19 years old, who was treated by laparoscopy is described. The advantages of endoscopic surgery are evaluated."}
{"id": "10952124", "title": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy versus primary debulking surgery in advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy versus primary debulking surgery in advanced ovarian cancer. Primary surgical cytoreduction followed by chemotherapy usually is the preferred management of advanced (stage III or IV) ovarian cancer. The presence of residual disease after surgery is one of the most important adverse prognostic factors for survival. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy has been proposed as an alternative approach to conventional surgery as initial management of bulky ovarian cancer, with the goal of improving surgical quality. Since 1989, we have been treating advanced epithelial ovarian cancer with neoadjuvant chemotherapy instead of primary cytoreductive surgery in approximately half of the patients with stage III-IV disease. Selection of neoadjuvant chemotherapy was based on disease-related characteristics (eg, metastatic tumor load, stage of disease, performance status). Since 1993, open laparoscopy also has been used to aid in evaluating operability. A retrospective analysis of 338 patients was conducted to compare outcomes during 1989 to 1998, when neoadjuvant chemotherapy was used, with those observed during 1980 to 1988, when all patients underwent primary cytoreductive surgery. Crude 3-year survival rates were higher and postoperative mortality rates were lower during the second time period compared with the first. Overall, the results suggest that neoadjuvant chemotherapy results in survival rates in selected patients with advanced ovarian cancer that are comparable with those associated with primary cytoreductive surgery. Patients with stage IV disease, total metastatic tumor load greater than 1,000 g, uncountable plaque-shaped peritoneal metastases, and/or a poor performance status are probably the best candidates for this alternative approach. A prospective randomized study of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and primary cytoreductive surgery is ongoing."}
{"id": "10949421", "title": "Ovarian masses in the newborn.", "content": "Ovarian masses in the newborn. Prenatal sonography uncovers many fetal ovarian masses that previously would have gone unrecognized. This challenges clinicians to learn the natural history of these asymptomatic lesions so as to provide the best care postnatally. Spontaneous resolution of simple ovarian cysts is expected by about 6 months of age, which is attributed to predicted changes in the postnatal hormonal milieu. After birth, levels of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) and estrogen plummet. Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) rise until about 3 months of age and then fall as the \"gonadostat\" matures. Although symptomatic cysts demand intervention, simple asymptomatic cysts less than 5 cm in diameter should be left alone but reassessed sonographically. If simple cysts are larger than 5 cm in diameter the risk of torsion may be significant, and intervention often is advocated. However, the risk of torsion versus the likelihood of resolution is not well established. The therapeutic goal for a clinician managing a newborn with a simple ovarian cyst is to maximize ovarian salvage. Aspiration alone may be a reasonable option. The laparascopic approach to the neonatal ovarian cyst provides a view of both ovaries and allows aspiration, unroofing, cystectomy, or ovariectomy. The sonographically complex cyst usually represents adnexal torsion but could be a neoplasm and warrants intervention because the morbidity from untreated neonatal adnexal torsion can be significant beyond loss of the ovary (eg, hemorrhage, peritonitis, intestinal obstruction, or a wandering tumor)."}
{"id": "10949380", "title": "Lymphadenectomy in ovarian cancer.", "content": "Lymphadenectomy in ovarian cancer. Current guidelines for the surgical staging of ovarian cancer include the removal of retroperitoneal lymph nodes (pelvic and aortic). In most centres this is achieved by means of laparotomy, but advanced laparoscopic techniques have also been performed and still further prospective controlled studies with long-term follow-up are necessary to validate the efficacy. Lymph node sampling, short of complete dissection, should be avoided because it may be insufficient to detect metastasis. In any case, laparoscopic lymphadenectomy as well as open surgery, should be in the hands of properly trained subspecialists in gynaecologic oncology. Of 97 patients with ovarian carcinoma studied in our hospital, 68% were treated by means of complete staging laparotomy (FIGO). Lymphadenectomy was spared in 14 cases with stage I tumours (mainly serous) without changes in overall survival. In 15% metastases in pelvic lymph nodes were present. In the same proportion aortic lymph nodes were positive. In 5.5%, aortic metastases were present in the absence of pelvic involvement."}
{"id": "10924632", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery for complex ovarian masses.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery for complex ovarian masses. To assess the value of laparoscopy in managing complex ovarian masses. Retrospective, observational analysis (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). University-based, tertiary level center for endoscopic surgery. Two hundred eleven consecutive women. Laparoscopic surgery including ovary-preserving surgery, salpingo-oophorectomy, adhesiolysis, and pelvic lymphadenectomy. Patients were selected on the basis of preoperative ultrasound findings. Intraoperative appearance of the tumors as well as results from frozen section examinations were compared with histologic results. Two hundred sixteen pelvic masses were benign. In 10 patients, early ovarian cancer, borderline tumors, tubal cancer, or secondary ovarian, nongynecologic pathology was managed primarily by laparoscopy and confirmed histologically. Three of these 10 women underwent standard radical open surgery within 1 week. The true nature of masses was not recognized at the time of laparoscopy in three patients with malignant findings. Patients with malignant tumors were followed for 5 years. Although most complex ovarian masses can be managed by laparoscopy, the possibility of overlooking malignancy remains, even with frozen section examination. Whether or not laparoscopy compromises clinical outcome compared with laparotomy is not fully understood. Prospective studies to address this important clinical question are urgently needed."}
{"id": "10908768", "title": "Noninflammatory ovarian masses in girls and young women.", "content": "Noninflammatory ovarian masses in girls and young women. We reviewed the presentation, treatment, and pathologic diagnoses of girls and young women less than 21 years old with noninflammatory ovarian masses that required surgery and established whether treatment had changed over time. We retrospectively reviewed charts of all girls and young women under 21 years old with International Classification of Diseases, 9th Revision (ICD-9) codes specific for noninflammatory ovarian masses treated at our institution from June 1980 to July 1998 (n = 140). The median age at surgery was 15 years (range 2 days-21 years). Ovarian cysts occurred in 57.9% (81 of 140) of patients, benign tumors (including mature cystic teratomas) in 30% (42 of 140), malignant tumors in 7.9% (11 of 104), and torsed but normal ovaries in 4.3% (six of 140) of the study sample. Patients older than 15 years were more likely to have ovarian cysts and benign tumors than younger patients (P =.019). There were no malignancies among girls with neonatal cysts. The incidence of ovarian torsion was 17.8% (25 of 140). Patients with ovarian cysts, mature cystic teratomas, and normal ovaries were more likely to have torsion than those with other benign or malignant tumors (P <.001). Operative approach and surgical procedure were compared before and after July 1, 1989. Laparoscopy was performed more commonly after July 1, 1989 (P =.009). However, patient age (P <.001) rather than time of surgery (P =.83) was the most important predictive factor in a multivariate analysis for use of laparoscopy. In addition, multivariate analysis revealed that patient age (P =.02) rather than time of surgery (P =.79) was also predictive of surgeon type (gynecologist or pediatric surgeon). The most frequent cause of an ovarian mass requiring surgery in a girl or young woman under 21 years of age is an ovarian cyst, which justifies consideration of a laparoscopic approach. Patient age rather than time of surgery predicted operative approach and surgeon type. Caution should be exercised in patients over age 12 months with a complex mass on ultrasound and clinical evidence of hormonal activity, as these masses are usually malignant."}
{"id": "10902229", "title": "Tuberculosis presenting with pelvic mass, peritoneal lesions, and elevation of serum CA125 mimicking malignant tumor: a case report.", "content": "Tuberculosis presenting with pelvic mass, peritoneal lesions, and elevation of serum CA125 mimicking malignant tumor: a case report. Tuberculosis is a curable infective disease which can mimic a malignant tumor. We report on a young woman who presented with abdominal fullness, body weight loss, and microcytic anemia. A pelvic mass and peritoneal lesions were found. The serum CA125 level was high. The initial gynecologic echo and abdominal CT scan revealed bilateral ovarian mass with peritoneal lesions, and malignancy was highly suspected. Diagnostic laparoscopy was performed, and peritoneal tuberculosis was pathologically proven. Combination anti-tuberculosis therapy was prescribed for one year. She was followed up in the outpatient clinic regularly with symptom improvement, body weigh gain, and improvement of anemia. We suggest that in cases of a pelvic mass and peritoneal lesions, with elevation of the serum CA125 level, tuberculosis should always be kept on the list of differential diagnoses. A tissue diagnosis should always be obtained before treatment, regardless of initial image study and laboratory findings."}
{"id": "10900592", "title": "Cervicovaginal psammoma bodies in endosalpingiosis. A case report.", "content": "Cervicovaginal psammoma bodies in endosalpingiosis. A case report. The presence of psammoma bodies on cervicovaginal smears is a rare finding. These structures have usually been associated with malignant tumors, particularly ovarian carcinoma. However, a review of the literature reveals that up to 50% of these patients will have psammoma bodies in association with benign conditions; thus, this finding does not always correlate with the presence of a malignant tumor. An asymptomatic, nulliparous woman had psammoma bodies on a cervicovaginal smear. Evaluation, including cervical conization, endometrial sampling, laparoscopy with pelvic washings and ovarian biopsy, revealed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 1, endosalpingiosis and numerous psammoma bodies in all specimens except from the cervix. Follow-up examinations at three and six months were negative. The finding of psammoma bodies in a Pap smear is not always associated with the presence of a pelvic malignancy."}
{"id": "10883991", "title": "Hand-assisted laparoscopy for pelvic malignancy.", "content": "Hand-assisted laparoscopy for pelvic malignancy. The inability to palpate intra-abdominal organs is a barrier to the widespread utilization of laparoscopy in the management of pelvic malignancy. Hand-assisted laparoscopy permits the insertion of the hand into the abdomen through a glove-sized incision while preserving the pneumoperitoneum. This new modality preserves both the technical benefits of traditional manual assistance and the convalescent advantages of minimally invasive surgery. Our preliminary experience suggests that this approach is a feasible, safe, and expeditious access option that can effectively replace an extended open laparotomy incision or an excessively tedious laparoscopic exercise in the evaluation and management of pelvic malignancy. Moreover, oncologic surgeons, reluctant to relinquish the tactile advantages of open surgery, may find hand-assisted laparoscopy an appealing alternative."}
{"id": "10883025", "title": "Second-look and second surgery: second chance or second best?", "content": "Second-look and second surgery: second chance or second best? About 40 years ago, second-look laparotomy (SLL) was introduced to evaluate, surgically and pathologically, primary treatment in case a clinical complete remission was obtained in ovarian cancer patients. But does SLL increase the disease-free or overall survival? Important technical aspects of the procedure as: how many biopsies should be taken, can laparoscopy be replaced by laparotomy and should complete lymphadnectomy be performed at SLL, are still not clarified. This and maybe even more important issues, are disputed in literature: for instance, should a SLL be done at all, or should a SLL be performed in order to do a secondary cytoreduction in case tumour is found at the operation. If clinical remission is reached in more than 50% of the patients with advanced disease, tumour still can be found at SLL. If no tumour is found at SLL, macroscopically or microscopically, the operation is redundant. Apart from this, the recurrence rate after such a \"negative SLL\" is about 35%. Whether tumour found at SLL should be removed will depend on the fact if the tumour still is responsive to chemotherapy. To minimise the chance of tumour resistance, secondary surgery should be done as early as possible during treatment. Therefore, an interval debulking will be the intervention of choice. So, as long as there is no evidence that SLL increases the survival in ovarian cancer patients, it should be done in a research setting only. Also, the usefulness of secondary surgery for recurrent disease mainly depends on the chemo-sensitivity of the tumour. After a complete remission, which lasts for more than a year, complete secondary cytoreduction, again followed by chemotherapy, improves survival."}
{"id": "10883022", "title": "Surgical staging of early invasive epithelial ovarian tumors.", "content": "Surgical staging of early invasive epithelial ovarian tumors. Early stage epithelial ovarian carcinoma is defined pathologically as a tumor strictly limited to one or both ovaries without any extra-ovarian disease (i.e., Stage IA or B of the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) classification). This diagnosis can be obtained only after an exhaustive surgical staging procedure, performed as soon as the diagnosis of epithelial invasive ovarian carcinoma is established. This staging surgery currently encompasses a peritoneal cytology, the thorough inspection of all the visceral and parietal peritoneal surfaces with biopsy of any abnormality, total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (TAH + BSO), random peritoneal biopsies, omentectomy, appendectomy and bilateral pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomies, up to the left renal vein. The results of this staging procedure and its indications are discussed. In all of the cases, the radical removal of the pathologic adnexa is indicated, along with the complete peritoneal and retroperitoneal staging. While fertility-sparing surgery (avoiding hysterectomy and contralateral adnexectomy, if possible) seems to be safe for young women, a TAH + BSO is the rule for the others. Adjuvant chemotherapy can be omitted in well-differentiated tumors with a negative staging operation, but currently it remains indicated in all other cases. Indeed, the ultimate goal in early stage ovarian carcinoma is to not impair by inadequate management the high chance of a cure."}
{"id": "10883021", "title": "Management of adnexal masses: role and risk of laparoscopy.", "content": "Management of adnexal masses: role and risk of laparoscopy. Laparoscopic surgery has become the gold standard in the treatment of benign adnexal masses, whereas laparotomy remains the standard for the treatment of malignant tumors. The laparoscopic management of adnexal masses remains controversial because of the potential risks of cancer dissemination suggested by many case reports and national surveys. Experimental data show potential advantages and disadvantages for the laparoscopic treatment of gynecologic cancer. Since the risk of dissemination appears high when a large number of malignant cells are present, adnexal tumors with external growths and bulky lymph nodes may be considered contra-indications to CO(2) laparoscopy. Surgical diagnosis is the key to adequate management of adnexal masses. In our experience, laparoscopic diagnosis of malignancy is reliable after a careful pre-operative evaluation has been performed. Moreover, national surveys have revealed that despite suspicious laparoscopic findings, many malignant masses were considered benign at the outset. Using strict guidelines, laparoscopic diagnosis can be proposed for both non-suspicious and complex masses, thus avoiding many unnecessary laparotomies for benign masses suspicious at ultrasound. The more controversial limits of laparoscopic treatment are discussed. If a laparotomy was performed for all masses suspicious at surgery, 80% of the cases would be treated by laparoscopy. The role of laparoscopy for restaging and second-look operations for ovarian cancer requires further evaluation."}
{"id": "10873417", "title": "Spread of ovarian cancer after laparoscopic surgery.", "content": "Spread of ovarian cancer after laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "10870321", "title": "Laparoscopic cystectomy of a twisted, benign, ovarian teratoma in the first trimester of pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic cystectomy of a twisted, benign, ovarian teratoma in the first trimester of pregnancy. Adnexal torsion is an unusual, but serious complication in pregnancy. The treatment is surgical, but this may increase the risk of pregnancy loss in the first trimester. The use of laparoscopic surgery, which is less invasive than traditional laparotomy, has been limited by diagnostic and technical difficulties including determination of ovarian tumor nature and spillage of cyst contents intraoperatively. A 25-year-old woman in her 11th week of pregnancy had acute severe left lower-abdominal pain, which was diagnosed as left ovarian teratoma with torsion. She underwent emergency laparoscopic surgery with unwinding of the twisted fallopian tube and ovary and cystectomy of the teratoma. The patient subsequently delivered a full-term baby, without complications. Accurate ultrasound and cytologic diagnoses along with copious intraoperative warm, normal saline irrigation were likely contributing factors to the successful outcome of this case."}
{"id": "10857214", "title": "[Clinical behavior of serous and mucinous borderline tumors of the ovary with diploid DNA stem line. Follow-up studies after organ preserving and non-organ preserving therapy].", "content": "[Clinical behavior of serous and mucinous borderline tumors of the ovary with diploid DNA stem line. Follow-up studies after organ preserving and non-organ preserving therapy]. Even today, the situation is still unclear with regard to the radicality of the operation and any adjuvant therapy required in treatment of borderline tumors of the ovary. In the last two decades, treatment of these tumors in the Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics at our hospital has depended on the stage of the disease and the age of the patient. It ranged from laparoscopic cyst extirpation to hysterectomy with bilateral adnectomy and omental resection and regional lymphnodectomy. From the end of 1985 to the end of 1992, 35 patients with borderline tumors of the ovaries were operated on. Histologically, 14 borderline tumors were mucinous, 21 were serous. A follow-up investigation was carried out five to 11 years after primary operation. In this period, no patient died of borderline tumor. Twenty-eight patients who were followed up were clinically free of recurrence, five patients are alive, but could not be followed up. Two patients have died of other diseases after five years. Only one patient received adjuvant chemotherapy. She could not be followed up. In the meantime, peritoneal implants were demonstrated at second-look laparoscopies in four out of 18 patients. Later, these could no longer be demonstrated (one patient) or did not affect the survival time (three patients) and thus ultimately was not pathologically relevant. Primarily, two of these four patient had stage Ia-Ic. The paraffin blocks of the preparations are still available from 26 patients, and additional investigations could be carried out. Nineteen percent of the borderline tumors showed micropapillary structures of an MPCS (= micropapillary serous carcinoma), which evidently did not have a negative effect on the prognosis. All borderline tumors showed diploid distributions in DNA cytometry. It is not possible to make a definitive treatment recommendation on the basis of this investigation because the number of patients followed up was too small."}
{"id": "10843464", "title": "The great imitator: miliary peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking stage III ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "The great imitator: miliary peritoneal tuberculosis mimicking stage III ovarian carcinoma. To report a case of peritoneal tuberculosis initially mistaken at the time of surgery for metastatic ovarian carcinoma. A 31-year-old Filipino female was found to have increasing abdominal pain, ascites, early satiety, increasing abdominal girth and bilateral complex masses. Diagnostic laparoscopy revealed the presence of > 4 liters of ascites, a frozen pelvis secondary to what appeared to be bilateral ovarian carcinomas, along with miliary seeding of the entire anterior abdominal wall, omentum, small bowel and small bowel mesentery, right and left diaphragmatic surfaces, and hepatic surface. Frozen section, at the time of laparotomy, revealed necrotizing granulomas most consistent with disseminated tuberculosis that was confirmed at the time of final pathologic review and culture. Peritoneal tuberculosis can be mistaken for widely metastatic ovarian carcinoma at time of surgery."}
{"id": "10842911", "title": "[Laparoscopic or laparotomic surgery in the treatment of ovarian benign teratomas?].", "content": "[Laparoscopic or laparotomic surgery in the treatment of ovarian benign teratomas?]. The operation treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts by laparoscopy (examined group) and by laparotomy (control group) was compared. The mean size of teratomas measured by USG was similar: in the examined group 59 +/- 20 mm, in the control group 62 +/- 27 mm. There was no significant difference in the operation time: laparoscopy 65 +/- 27 min. (range 35-105 min.) and laparotomy 66 +/- 27 min. (range 40-120 min.). The antibiotic therapy both intra-operation and after operation was applied twice more frequent for laparotomy operated patients. The number of patients with post-operative fever was much higher in the control group (laparotomy: 7 patients--26.9%) than in examined group (laparoscopy: only 1 patient--3.9%). The hospitalization after operation was longer in the control group (mean: 6.8 +/- 3.7 days) than in examined group (mean: 3.1 +/- 2.8 days). Laparoscopic surgery is valuable operating method for selected teratomas in comparison with classical surgery."}
{"id": "10832285", "title": "[Pseudomyxoma peritonei with appendiceal and ovarian mucinous cystadenoma. A case report. Correlations with synchronous or metachronous colorectal carcinomas].", "content": "[Pseudomyxoma peritonei with appendiceal and ovarian mucinous cystadenoma. A case report. Correlations with synchronous or metachronous colorectal carcinomas]. Mucocele is a rare pathology which is difficult to diagnose prior to surgery. The clinical symptoms are aspecific. Diagnosis is generally made at the time of surgery. Explorative laparoscopy is not advised owing to the possibility of encouraging metastatic diffusion. Surgery associated with ex tempore freezer tests must be carried out with the greatest caution to avoid rupture of organs and the spread of mucin. Appendectomy and removal of the adnexa is recommended in benign forms, with or without omentectomy. Omentectomy is necessary together with hystero-adnexectomy and right hemicolectomy in malignant forms, as well as lymph node cleaning and removal of all mucin in pseudomyxoma peritonei."}
{"id": "10831359", "title": "Classification of asymptomatic adnexal masses by ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, and positron emission tomography.", "content": "Classification of asymptomatic adnexal masses by ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, and positron emission tomography. The purpose of this study was to determine the diagnostic accuracy of sonography versus magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) in the characterization of adnexal masses. One hundred and one patients with asymptomatic adnexal masses, which were scheduled for laparoscopy, underwent preoperative transvaginal ultrasound, MRI, and 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose PET. Two different sonomorphological scoring systems were used to distinguish malignant from benign lesions. In addition, transvaginal Doppler flow velocimetry was performed and the resistance index (RI) of ovarian blood vessels was calculated. RI values below 0.45 were considered to indicate malignancy. MRI was evaluated on the basis of signal intensity and morphologic features such as wall thickness, septations, fluid or solid components, and vascularity. PET imaging was used to determine 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose uptake. Malignancy was suspected if radiotracer uptake equaled or exceeded that of the liver. Based on histologic findings, sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and accuracy were first calculated independently for each imaging technique. Finally, a second session resulted in a consensus diagnosis being made based on the findings of all three modalities. Sonographic evaluation of adnexal masses resulted in correct classification of 11 of 12 ovarian malignancies (sensitivity 92%) but with a specificity of only 60%. With MRI and PET, specificities improved to 84 and 80% respectively, but sensitivities decreased. When all imaging modalities were combined, sensitivity and specificity were 92 and 85%, respectively, and accuracy was 86%. Combination of ultrasound with MRI and PET may improve accuracy in differentiation of benign from malignant ovarian lesions. However, negative MRI or PET results do not rule out early-stage ovarian cancer or borderline malignancies."}
{"id": "10831341", "title": "The efficacy of transvaginal sonographic screening in asymptomatic women at risk for ovarian cancer.", "content": "The efficacy of transvaginal sonographic screening in asymptomatic women at risk for ovarian cancer. The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of annual transvaginal sonography (TVS) as a screening method for ovarian cancer. Annual TVS screening was performed on 14, 469 asymptomatic women from 1987 to 1999. Eligibility criteria included (1) all women >/= 50 years of age and (2) women >/= 25 years of age with a family history of ovarian cancer. Ovarian volume was calculated using the prolate ellipsoid (length x height x width x 0.523). An abnormal sonogram was defined by (1) an ovarian volume >10 cm(3) in postmenopausal women or >20 cm(3) in premenopausal women or (2) a papillary or complex tissue projection into a cystic ovarian tumor. All women with abnormal TVS had a repeat sonogram in 4-6 weeks. Patients with a persistently abnormal second screen had a serum CA-125 determination, tumor morphology indexing, and Doppler flow sonography, and were advised to have surgical tumor removal. One hundred eighty patients with persisting TVS abnormalities underwent exploratory laparoscopy or laparotomy. Seventeen ovarian cancers were detected: 11 Stage I, 3 Stage II, and 3 Stage III. Only three patients with Stage I cancers had a palpable ovarian mass on clinical examination. All patients with Stage I and II ovarian cancer are alive without recurrence 1.8-9.8 years (median, 4.5 years) after diagnosis. Two of the three Stage III patients have died of disease: one at 4.3 years and one at 7.7 years after detection. Four patients developed ovarian cancer within 12 months of a negative scan (FN): 2 Stage II, 2 Stage III. Three of these patients are alive with no evidence of disease 0.4, 1.9, and 5.5 years after diagnosis, and 1 patient has died of disease 0.7 years after diagnosis. Four patients developed ovarian cancer more than 12 months following a normal screen. All 4 presented clinically with Stage III disease. Two of these patients have died of disease and two patients are alive 1.5 and 2.1 years after diagnosis. TVS screening was associated with the following statistical variables: sensitivity, 81%; specificity, 98.9%; positive predictive value (PPV), 9.4%; and negative predictive value (NPV), 99.97%. After 46, 113 screening years, there have been 3 ovarian cancer deaths in the annually screened population and 2 ovarian cancer deaths in women receiving less than annual screening. The survival of ovarian cancer patients in the annually screened population was 95.0 +/- 4.9% at 2 years and 88.2 +/- 8.0% at 5 years. Excluding all cases of nonepithelial or borderline epithelial malignancies, the survival of patients with ovarian cancer in the annually screened population was 92.9 +/- 6.9% at 2 years and 83.6 +/- 10.8% at 5 years. (1) TVS screening, when performed annually, is associated with a decrease in stage at detection and a decrease in case-specific ovarian cancer mortality. (2) TVS screening does not appear to be effective in detecting ovarian cancer in which ovarian volume is normal."}
{"id": "10830772", "title": "Microlaparoscopy: a new approach to the reassessment of ovarian cancer patients.", "content": "Microlaparoscopy: a new approach to the reassessment of ovarian cancer patients. The purpose of the work was to determine the feasibility and accuracy of microlaparoscopy as diagnostic method for the reassessment of ovarian cancer patients. Eight patients scheduled for second-look laparoscopy who had undergone primary surgery for ovarian cancer followed by 6 cycles of chemotherapy were included in the study. Microlaparoscopy was performed using a 2.8 mm laparoscope followed by conventional 10-mm laparoscopy. Three additional 5-mm ancillary trocars were inserted to perform intraabdominal biopsies. Pelvic washings were performed in all cases. Microlaparoscopy was feasible in all cases and as accurate as conventional laparoscopy in seven cases. In one case the procedure was terminated before conventional laparoscopy because of positive biopsies at frozen section examination. There were no intra-operative complications related to microlaparoscopy. The median time from skin incision to the removal of the microlaparoscope was 47 minutes (range 30-70). Microlaparoscopy seems to be a safe, accurate, minimally invasive method and therefore we suggest its use as primary approach to the reassessment of ovarian cancer patients."}
{"id": "10818413", "title": "Laparoscopic approach to ovarian cysts in women over 40 years of age.", "content": "Laparoscopic approach to ovarian cysts in women over 40 years of age."}
{"id": "10810438", "title": "Predictive value of the combined serum CA 125 and TPS during chemotherapy and before second-look laparotomy in epithelial ovarian cancer.", "content": "Predictive value of the combined serum CA 125 and TPS during chemotherapy and before second-look laparotomy in epithelial ovarian cancer. CA 125 and TPS levels were measured in the serum of 33 patients with advanced non-mucinous epithelial ovarian cancer. These patients were in clinical complete response (CR) after postoperative chemotherapy. The median level of CA 125 decreased rapidly after the first cycle of treatment, and then decreased slowly throughout the rest of the treatment. Patients with a positive second-look had significantly higher CA 125 levels than those with pathological CR. The median level of TPS decreased linearly throughout the treatment. The negative predictive value of the level of CA 125 was 72.7% (95% CI 39.3-92.7) using 10 U/ml as cut-off, while that of the level of TPS was 73.3% (95% CI 44.8-91.1), using a cut-off value of 50 U/L. The combined CA 125 and TPS criteria had a better negative predictive value of 88.9% (95% CI 63.9-89.1)."}
{"id": "10806907", "title": "[Controversies in surgical treatment of advanced ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Controversies in surgical treatment of advanced ovarian cancer]. Cytoreductive surgery has traditionally been regarded as a cornerstone in the primary treatment of advanced ovarian cancer. Both five year survival and median survival are better for patients with small residual masses. Despite many similar reports showing the prognostic significance of postoperative residual tumour, the survival benefits of cytoreductive surgery still remain scientifically unproven and controversial. There have been no prospective controlled clinical trials. The question remains as to whether the observed survival benefits for patients subjected to primary cytoreductive surgery are an effect of surgery skills or tumour biology. The proponents of tumour biology claim that cytoreductive surgery is a selective procedure and that patients with better prognosis are selected. Therefore a randomized study between primary cytoreduction and neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients that cannot be optimally cytoreduced seems warranted, though one problem with such a study is how to select eligible patients. During chemotherapy and after relapse several types of operations are used in ovarian cancer: secondary cytoreductive surgery, interval cytoreductive surgery, second-look surgery and palliative secondary surgery. So far interval cytoreductive surgery during chemotherapy is the only type of operation which in a prospective randomized study showed significant improvement in long-term survival. This paper discusses indirect evidence in the literature in support of or in contradiction to the primary debulking hypotheses and also indications and impact of surgical procedures during chemotherapy."}
{"id": "10806272", "title": "Metastatic carcinoid diagnosed at laparoscopic excision of pelvic endometriosis.", "content": "Metastatic carcinoid diagnosed at laparoscopic excision of pelvic endometriosis. Carcinoid tumors are uncommon lesions that arise from the intestinal tract or ovaries. Metastatic carcinoid was found in a 35-year-old woman who underwent laparoscopic excision of pelvic endometriosis. The primary tumor was in the distal appendix, and metastatic carcinoid coexisted with endometriosis in both pelvic sidewall specimens. This unusual situation is another reason to consider excision of presumed pelvic endometriosis. It is important to be aware of other uncommon gastrointestinal and pelvic conditions, such as the occasional carcinoid in the appendix or ovary."}
{"id": "10806265", "title": "Endosalpingiosis in laparoscopy.", "content": "Endosalpingiosis in laparoscopy. To estimate the laparoscopic frequency of endosalpingiosis versus other causes of peritoneal proliferation. Clinic-based, prospective, nonrandomized study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). University-affiliated hospital. The 1107 consecutive women undergoing laparoscopy over 1 year. Peritoneoscopy was performed during laparoscopy. All peritoneal proliferations were excised and examined by histology. In 7.6% of patients there was histologic evidence of endosalpingiosis. The frequency in asymptomatic women undergoing elective sterilization was 8.3%, and in infertile patients it was not significantly higher (11.7%, p = 0.6765). No significant difference was seen between patients with (7.3%) and without (7.9%) lower abdominal pain (p = 0. 7027). Endosalpingiosis is the second most common cause of peritoneal proliferation in the lower abdomen, with histologic evidence of the disorder in more than 7% of premenopausal women. In contrast to endometriosis, endosalpingiosis plays only a minor role in the evaluation of infertility and lower abdominal pain. Because of its relationship to serous ovarian neoplasms of low malignant potential, further prospective studies are urgently needed."}
{"id": "10804371", "title": "[The future of retroperitoneal lymph node dissection].", "content": "[The future of retroperitoneal lymph node dissection]. Over the past decades, retroperitoneal lymph node dissection has been included in most gynecology oncological surgeries. Today, its usefulness is questioned. Recent studies on cervical, ovarian and endometrial cancer have attempted to redefine the role of retroperitoneal lymph node dissection. Despite theses studies, it appears obvious that dissection only has a minor impact on survival while increasing morbidity to a certain extent. The future of these procedures appears to be related to their prognostic value. The immediate goals today would be to target and remove only the necessary lymph nodes and to decrease the morbidity associated with the procedures. To reach these goals, two new approaches are presently studied: laparoscopic dissection and sentinel lymph node identification."}
{"id": "10789230", "title": "[Role of laparoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Role of laparoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of ovarian cancer]. Diagnostic potential of laparoscopy and treatment of ovarian cancer were evaluated using the findings of 322 examinations: (1) 248 patients with sonography-detected masses, 2-7 cm, in the small pelvis; (2) 54 cases of morphologically inconclusive data on clinically advanced tumor, and (3) 50 patients with ovarian carcinoma in clinical remission, following complex treatment. Owing to its high predictive value, laparoscopic surgery should be recommended for comprehensive diagnosis of small-size masses located in the small pelvis as possible early precursors of ovarian tumor; morphological verification of tumor process extent, and detection of preclinical recurrence of tumor in cases of failed non-invasive monitoring procedures such as ultrasound and CA-125 determination."}
{"id": "10785469", "title": "The ability of preoperative serum CA-125 to predict optimal primary tumor cytoreduction in stage III epithelial ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "The ability of preoperative serum CA-125 to predict optimal primary tumor cytoreduction in stage III epithelial ovarian carcinoma. The aim of this study was to determine the ability of preoperative serum CA-125 to predict optimal primary tumor cytoreduction in patients with Stage III epithelial ovarian carcinoma. We performed a retrospective chart review of 100 consecutive patients with Stage III ovarian carcinoma who had a serum CA-125 drawn prior to primary cytoreductive surgery. We used a receiver operating characteristic curve to determine the CA-125 level with the maximal prognostic power in predicting optimal versus suboptimal cytoreduction. The median CA-125 level for the 100 patients was 819 U/ml (range 5.6-26,200 U/ml). Optimal cytoreduction (diameter of largest residual tumor nodule < or =1 cm) was obtained in 45 cases (45%). The probability of performing optimal cytoreduction decreased with increasing CA-125 levels. A preoperative CA-125 level of 500 U/ml was identified as the value with the most predictive power. Optimal cytoreduction was achieved in 33 of the 45 cases (73%) with a CA-125 less than 500 U/ml compared to only 12 of the 55 cases (22%) with a CA-125 greater than 500 U/ml. Using a threshold level of 500 U/ml, the preoperative serum CA-125 level was able to predict optimal versus suboptimal cytoreduction with a sensitivity of 78%, specificity of 73%, positive predictive value of 78%, and negative predictive value of 73%. The probability of performing optimal cytoreduction in patients with Stage III ovarian carcinoma and a preoperative CA-125 greater than 500 U/ml was approximately one in five. These patients may be candidates for initial laparoscopic evaluation to obtain a confirmatory tissue diagnosis and to determine resectability."}
{"id": "10779815", "title": "[Predictive value of preoperative abdominopelvic CT for optimal cytoreduction surgery in ovarian carcinoma].", "content": "[Predictive value of preoperative abdominopelvic CT for optimal cytoreduction surgery in ovarian carcinoma]. Some patients underwent laparoscopy without optimal debulking surgery as initial treatment for advanced ovarian carcinoma. The amount of residual tumor following primary surgery was an important prognosis factor. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy is a new therapeutic approach. Secondary, optimal surgery could be done in better conditions. The purpose was to access the ability of preoperative abdominopelvic CT to predict success of debulking surgery for ovarian carcinoma: less than 1 cm of residual tumor size after initial surgery. We reviewed 39 patients (2 stages Ic, 1 stage IIc, 22 stages III and 14 stages IV) operated on for ovarian carcinoma between January 1992 and December 1997. Surgical criteria of inability to perform optimal surgical cytoreduction were compared with abdominopelvic CT done the month before. CT scans were prospectively assessed by radiologist A and retrospectively (3 months to 6 years delay) rewiewed separately by radiologists A and B without surgical data. Nineteen patients underwent optimal debulking surgery: 13 no residual tumor and 6 with residual lesions under 1 cm. The interreader (0.73) and intrareader (0.9) agreement, worked out by Kappa coefficient, was juged good to very good. The sensitivity of CT was 91% with a specificity of 95%. These results allowed us to determine wich CT criteria were accurate and reproducible to be a helpfull for therapeutic choice and to avoid laparotomy without optimal surgery."}
{"id": "10758805", "title": "Laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy during pregnancy: a case report.", "content": "Laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy during pregnancy: a case report."}
{"id": "10739542", "title": "Laparoscopic port site implantation with ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic port site implantation with ovarian cancer. We report the cases of 3 patients in whom tumor implantation developed at the port site at which ovarian cancer was removed laparoscopically. The 3 patients, who were aged 30, 32, and 40 years, all had an ovary that did not appear cancerous removed by laparoscopy through a port site. All 3 patients underwent re-exploration within 3 weeks and were found to have tumoral spread and port site implantation of tumor. When ovarian cancer is removed laparoscopically, the potential exists for intra-abdominal tumoral spread. When surgical staging is undertaken after laparoscopic removal of ovarian cancer, the port site should be excised in a full-thickness fashion."}
{"id": "10733031", "title": "Disseminated carcinomatosis after laparoscopic surgery for presumably benign ruptured ovarian teratoma.", "content": "Disseminated carcinomatosis after laparoscopic surgery for presumably benign ruptured ovarian teratoma. The authors reported the intraperitoneal carcinomatosis after laparoscopic surgery for presumably benign ruptured ovarian teratoma in a 28-year-old woman. A 28-year-old female patient exhibited intraperitoneal carcinomatosis after a laparoscopic surgery for ruptured mature teratoma of the ovary with occult malignant transformation. The complication was found two months after initial laparoscopic surgery. Laparoscopic surgery was smooth including oophorectomy, and removing all spilled specimens within the abdominal cavity. At the end of the laparoscopic surgery, cleaning the abdominal cavity and irritating the port site were also performed. Cytology of the abdominal cavity and all removed specimens did not show evidence of malignancy. She followed up regularly and uneventfully except for persistently abdominal fullness and erythematous change of umbilical portal site. Evidence demonstrated intestinal obstruction associated with ascites after a detailed evaluation. Although the patient received supportive treatment the symptom exacerbated. Therefore, the patient was treated with exploratory laparotomy. Pathology proved with intraperitoneal carcinomatosis caused by squamous cell carcinoma. All tumor evaluations including tumor markers, a thorough physical examination, imaging studies and evaluations of the nuclear medicine were negative except of intraperitoneal carcinoma, origin to be determined. The patient is dead 14 months' post-treatment by exploratory laparotomy. Although it was not clear that the laparoscopic approach or the disease itself worsened indeed the prognosis because the disease was already disseminated before the laparoscopy, we still emphasized the possible limitation of laparoscopic surgery if diagnosis at original surgery is impaired, of if excision is incomplete and the delay between the laparoscopic procedure and the carcinomatosis."}
{"id": "10726696", "title": "Gliomatosis peritonei as a complication of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Gliomatosis peritonei as a complication of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt: case report and review of the literature. Gliomatosis peritonei, the implantation of neuroglial tissue upon the peritoneal surfaces, is a rare event most often associated with solid or immature teratomas of the ovary in young girls. The authors report a case of a 10-month-old girl with a ventriculoperitoneal shunt (VPS) who presented with bilateral inguinal hernias. Herniorrhaphy was uneventful. Microscopic examination of the hernia sacs showed exuberant mesothelial hyperplasia containing multiple nests of differentiated glial tissue. Subsequent computed tomography and laparoscopy disclosed normal ovaries with no evidence of intraabdominal or pelvic abnormalities. Gliomatosis peritonei in this case was attributed to transport of glial tissue from the cerebrospinal fluid into the peritoneal cavity via the shunt. With the exclusion of an ovarian germ cell neoplasm and in the presence of a VPS, the clinical course with regard to the glial implants in these children is uneventful. If it is appreciated that gliomatosis peritonei may be a complication of a VPS, an extensive clinical evaluation generally is unnecessary."}
{"id": "10725957", "title": "Diffuse stromal Leydig cell hyperplasia: a unique cause of postmenopausal hyperandrogenism and virilization.", "content": "Diffuse stromal Leydig cell hyperplasia: a unique cause of postmenopausal hyperandrogenism and virilization. A 60-year-old woman presented with diffuse scalp alopecia, hirsutism, and clitorimegaly, and the mean serum testosterone levels were greater than 200 ng/dL. Findings on computed tomography of both adrenal glands were normal. After bilateral oophorectomy, a unique histological picture consisting of diffuse stromal Leydig cell hyperplasia was found. Reinke crystals were present, but neither hilus cell hyperplasia nor stromal hyperthecosis was noted. Sequencing of the 11 exons of the gene for the luteinizing hormone receptor revealed no abnormality. Relevant data suggest that treatment of the postmenopausal woman with hyperandrogenism and virilization is bilateral laparoscopic oophorectomy if she has no pronounced ovarian enlargement or adrenal tumor on imaging. In this setting, an intensive endocrine evaluation or a search for metastatic disease seems to be unnecessary."}
{"id": "10684714", "title": "Laparoscopic loop colostomy for advanced ovarian cancer, rectal cancer, and rectovaginal fistulas.", "content": "Laparoscopic loop colostomy for advanced ovarian cancer, rectal cancer, and rectovaginal fistulas. The objectives of this study were to present a minimal invasive technique of intestinal diversion for selected cases of advanced inoperable ovarian cancer, rectal cancer, and rectovaginal fistulas, and to discuss indications, pitfalls, and potential complications. The technical features of laparoscopic colostomy are described. Between August 1995 and July 1997 laparoscopic colostomy was successfully carried out in 12 patients with advanced ovarian cancer, inoperable carcinoma of the rectum, or rectovaginal fistulas. There were no intraoperative or postoperative complications and postoperative recovery was rapid, with all patients having function of the colostomy within 24 h and regaining their preoperative state of mobility on the second postoperative day. The laparoscopic approach allows careful selection of the colostomy site and easy mobilization of the colon, causing only little disruption to intestinal function and, hence, improving postoperative recovery. From our experience, laparoscopic colostomy is in most cases a simple and safe operation and can be used as the preferred technique of intestinal diversion."}
{"id": "10674598", "title": "Endobag extractor to remove masses during laparoscopy.", "content": "Endobag extractor to remove masses during laparoscopy. Intra-abdominal masses are removed during laparoscopy using different types of endobags. However, in many cases the specimens are larger than the trocar or the incision in the abdomen, with a potential risk of endobag rupture. We developed an instrument to facilitate extraction of an endobag during laparoscopy without the need for a conventional minilaparotomy. The endobag extractor has three removable diverging blades that symmetrically enlarge the operative canal in the abdominal wall if spread after sharp extension of the skin incision. The full endobag can be drawn through the canal without the risk of endobag rupture because the size of the canal can be individualized, building a funnel. We removed various kinds of ovarian tumors, specimens from salpingo-oophorectomies, and other specimens in 22 cases. This new instrument allows easy removal of surgical specimens during laparoscopy without conventional minilaparotomy, regardless of the type of endobag used. We believe this instrument lessens the risk of endobag rupture."}
{"id": "10673635", "title": "[Laparoscopic surgery in gynecologic oncology in 2000].", "content": "[Laparoscopic surgery in gynecologic oncology in 2000]."}
{"id": "10656952", "title": "Laparoscopic ultrasonography during conservative ovarian surgery.", "content": "Laparoscopic ultrasonography during conservative ovarian surgery. Most surgery for benign ovarian mass is now performed laparoscopically. Our purpose was to evaluate the usefulness of laparoscopic ultrasonography (LUS) in these operations. Forty patients treated by laparoscopic extirpation of a benign ovarian tumor were examined perioperatively using an Aloka 7.5-MHz laparoscopic probe. Findings of preoperative vaginal and perioperative laparoscopic ultrasonography were compared with histologic diagnoses. The accuracy of LUS in localizing the tumor in the ovary and ensuring surgical radicalness was evaluated. LUS enabled correct diagnosis in 34/40 and vaginal ultrasonography in 27/40 cases. Localization of the tumor was possible by LUS in all and visually in 21 ovaries. In 2 patients a radical tumor extirpation was not possible without laparoscopic ultrasonographic guidance. Diagnostic accuracy in LUS is better than in vaginal ultrasonography. LUS facilitates exact tumor localization and can be useful in confirming the radicalness of operation."}
{"id": "10648751", "title": "Conservative management of adnexal torsion in premenarchal girls.", "content": "Conservative management of adnexal torsion in premenarchal girls. To evaluate treatment of premenarchal girls with torsion of the adnexa. Retrospective review of medical records (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). Tertiary care, university-affiliated hospital. Eight premenarchal girls (age range 3-12 yrs) with twisted adnexa. Laparoscopic detorsion and follow-up with B scan and Doppler ultrasound imaging. Duration of complaints ranged from 8 to 72 hours (mean 34.6 hrs) and the interval from admission to surgery ranged from 6 to 24 hours (mean 18.7 hrs). Four patients had torsion of normal-appearing adnexa. The other four had ovarian neoplasms. Two had cystic mature teratomas (dermoid cysts) and one a serous cystadenoma that required additional operation. The fourth girl had a simple ovarian cyst that was aspirated laparoscopically. Seven girls (87%) had normal-appearing ovaries on follow-up ultrasound. In one patient, a small ovary was seen, with no intraovarian blood flow on color Doppler. Although the diagnosis of torsion of the adnexa in premenarchal girls is difficult and usually delayed, laparoscopic detorsion seems to be an effective adnexa-sparing approach. We suggest that laparoscopy should be the treatment of choice and that detorsion, rather than adnexectomy, be performed more often in these patients."}
{"id": "10620437", "title": "Three-dimensional ultrasound and power doppler improve the diagnosis of ovarian lesions.", "content": "Three-dimensional ultrasound and power doppler improve the diagnosis of ovarian lesions. The aim of this study was to determine whether three-dimensional power Doppler can improve the ability to differentiate benign from malignant ovarian masses. Transvaginal color Doppler and three-dimensional power Doppler were performed on 120 patients with ovarian lesions. All patients underwent both ultrasound examinations during the day prior to laparotomy or laparoscopy. Scoring systems combining morphological and Doppler parameters were adopted for two- and three-dimensional ultrasound examinations. In each of 11 ovarian malignancies, preoperative diagnosis by three-dimensional power Doppler was confirmed by histopathology. Transvaginal color Doppler missed 1 case of serous cystadenocarcinoma, while 3 benign lesions were considered false positive. In 1 case of cystadenofibroma both transvaginal color Doppler and three-dimensional power Doppler were falsely positive. Qualitative analysis of the tumor vascularity architecture added to morphological parameters had a sensitivity and specificity of 100 and 99.08%, respectively. Better results achieved by three-dimensional ultrasound can be explained by improved recognition of the ovarian mass anatomy, characterization of the surface features, detection of the tumor infiltration, and precise depiction of the size and volume. Three-dimensional power Doppler imaging can detect structural abnormalities of malignant tumor vessels, such as arteriovenous shunts, microaneurysms, tumoral lakes, disproportional calibration, coiling, and dichotomous branching. Three-dimensional power Doppler can enhance and facilitate the morphologic and functional evaluation of both benign and malignant ovarian masses."}
{"id": "11479965", "title": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic uses of laparoscopic surgery in the malignant tumor in gynecology].", "content": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic uses of laparoscopic surgery in the malignant tumor in gynecology]."}
{"id": "11326944", "title": "[Laparoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of malignant neoplasms in gynecology].", "content": "[Laparoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of malignant neoplasms in gynecology]."}
{"id": "10897870", "title": "[Conservative surgery in ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Conservative surgery in ovarian cancer]. Surgery for ovarian cancer is always radical. In young patients with wish of pregnancy and in early stages, the conservative surgery can be contemplated. This type of surgery involves removing the tumoral ovary, leaving the healthy ovary and uterus. In these cases, the age, stage, histologic type, grade and biological factors must be considered. There is controversy about the surgical approach: laparoscopy or laparotomy, the indication to perform biopsy of the contralateral ovary and pelvic-paraaortic lymphadenectomy. In high-risk cases adjuvant chemotherapy must be considered. We present our experience in 330 common epithelial and germinal ovarian carcinomas. We performed conservative surgery in 13. Four patients got pregnant and 3 of them delivered a term newborn. In 13 of 52 borderline tumors a conservative surgery was performed and 3 term deliveries were obtained. All patients are alive and free of disease."}
{"id": "10853439", "title": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses in pregnant women.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses in pregnant women. To report on 14 cases of adnexal masses in the second trimester of pregnancy that were managed with laparoscopic surgery. A retrospective study. During the period between January 1994 and January 1998, 14 women presented with adnexal masses in pregnancy and were surgically managed with laparoscopy. A retrospective chart review of these patients was used to determine factors, including gestational age, operating time, length of hospital stay, pathology results, pregnancy outcomes and complications. Fourteen patients had laparoscopic removal of adnexal masses in their second trimester of pregnancy. Average gestational age was 16 weeks (range, 11.5-21), average operating time was 84 minutes (range, 32-145), and average hospital stay was 2.0 days (range, 1-5). Pathology revealed 4 serous cystadenomas, 3 mucinous cystadenomas, 3 mature teratomas, 3 functional cysts and 1 bilateral endometrioma. There were no postoperative complications except for one case of mild peritonitis, which resolved with expectant management. There were no cases of preterm labor associated with the surgery. Ten pregnancies continued to term without complications and delivered average-sized infants. Three pregnancies were in the third trimester without complications at this writing. There was one intrauterine fetal death at 31 weeks; it was found to be secondary to an acute cord accident on autopsy remote from surgery. Significant ovarian masses are diagnosed relatively frequently in the pregnant woman. The risk of malignancy is low, but complications resulting from distention, rupture and/or torsion of the adnexa can be a significant concern. As laparoscopic procedures improve and our experience with laparoscopy in the pregnant woman increases, most of these patients can forego laparotomy and be managed safely by laparoscopic removal of the mass. This series outlines laparoscopic technique and outcomes after removal of significant adnexal masses in pregnancy."}
{"id": "10804675", "title": "[Our directions for the treatment of colorectal cancer].", "content": "[Our directions for the treatment of colorectal cancer]. Authors make a review of personal experience in colorectal surgery from 1998 to 1997 (18 year) and indicate the own opinion about oncological principle of colorectal surgery. Colo-rectal cancer is the most frequent tumor in West Countries (United States 156,000 new case/year, Europe 58,300 deaths/year). A Medline analysis using terms \"colon and rectal cancer\" prove a progressive increasing of interest about many problems regard prevention, diagnosis, prognosis and therapy of colorectal cancer. Prognosis of colorectal cancer depend on correct and complete stadiation. The most used classifications are Dukes classification, modified from Astler-Coller, and TNM classification of UICC. In the past years oncologic al principle of colorectal surgery was modified from a new debated concept of oncological radicality. The authors analyze own experience in comparison to Literature about the \"no touch isolation technique\", the principle of vascular ligation at the origin of vessels, lymphectomy extension, total mesorectal excision, surgical decision about advanced loco-regional cancer, surgical decision of complicated colorectal cancer (perforation and occlusion), the role of bilateral prophylactic ovariectomy, surgical treatment of liver metastasis, correct indication of T.E.M. and finally the role of laparoscopic surgery for the treatment of colorectal cancer."}
{"id": "10742897", "title": "Laparoscopic robot-assisted right adrenalectomy and left ovariectomy (case reports).", "content": "Laparoscopic robot-assisted right adrenalectomy and left ovariectomy (case reports). Laparoscopic robot-assisted surgery has been created to reduce the patient risk of inappropriate scope movements by an assistant and to perform operations quicker and with greater ease. The Authors report their experience in laparoscopic robot-assisted right adrenalectomy for Conn's syndrome and right ovariectomy for benign ovarian mass. Case 1. CT scan: solid right adrenal mass (diam. 2 cm). An anterior transperitoneal approach was used to perform the right adrenalectomy. The surgeon was placed at the ventral side of the patient and robotic-device was placed at the backside. adrenocortical adenoma (diam. 3 x 2.5 x 1.5 cm). Case 2. CT scan: left iliac mass (diam. 3.5 cm) with origin in the left ovary. The patient was positioned in the gynecological position. The surgeon was positioned on right side of the patient and robot-device on left side. Left ovariectomy was performed. ovarian serous cyst. Operating time was 180 min. for the adrenalectomy and 25 min. for the ovariectomy. No blood loss or complications for both operations were encountered. Image was steady and lens cleaning was unnecessary. The robot device (AESOP 2000) facilitated the procedures by enhancing stability of the image and reducing the need for lens cleaning. We believe that this method is feasible and could be advantageous especially for cholecystectomy, Nissen funduplication or ovariectomy but at the moment there are no comparative studies to establish the real value of this device."}
{"id": "10730141", "title": "[Retrospective study of 167 ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Retrospective study of 167 ovarian tumors]. Our purpose was to assess clinical particularities, diagnosis and therapeutic problems of ovarian tumors. A retrospective study of 156 patients having undergone an operation for ovarian tumor not suspected to be malignant between january 1991 and june 1998. The clinical, ultrasonographic and tumor marker data were analysed. Mean age of our patients was 34 years. 19 patients were menopausal. All ovarian masses were considered as benign at ultrasonographic scan. Serum CA125 level was measured in 42 cases. It was abnormal in 2 cases. 102 patients underwent laparotomy. 54 patients underwent laparoscopy, of these, 19 were converted to laparotomy due to a suspect macroscopic diagnosis (2 cases) or to technical difficulties (13 cases). Histological findings were 150 benign ovarian tumors, 12 fonctional cysts and 5 malignant ovarian tumors. Therefore, preoperative assessment had failed diagnosis of cancer in 5 cases. The clinical, ultrasonographic and tumor markers triad remains the best preoperative approach currently available for ovarian tumors. However, the final diagnosis remains histological."}
{"id": "10726445", "title": "[Peritoneal cyst. A case report].", "content": "[Peritoneal cyst. A case report]. Cystic mesothelioma is a rare benign tumor of the abdominal and pelvic peritoneum, consisting of solitary or multiple cysts. No more than 130 cases are reported. Several risk factors such as chronic peritoneal irritation, caused by foreign bodies, infection or endometriosis, were hypothesized but the pathogenesis is still unknown. A 51-year menopausal woman was submitted to ultrasonography because of abnormal uterine bleeding. The scan revealed a right ovarian cyst (size 81 x 64 mm) with the feature of serous cyst. In the anamnesis a cystectomy of the right ovary and appendectomy were reported. At laparoscopy, then converted in laparotomy, a cyst arising from peritoneum of the posterior surface of the uterus was found. The right ovary was normal. The histopathological finding was: serous simple cyst of peritoneum. Ultrasonographic diagnosis was not confirmed by surgery; in fact, sometimes, it may be difficult to establish the origin of pelvic cystic mass, from ovary or peritoneum, by ultrasonography. It is mandatory to suggest a laparoscopy and/or laparotomy in case of pelvic cystic mass that does not regress in the time even after administration of oral contraceptives."}
{"id": "10726339", "title": "[The laparoscopic treatment of ovarian formations].", "content": "[The laparoscopic treatment of ovarian formations]."}
{"id": "10661040", "title": "Operative laparoscopy in treating benign ovarian cysts.", "content": "Operative laparoscopy in treating benign ovarian cysts. This study was undertaken to evaluate the clinical usefulness of operative laparoscopy in treatment of benign ovarian cysts. A retrospective study was carried on 468 operative laparoscopy cases performed from September 1995 to September 1998 at Yonsei University College of Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Patient characteristics, specimen pathology, perioperative morbidity, and perioperative complications were reviewed. The percentage of operative laparoscopy increased steadily from 20.7% in 1996, 33.9% in 1997, to 49.7% in 1998. The mean age of patients was 33.66.5 (mean +/- SD) years and the mean hospital stay was less than 2 days. Types of surgery performed were cystectomy (n = 234), salpingo-oophorectomy (n = 126), oophorectomy (n = 63), and fulguration (n = 45), in decreasing order. Depending on the pathology of the ovarian cyst, the mean operation time was in the range of 80 to 110 minutes. Perioperative complications included 5 cases of subcutaneous emphysema, 10 cases of abdominal wall hematoma, 7 cases of trocar site bleeding, 3 cases of bowel injury, and 1 case of bladder injury. In conclusion, operative laparoscopy in treating benign ovarian cysts provides advantages such as less need to perform laparotomy, smaller skin incision, less perioperative discomfort, minimal tissue handling and trauma, and shorter hospital stay. Nevertheless, the risk of unrecognized ovarian malignancy cannot be absolutely excluded, therefore careful patient selection is mandated."}
{"id": "10646238", "title": "Minimally invasive surgery in the field of gynecologic oncology.", "content": "Minimally invasive surgery in the field of gynecologic oncology. The aim of this paper was to present the results in minimal invasive surgery in the field of gynecologic oncology at General hospital Zabok, Croatia. 381 laparoscopic procedures were performed between 1994 and 1998. There were 263 operations of the benign adnexal masses, and 107 operations due to benign tumors of corpus uteri (there were 18 LAVH, 12 LH and 77 TLH). There were 11 laparoscopic operations due to carcinoma (1 ovary, 6 corpus and 4 cervix). Operations were: 3 LAVH (laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy), 5 TLH (total laparoscopic hysterectomy) with pelvic lymphadenectomy, 1 LAVH with pelvic lymphadenectomy, 1 coelio Shauta operation with laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy and paraaortal lymphadenectomy, and 1 laparoscopic adnexectomy. Among laparoscopic procedures in 370 patients operations were successfully performed as planed, while in 11 patients it was necessary to switch to laprotomy. Among serious complications of laparscopic operations it is necessary to note 2 lesions of the ureter and 1 lesion of the bladder. Laparoscopic lymphadenectomies were performed successfully; there were no serious early or late postoperative complications. There was no operative mortality. Even though many authors claim that laparoscopic operations in the field of gynecologic oncology are safe and have the same results as in open surgery, patients benefit from shorter recovery and better quality of life during laparoscopic procedures."}
{"id": "10600294", "title": "Spread of ovarian cancer after laparoscopic surgery: report of eight cases.", "content": "Spread of ovarian cancer after laparoscopic surgery: report of eight cases. The aim of this study was to describe early occurrences of metastases after laparoscopy of ovarian masses later found to be malignant. The hospital charts of eight women having undergone laparoscopic surgery for ovarian mass were reviewed and analyzed. The mean age of the patients was 40 years (range 25 to 66). Size of the tumor ranged from 2 to 15 cm. In four patients the ovarian mass was suspected to be malignant in the laparoscopy. Diagnostic procedure (biopsy of the tumor) was performed in two and salpingo-oophorectomy in six patients. Staging laparotomy was performed within the mean of 17 days (range 7-29). In four patients (50%) the cancer had spread from a localized to an advanced stage during the delay. Ascites was present in the laparoscopy in two of the four patients with port site or abdominal wall metastases. Laparoscopic surgery of ovarian mass later found to be malignant can cause considerable and early spread of the cancer."}
{"id": "10589406", "title": "Diagnostic laparoscopy in infertile women with normal hysterosalpingograms.", "content": "Diagnostic laparoscopy in infertile women with normal hysterosalpingograms. To assess the value of laparoscopy in infertile women with normal hysterosalpingograms, with and without risk factors suggesting pelvic disease. We retrospectively reviewed 1,022 consecutive charts from a tertiary infertility practice. In 265 women, laparoscopies were performed after normal hysterosalpingograms. Laparoscopies were normal in 136 (51%) women, whereas 129 (49%) had one or more abnormal laparoscopic findings, including minimal or mild endometriosis (n = 85), moderate or severe endometriosis (n = 11), adnexal adhesions (n = 27), subserosal myomas (n = 17), ovarian neoplasms (n = 5), distal phimosis (n = 1) and salpingitis isthmica nodosa (n = 1). Only 7% of cases had findings that might require standard operative laparoscopy or laparotomy, although not all were causally related to infertility. A history of dysmenorrhea or dyspareunia increased the likelihood of detecting endometriosis from 41% to 64% and 69%, respectively. The presence of both symptoms increased the likelihood to 83%. In the presence of a normal hysterosalpingogram, laparoscopy identified other pelvic disease in about half of patients. Because most abnormalities were mild, this knowledge can be used to plan a micro-laparoscopic approach for many women, reserving traditional or operative laparoscopy for women with an abnormal hysterosalpingogram or extensive disease following micro-laparoscopy. Alternately, knowledge of the nature and severity of the expected laparoscopic findings might lead to bypassing laparoscopy in favor of assisted reproduction when the perceived benefit of surgical intervention is small."}
{"id": "10584186", "title": "Laparoscopy combined with conventional operative techniques.", "content": "Laparoscopy combined with conventional operative techniques. In order to establish minimal invasive methods further, it should be guaranteed that laparoscopy is not only performed in a few pediatric surgical centers. A simple approach to gain experience would be the performance of diagnostic laparoscopy. However, benefit could be increased if the surgeon combines the minimal invasive laparoscopy to establish the diagnosis with the conventional surgical technique to continue. This approach for example applies to complicated cases of appendicitis. In a combined procedure, even bowel resections and tumor extirpations can be performed with minimal invasion. In twenty-seven cases--11 appendicectomies, 14 resections of cystic ovarian tumors and 2 resections of Meckel's diverticulum--we applied this technique and found no complications so far. The surgical method presented is convenient and safe."}
{"id": "10582789", "title": "Clinical applications of colour Doppler energy imaging in the female reproductive tract and pregnancy.", "content": "Clinical applications of colour Doppler energy imaging in the female reproductive tract and pregnancy. This review describes the usefulness of colour Doppler energy (CDE) (or power Doppler) imaging to measure vascularization in the female reproductive tract. CDE imaging is characterized by an increased sensitivity to flow, and thus may be useful in low-flow states and when optimal Doppler angles cannot be obtained. In addition, longer segments of vessels and more individual vessels can be visualized with CDE imaging. The role of CDE imaging in the evaluation of stromal vasculature in normal and in polycystic ovaries is described, and the relationship between follicular vascularity and outcome following in-vitro fertilization are discussed, together with the findings obtained from the evaluation of thecal arteriole of corpus luteum in early pregnancy. The fundamental role of CDE imaging in differentiation among ovarian masses is also reviewed. We summarize the role of CDE imaging in pregnancy, and describe two new applications of three-dimensional power Doppler sonography and the use of ultrasound contrast media. In conclusion, CDE imaging can replace conventional colour Doppler when the information on the direction of flow is not useful. Moreover, the technique appears superior to others for describing microvascular architecture and determining the presence or absence of flow."}
{"id": "10576183", "title": "Factors affecting prophylactic oophorectomy in postmenopausal women.", "content": "Factors affecting prophylactic oophorectomy in postmenopausal women. Prophylactic oophorectomy performed concomitantly with hysterectomy may prevent ovarian cancer. Our goal was to better understand the basis for performing concomitant oophorectomy and to determine whether this procedure is associated with increased morbidity. Our cross-sectional study used a hospital discharge database to identify women 50 years and older who, between 1994-1996, had hysterectomies in Maryland for a benign condition. We used multiple logistic regression to examine the independent effect of physician and patient factors on the likelihood of receiving a concomitant oophorectomy. Concomitant oophorectomy was performed in 61% of the 6227 women in our sample. Patients undergoing total abdominal hysterectomy (odds ratio [OR] 11.42; 95% confidence interval [CI] 9.65, 13.51) and laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy (OR 11.34; 95% CI 8.13, 15.81) were substantially more likely to have an oophorectomy than patients treated with vaginal hysterectomy, after adjusting for diagnosis and other covariates. We also found significant variation in the likelihood of receiving oophorectomy for women undergoing vaginal hysterectomy in different geographic regions. Additionally, physicians who performed many vaginal hysterectomies were significantly more likely to perform a concomitant oophorectomy. After adjusting for type of procedure, diagnosis, comorbidities, and age, oophorectomy was not associated with increased surgical morbidity. These results suggest that there are marked variations in physician practice style for concomitant oophorectomy. The variation across geographic regions and with case volume suggests the influence of nonclinical factors on oophorectomy rates."}
{"id": "10548713", "title": "Resolution of subdiaphragmatic gas.", "content": "Resolution of subdiaphragmatic gas. A woman experienced dehydration, nausea, and vomiting after laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy. Symptoms resolved with hydration and observation. Daily abdominal radiographs revealed persistence of subdiaphragmatic gas for 7 days. There were no signs of peritonitis at any time during the evaluation. When patients experience abdominal complaints after laparoscopy, a major concern is perforated bowel. Since subdiaphragmatic air can persist for up to 24 days, clinical decisions are generally made on the basis of other findings."}
{"id": "10548709", "title": "A prospective, randomized comparison of port wound and culdotomy for extracting mature teratomas laparoscopically.", "content": "A prospective, randomized comparison of port wound and culdotomy for extracting mature teratomas laparoscopically. To compare removing teratomas through a culdotomy opening or through an enlarged port wound. Prospective, randomized trial (Canadian Task Force classification I). Veterans Hospital. Thirty-one women with mature teratomas identified by ultrasound examination and biochemical markers. Laparoscopic cystectomy. Patients were randomly assigned to have the cysts removed intact in a cellulose bag through an enlarged port site (15, group A) or through a culdotomy opening (16, group B). Inclusion criteria were history of vaginal delivery, no previous abdominal surgery, no history of pelvic inflammatory disease, no medical illness, and no symptoms. Operating time in group B (90 +/- 18 min) was significantly longer than that in group A (70 +/- 22 min, p = 0. 0113). Blood loss was 79 and 49 ml, respectively (p = 0.0010). There was no significant differences in tumor size, patient age, and postoperative recovery between groups. It is possible to remove intact ovarian dermoid cysts and prevent rupture and spillage of cyst contents during laparoscopic surgery by both approaches. We prefer the enlarged port because operating time is shorter and blood loss is less."}
{"id": "10548708", "title": "Is preoperative selection of patients with cystic adnexal masses essential for laparoscopic treatment?", "content": "Is preoperative selection of patients with cystic adnexal masses essential for laparoscopic treatment? To analyze indications for preoperative selection of patients with cystic adnexal masses to be treated by laparoscopic surgery. Retrospective analysis (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). University and military hospitals. Three hundred sixteen women with adnexal masses. Before laparoscopy, 214 patients underwent evaluation (size of adnexal mass, ultrasonographic image, CA 125, suspicious clinical diagnosis); in 102 women laparoscopies were performed without taking these factors into account. In the first center 99% of women were treated by laparoscopic surgery. One (0.4%) tumor of low malignant potential detected by deferred biopsy was operated on. In the second center 98% of cases were performed laparoscopically. In 3.9% of women carcinomas were detected intraoperatively and were treated by laparotomy (p = 0.04). Laparoscopy is appropriate management of cystic adnexal masses, with a very low risk of unintentionally operating an ovarian carcinoma if a thorough preoperative evaluation is conducted. Only in centers where surgeons have enough training to cope with ovarian cancer may this evaluation be deferred, since conversion to laparotomy should be considered a second therapeutic step, and not an incorrect indication for laparoscopy. In centers where surgeons have no such training, strict preoperative selection of patients is mandatory"}
{"id": "10541371", "title": "A phase II study of intraperitoneal radioimmunotherapy with iodine-131-labeled monoclonal antibody OC-125 in patients with residual ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "A phase II study of intraperitoneal radioimmunotherapy with iodine-131-labeled monoclonal antibody OC-125 in patients with residual ovarian carcinoma. Standard treatment of advanced ovarian cancer is a combination of surgery and chemotherapy. Additional therapies using the i.p. route are considered as a potential means of improving the locoregional control rate. This Phase II study evaluated the efficacy of i.p. radioimmunotherapy (RIT) in patients with minimal residual ovarian adenocarcinoma after primary treatment with surgery and chemotherapy. Between February 1995 and March 1996, six patients with residual macroscopic (<5 mm) or microscopic disease as demonstrated by laparotomy and multiple biopsies received i.p. RIT. All had initial stage III epithelial carcinoma and were treated with debulking surgery and one line (four patients) or two lines (two patients) of chemotherapy. RIT was performed with 60 mg of OC 125 F(ab')2 monoclonal antibody labeled with 4.44 GBq (120 mCi) of 131I injected 5-10 days after the surgical procedure. Systematic laparoscopy or laparotomy with multiple biopsies performed 3 months after RIT in five patients (clinical progression was seen in one patient) showed no change in three patients and progression in two patients. Toxicity was mainly hematological, with grade III neutropenia and thrombocytopenia in two patients. Human antimouse antibody production was demonstrated in all six patients. This study showed little therapeutic benefit from i.p. RIT in patients with residual ovarian carcinoma."}
{"id": "10534930", "title": "[Diagnostic micro-laparoscopy in gynecology].", "content": "[Diagnostic micro-laparoscopy in gynecology]. Diagnostic microlaparoscopy was performed on 30 patients aged 17-41. Indications++ for these procedures were: sterility (17), tumor of the ovary (5), endometriosis (3), uterine myoma (2), pelvic pain syndrome++ (1), carcinoma of the ovary--second look procedures (1), operative hysteroscopy (1). During these procedures we examined small pelvis and 17 patients were additionally undergone chromotubation. These procedures lasted 8-24 minutes. No complications were noticed during and after operations. Microlaparoscopy were verified by laparoscopy with positive correlation of data. Advantages and limitations of microlaparoscopy were taken into consideration. We presented possibilities of the new diagnostic technique in gynaecology."}
{"id": "10532187", "title": "Laparoscopy in gynaecologic oncology: a review.", "content": "Laparoscopy in gynaecologic oncology: a review."}
{"id": "10527327", "title": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian dermoid cysts: ten years' experience.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian dermoid cysts: ten years' experience. To determine the safety and efficacy of laparoscopic management of ovarian dermoid cysts based upon our ten years' experience. Charts of 81 patients who underwent laparoscopic removal of dermoid cysts since March 1988 at Stanford University Medical Center or the Center for Special Pelvic Surgery in Atlanta were reviewed retrospectively. Ninety-three dermoid cysts with a mean diameter of 4.5 cm were removed in 81 patients. Operative techniques used were cystectomy for 70 cysts, salpingooophorectomy for 14, and 9 salpingo-oophorectomy with hysterectomy. Fifty-three cysts were treated via enucleation followed by cystectomy or salpingo-oophorectomy and removal through a trocar sleeve. Twenty-two were treated via enucleation and removal within an impermeable sack. Nine were treated via enucleation and removal by posterior colpotomy. Nine were removed via colpotomy following hysterectomy. We had a total of 39 spillages. Spillage rates varied with removal method: 32 (62%) for trocar removal without an endobag, 3 (13.6%) for removal within an endobag, and 4 (40%) with colpotomy removal. No spillage occurred for the nine patients who had a colpotomy done for hysterectomy. Mean hospital stay after surgery was 0.98 days, and there were no intraoperative complications. In one case, there was a postoperative complication of an incisional infection in the umbilicus. Including this and 13 other studies, review of the literature reveals a 0.2% incidence of chemical peritonitis following laparoscopic removal of dermoid cysts. Thus, we conclude that laparoscopic management of dermoid cysts is a safe and beneficial method in selected patients when performed by an experienced laparoscopic surgeon."}
{"id": "10526812", "title": "Abdominal wall lift versus carbon dioxide insufflation for laparoscopic resection of ovarian tumors.", "content": "Abdominal wall lift versus carbon dioxide insufflation for laparoscopic resection of ovarian tumors. To evaluate and compare changes in pulmonary mechanics and stress hormone responses between abdominal wall lift (gasless) and carbon dioxide (CO2) insufflation laparoscopic surgery during controlled general anesthesia. Prospective, randomized clinical study. Operating rooms at a university medical center. 12 ASA physical status I and II female patients undergoing laparoscopic resection of ovarian tumors. Patients were divided into two groups of six each: the abdominal wall lift group and the CO2 pneumoperitoneum laparoscopic group. Following induction of anesthesia, patients were paralyzed and the trachea was intubated. Anesthesia was maintained with isoflurane and nitrous oxide (N2O) in oxygen. Throughout the procedure, patients were mechanically ventilated with a tidal volume of 10 ml/kg and a respiratory rate of 10 breaths per minute. During the laparoscopic procedure, arterial blood gases, acid-base balance, pulmonary mechanics, stress-related hormones, and urine output were measured and recorded. In the CO2 pneumoperitoneum group, arterial CO2 tension increased (p < 0.01), dynamic pulmonary compliance decreased (p < 0.01), peak inspiratory airway pressure increased (p < 0.01), and plasma epinephrine (p < 0.05), norepinephrine (p < 0.05), dopamine (p < 0.01), and antidiuretic hormones (p < 0.05) increased significantly during the laparoscopic procedure as compared to the abdominal lift group. Adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol increased as compared to baseline value in both groups (p < 0.05). Urine output was significantly less (p < 0.01) in the CO2 pneumoperitoneum group than in the abdominal wall lift group. Abdominal wall lift laparoscopic surgery is physiologically superior to CO2 pneumoperitoneum laparoscopic surgery as seen during the conditions of this study. Abdominal wall lift laparoscopic surgery provides normal acid-base balance and a lesser degree of hormonal stress responses, it maintains urine output, and it avoids derangement of pulmonary mechanics."}
{"id": "10519434", "title": "High resolution imaging of endometriosis and ovarian carcinoma with optical coherence tomography: feasibility for laparoscopic-based imaging.", "content": "High resolution imaging of endometriosis and ovarian carcinoma with optical coherence tomography: feasibility for laparoscopic-based imaging. High resolution imaging of gynaecological tissue offers the potential for identifying pathological changes at early stages when interventions are more effective. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a high resolution high speed optical imaging technology which is analogous to ultrasound B-mode imaging except reflections of light are detected rather than sound. The OCT technology is capable of being integrated with laparoscopy for real-time subsurface imaging. In this report, the feasibility of OCT for differentiating normal and pathologic laparoscopically-accessible gynaecologic tissue is demonstrated. Differentiation is based on architectural changes of in vitro tissue morphology. OCT has the potential to improve conventional laparoscopy by enabling subsurface imaging near the level of histopathology."}
{"id": "10513079", "title": "[Experience with laparoscopic surgery for adnexal masses at the Regional Hospital of Temuco, Chile].", "content": "[Experience with laparoscopic surgery for adnexal masses at the Regional Hospital of Temuco, Chile]. Laparoscopic surgery has clear advantages over open surgical procedures. In gynecology, laparoscopic surgery for adnexal masses in pre or post menopausal women has been used for several years. To report the experience with gynecologic laparoscopic surgery at the Temuco Regional Hospital. Between 1996 and 1998, laparoscopic surgery was done in 96 patients aged 16 to 56 years and open surgery in 56 patients aged 15 to 74 years, with a clinical or ultrasound diagnosis of adnexal masses or ovarian dermoid cysts. The most frequent tumors excised were epithelial and germinal cell. Laparoscopic surgery required a mean operative time of 69.9 min and it had a 3.1% of complications. Women subjected to this type of surgery had a mean hospital stay of 3.1 days and the mean postoperative stay was 2 days. Open surgery required an operative time of 69 min and it had no postoperative complications. The mean hospital stay for women subjected to this type of procedure was 9.5 days. Women subjected to laparoscopic surgical procedures for adnexal masses had a shorter hospital stay than women subjected to open surgical procedures."}
{"id": "10510898", "title": "Metastatic liver tumor from cystic ovarian carcinomas: CT and MRI appearance.", "content": "Metastatic liver tumor from cystic ovarian carcinomas: CT and MRI appearance. The initial and follow-up CT and MRI images of ten patients with hepatic metastases from ovarian tumors were retrospectively analyzed to establish their features and sequential changes in appearance. Ten patients with hepatic metastasis from ovarian tumors received initial and follow-up CT and MRI examinations. Six patients were followed up every two to three weeks before surgical tumor resection. Both CT and MR images were analyzed by two radiologists. A total of fourteen lesions were detected by CT and MRI in 10 patients. All 14 lesions were demonstrated as areas of marked hyperintensity on T2-weighted MRI. Eleven cyst-like tumors were demonstrated as round or oval low density lesions on CT and as areas of hypointensity on T1-weighted imaging. Three lesions were shown as solid masses with slightly low attenuation at the initial CT examination and slightly low or iso-intensity areas on T1-weighted imaging, and these lesions showed early peripheral globular enhancement and delayed enhancement on contrast-enhanced CT and MR imaging. Cystic formation was observed two to three weeks later after initial study in all the 3 solid lesions. Rapid subcapsular effusion, which showed obvious enhancement on delayed Gd-DTPA enhanced MR imaging, was observed in two patients. The hepatic metastatic tumor from cystic ovarian carcinoma may manifest as a well-defined cystic lesion or as a solid mass, and the solid mass shows delayed enhancement on contrast-enhanced CT and MR imaging. Furthermore, rapid cystic formation and rapid subcapsular extension is frequently seen."}
{"id": "10509307", "title": "Laparoscopic excision of ovarian dermoid cysts with controlled intraoperative spillage. Safety and effectiveness.", "content": "Laparoscopic excision of ovarian dermoid cysts with controlled intraoperative spillage. Safety and effectiveness. To compare the operative and postoperative course in patients undergoing laparoscopy for dermoid cyst to that observed in subjects with other types of ovarian masses and of patients undergoing laparotomy for teratomas. Retrospective analysis. From 1994 to 1996, 49 women underwent laparoscopic cystectomy for dermoid cysts. The operative and postoperative course was compared to that of 190 patients undergoing operative laparoscopy for other adnexal masses and to that of 43 patients undergoing laparotomy for dermoid cysts from 1992 to 1996. The cysts were aspirated to reduce spillage and removed via a laparoscopic bag inserted in a 10-mm trocar. Culdotomy was never used. The abdominal cavity was abundantly flushed during the procedure and before closure. Dermoid cystectomy was successfully performed laparoscopically in 47 of 49 cases. Spillage occurred in 43 cases (88%), and postoperative fever occurred in 3 (6.1%). No case of peritonitis was recorded. Significant differences between laparoscopy and laparotomy were observed in the rate of bilaterality (4% vs. 25%), spillage (88% vs. 9%) and mean hospital stay (37 vs. 83 hours). When laparoscopic excision of dermoid cysts and other masses was compared, we did not observe any significant difference in operative time or complication rates, apart from transient fever. Laparoscopy is safe and effective for dermoid cysts and allows shorter hospitalization than laparotomy. As observed for other benign cysts, laparoscopy should become the technique of choice for the removal of most, if not all, ovarian dermoid cysts."}
{"id": "10490356", "title": "Borderline ovarian tumors: laparoscopic treatment.", "content": "Borderline ovarian tumors: laparoscopic treatment."}
{"id": "10486460", "title": "Trocar implantation metastasis after laparoscopy in patients with advanced ovarian cancer: can the risk be reduced?", "content": "Trocar implantation metastasis after laparoscopy in patients with advanced ovarian cancer: can the risk be reduced? The purpose of this study was to determine risk factors for trocar implantation metastasis after diagnostic laparoscopy in patients with primary or recurrent advanced ovarian cancer. Eighty-three women with primary advanced ovarian cancer and 21 women with recurrent ovarian cancer undergoing a laparoscopy for a tissue diagnosis and for assessment of operability were included in the study. The occurrence of implantation metastasis at the trocar incision scars was analyzed according to clinicopathologic characteristics. A recurrence developed at the trocar site in 7 (58%) of 12 patients undergoing a laparoscopy in which only the skin was closed at the end of the procedure and in 2 (2%) of 92 patients undergoing a laparoscopy with closure of all layers (odds ratio, 63; 95% confidence interval, 10.3-385; P <.001). The International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage at initial presentation, tumor histologic type, tumor differentiation, maximal tumor diameter at the time of diagnosis, estimated weight of the metastatic tumor, residual tumor after cytoreductive surgery, surgical characteristics, and type of chemotherapy were well balanced among both groups. Patients with implantation metastasis had significantly more ascites (median, 700 mL vs 300 mL; P =.032) and a longer interval between the start of platinum-based chemotherapy or cytoreductive surgery (median, 6 days vs 17 days; P <.01) compared with patients without abdominal wall recurrence. A palpable abdominal wall metastasis developed in none of the patients undergoing a laparoscopy with closure of all layers of the abdomen followed by cytoreductive surgery or chemotherapy within 1 week after the laparoscopy. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that patients with abdominal wall implantation metastasis had a survival rate similar to that of the other patients. Laparoscopy with careful closure of the peritoneum, rectus sheath, and skin followed by chemotherapy or cytoreductive surgery with excision of the trocar trajectories within 1 week is safe in patients with disseminated ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "10477869", "title": "Laparoscopic management of women with a family history of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of women with a family history of ovarian cancer. The safety of laparoscopic surgery in women with a family history of ovarian cancer predicted to have benign disease has not been established. The objective of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and complications of operative laparoscopy and to describe the pathologic findings in this patient population. Sixty-two consecutive women with a family history of ovarian cancer who elected prophylactic oophorectomy or had predicted benign adnexal disease were offered laparoscopic surgery. Patient characteristics, details of laparoscopic surgery, operative and postoperative complications, and histopathologic findings were recorded. Laparoscopy was converted to laparotomy in 2 patients (3.2%); 1 patient (1.6%) had an operative vascular complication, and 1 patient (1.6%) had postoperative bleeding. Median (range) estimated blood loss, operative time, and hospital stay were 50 ml (50-1,500), 120 min (60-290), and 1 day (0-9), respectively. Histopathologic findings included normal ovaries (n = 20), corpus luteum cyst (n = 16), follicular cyst (n = 8), endometriotic cyst (n = 7), serous cystadenoma (n = 5), epithelial hyperplasia (n = 4), dermoid cyst (n = 1), and fibrothecoma (n = 1). Laparoscopic surgery is feasible and safe in women with a family history of ovarian cancer predicted to have benign disease and is associated with low blood loss and short hospital stay. Most ovaries removed are either normal or have benign disease."}
{"id": "10475120", "title": "Endodermal sinus tumour of the ovary in pregnancy.", "content": "Endodermal sinus tumour of the ovary in pregnancy. We present a case of a 30-year-old pregnant woman in whom an ovarian mass was identified by ultrasonography at 15 weeks' gestation. A markedly elevated maternal serum alphafetoprotein (MSAFP) suggested a diagnosis of endodermal sinus tumour of the ovary. A right salpingo-oophorectomy at 19 weeks' gestation enabled histological confirmation of the diagnosis and suggested a stage 1 tumour. Unfortunately tumour recurrence necessitated further laparotomy and delivery by caesarean section at 32 weeks' gestation. A total abdominal hysterectomy and left salpingo-oophorectomy was undertaken with resection of the splenic flexure and formation of a double-barrelled colostomy after which no gross intraperitoneal tumour remained. Three weeks later a new suprahepatic tumour mass was excised and the colostomy was closed. The patient then received four cycles of combination chemotherapy with cisplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin. Unfortunately she developed a faecal fistula at the site of the colostomy. Germ cell tumours are highly responsive to chemotherapy. Over-zealous surgery particularly involving bowel resection may cause unnecessary morbidity and compromise the outcome."}
{"id": "10471145", "title": "Elevated serum alkaline phosphatase may enable early diagnosis of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Elevated serum alkaline phosphatase may enable early diagnosis of ovarian cancer. A case of endometrioid ovarian carcinoma associated with elevated levels of serum placental-like alkaline phosphatase (PLAP) is presented. Two and a half years before a final diagnosis was made following explorative laparotomy, an incidental blood test revealed elevated alkaline phosphatase in the patient's serum. A thorough investigation for the source of this elevation was negative. Postoperative immunohistochemical staining of the tumor, showed diffuse stain with PLAP, along with gradual decline to normal values of serum total alkaline phosphatase. It is suggested, that whenever serum alkaline phosphatase is elevated due to unknown reason, an investigation including alkaline phosphatase isoenzymes, serum Ca-125, trans-vaginal pelvic sonogram and even diagnostic laparoscopy, should be considered in a search for early preclinical ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "10469692", "title": "Factors that increase the risk of leakage during surgical removal of benign cystic teratomas.", "content": "Factors that increase the risk of leakage during surgical removal of benign cystic teratomas. The contents of mature cystic teratomas can be a potent irritant resulting in chemical peritonitis. Using a retrospective cohort, we examined the various risk factors for leakage of benign cystic teratomas during laparoscopy and laparotomy. Cyst leakage of the benign cystic teratoma contents was the primary endpoint. In all, 158 women underwent surgery for a total of 178 ovarian benign cystic teratomas. Statistical analysis was performed using chi(2), Mann-Whitney U and multivariate logistic regression analysis. A total of 115 benign cystic teratomas was successfully removed without intra-operative leakage and 63 underwent intra-operative leakage either at laparoscopy or laparotomy. The likelihood of success of removing the benign cystic teratoma intact was unrelated to age, pre-operative size or surgical technique. There was no difference among cystectomies performed by laparotomy in surgeon experience or the presence of adhesions. However, surgeons with more laparoscopic experience (>35 laparoscopies/year) were less likely to have intra-operative leakage (relative risk: 0.5, 95% confidence interval: 0.2, 1.2) compared to surgeons with less experience (<20/year) at cystectomy (26.1 versus 51.2% respectively). Oophorectomy significantly reduced the frequency of intra-operative leakage at both laparoscopy and laparotomy (14.7%). These findings suggest that laparoscopic experience can reduce the risk of leakage at cystectomy. At laparotomy, lack of surgeon postgraduate years of experience was not a risk factor for leakage."}
{"id": "10462958", "title": "[Surgical treatment of ovarian tumors in girls in the materials of the 2nd Department and Gynecological Clinic of the Medical Academy in Wroc\u0142aw].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of ovarian tumors in girls in the materials of the 2nd Department and Gynecological Clinic of the Medical Academy in Wroc\u0142aw]. Between 1987 and 1998 44 young women (average age 17.4) were operated for ovarian tumours at the 2nd Clinic and Department of Academy of Medicine in Wroc\u0142aw. Bilateral changes were observed in 6 patients. In one case a malignant tumour was diagnosed. The most frequent benign tumours were teratoma adultum (30%) and cystis paraovarialis (22%) the type of surgical intervention depended on the size of the tumour and on the degree of destruction of the ovarian tissue. Since 1995 the clinic carries out surgical laparoscopy particularly prefened modality in case of young women. During that time, 16 of 21 patients aged up to 21, had their ovarian tumours enucleated by means of the laparoscopic method."}
{"id": "10462957", "title": "[Surgical approach in cases of adnexal pathology in adolescents and young women].", "content": "[Surgical approach in cases of adnexal pathology in adolescents and young women]. Retrospective analysis comprised 108 cases of adnexal pathology found at laparotomy in the group of adolescents and young women up to the age of 25. The most common condition necessitating the laparotomy was hemorrhagic corpus luteum (24% of cases). Adnexal cysts of different but benign histological structure had been found in 30.5% of cases. Malignant germ cell tumors (6 cases--dysgerminoma and teratoma immaturum) all of which at Ia stage at the time of laparotomy, had been treated conservatively with unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Authors suggest that the conservative approach should be applied in most cases of adolescents' adnexal pathology."}
{"id": "10462955", "title": "[The levels of selected hormones in serum and ovarian cyst fluid in girls and young women].", "content": "[The levels of selected hormones in serum and ovarian cyst fluid in girls and young women]. The aim of the study was to determinate levels of the FSH, LH and E2 in serum and ovarian cyst fluid in neoplastic tumors (7 benign, 1 of low malignant potential) and functional cysts. We measured the concentrations of the FSH, LH and E2 at 12 girls and young women hospitalized in our teaching department using immunoenzymatic method. We found higher levels of gonadotropins in serum and particular in ovarian cyst fluid at neoplastic tumors in comparison with functional cysts. There were also high levels of estradiol and low of gonadotropins in functional ovarian cyst fluid. The differences of FSH, LH and E2 levels in ovarian cyst fluid in neoplastic and functional cyst have cognitive character and need more investigations."}
{"id": "10459063", "title": "Laparoscopic management of benign ovarian disease.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of benign ovarian disease. There was little controversy in the management of ovarian cysts until 15 years ago when operative endoscopy gained popularity. Before this time, laparotomy was the standard form of treatment for pelvic masses. Simple cysts were treated laproscopically by aspiration and solid or large tumors with any malignant potential by laparotomy. Constantly improving technology and instrumentation has allowed more and more operations to be performed laparoscopically. The gynecological oncologist has been wary of adopting this form of surgery for potential gynecological malignancies because of the safety and efficacy issues. Pelvic pathology, particularly ovarian tumors, pose a difficult problem. Apart from difficulty in screening, it is also difficult to confirm the nature of an ovarian pathology using the currently available investigative modalities. If the nature of an ovarian cyst can be ascertained beyond doubt, then the treatment can be simple, laparoscopy for benign and laparotomy for malignant. Having said that, more enthusiastic operative laparoscopists are using this approach to treat gynecological malignancies. We discuss the role of laparoscopy in the management of ovarian cysts."}
{"id": "10459057", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery of the fallopian tubes and ovaries.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery of the fallopian tubes and ovaries. Operative laparoscopy can be used for many surgical procedures on the fallopian tube and ovary. These include: (1) tubal sterilization; (2) salpingectomy and salpingostomy for tubal pregnancy; (3) fimbrioplasty, salpingoneostomy, and linear salpingostomy for tubal obstruction and infertility; (4) microsurgical tubal reanastomosis for reversal of tubal sterilization; (5) oophorectomy, cystectomy, cyst drainage and fulguration, and excision of ovarian tumors; (6) wedge resection and ovarian drilling for polycystic ovaries; and (7) fulguration and laser vaporization for endometriosis. Many of these procedures are conservative and involve reconstruction of the tube and ovaries to preserve fertility. Microsurgical techniques are incorporated into such fertility sparing or enhancing procedures. Comparison of similar surgical procedures on the tube and ovaries indicates better or similar surgical outcome when done through the laparoscope rather than laparotomy; less blood loss, faster recovery, and cheaper cost are the hallmarks when the procedure is done by laparoscopy. With further improvement and expansion in laparoscopy equipment, it can be expected that more surgical procedures on the adnexa can be undertaken safely and effectively."}
{"id": "10459033", "title": "Laparoscopic management of selected adnexal masses.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of selected adnexal masses. To investigate the significance, safety, and intraoperative and immediate postoperative outcomes of laparoscopic management of adnexal masses thought to be at low risk for malignancy. Prospective cohort study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). Tertiary-care teaching hospital. Two hundred twenty women undergoing laparoscopic surgery for adnexal masses. Laparoscopic treatment including cystectomy, oophorectomy, adnexectomy, and peritoneal cytology, and, if necessary, frozen sections. A histologic diagnosis was obtained in every patient. Only one ovarian cancer and one borderline ovarian tumor were diagnosed by histologic examination, and both were managed by laparotomy. The remaining 218 patients had laparoscopy for benign adnexal masses. Operative laparoscopy with the finding of incidental ovarian malignancy is rare, as shown by pathologic examination. With appropriate preoperative evaluation, laparoscopic surgery is technically feasible, safe, and advantageous, with minimal morbidity, and should replace laparotomy in the management of most adnexal masses. (J Am Assoc Gynecol Laparosc 6(3):313-316, 1999)"}
{"id": "10444006", "title": "Effective management of pelvic lymphocysts by laparoscopic marsupialization.", "content": "Effective management of pelvic lymphocysts by laparoscopic marsupialization. To evaluate laparoscopic transperitoneal marsupialization of pelvic lymphocysts at the time of laparoscopically directed assessment of response to first-line therapy in a population of patients treated for International Federation of Gynecologists and Obstetricians (FIGO) stage IC-IIC epithelial ovarian cancer. Between March 1995 and March 1998, eight patients with FIGO stage IC-IIC serous epithelial ovarian tumors who developed pelvic lymphocysts after primary surgical staging underwent transperitoneal laparoscopically directed marsupialization of lymphocysts at the time of second-look laparoscopy. The mean age of the patient population was 50 years (range 23-65 years). The mean length of time required for marsupialization was 30 minutes (range 25-35 minutes). No patient required inpatient postoperative care. No intraoperative complications were observed. Computerized axial tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis obtained 12 weeks following surgery failed to demonstrate re-accumulation of lymphocysts among any patient in the study population. With a median follow-up of 20 months (range 3-39 months), no patients have demonstrated pelvic lymphocyst recurrence. Laparoscopically directed marsupialization of pelvic lymphocysts is technically feasible, safe and effective. Further study of this technique appears to be warranted."}
{"id": "10435166", "title": "Gynaecological cancer.", "content": "Gynaecological cancer. Gynaecological cancer encompasses a number of tumours with different epidemiology, pathology and treatment strategies. This article reviews the principal clinical advances and areas of development in cancer of the ovary, cervix, endometrium and vulva."}
{"id": "10430190", "title": "Follow up of women with simple ovarian cysts detected by transvaginal sonography in the Tokyo metropolitan area.", "content": "Follow up of women with simple ovarian cysts detected by transvaginal sonography in the Tokyo metropolitan area. To investigate the management of women with asymptomatic ovarian masses, to determine the appropriate duration of follow up, and to identify diagnostic indicators of growing cysts. Review of women's hospital records. Tokyo Metropolitan Cancer Detection Center, Japan. Two hundred and twenty-five pre- and postmenopausal women with a diagnosis of ovarian cyst < 6 cm in diameter and normal serum level of CA125, diagnosed between 1 October 1990 and 25 December 1991. Change in size of cyst as shown by ultrasound. Seventy-five months after initial diagnosis, 29 (13%) of the masses had progressed, 31 (14%) had persisted, and 165 (73%) had regressed. One hundred and nine masses (48%) had regressed within six months of the initial diagnosis. In univariate analysis transvaginal ultrasonographic assessment of morphology findings, cyst diameter, carcinoembyronic antigen (CEA) and CA19-9 were associated with the prognosis of the cyst. Multivariate regression analysis demonstrated that only the initial serum CA19-9 level and serum CEA level were significant predictors of ovarian masses that regressed (P for trend = 0.004 and 0.02, respectively). Simple ovarian cysts in patients with a normal level of CA125 have a low risk for ovarian cancer. Vaginal ultrasound at six months will identify regression of most simple cysts. CA19-9 and CEA at the initial diagnosis are useful parameters to predict future regression of ovarian cysts."}
{"id": "10427953", "title": "Radioimmunoscintigraphy in patients with ovarian cancer.", "content": "Radioimmunoscintigraphy in patients with ovarian cancer. The targeting potential of three different monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) was assessed in patients with ovarian cancer. HMFG1, OC-125 and H17E2 labelled with 111In or 123I were evaluated prospectively for their ability to localize ovarian tumour. Forty two patients with ovarian cancer, aged 40-78 years (median = 58 years) were studied using OC-125 (n = 9), HMFG1 (n = 11) and H17E2 (n = 22). Imaging data were compared with the CT and the surgical findings. Presence of tumour was confirmed in 35/42 (83%) patients (8/9 OC-125, 10/11 HMFG1 and 17/22 H17E2) and correlated well with the conventional radiology diagnostic methods. One patient with a negative H17E2 scan and a large abdominal mass detected at laparotomy revealed a PLAP-negative tumour on immunohistochemistry. Scintigraphy revealed the presence of active disease, confirmed by laparotomy/laparoscopy in 6/8 patients considered to be in clinical remission. The sensitivity of the method was high enough and the diagnostic contribution of this approach should be further evaluated."}
{"id": "10422684", "title": "Advanced ovarian cancer patients with no evidence of disease after platinum-based chemotherapy: retrospective analysis of the role of second-look.", "content": "Advanced ovarian cancer patients with no evidence of disease after platinum-based chemotherapy: retrospective analysis of the role of second-look. From 1981 to 1992, 230 previously chemotherapy-untreated epithelial ovarian cancer patients (Stages IIb-III or IV) received platinum-based polychemotherapy at our Division. In this presentation, time to progression and overall survival rates were retrospectively analyzed in 89 epithelial ovarian cancer patients (stage IIb, c - III or IV) with no clinical evidence of disease (clinical complete remission--CCR--in 26 patients with postsurgical residual tumor > or = 2 cm, and no clinical evidence of disease--NED--in 63 patients with post-surgical residual tumor < 2 cm) after first-line platinum-containing chemotherapy. After at least 6 courses of chemotherapy, 62 patients (group A) were submitted to second-look (SL) laparotomy (n=47) or laparoscopy (n=15); 27 patients (group B) did not undergo second-look surgery because of patient refusal, the surgeon's decision or clinical contro-indications to surgery. Groups A and B were comparable in terms of post-surgical residual tumor (< 2 cm: 71% vs 70%), median Performance Status (WHO: 1) and median age (56 vs 57 yrs). FIGO stage IIb, c was more frequent in group B (26% vs 18%--p=0.004). In 9/18 (50%) patients with clinical CR and in 31/44 (70%) NED patients no residual tumor was confirmed at SL (pathological CR--pCR). After a median follow-up of 10 years (range 5-16 years), 72% (64/89) of patients relapsed and 65% (58/89) died. Survival was significantly longer in patients with pCR (median survival 76 months vs 32, 29 and 16 months for patients with pPR, pNC or pPD, respectively, p=0.0001). Multivariate analysis identifies pCR as the only significant prognostic factor exerting an influence on survival after second-look laparotomy (p=0.0000). This study confirms that the second-look can provide an important prognostic evaluation in patients without evidence of disease after chemotherapy for ovarian cancer stages III-IV."}
{"id": "10414485", "title": "Hydrosalpinx due to asymptomatic bilateral tubal pregnancies associated with metaplastic papillary tumor of the fallopian tube.", "content": "Hydrosalpinx due to asymptomatic bilateral tubal pregnancies associated with metaplastic papillary tumor of the fallopian tube. The patient described in this report had bilateral hydrosalpinx due to pregnancies in both fallopian tubes, treated by laparoscopic resection. Histologically, both fallopian tubes revealed intratubal occlusion by degenerated, partially calcified chorionic tissue. An incidental finding was an intraluminal papillary epithelial tumor in one of the fallopian tubes. The clinical significance and complications of asymptomatic tubal ectopic pregnancy and the pathogenesis and biologic behavior of papillary epithelial tumors of the fallopian tube are briefly discussed."}
{"id": "10410886", "title": "Laparoscopic prophylactic oophorectomy in women with inherited risk of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic prophylactic oophorectomy in women with inherited risk of ovarian cancer. The aim of this study was to specify the surgical procedure most adapted for prophylactic laparoscopic oophorectomy in patients with an inherited risk of ovarian cancer. This prospective study was based on a series of 27 patients who underwent prophylactic bilateral laparoscopic oophorectomy between September 1995 and January 1998. Nine patients underwent an oophorectomy (33%) and 18 patients an adnexectomy (67%). The laparoscopic procedure was converted into a laparotomy in one patient in whom an ovarian adenocarcinoma was detected during the surgical procedure. During final histologic examination of the ovaries, 23 patients were found to have benign atypical histologic alterations, one patient had an ovarian adenocarcinoma and only three patients (11%) had normal ovaries. In women with an inherited risk of ovarian cancer, during the laparoscopic procedure for prophylactic oophorectomy, the abdomino-pelvic cavity should be thoroughly explored with peritoneal cytology and systematic peritoneal biopsies. The laparoscopic procedure could be converted into a laparotomy if an ovarian cancer is discovered."}
{"id": "10390915", "title": "[Malonyldialdehyde and total antioxidant status in the peritoneal fluid of infertile women].", "content": "[Malonyldialdehyde and total antioxidant status in the peritoneal fluid of infertile women]. To estimate the concentration of malonyldialdehyde (MDA) and total antioxidant status in the peritoneal fluid (PF) of patients with unexplained infertility (UI) and infertile women with minimal and mild endometriosis. PF was obtained during laparoscopy from 8 women with UI, 12 infertile women with endometriosis (I degree and II degrees rAFS) and 10 women with benign noninflammatory ovarian tumours. All laparoscopies were performed in the follicular phase of the cycle. MDA concentration was measured according to Ledwozyw method, TAS was measured spectrophotometrically using RANDOX diagnostic reagent system. We found significantly higher concentration of MDA in PF from both patients with UI (p = 0.03) and with endometriosis (p = 0.046) compared to the control group. TAS was significantly (p = 0.027) higher in PF of women with UI but did not differ significantly (p = 0.49) between patients with endometriosis and controls. Our results show that an imbalance between lipid peroxides and the antioxidant system in PF environment may be one of the main factors responsible for the UI. In the group with endometriosis a marginally significant difference in MDA levels, no significant differences in TAS and data from the literature, suggest that accelerated lipid peroxidation in PF doesn't appear to play a role in the endometriosis associated infertility."}
{"id": "10378217", "title": "Laparoscopy in gynecologic malignancies.", "content": "Laparoscopy in gynecologic malignancies. One of the cornerstones of gynecologic cancer surgery is the assessment and removal of the retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Numerous reports have demonstrated that, when performed by highly skilled individuals, laparoscopic lymphadenectomies can be performed safely. This has led to the investigation of laparoscopy in the surgical staging and treatment of patients with ovarian, cervical, and endometrial cancers. This very promising approach has the potential to revolutionize numerous aspects of the management of gynecologic malignancies. However, it must be emphasized that the use of laparoscopy for gynecologic malignancies is still in its infancy. Studies that provide complication rates and long-term results are just beginning to be reported. More clinical data are necessary before the laparoscopic techniques are accepted as new surgical standards. Ongoing, prospective clinical trials will help answer many of the questions regarding the safety and efficacy of gynecologic laparoscopy. Until more data accumulate, operative laparoscopy will remain a promising, but unproven, tool in the management of patients with gynecologic malignancies."}
{"id": "10366464", "title": "Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy for gynecologic malignancies.", "content": "Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy for gynecologic malignancies. The purpose of our study was to detail our 5-year experience with laparoscopic lymphadenectomy for gynecologic malignancies. From 11/5/92 to 3/9/98, we performed laparoscopic lymphadenectomies on 94 patients with various gynecologic malignancies. Pelvic, paraaortic, and combinations of both pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomies were performed depending on the primary site of disease and indication for lymph node dissection. Data were prospectively collected on all patients. From 11/5/92 to 3/9/98 we performed 94 laparoscopic lymphadenectomies for gynecologic malignancies. The distribution included 64 patients with cervical cancer, 14 with ovarian cancer, 12 with endometrial cancer, 2 with fallopian tube cancer, 1 with a uterine malignant mixed mesodermal tumor, and 1 with a metastatic neuroendocrine tumor. Fifty-five patients had only pelvic lymph node dissections, 9 patients had paraaortic dissections only, and 30 had both pelvic and paraaortic dissections performed. Among 30 patients having laparoscopic lymphadenectomy only, the mean hospital stay was 3.6 days. Included in this group were 19 patients who received postoperative neoadjuvant chemotherapy for cervical cancer as inpatients prior to ambulatory radiation therapy. The mean length of stay for this group was 4.6 days versus 1.7 days for the 11 patients who did not receive postoperative chemotherapy (P = 0.0025). The mean number of pelvic nodes was 11.9 (range 0-57), with a mean of 4. 5 between 11/5/92 and 12/31/95 and a mean of 19.1 from 1/1/96 to 3/9/98. The mean number of paraaortic nodes obtained was 3.7 (range 0-14), with a mean of 3.4 from 11/5/92 to 12/31/95 and a mean of 4.1 from 1/1/96 to 3/9/98. A total of 3 patients required conversions to laparotomy. One was for a vascular injury to the vena cava, 1 for a large tumor extending to both sidewalls, and the third for removal of densely matted lymph nodes. Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy is a technically feasible procedure for patients with gynecologic malignancies requiring lymph node dissections, with an acceptable safety profile and nodal yield. The number of nodes obtained increased in direct proportion to operator experience. In addition, patients may benefit from a decrease in hospital stay compared to conventional lymphadenectomy via laparotomy."}
{"id": "10365364", "title": "Risk of gonadoblastoma in female patients with Y chromosome abnormalities and dysgenetic gonads.", "content": "Risk of gonadoblastoma in female patients with Y chromosome abnormalities and dysgenetic gonads. We report two female patients with gonadal dysgenesis and sex chromosome mosaicism involving the Y chromosome. Conventional karyotyping was supplemented with fluorescent in situ hybridisation techniques in order to confirm the presence of Y chromosomes. One patient is a phenotypic female with karyotype 45,X/46,X,idic(Y)(q11.2). She underwent a laparoscopic gonadectomy at which streak ovaries without evidence of gonadoblastoma were removed. The second patient presented as a virilised female with karyotype 45,X/47,XYY. At laparoscopy, she was found to have mixed gonadal dysgenesis with a gonadoblastoma in situ. We recommend early gonadectomy in female children presenting with gonadal dysgenesis and the presence of a Y chromosome although once the gonadoblastoma locus on Y chromosome gene has been cloned it may be possible to identify those patients who have a low risk of developing gonadoblastoma."}
{"id": "10363412", "title": "[Management of adnexal masses in gynecology using conservative measures. Is the laparoscopic approach convenient?].", "content": "[Management of adnexal masses in gynecology using conservative measures. Is the laparoscopic approach convenient?]."}
{"id": "10227005", "title": "Differential diagnosis of peri- and postmenopausal ovarian cysts.", "content": "Differential diagnosis of peri- and postmenopausal ovarian cysts. To test the value of preoperative and intracystic parameters in the differential diagnosis of ovarian cysts. Criteria for admission of 58 patients were age > 47 years, complete history, detection of CA 125 serum level, and ultrasound findings. Tumor markers (CA 125, cancer-associated serum antigen (CASA), CA 72-4), hormones (estradiol (E2), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH)), epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor and c-erb B-2 amplification rate were detected in cyst fluid. Of the 58 subjects, 9 (15.4%) had functional cysts, 37 (63.8%) had benign tumors and 12 (20.8%) had malignant tumors. No functional ovarian cyst presented as echoic or multilocular cyst sonographically. The serum CA 125 values demonstrated significant differences between the non-malignant and malignant patient groups (P < 0.0005). The majority (63.8%, n = 37) of ovarian cysts were obtained at laparotomy, whereas only 36.2% (n = 21) were laparoscopically operated. The cyst fluid levels of FSH (P < 0.005) and LH (P < 0.05) were significantly lower in the functional group than in the benign or malignant group. Malignant cysts were significantly different from non-malignant cysts regarding low E2 (P < 0.01), high FSH (P < 0.05) and CASA (P < 0.02) values. There were no significant correlations between EGF receptor (P = 0.14) and c-erb B-2 (P = 0.06) gene amplification rates and malignant histology. Simple ovarian cysts combined with normal serum CA 125 levels are candidates for conservative follow-up or laparoscopy. The serum CA 125 is a powerful marker for prediction of histology in postmenopausal ovarian cyst. Laparoscopic surgery may be considered in patients with multilocular sonographic findings and normal CA 125 serum level. Combining serum CA 125 levels with cyst fluid parameters (E2, FSH, CASA) improves the sensitivity and specificity in predicting malignancy."}
{"id": "10194122", "title": "Ovarian injury and modern options to preserve fertility in female cancer patients treated with high dose radio-chemotherapy for hemato-oncological neoplasias and other cancers.", "content": "Ovarian injury and modern options to preserve fertility in female cancer patients treated with high dose radio-chemotherapy for hemato-oncological neoplasias and other cancers. High dose chemotherapy and radiotherapy have radically increased long term survival of young cancer patients. Among the side effects of chemotherapy treatments are ovarian failure and infertility, which are of particularly great concern to young cancer patients. Recently, cryopreservation procedures such as in vitro fertilization and embryo storage, or ovarian tissue cryopreservation have been used to preserve fertility in patients subjected to cancer treatments. Knowledge of the risks and probabilities of ovarian failure as well as the risks of the cryopreservation procedures is crucial for patients and physicians in order to make informed choices that will best serve the patients interests. This article presents data of a prospective study that determines the risk of ovarian failure following exposure to chemotherapy as well as a review of related publications. Progressive, dose-related depletion of primordial follicles is noted on histology, explaining the risk of undergoing premature ovarian failure years after exposure to chemotherapy. The safety of ovarian tissue cryopreservation procedures with a new round biopter was evaluated, as well as the risk of malignant cell transmission. It has been shown that laproscopic ovarian biopsy performed with the round biopter is a safe and efficient method for collection of ovarian tissue in cancer patients. In Hodgkin's disease patients' ovarian cortical tissue obtained for cryopreservation does not contain malignant cells. However the risk of cryopreserving and transferring malignant cells should be tested separately for each disease according to the risk of ovarian metastasis and the ability to detect single malignant cells."}
{"id": "10192494", "title": "Dermatomyositis and peritoneal papillary serous carcinoma.", "content": "Dermatomyositis and peritoneal papillary serous carcinoma. We describe an unusual case of peritoneal papillary serous carcinoma (PPSC) arising in a female patient with dermatomyositis (DM). Despite periodic extensive searches for an underlying malignancy, no malignancy had been detected in this patient during the first 2.5 years after the diagnosis of DM. It was only when the patient presented with pleural effusion and ascites that the underlying intra-abdominal malignancy was detected by laparoscopy. Treatment with four cycles of pre-operative chemotherapy (taxol and cisplatin) resulted in tumor regression with amelioration in the muscular manifestation of the DM, but without parallelic amelioration in the skin manifestations of the DM. Explorative laparotomy confirmed the presence of papillary serous carcinoma in the omentum, surface of the left ovary and the retroperitoneal lymph nodes, and established the diagnosis of PPSC. Following two cycles of postoperative chemotherapy, the patient is alive with no evidence of internal malignancy. However, although muscle strength and enzymes have remained normal, no effect on the skin manifestation of DM has been observed. This case illustrates that, alongside the more frequently occurring ovarian carcinoma, PPSC should also be considered in the differential diagnosis of the underlying malignancy that may occur in the female patient with DM."}
{"id": "10083939", "title": "Gynecologic cancer and laparoscopy.", "content": "Gynecologic cancer and laparoscopy. Numerous technologic and surgical advances have led to the application of operative laparoscopic techniques to gynecologic cancers. Operative laparoscopy has been described in the surgical staging and treatment of patients with ovarian, cervical, and endometrial cancers. it seems to be a very promising approach with the potential to revolutionize numerous aspects of the management of gynecologic malignancies. Since 1996, the SGO has offered an operative laparoscopy course to all gynecologic oncology fellowship programs. Boike and colleagues report that faculty and fellows from 25 different fellowship programs have attended the 2-day course. In questionnaires filled out at the completion of the course, more than 85% of respondents believed that operative laparoscopic procedures were equivalent to open techniques and should be taught in fellowship programs. Despite the enthusiasm for the use of endoscopy in patients with gynecologic malignancies, its potential is unconfirmed and its hazards unknown. Reports regarding complications and long-term results are just now beginning to be published. More clinical data must be collected before the minimally invasive techniques can be accepted as new surgical standards. Ongoing prospective clinical trials will help to answer many of the questions regarding safety and efficacy. Pending the completion of additional trials, operative laparoscopy will remain a promising but unproven tool in the management of patients with gynecologic cancer."}
{"id": "10073126", "title": "[Extraovarian peritoneal serous papillary carcinoma: an unusual surgical case].", "content": "[Extraovarian peritoneal serous papillary carcinoma: an unusual surgical case]. The extraovarian peritoneal serous papillary carcinoma (EPSPC) is a multicentric peritoneal tumor with minimal or absent involvement of the ovaries. The actual treatment regimen consists of a cytoreductive surgery followed by a combination chemotherapy. Few studies have compared outcome of EPSPC to papillary serous ovarian cancer (PSOC). Several authors have documented similar clinical behavior between EPSPC and PSOC, but this finding has not been universal. A 64-year-old female patient with symptomatic gall stone disease underwent elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Unexpectedly we found some uncommon small nodular structures on the serosa of the right colon. The histological findings suggested a poorly differentiated peritoneal serous papillary carcinoma. Biopsies of both ovaries showed no signs of tumor infiltration and the diagnosis of EPSPC was established. After surgery, a combination chemotherapeutic regimen with carboplatin and cyclophosphamid was given. Laparoscopic reassessment 7 months after the first procedure showed no tumor. 3 identical cycles completed chemotherapy. Normal ovaries and no other tumor sites were found in a final laparoscopic look after 11 months."}
{"id": "10071448", "title": "[Relevance of surgical lymph node staging for malignant ovarian germ cell tumors].", "content": "[Relevance of surgical lymph node staging for malignant ovarian germ cell tumors]. The purpose of the study was to investigate the relevance of infrarenal paraaortic lymph node staging in the surgical procedure of malignant ovarian germ cell tumors in adults. 84 cases (39 dysgerminoma, 45 nondysgerminatous tumors) were studied by means of a retrospective multicentric survey. Among the tumors limited to the ovaries, 36 were not completely staged, in particular the infrarenal paraaortic lymph nodes had not been explored. Disease recurred in 6 of these non-staged cases: 3 recurrences arose from the lymph nodes, and 2 patients died. However no recurrence was noted among the 13 patients who underwent complete surgical staging (statistically non-significative). We observed the same tendency among patients with advanced tumors that required complete peritoneal excision: there was no recurrence among the 6 patients having undergone lymph node dissection, whereas recurrence was noted in 2 of the 10 cases without lymph node dissection, one of which resulted in the death of the patient (statistically non-significative). In order to classify a tumor as stage I, it is essential that infrarenal lymph node dissection be performed, given the frequency of lymphatic involvement. Only then can the patient benefit from conservative surgery, possibly without any further treatment. The prognosis of advanced tumors that call for complete intraperitoneal excision also seems to be improved by retroperitoneal lymph node dissection. It can be carried out secondarily by laparoscopy, in which case chemotherapy can be quickly performed, as this type of surgery causes little morbidity."}
{"id": "10063270", "title": "T lymphocytes and cytokine production in ascitic fluid of ovarian malignancies.", "content": "T lymphocytes and cytokine production in ascitic fluid of ovarian malignancies. The activation status of T lymphocytes and the presence of various cytokines in ascitic fluid were examined to test peritoneal immunity in women with ovarian malignancies. Peripheral blood and peritoneal fluid were collected from 12 patients with primary ovarian cancer with ascites and 27 normal control subjects during laparoscopic examination. Lymphocyte subpopulations and the expression of activation markers on T lymphocytes were analyzed by dual-color flow cytometry. The concentrations of various cytokines and soluble interleukin (IL)-2 receptor-alpha were measured. CD8 T lymphocytes were the main component of peritoneal lymphocytes. CD69 and HLA-DR, but not CD25, were highly expressed on peritoneal T lymphocytes compared to those in peripheral blood. In ascitic fluid of ovarian malignancies, CD4 T lymphocyte concentrations were further decreased, resulting in a decreased CD4/CD8 ratio. Decreased expression of CD69 and CD25 was also noted on T lymphocytes from ascites compared with T lymphocytes in normal peritoneal fluid. IL-1b, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, IL-6, and soluble IL-2 receptor-alpha concentrations were increased significantly in the ascitic fluid of women with ovarian cancer. The decrease in activation markers on T lymphocytes is suggestive of an immunosuppressive state, despite the presence of abundant stimulatory cytokines. The immunosuppression may be multifactorial, attributed, in part, to the increased concentrations of soluble IL-2 receptor-alpha and other inhibitors."}
{"id": "10053115", "title": "Second look for ovarian cancer: laparoscopy or Laparotomy? A prospective comparative study.", "content": "Second look for ovarian cancer: laparoscopy or Laparotomy? A prospective comparative study. The objective of this study was to evaluate, for patients with ovarian cancer, the feasibility, reliability, and complications of a laparoscopic second look and to compare them with those of a second look by laparotomy. Twenty patients treated by initial surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy for ovarian carcinoma underwent a laparoscopic second look, immediately followed by a comparative laparotomy. All were in complete remission after chemotherapy. Both operations were performed according to a predefined checklist, identical for both surgical techniques and for each patient: after liberation of adhesions, an exhaustive intraperitoneal inspection was performed, with systematic peritoneal cytology and biopsies. Each patient therefore was her own control for the two techniques. The positive predictive value of laparoscopy for the diagnosis of residual disease was 100% (6 of 6 cases), while the negative predictive value was 86% (2 false-negative cases out of 14). Because of the presence of postoperative adhesions, the rate of complete intraperitoneal investigation was 95% for laparotomy versus 41% for laparoscopy. The complication rate of laparoscopy requiring laparotomy was 5.3%. After treatment of ovarian cancer, a laparoscopic second look appears to be less reliable than one performed by laparotomy. The presence of severe postoperative adhesions is the main obstacle to an exhaustive, reliable, and safe laparoscopic second look."}
{"id": "9989103", "title": "The impact of laparoscopic surgery in the management of adnexal masses.", "content": "The impact of laparoscopic surgery in the management of adnexal masses. The objective of this study is to evaluate the clinical aspects of laparoscopic management of adnexal masses. The feasibility of this approach has been demonstrated, but the safe and effective use of laparoscopy for this indication requires training, technical skills and experience on the part of the laparoscopist. If used appropriately, many patients will benefit from minimally-invasive surgery. We compared clinical factors of patients having laparoscopy to those having laparotomy in a case-control study of 30 patients with adnexal masses. Oophorectomy or ovarian cystectomy was performed by laparoscopy for 20 women and by laparotomy for 10 women. Comparing the 2 groups, the most significant difference was the decrease in length of hospital stay in the laparoscopy group. There were no significant differences in operative time or intraoperative complications. Estimated blood loss was lower in the laparoscopy group, and no intraoperative complications occurred. No patient required conversion from laparoscopy to laparotomy. All patients had benign disease despite the inclusion of patients with risk factors for ovarian carcinoma. This study clearly demonstrates the clinical benefits of laparoscopic management of adnexal masses treated with oophorectomy or ovarian cystectomy."}
{"id": "9988872", "title": "Minimally invasive surgery for solid tumors.", "content": "Minimally invasive surgery for solid tumors. The use of minimally invasive surgery in patients with cancer is slowly evolving. There are a number of reports describing laparoscopy in adults for pancreatic, ovarian, gastric, and colon cancers. In addition, thoracoscopy has been described for lung and esophageal cancers. The role of laparoscopy and thoracoscopy in children with cancer is less clear because a number of pediatric neoplasms are sensitive to adjuvant therapy and surgery is often part of a planned multi-dimensional approach. This article describes a previous reported experience with minimally invasive surgery in children with cancer, current indications for this approach, and general principles which are important regarding the operative technique. In addition, future applications for this technology are suggested."}
{"id": "9932560", "title": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses in premenopausal and postmenopausal women.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses in premenopausal and postmenopausal women. To evaluate the feasibility and safety of laparoscopic adnexal mass removal in patients without preselection for benign pathology and assess the operative complications and findings. All patients presenting to the gynecologic oncology service between April 1992 and April 1996 with adnexal masses were candidates for laparoscopic management. Patients underwent preoperative radiological studies and office pelvic examination. Laparoscopic management was attempted on patients without evidence of gross metastatic disease or masses that extended above the umbilicus. Laparotomy was performed if indicated by pathologic findings or technical difficulty. All removed adnexal masses were sent for immediate pathologic diagnosis. The type of procedure, intraoperative findings, and complications were all recorded at the time of procedure. One hundred sixty patients underwent laparoscopic evaluation for an adnexal mass. Benign pathology was discovered in 139 (87%, 95% confidence interval [CI] 84, 90) patients, and 141 (88%, 95% CI 86, 91) patients were managed laparoscopically. Reasons for laparotomy included technical difficulty, operative complications, or malignancy. Frozen section diagnosis was concordant with the final pathology reports in all but five patients (97% concordance), and no discrepancies resulted in treatment delays. Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses can be successful in a gynecologic oncology population if there is expertise in operative laparoscopy, availability of immediate accurate pathologic examination, and appropriate further treatment where indicated."}
{"id": "9889027", "title": "Risk factors contributing to early occurrence of port site metastases of laparoscopic surgery for malignancy.", "content": "Risk factors contributing to early occurrence of port site metastases of laparoscopic surgery for malignancy. In this article, the authors present an up-to-date review of our experience and that of the medical literature encompassing all important aspects of port site metastases after laparoscopic surgery for malignancy and to search for potential risks with contribution to early occurrence of port site metastases after laparoscopic surgery. We used a Medline computer database search to conduct for pertinent articles through September 1996. Cross-referencing identified additional publications. We found that the majority of recurrences were in patients with adenocarcinoma cell type, advanced stage (far-advanced disease), and often with diffuse peritoneal carcinomatosis, suggesting that port site metastases may contribute to the highly aggressive nature of the disease. Risk factors that contributed to early occurrence of port site metastases were ovarian cancers, presence of ascites, and diagnostic or palliative procedures for malignancy (P < 0.0001, P = 0.008, and P < 0.001, respectively). Practitioners should exercise extreme caution when using laparoscopic techniques to manage the care of these patients."}
{"id": "9852393", "title": "Bilateral oophorectomy in asymptomatic women over 50 years old selected by ovarian cancer screening.", "content": "Bilateral oophorectomy in asymptomatic women over 50 years old selected by ovarian cancer screening. The purpose of this study was to evaluate bilateral oophorectomy in women over 50 years old found to have an adnexal mass using transvaginal ultrasonography (TVS) as a mass screening. With TVS a total of 23,451 women without symptoms were examined for ovarian cancer at annual screening for uterine cervical cancer. Two hundred fifty-eight women over 50 years old persistently had abnormal TVS results and 95 women gave informed consent for surgical tumor removal. In the 95 women operated, 7 malignant ovarian cancers were found. Especially adnexal masses which were thought to be benign were treated by laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "10224804", "title": "[The concentration of interleukin-2 and interleukin-2 soluble receptors in peritoneal fluid of patients with unexplained infertility].", "content": "[The concentration of interleukin-2 and interleukin-2 soluble receptors in peritoneal fluid of patients with unexplained infertility]. We measured the concentration of interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interleukin-2 soluble receptor (sIL-2R) in peritoneal fluid (PF) of patients with unexplained infertility. PF was obtained during laparoscopy from 7 women with unexplained infertility (UI) and 11 women with benign noninflammatory ovarian tumors. All laparoscopies were performed in follicular phase of the cycle. IL-2 and sIL-2R concentrations were measured in PF supernate stored in -70 degrees C until analysis using ELISA method (ENDOGEN). We found significantly (p = 0.009) lower concentration of sIL-2R in PF from patients with UI (303.844 U/ml) than in reference group (556.385 U/ml). The level of IL-2 was not detectable in 2 cases from women with UI and 5 cases from reference group. The concentration of IL-2 in PF did not differ (p = 0.135) between patients with UI (2.346 pg/ml) and those from reference group (1.064 pg/ml). The concentration of sIL-2R in PF of patients with UI was lower than in those from reference group. This may be the factor responsible for insufficient local immunosuppression, affecting reproduction."}
{"id": "10050401", "title": "[Laparoscopic semeiotics: the diagnostic significance of a hemorrhagic exudate].", "content": "[Laparoscopic semeiotics: the diagnostic significance of a hemorrhagic exudate]. In 814 patients with an acute surgical disease of the abdominal cavity organs the diagnostic laparoscopy was conducted. In 49 patients a hemorrhagic exudate was revealed, caused mainly by the intestine nutrition disorder, ovarian tumor, an acute hemorrhagic pancreatitis."}
{"id": "9989046", "title": "[Clinical course, diagnosis and treatment of ovarian tumors and cysts in children].", "content": "[Clinical course, diagnosis and treatment of ovarian tumors and cysts in children]. The experience of diagnosis and treatment of the ovarial tumor and cyst in 68 girls was summarized. Children were admitted to the hospital with an acute abdomen signs and in a planned order as well. All the patients were operated on. Children with benign ovarial tumor and cyst are alive. Four patients with malignancy have died."}
{"id": "9919347", "title": "Occult virilizing ovarian tumours in postmenopausal women: problems in evaluation with reference to a case.", "content": "Occult virilizing ovarian tumours in postmenopausal women: problems in evaluation with reference to a case. A 53-year-old postmenopausal presented with hirsutism, acne, receding hairline, male-pattern baldness, and deepening of voice developing over the last five years. Her left ovary had been removed at the age of 38 years old for a benign cyst and vaginal hysterectomy was performed one year later for cervical carcinoma. She had taken premarin 0.625 mg daily since her surgeries. Initial hormonal studies revealed elevated serum concentrations of total testosterone 524 ng/dL (N: 6-86 ng/dL), free testosterone 20.9 pg/mL (N: 0.3-2.7 pg/mL), and 17-hydroxyprogesterone 270 ng/dL (N: < 70 ng/dL); but normal baseline concentrations of dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate, androstenedione, and cortisol. Computed tomographic (CT) scans of the adrenals and ultrasonography of the pelvis were negative. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the abdomen and pelvis similarly were non-revealing. She was given glucocorticoids without effect. Subsequently, retrograde selective venous sampling showed a marked testosterone gradient in the right ovarian vein. A laparoscopic right oophorectomy was performed and a 11 mm Leydig cell tumour of hilus cell type was detected on histologic examination. Postoperative testosterone levels returned to normal and she had slow regression of hirsutism. Our case illustrates that a virilizing ovarian neoplasm can be small and elude imaging studies. We suggest bilateral oophorectomy for postmenopausal women with severe recent-onset virilization and without Cushing's syndrome and with normal adrenal imaging. This approach avoids unnecessary investigations and delays in definitive management."}
{"id": "9887245", "title": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy or primary debulking surgery in advanced ovarian carcinoma: a retrospective analysis of 285 patients.", "content": "Neoadjuvant chemotherapy or primary debulking surgery in advanced ovarian carcinoma: a retrospective analysis of 285 patients. This study was aimed at comparison of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with primary debulking surgery in advanced ovarian carcinoma. Retrospective analysis of 285 patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma treated between 1980 and 1997 was performed. In the period 1980-1988 all patients underwent primary debulking surgery and 82% were cytoreduced to less than 0.5 cm largest residual tumor mass (n = 112). Analysis of this group of patients showed that some subgroups of patients (e.g., Stage IV disease or a total metastatic tumor load of more than 1000 g prior to debulking surgery) had a poor survival despite cytoreduction to no or less than 1 g of total residual tumor load. The complication rate was high especially in the group with unfavorable prognosis (postoperative mortality, 6%). In the period 1989-1997 (n = 173) the patients were surgically evaluated to receive primary chemotherapy (43%) or primary debulking surgery (57%). Prognostic variables were similar for both treatment periods. The actuarial crude survival was higher in the second time period (3-year crude survival of 26% +/- 4. 3 and 42% +/- 4.6 for the first and second time periods, respectively; P = 0.0001). The postoperative mortality was 0% during the second time period. From 1993 on, the decision to give neoadjuvant chemotherapy or to perform primary debulking surgery in patients with clinically obvious metastatic disease was made with the help of an open laparoscopy (n = 77). Median duration of the laparoscopy, blood loss, and hospital stay due to this procedure were 25 min, 10 ml, and 2 days. Primary and interval debulking surgery was performed in 36 and 63% of this subgroup of patients, respectively. In this retrospective analysis over two different time periods, crude survival was higher when treating about half of the patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma with primary chemotherapy instead of primary debulking surgery. The role of neoadjuvant chemotherapy should be evaluated in a prospective randomized study."}
{"id": "9885355", "title": "[Chemical peritonitis after iatrogenic rupture of a dermoid cyst of the ovary treated by coelioscopy. Apropos of a case and review of the literature].", "content": "[Chemical peritonitis after iatrogenic rupture of a dermoid cyst of the ovary treated by coelioscopy. Apropos of a case and review of the literature]. Dermoid cyst is the most frequent benign ovarian tumor. Its intraperitoneal rupture may lead to a peritoneal reaction known as chemical peritonitis. It is a rare but a potentially dangerous issue. Its treatment may need one or more reoperations. We report here the case of a patient operated on in emergency for a torsion of an ovarian dermoid cyst, with peritoneal spillage of its content during coeliosurgery. The prolonged contact between the sebaceous material and the peritoneum has led to a chemical peritonitis. Two more laparoscopic interventions, associated with a systemic anti-inflammatory treatment, were necessary to relieve symptoms. We propose the following attitude to avoid this complication: (1) puncture and drainage of the cyst with a trocar; (2) extraction of the cyst in an endobag, and (3) abundant washout of the peritoneal cavity."}
{"id": "9880895", "title": "[XY gonadal dysgenesis (Swyer syndrome) with gonadoblastoma].", "content": "[XY gonadal dysgenesis (Swyer syndrome) with gonadoblastoma]. This is a case report of 46 xy gonadal dysgenesis (Swyer-syndrome) with bilateral androgen producing gonadoblastoma in streak gonads in a 15-year-old patient. The presenting features were: hypergonadotrophic hypogonadism, male pseudohermaphroditism and virilisation. A hypoplastic uterus with normal looking Fallopian tubes and bilateral adnexal tumors were detected through laparoscopy. A laparotomy was performed and the streak gonads with bilateral gonadoblastoma were removed. This led to a normalisation of serum testosterone and serum beta-HCG levels and an amelioration of signs of virilisation. Uterus and fallopian tubes were conserved during the operation. A second look laparoscopy 6 months later showed no evidence of recurrent tumor. No mutation were found in the sex-determining gene (SRY) on DNA-screening using SSCP assay."}
{"id": "9880875", "title": "[Laparoscopic appendectomy from the gynecologic viewpoint. A report of experiences].", "content": "[Laparoscopic appendectomy from the gynecologic viewpoint. A report of experiences]. From November 1992 until the middle of 1997 we had 80 laparoscopic appendectomies in our gynaecological department of the district hospital Parchim. These procedures were done with the Semm 3-sling-technique. Recurrent abdominal pain, ovarial tumor, dysmenorrhoea and the wish of sterilisation were the main indications for laparoscopy. Visible pathological changes of the appendix vermiformis led to the laparoscopic appendectomy. Complications were seen only in three cases in the postoperative period. Conclusions and recommendations are given."}
{"id": "9880699", "title": "Laparoscopy for ovarian pathology in infancy and childhood.", "content": "Laparoscopy for ovarian pathology in infancy and childhood. Conventionally, adnexal pathology in pediatric patients is treated by open laparotomy. As laparoscopic procedures are constantly finding wider application in pediatric surgery, the female child presenting with a suspected acute or chronic ovarian lesion may be an ideal candidate for laparoscopic surgery. From June 1994 to June 1996, eight girls aged 4 months to 11 years (mean 6.1 years) underwent laparoscopic procedures for various ovarian pathologies at King Khalid University Hospital (7) and Hamad Medical Corporation in Qatar (1). Four children had emergency laparoscopic surgery for lower abdominal crises; three of them were managed successfully for twisted adnexal lesions (2 simple ovarian cysts, 1 benign cystic teratoma), the fourth patient was converted to an open salpingo-oophorectomy. The other four patients had elective laparoscopic excision of adnexal lesions (two antenatally diagnosed ovarian cysts and two mature ovarian cystic teratomas). There were no operative complications; the mean operative time was 76.25 min, the mean hospital stay 2.25 days. Our initial experience and technique are presented. It appears that the laparoscopic approach to ovarian lesions in infancy and childhood is an effective and safe method for diagnosis as well as definitive therapy."}
{"id": "9859535", "title": "[Tumors in childhood and adolescence].", "content": "[Tumors in childhood and adolescence]. The trial present the results for the incidence and histology of tumours in patients below 18 years, examined at the State University Hospital Ma\u012dchin Dom in Sofia for two consequent periods of 4 years each. An increase is registered in the incidence of neoplastic disease from 1.85% to 3.42%. There is no significant difference in hystological characteristics of the tumours when comparing I and II period: 85.7% versus 77.4% benign tumours (mucous cysts, dermoid ovarian cysts and polyps) and 14.3% versus 22.6% malignant tumours (ill differentiated teratomas, cystadenocarcinomas, dysgerminomas, ovarian embryocarcinomas and rhabdomyosarcomas). Accurate diagnostics requires detailed gynaecological examination, including a rectal one, vaginal probing, vaginal scopia, ultrasound, laparoscopy. Early discovery followed by surgery provides a possibility for adequate and definite treatment."}
{"id": "9850661", "title": "Adenocarcinoma in situ of the fallopian tube. A case report.", "content": "Adenocarcinoma in situ of the fallopian tube. A case report. So far only a few cases of carcinoma in situ of the fallopian tube have been reported, but its detailed clinical and pathologic findings, including cytology, have not been fully described. A 70-year-old female was admitted to our hospital because of irregular genital bleeding. Endometrial smear revealed a small number of atypical cells with a clear background. Hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and omentectomy were performed. Grossly, a grayish white papillary tumor, measuring 1.5 x 1.0 cm, was observed within the lumen of the left fallopian tube. Microscopically, the diagnosis of papillary adenocarcinoma in situ of the left fallopian tube was made according to 1992 International Federation of Gynecologists and Obstetricians fallopian tube staging. Although endometrial brush cytology is not sensitive enough to detect a primary carcinoma of the fallopian tube, our case indicates that it may contribute useful information on extrauterine diseases and can detect a stage 0 cancer of the fallopian tube. Clinicians, as well as pathologists, should consider the possibility of fallopian tube cancer if cervical or endometrial cytology shows atypical cells with papillary patterns with a clear background but endometrial curettage cannot prove malignancy."}
{"id": "9846713", "title": "Surgical treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts.", "content": "Surgical treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts. To evaluate the efficacy of laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy and to compare the surgical course, post-surgical course and particularly post-surgical pain of the laparoscopic and laparotomic methods. We conducted a surgical study on dermoid cysts at the Gynecology Department of Siena University between 1 January 1992 and 31 December 1996. The selected cases were randomized into two groups based on surgical approach: via laparotomy (n=22) or laparoscopy (n=22). Surgical times, estimated blood loss, post-surgical pain, time in hospital, speed of recovery and complications were compared. Mean blood loss was significantly less for laparoscopy (58.64+/-30.17 ml versus 103.84+/-38.45 ml, P<0.05). Mean hospitalization was 6.32+/-1.09 days for laparotomy and 3.18+/-0.39 days for laparoscopy (P<0.05). Post-surgical pain was significantly less in laparoscopy patients (P<0.05). The laparoscopic technique had fewer post-surgical complications. The laparoscopic approach had many advantages. Laparoscopy should be the elective treatment for women with dermoid cysts, because it has many advantages for the patient and lower costs for the national health system."}
{"id": "9840559", "title": "Influence of delayed staging laparotomy after laparoscopic removal of ovarian masses later found malignant.", "content": "Influence of delayed staging laparotomy after laparoscopic removal of ovarian masses later found malignant. To determine whether delayed laparotomy after attempted laparoscopic excision of an ovarian mass later found to be malignant has an impact on the stage of disease. A questionnaire regarding laparoscopic management of ovarian masses later found to be malignant was mailed to all gynecologic departments in Austria. Of the 70 cases reported, laparotomy was performed after laparoscopy in 48 cases. In 24 of these cases, laparotomy was performed within 17 days of laparoscopy, whereas 24 cases involved a delay of more than 17 days. Twenty-two patients in whom laparotomy was performed immediately after laparoscopy were used as controls. In patients with borderline tumors who underwent laparotomy more than 17 days after laparoscopy, the odds ratio (OR) for International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage IIB-IV disease was 5.3 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.40, infinity), compared with patients undergoing immediate laparotomy (multivariate analysis). Patients with invasive ovarian cancer who underwent laparotomy more than 17 days after laparoscopy had an OR of 9.2 (CI 0.92, 481) for stage IIB-IV disease compared with patients undergoing immediate laparotomy (multivariate analysis). In patients with borderline tumors, multivariate analysis showed that the timing of laparotomy is an independent prognostic factor for the stage of disease. In invasive ovarian cancer, none of the factors evaluated by multivariate analysis was found to be an independent prognostic factor for the distribution of disease stage. A delay between laparoscopy and laparotomy may affect adversely the distribution of disease stage. The timing of subsequent laparotomy was found to be a factor predictive of the distribution of disease stage."}
{"id": "9822519", "title": "Left-sided laparoscopic para-aortic lymphadenectomy: anatomy of the ventral tributaries of the infrarenal vena cava.", "content": "Left-sided laparoscopic para-aortic lymphadenectomy: anatomy of the ventral tributaries of the infrarenal vena cava. We evaluated the anatomy of the infrarenal portion of the human inferior vena cava and their ventral tributaries by video laparoscopy. A total of 112 patients underwent laparoscopic para-aortic lymphadenectomy for gynecologic malignancies. All procedures were videotaped. The number and anatomic distribution of the infrarenal tributaries of the anterior part of the inferior vena cava was evaluated retrospectively from videotapes. The inferior vena cava was divided into 3 levels: the area of the bifurcation of the vena cava (level 1), the area between the bifurcation and the inferior mesenteric artery (level 2), and the area between the inferior mesenteric artery and the right ovarian vein (level 3). Tributaries were found in level 1 in 65 (58%) patients, in level 2 in 22 (19.6%) patients, and in level 3 in 1 (0.9%) patient; in 24 (21.5%) patients no tributaries were found. A total of 237 tributaries was counted: 82.3% (195 of 237) were located at level 1, 17.3% (41 of 237) at level 2, and 0.4% (1 of 237) at level 3. Patients with tributaries had a mean of 3 tributaries in level 1, a mean of 1.7 tributaries in level 2, and 1 patient had 1 tributary in level 3. The ventral tributaries of the inferior vena cava show a specific distribution pattern. The knowledge of these anatomic landmarks can be important for laparoscopic surgeons to avoid accidental injury."}
{"id": "9822463", "title": "Is laparoscopic oophorectomy rational in patients with breast cancer?", "content": "Is laparoscopic oophorectomy rational in patients with breast cancer? Unsuspected malignancy remains a problem for the laparoscopic surgeon. The aim of this study was to evaluate the risk of ovarian micrometastasis in patients with breast cancer who undergo laparoscopic oophorectomy. We analyzed 25 premenopausal women with breast cancer who underwent therapeutic laparoscopic oophorectomy. The patients were subdivided into the following two groups according to ovarian pathology: group A with and group B without breast carcinoma micrometastasis. We then reviewed the follow-up data for both groups, with special attention to metastasis of the abdominal wall. Twelve of 44 ovaries removed by laparoscopy showed ovarian breast carcinoma micrometastasis. There were no predictive factors of micrometastasis. After a mean follow-up of 38.1 months (95% CI: 29.2-46.9 months), none of the patients with proven micrometastasis developed metastasis of the abdominal wall, and the 21 puncture sites were inconspicuous. Although 32% of patients may have unexpected ovarian micrometastasis, laparoscopic oophorectomy in patients with breast cancer remains a safe procedure."}
{"id": "9816664", "title": "[Laparoscopic colostomy--experiences with inoperable ovarian and rectum carcinomas and rectovaginal fistulas].", "content": "[Laparoscopic colostomy--experiences with inoperable ovarian and rectum carcinomas and rectovaginal fistulas]. Between August 1995 and July 1997 laparoscopic colostomy was successfully carried out in 10 patients with advanced ovarian cancer, inoperable carcinoma of the rectum or rectovaginal fistulae. There were no intraoperative or postoperative complications and postoperative recovery was rapid with all patients having function of the colostomy within 24 h and regaining their preoperative state of mobility on the second postoperative day. The laparoscopic approach allows the careful selection of the colostomy site, easy mobilisation of the colon causing only little disruption to the intestinal function and hence, improving postoperative recovery. From our experience, laparoscopic colostomy is a simple and safe operation in most cases and can be used as the preferred technique of intestinal diversion. The technical features of laparoscopic colostomy are described."}
{"id": "9809569", "title": "Four year experience in laparoscopic dissection of intact ovarian dermoid cysts.", "content": "Four year experience in laparoscopic dissection of intact ovarian dermoid cysts. Intraperitoneal spillage of dermoid cyst content, if not followed immediately by abundant peritoneal lavage, can cause a chemical peritonitis with subsequent adhesion formation. We performed an open clinical study in a university hospital. Forty-four consecutive ovarian dermoid cysts were removed intact from 40 premenopausal women operated on between October 1993 and December 1997. The laparoscopic technique included: 1) creation of a cleavage plane between the cyst and the ovary; 2) dissection of the cyst by a combination of water, scissors, and gravity without direct traction on the cyst; and 3) extraction of the cyst after its placement inside a laparoscopic bag. The mean cyst diameter was 6.5 cm (range 3 to 12 cm). Mean operating time was 125 minutes (range 50 to 180 minutes). All patients were discharged within 48 hours. The cysts were dissected completely intact and were extracted without spillage in the abdominal cavity in all cases. Operative followup was available in 15 of the 40 patients; mild adhesions were found on the treated ovary in 3 (20%). It is always possible to prevent rupture and spillage of dermoid cysts during laparoscopic operations, but this approach is time consuming and needs expert surgical technique."}
{"id": "9806584", "title": "Laparoscopic ovarian transposition for pelvic malignancies: indications and functional outcomes.", "content": "Laparoscopic ovarian transposition for pelvic malignancies: indications and functional outcomes. To assess the indications and effectiveness of laparoscopic ovarian transposition before pelvic irradiation for a gynecologic cancer. Prospective study. A gynecologic oncology department in a French anti-cancer center. Twenty-four patients treated for pelvic cancer. Laparoscopic ovarian transposition to paracolic gutters. Uterine conservation in 18 patients. Clinical and laboratory follow-up tests of ovarian function. Bilateral laparoscopic ovarian transposition was achieved in 22 patients (94%). Twelve patients were treated for clear cell adenocarcinoma of the cervix and/or upper vagina, 6 patients for invasive squamous cervical carcinoma, 3 patients for pelvic sarcoma, 1 patient for recurrent cervical cancer to the upper vagina, 1 patient for ependymoma of the cauda equina, and 1 patient for ovarian dysgerminoma. Ovarian preservation was achieved in 79%. Three pregnancies were obtained. Laparoscopic ovarian transposition is a safe and effective procedure for preserving ovarian function. Bilateral ovarian transposition should be performed. The main indications for laparoscopic ovarian transposition are a patient with a small invasive cervical carcinoma (<2 cm) in a patient <40 years of age who is treated by initial laparoscopically assisted vaginal radical hysterectomy and a patient with a clear cell adenocarcinoma of the cervix and upper vagina."}
{"id": "9800677", "title": "Ampullary tubal hydatidiform mole treated with linear salpingotomy. A case report.", "content": "Ampullary tubal hydatidiform mole treated with linear salpingotomy. A case report. While tubal pregnancies are common, only approximately 30 tubal hydatidiform moles have been reported. Most have been treated with salpingectomy. This case entails a tubal hydatidiform mole treated with salpingotomy without complications, persistence or recurrence. A 25-year-old woman with an ampullary tubal pregnancy at 8 weeks' gestation underwent a laparoscopic salpingotomy. Preoperative human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) was 6,909 mIU/mL. Pathology confirmed a partial hydatidiform mole. Three weeks postoperatively the hCG was 6 mIU/mL. Tubal hydatidiform molar pregnancies are rare. Those which occur in the ampullary portion of the fallopian tube can be treated with linear salpingotomy."}
{"id": "9800114", "title": "Surgery for gynecologic malignancies.", "content": "Surgery for gynecologic malignancies. Surgery continues to play a primary role in the investigation and treatment of gynecologic neoplasia. Cold-knife conization is still preferable for diagnosis and treatment of more problematic preinvasive cervical lesions. Newer reconstructive techniques can improve quality of life in exenteration patients. Efforts continue to reduce morbidity associated with vulvar surgery and groin node dissection. Accurate staging and maximum cytoreduction remain essential goals in primary surgery for ovarian cancers. The utility of secondary surgery for disease assessment or further treatment is controversial. Laparoscopy at present has a limited role in gynecologic oncology but may be useful for prophylactic oophorectomy in selected individuals."}
{"id": "9788856", "title": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian tumors.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian tumors. Laparoscopy can be used with minimal operative morbidity to evaluate adnexal masses. We report our experience with the endoscopic approach to the diagnosis and treatment of ovarian tumors. In particular, we describe 11 patients who incidentally underwent laparoscopy and in whom the ovarian masses were found to be malignant. Between September 1994 and September 1996, 292 patients with 316 ovarian tumors were treated laparoscopically in the Department of Obstetrics-Gynaecology, University of Ulm. We assessed vaginal ultrasonography, clinical assessment, the tumor marker CA 12-5, and the intraoperative low-power magnification for their value in predicting the final diagnosis in all laparoscopically treated ovarian tumors. From a total of 292 patients with ovarian tumors, 11 were diagnosed, intraoperatively or after final histologic examination, as having a malignant or borderline ovarian tumor. All applied pre- and intraoperative diagnostic procedures were by themselves too unreliable to exclude early stages of ovarian carcinoma exactly. On the basis of the present findings, we are tempted to conclude that laparoscopic surgery is justified in the management of ovarian tumors. Even with an accurate preoperative selection of suitable patients for laparoscopic surgery, the presence of an undetected ovarian carcinoma cannot be entirely excluded."}
{"id": "9784314", "title": "Laparoscopic para-aortic and pelvic lymphadenectomy: experience with 150 patients and review of the literature.", "content": "Laparoscopic para-aortic and pelvic lymphadenectomy: experience with 150 patients and review of the literature. The clinical usefulness of laparoscopic pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy for staging and therapy of gynecological cancer was analyzed prospectively. Laparoscopic para-aortic and pelvic lymphadenectomy was performed in 150 patients with cervical (n = 96), endometrial (n = 41), or ovarian cancer (n = 13). Lymphadenectomy was combined with laparoscopically assisted vaginal radical hysterectomy in 70 patients, with laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy and/or bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and/or appendectomy and/or omentectomy in 24 patients, with trachelectomy in 2 patients, and with laparoscopic radical hysterectomy in 2 patients; lymphadenectomy alone was performed in 52 patients. Right-sided para-aortic lymphadenectomy extended to the level of the right ovarian vein; left-sided dissection reached the level of the inferior mesenteric artery. In ovarian tumors, dissection was extended to the level of the renal vessels; in addition, the ovarian vessels were removed with the surrounding tissue. Peri- and postoperative data were collected prospectively to monitor progress of surgical performance. Mean operative time was 36 min (15-105 min) for right-sided para-aortic and 24 min (12-49 min) for left-sided para-aortic lymphadenectomy; bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy took 64 min (44-110 min). On average 26.8 (10-56) pelvic lymph nodes and 7.3 (0-19) para-aortic lymph nodes were sampled. Major vessels were injured in 7 patients of which 4 patients required laparotomy. Patients undergoing lymphadenectomy alone were admitted for 3.2 days on average. Laparoscopic para-aortic and pelvic lymphadenectomy is effective for staging and treatment of gynecologic cancers."}
{"id": "9782137", "title": "Long-term economic evaluation of resectoscopic endometrial ablation versus hysterectomy for the treatment of menorrhagia.", "content": "Long-term economic evaluation of resectoscopic endometrial ablation versus hysterectomy for the treatment of menorrhagia. To assess long-term costs of resectoscopic endometrial ablation versus hysterectomy in women with menorrhagia. Controlled cohort study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). Multispeciality group practice. Sixty-four women who underwent endometrial ablation during 1992-1994 and 46 women who underwent hysterectomy during 1990-1992. To attain comparable controls, patients with uterine size exceeding 14 weeks or uterine weight greater than 300 g, ovarian pathology, endometriosis, or neoplasia were excluded. Endometrial ablation and hysterectomy, followed by economic evaluation. Direct costs were hospitalization charges, professional fees, preoperative depot leuprolide, and gynecologic care during 3 years after primary surgery. Indirect costs were calculated based on known demographic data, recovery time, and lost productivity. Surgical outcomes, complications, repeat surgeries, menstrual outcomes, and overall patient satisfaction were assessed. Operating time (38 vs 107 min), hospital stay (0.7 vs 2.7 days), frequency of postoperative complications (6.3% vs 21.7%), and recuperation time (5 vs 32 days) were less with endometrial ablation than with hysterectomy. Mean follow-up was 48.5 months (range 36-68 mo), with rates of amenorrhea, hypomenorrhea, and eumenorrhea of 49%, 29%, and 8%, respectively. One patient was lost to follow-up. There were eight failures (12%): repeat endometrial ablations (2 women), abdominal hysterectomy (1), and laparoscopic-assisted hysterectomy (5). Most women (85%) remained satisfied with the operation. Total direct costs/case for endometrial ablation were $5434 versus $8417 for hysterectomy; respective indirect costs/case were $525 and $3360. Conclusion. Long-term direct and indirect costs of endometrial ablation were significantly less than those of hysterectomy ($5959 vs $11,777) for the treatment of menorrhagia."}
{"id": "9779237", "title": "Diagnostic and therapeutic approach of dermoid cysts: retrospective study of 30 cases.", "content": "Diagnostic and therapeutic approach of dermoid cysts: retrospective study of 30 cases. Dermoid cysts are benign tumours affecting young patients that can derive benefits from conservative and minimally invasive surgery. MRI and endovaginal sonogram appear to be useful tools in the pre-operative selection for this surgery. Tumour markers are definitely indicated for postmenopausal patients whereas they appear less useful in young patients. With adequate pre-operative selection, both conservative and minimally invasive surgery can be applied with a clear benefit for the patient."}
{"id": "9777626", "title": "Isolated torsion of the fallopian tube. A case report.", "content": "Isolated torsion of the fallopian tube. A case report. While torsion of the adnexa is relatively common, isolated torsion of the fallopian tube alone remains a rare occurrence. Diagnosis and surgical intervention are often delayed. A 38-year-old woman presented with acute lower right abdominal pain initially managed as renal colic. She returned to the emergency department three days later. After surgical consultation, a computed tomography scan and ultrasound showed a cystic pelvic mass with normal ovarian flow studies. Ultimately, the gynecology team performed laparoscopy with the suspicion of intermittent adnexal torsion. A 6 x 8-cm, twisted, dusky purple right fallopian tube was noted. A laparoscopic salpingectomy was performed. In the differential diagnosis of acute lower abdominal pain, isolated torsion of the fallopian tube should be considered. A timely diagnosis and surgical intervention may allow preservation of the tube. Even when irreversible damage has occurred, laparoscopic management is recommended."}
{"id": "9776605", "title": "Psammocarcinoma of the peritoneum diagnosed during operative laparoscopy.", "content": "Psammocarcinoma of the peritoneum diagnosed during operative laparoscopy."}
{"id": "9774878", "title": "[Evaluation on non invasive diagnostic tests for the second look in epithelial ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Evaluation on non invasive diagnostic tests for the second look in epithelial ovarian cancer]. To determine the usefulness of diagnostic tests performed before a second look laparotomy in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer. Thirty-three patients with epithelial ovarian cancer attended at Fundaci\u00f3n Jim\u00e9nez D\u00edaz from 1984 to 1995 were studied. All patients initially underwent cyto-reducing surgery, followed by at least six platinum-based chemotherapy cycles. Prior to second look laparotomy all patients were evaluated by computerized tomography (CT) of the pelvis and abdomen, CA-125, pelvic-abdominal echography and gynecologic examination. To evaluate sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value for each test contingency tables were used. Eleven out of the 33 second look patients (33%) had histologic or cytologic evidence of disease. Six out of the eleven positive second look had a positive CT prior to second look (sensitivity of 55%). CT showed lack of disease in 21 out of the 22 negative second look cases (specificity 95%). Positive and negative predictive values of the test were 86% and 81%, respectively. Nine cases out of the 28 who had a CA-125 obtained had a positive second look. Four out of these nine patients had an increased CA-125 value (sensitivity 44%, specificity 95%, positive predictive value 80% and negative predictive value 78%). Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value of physical examination and echography were 36%, 100%, 100%, 76% and 27%, 95%, 75%, 72%, respectively. On the other hand, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value of all tests taken together were 64%, 91%, 78% and 83%, with a rate of false-negative results of 17% and a rate of false-positive results of 22%. Pelvic-abdominal computerized tomography, CA-125, pelvic-abdominal echography and gynecologic examination can be an alternative to second look laparotomy for the diagnosis of persistence or recurrence of the disease in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "9773541", "title": "[Peritoneal carcinomatosis].", "content": "[Peritoneal carcinomatosis]. Searching for the primitive tumor of a peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC) is no easy task even considering the multiple modern diagnostic procedures at our disposal. Without the primary site of a neoplasm it is often difficult to establish the prognosis and a treatment regimen. In PC the most frequent primitive tumors are ovarian neoplasms in women and gastrointestinal neoplasms in men. We present a case report of a 70-year-old Caucasian woman who was referred to our department for diagnosis and management of a PC. A fine-catheter aspiration cytology of the peritoneal implants was performed and provided histologic evidence of an ovarian papillary type carcinoma. This case is suggestive of what has been called in recent literature extraovarian peritoneal serous papillary carcinoma. Absent or insignificant histology of the ovaries of primary in-situ ovarian carcinoma is one diagnostic criterion. This patient had no evidence of ovarian disease considering ultrasound imaging and computer tomography. Unfortunately, since both laparotomy and laparoscopy were contraindicated, histology of the ovaries is lacking."}
{"id": "9761167", "title": "Ovarian dermoid cyst leakage--a cautionary tale.", "content": "Ovarian dermoid cyst leakage--a cautionary tale. This case illustrates that when a dermoid cyst is punctured, an immediate operative laparoscopy or laparotomy should be performed, along with lavage, to avoid the problems associated with dermoid cyst contents spillage."}
{"id": "9757751", "title": "Gynandroblastoma in pregnancy: case report and review of literature.", "content": "Gynandroblastoma in pregnancy: case report and review of literature. Gynandroblastoma is an extremely rare tumor, composed of sex cord and stromal cells of both ovarian (granulosa-theca) and testicular (Sertoli-Leydig) types. We believe that its occurrence during pregnancy has not been previously reported. The patient was a 32-year-old woman who during her pregnancy was noted to have a progressively enlarging, unilocular left ovarian cyst. Beginning at 18 weeks gestation, the fetus required multiple platelet transfusions for severe alloimmune thrombocytopenia. A viable baby girl was delivered by cesarean section at 39 weeks gestation. At that time, an ovarian cystectomy also was performed. When the histology of the tissue subsequently became known, a left salpingo-oophorectomy was performed for gynandroblastoma. One year later, at the time of laparoscopic sterilization, the examination of the pelvis was normal."}
{"id": "9757217", "title": "[Comparative study of tumor evaluation with computerized tomography and surgery in ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Comparative study of tumor evaluation with computerized tomography and surgery in ovarian cancer]. To evaluate the results of an abdomino-pelvic scan in cancers of the ovary in comparison with surgery. We reviewed the observations concerning patients operated on for malignant tumors of the ovary between January 1992 and April 1995 in our anti-cancer center. We selected 32 patients who had had both a complete surgical abdominal exploration (laparotomy or laparoscopy) and an abdominal pelvic scan in the preceding months. We divided the abdomen into 33 areas and compared the scan of each with the surgical findings. Two cancer radiologists, including one gynecology specialist, studied the imaging separately. Neither knew the results of the surgical observations. Imaging findings varied with localization tumor size and presence or not of ascites radiologists. For certain localization, detection of lesions was difficult for both readers (pancreas, spleen, stomach), for others, recognition improved with experience (bowel, diaphragm, colon). The clinician must be aware of the variability of ovarian cancer assessment by CT scan, particularly if imaging alone is being used to guide treatment."}
{"id": "9752451", "title": "[Surgical management of adnexal tumors].", "content": "[Surgical management of adnexal tumors]. Concerning laparoscopy and tumor dissemination, we know from several multivariate analyses that at laparotomy, if the tumor is entirely and immediately removed, the puncture of a stage I ovarian cancer has no influence on the prognosis. In contrast the inadequate surgical management of an undiagnosed ovarian cancer may worsen the prognosis. The diagnosis is the key step. To be able to immediately and completely treat an ovarian cancer when managing an ovarian tumor surgically, Laparoscopic diagnosis is safe and reliable when used cautiously. The surgical diagnosis may and should probably be performed by laparoscopy whatever the ultrasonographic appearance of the tumor. Masses diagnosed as suspicious at surgery should be treated by immediate laparotomy, since the results of laparoscopic treatment of an ovarian cancer are not known. In young patients, conservative surgery is the main advantage of laparoscopy, and should be achieved in most benign masses. The recent progresses of in vitro fertilization should be taken into account when managing an ovarian tumor in a patient who wishes to become pregnant. Frozen sections are useful, when treating highly suspicious masses, allowing an immediate staging and avoiding the disadvantages of a second surgical procedure. Whenever a malignant tumor has been missed at laparoscopy, restaging is required and should be considered to be an oncologic emergency."}
{"id": "9740429", "title": "Laparoscopic resection of ovarian benign cystic teratomas: experience with 84 cases.", "content": "Laparoscopic resection of ovarian benign cystic teratomas: experience with 84 cases. Laparoscopic treatment of benign cystic teratoma of the ovary has been recommended following the study of relatively small numbers of patients. We reviewed our experience with a prospective ongoing protocol for the treatment of benign ovarian teratomas, between January 1990 and December 1996. Sonography established the diagnosis, and biochemical markers were used to screen for possible malignancy. Surgery consisted of resecting the cyst and conserving the ovary if appropriate. The resected cyst was aspirated of its contents following insertion into an EndoCatch bag. Removal was accomplished via the narrowest incision possible by pulling the bag's margins through the incision and grasping the solid parts with conventional surgical instruments. The diameter of the cysts ranged from 2 to 15 cm. Cystectomy was performed in 47, and oophorectomy in 37, patients. Spillage occurred in 11 cases, but none developed peritonitis or fever. The mean duration of post-operative stay was 0.9 days (range 0.5-2). We conclude that laparoscopic resection of benign teratomas of the ovary is safe, well tolerated, and shortens hospital stay."}
{"id": "9732222", "title": "Monoclonal antibody targeting of ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Monoclonal antibody targeting of ovarian carcinoma. The ability to effectively define disease status in ovarian cancer after initial therapy or to selectively screen high-risk populations remains a major challenge for in vivo monoclonal antibody (mAb)-targeted approaches. Antitumour murine mAbs (HMFG1, HMFG2, H317, and H17E2) and the reshaped human antibody Hu2PLAP (against placental alkaline phosphatase; PLAP), labelled with indium-111 and iodine-123, were evaluated for their ability to localise ovarian tumours in sequential studies of our group. Thirty patients with ovarian cancer, aged 40-78 years (median 60 years) were studied with HMFG1/G2: 11, and H317/H17E2: 19 murine mAbs. Six patients with ovarian cancer aged between 36 and 65 years (median 49 years) were studied with the reshaped human Hu2PLAP mAb (5 patients) or the murine H17E2 mAb (2 patients) labelled with 111In via a new macrocyclic chelating agent (DOTA). One of these was imaged twice, with H17E2- and Hu2PLAP-DOTA-111In, respectively. In 20 out of 22 patients with radiologically measurable ovarian cancer, the presence of tumour was confirmed by the murine mAb scan and correlated well with the findings of conventional radiology diagnostic methods. One of these patients with a negative H17E2 scan and a large abdominal mass at laparotomy was found to have a PLAP-negative tumour on immunohistochemistry. Additionally, the antibody scan revealed the presence of active disease, confirmed at laparotomy/laparoscopy, in 6 out of 8 patients considered to be in clinical complete remission. Best images were obtained at 24 and 48 h after the 123I and 111In mAbs, respectively. Successful imaging with the reshaped human antibody, Hu2PLAP, was seen in 2 patients with PLAP-positive tumours. Antibodies to DOTA developed in 2 patients. In conclusion, immunolocalisation of ovarian tumours is feasible with both murine and reshaped human mAbs. The sensitivity and specificity of the method appear very high in this pilot study, and in view of the absence of toxicity, the diagnostic contribution of this approach should be evaluated prospectively. Given the low number of patients without surgically detectable disease in the present study, future investigations should include more patients with no evidence of disease in order to provide more meaningful estimates of specificity."}
{"id": "9716771", "title": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian cysts in newborns.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian cysts in newborns. Cysts are the most common ovarian masses found in newborn girls. Spontaneous regression, which occurs in approximately 25-50% of cases, is more frequent with smaller cysts. Pre- or postnatal complications are common; these complications may consist of intracystic bleeding, torsion of the cyst or corresponding annex, or self-amputation of the cyst. When the cyst is <4 cm it is possible to perform a simple echographic monitoring to check for the possibility of spontaneous involution; all other cases require surgery. Between February 1985 and June 1997, we treated 22 neonatal ovarian cysts laparoscopically. In 14 cases, the right side was involved; in eight cases, it was the left. The patients' ages ranged between 7 days and 5 months (median, 45 days). In all cases, we used three trocars. An intraperitoneal cystectomy was done in eight cases, a transparietal cystectomy in four cases, an ovariectomy in seven cases, and the simple removal of the cyst in one case where self-amputation had occurred. In two cases of bilateral pathology, the cysts, which were <1 cm, were left untreated. Average operating time was 40 min (range, 25-60 min). Intraabdominal pressure never exceeded 6-8 mmHg during the intervention. The postoperative course was always under 3 days. No intra- or postsurgical complications were recorded, and long-term ultrasonographic follow-ups were all normal. Our experience indicates that the laparoscopic approach is a reliable and safe technique in the treatment of neonatal ovarian cysts."}
{"id": "9694480", "title": "Transvaginal sonographic evaluation of multiple peripherally distributed echogenic foci of the ovary: prevalence and histologic correlation.", "content": "Transvaginal sonographic evaluation of multiple peripherally distributed echogenic foci of the ovary: prevalence and histologic correlation. Our aim was to determine the prevalence, histopathologic correlation, and clinical significance of multiple peripherally distributed echogenic foci seen within ovaries on transvaginal sonography. Transvaginal sonograms of 264 ovaries in 135 patients were prospectively analyzed for the presence of peripheral echogenic foci that were then characterized as linear, punctate, or globular. Previous examinations, when available, were reviewed for this sonographic feature, and the time interval between studies was recorded as a measure of stability. Sonograms were correlated with available surgical specimens in six patients, five of whom underwent hysterectomy and bilateral oophorectomy and the remaining patient who underwent laparoscopic ovarian wedge biopsy. Multiple peripheral echogenic foci were common and were found in 66 patients (49%) and 97 ovaries (37%). The punctate pattern was seen in 63 (95%) of 66 patients. The linear and globular patterns were present in only three and four patients, respectively. These echogenic foci were found on previous examinations in 18 patients. No suspicious sonographic features were seen in the ovaries of any of these patients. Histologic evaluation revealed multiple superficial epithelial inclusion cysts and associated psammomatous calcifications in all five patients who underwent bilateral oophorectomy. An additional finding in one of these patients was extensive endosalpingiosis. Multiple peripheral echogenic foci involving the ovaries is a common incidental finding on routine transvaginal sonography of the pelvis. Our data suggest that this sonographic finding represents psammomatous calcifications associated with superficial epithelial inclusion cysts."}
{"id": "9647572", "title": "Endometriosis and uterine leiomyomata with ovarian granulosa cell tumour.", "content": "Endometriosis and uterine leiomyomata with ovarian granulosa cell tumour. We report the first known case of right endometrial cyst and multiple uterine leiomyomata complicated by an ovarian granulosa cell tumour of adult type. A 42 year old woman had an adult type left granulosa cell tumour. Laparoscopy 13 years earlier had revealed a small endometrial implant on the peritoneum, without uterine leiomyomata or bilateral ovarian tumours. Findings in this case suggest that the aetiology of endometriosis and uterine leiomyomata are related to the presence of an oestrogen-secreting neoplasm and that the presence of a state of hyperoestrogenaemia due to granulosa cell tumour over several years might have stimulated the development of endometriosis and leiomyomata."}
{"id": "9633844", "title": "The role of surgery in the management of ovarian cancer: primary and interval cytoreductive surgery.", "content": "The role of surgery in the management of ovarian cancer: primary and interval cytoreductive surgery. Ovarian cancer remains the number one cause of mortality in gynecologic malignancies and the fifth most common cause of death among all malignancies in women. Unfortunately, recent data confirm that only approximately 90% of \"apparent\" early ovarian cancer are inadequately staged, and only approximately 80% of patients with advanced-stage disease are adequately staged. Interval debulking surgery, a newer treatment modality, appears to have a promising role for patients who cannot be adequately debulked at their initial surgery. Second-look laparotomy continues to be the most accurate way to document responses to chemotherapy in protocol settings, but additional clinical trials with newer second-line chemotherapy will be necessary before definitive statements can be made with regard to survival advantages in patients who undergo second-look laparotomy."}
{"id": "9632965", "title": "Intramural tubal polyps--a villain in the shadows?", "content": "Intramural tubal polyps--a villain in the shadows? Intramural tubal polyps are commonly described in association with subfertility. However, there is unfamiliarity among clinicians about the investigations available for making a diagnosis of this condition. The objective of this paper was to highlight the suitable investigations for diagnosis and thus increase awareness of this condition and its relationship with subfertility. A retrospective review of 14 patients with intramural tubal polyps was done for the period from January to December 1996. An attempt was made to correlate the radiographic findings on hysterosalpingography with transvaginal ultrasound examinations and hydrochromotubation performed under laparoscopic observation. The fertility history of these patients was also examined. The review demonstrated a prevalence of 3.8% of intramural tubal polyps in a selected population of predominantly subfertile women. Only hysterosalpingography was useful in making the diagnosis in-vivo. Fifty percent of the patients did not have any other obvious pathology to explain their subfertility. We conclude that meticulous hysterosalpingography is useful as a diagnostic investigation and that consistent reporting is needed for good follow-up."}
{"id": "9619287", "title": "Role of operative laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology.", "content": "Role of operative laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology."}
{"id": "9615829", "title": "[\"Second-look\" surgery and diagnostic laparoscopy in the combined and comprehensive therapy of patients with ovarian cancer].", "content": "[\"Second-look\" surgery and diagnostic laparoscopy in the combined and comprehensive therapy of patients with ovarian cancer]. The data on 503 cases of ovarian malignancies were evaluated to work out indications for and clinical assessment of revision laparotomies. Second-look surgery was carried out in the following situations: (1) tumor elements found in the washings of the peritoneum in Douglas' space and high blood-serum levels of CA-125 (8 patients with stage I-II tumors, in clinical remission); (2) during remission, after 6-10 courses of polychemotherapy (13 patients with stage III-IV tumors); (3) during remission, after non-radical primary surgery (117); (4) suspected recurrence (144); (5) recurrence-free surgical pathology, e.g. ventral hernia, requiring laparotomy (22). Patients without repeated laparotomy (199) were in control. During remission, surveillance can be carried out using cytologic, ultrasound and immunoradiologic techniques since laparoscopy fails. The latter is useful, for diagnostic purposes, in case of discrepancy between clinical and ultrasound evidence as well as during monitoring in patients in clinical remission who show unfavorable levels of CA-125 and poor results of sonographic. Laparotomy is indicated prior to chemotherapy of inoperable tumors for morphologic verification of diagnosis. Indications for second-look operations can be significantly decreased considering the latest improvements in non-invasive monitoring technique. Laparoscopic examination can effectively serve the same purposes."}
{"id": "9607269", "title": "Minimal access surgery in children: the use of laparoscopy for management of pediatric ovarian teratoma: a case report.", "content": "Minimal access surgery in children: the use of laparoscopy for management of pediatric ovarian teratoma: a case report. This article presents a case of left ovarian teratoma in a young child. Prompt diagnosis was made using real-time ultrasound, computed tomography (CT) and laparoscopy. The latter was used for performing tumor enucleation. We recommend that laparoscopy precede laparotomy and be done more routinely in the young patient."}
{"id": "9600814", "title": "Operative laparoscopy prior to a pelvic exenteration in patients with recurrent cervical cancer.", "content": "Operative laparoscopy prior to a pelvic exenteration in patients with recurrent cervical cancer. Selecting out the true candidates for a pelvic exenteration frequently poses a difficult clinical dilemma in patients with recurrent cervical cancer after radiation therapy. Despite very thorough preoperative investigation, inoperable disease is discovered at the time of laparotomy in up to 60% of cases. In this retrospective analysis, we report the use of operative laparoscopy in 13 patients with either biopsy proven locally recurrent cervical cancer (N = 9) or with clinically suspected tumor recurrence (N = 4). All have previously received radical radiation therapy. Patients' ages ranged from 36 to 79 years (median, 43). The median duration of the procedure was 150 min (range,50-200) and median blood loss was 50 cc (range, 50-200). The procedure was well tolerated in all patients. There was no intraoperative complication. One deep thrombophlebitis occurred postoperatively. The laparoscopic evaluation could not be completed in one case because of a large nonmobile uterine fibroid filling the whole pelvis. At laparoscopy, metastatic tumor was identified in 9 of 12 patients (75%). An unnecessary laparotomy was avoided in 8 of those 9 cases (one had a palliative exenteration). The most common site of metastasis was in the previously radiated pelvis (7/9). Three patients had a negative laparoscopy. Two had an exenteration and one had a transureteroureterostomy. At the time of laparotomy, none were found to have disease that would have been missed at laparoscopy. We conclude that operative laparoscopy may be a valuable additional step in the work-up and management of patients with locally recurrent cervical cancer. With experience in retroperitoneal surgery, the procedure can be carried out safely in previously radiated patients. We believe this approach can lower the number of unnecessary laparotomies, reduce the morbidity, and shorten the length of the postoperative recovery."}
{"id": "9600813", "title": "The role of operative laparoscopy to evaluate candidates for pelvic exenteration.", "content": "The role of operative laparoscopy to evaluate candidates for pelvic exenteration."}
{"id": "9598957", "title": "Management and outcome of borderline ovarian tumors incidentally discovered at or after laparoscopy.", "content": "Management and outcome of borderline ovarian tumors incidentally discovered at or after laparoscopy. To evaluate in a series of patients with borderline ovarian tumors the clinical findings and the outcome after laparoscopic management. Retrospective study of 25 patients with borderline ovarian tumors first treated by laparoscopic approach. Thirteen patients had mucinous tumors and 12 had serous tumors. Twenty-one patients had ultrasound examination which detected 24 ovarian cysts including multilocular cysts in 50% of cases and unilocular sonolucent cysts in 25% of cases. The serum CA 125 and CA 199 levels were elevated in 30.7% and 23% respectively. Among the 25 patients first treated by laparoscopic approach, 24 had stage I disease: six of them had cystectomy, seven unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, two bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and two laparoscopic hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Seven patients had laparoconversion for presumption of ovarian cancer (5) and failure of laparoscopic procedure (2). One patient with stage III disease had laparoscopic biopsies and subsequent laparotomy. Among the 25 patients, 15 had conservative treatment and 10 had radical treatment. Three recurrences occurred after cystectomy. The mean follow-up was 41 months. Twenty-three patients were alive without evidence of disease, one died of intercurrent disease and one patient was lost to follow-up. Our data suggest that the laparoscopic approach to borderline ovarian tumors is possible in early stage disease but associated with a high risk of recurrence after cystectomy."}
{"id": "9591032", "title": "Port site metastasis from synchronous primaries of the colon and ovary following laparoscopic cholecystectomy.", "content": "Port site metastasis from synchronous primaries of the colon and ovary following laparoscopic cholecystectomy. We report two cases of port site metastasis as the presenting feature of colonic and ovarian carcinoma after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Cholecystectomy was performed for upper abdominal pain and gallstones. Six and 4 months after the operation the patients presented with nodules at port sites, other than the site of extraction. Biopsy proved both to be adenocarcinoma and further management found these to be from advanced caecal and ovarian carcinomas."}
{"id": "9586709", "title": "Laparoscopic adnexal ultrasonography: Technology in search of an indication.", "content": "Laparoscopic adnexal ultrasonography: Technology in search of an indication."}
{"id": "9582574", "title": "Cytology of sex cord tumor with annular tubules: a case report.", "content": "Cytology of sex cord tumor with annular tubules: a case report. The cytologic findings of a sex cord tumor with annular tubules (SCTAT) that ruptured during laparoscopy are described. Features useful in distinguishing SCTAT from other ovarian sex cord tumors include the presence of highly cellular tubular formations containing well-delimited glassy pink material and absence of single cells. To the best of our knowledge, the cytology of SCTAT has not been previously reported."}
{"id": "9577148", "title": "[The role of video-laparoscopy in the management of ovarian swellings].", "content": "[The role of video-laparoscopy in the management of ovarian swellings]. Personal experience in videolaparoscopic treatment of 42 ovarian masses during the period September 1991-December 1995 is reported. Seven patients have been operated in emergency, 35 in election. Resection of the masses has been performed by two methods: dissection and electrocoagulation, generally preferred in benign functional cysts; resection by stapler (endo GIA). In 5 of the patients operated in emergency an hemoperitoneum was found because of the rupture of ovarian cyst; in the other two cases, respectively, a necrotic benign cyst twisted on the adnexal axis and a dermoid cyst twisted and necrotic too were found. In the 35 patients operated in election, 33 benign cysts, 1 serous cystoadenoma 1 granulosa tumour were observed. Postoperative course was always excellent, with no painful symptomatology and hospital-stay and convalescence extremely reduced (dismission from hospital approx two days after the operation). The different aspects which must be evaluated before choosing mini-invasive treatment are discussed. An accurate preoperative study especially by sonography and serous hormonal dosage (in particular CA 125), besides good surgical experience of the operator, are fundamental requisites in order to minimize risks of this procedure and guarantee excellent results."}
{"id": "9570995", "title": "Laparoscopic placement of PAP catheters for intraperitoneal chemotherapy in ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Laparoscopic placement of PAP catheters for intraperitoneal chemotherapy in ovarian carcinoma. To our report our experience with the laparoscopic placement of peritoneal access ports and to compare it to our experience with placement at laparotomy. Patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma were enrolled in a study to receive intraperitoneal paclitaxel in combination with intravenous cisplatin and cyclophosphamide as first- or second-line chemotherapy. Patients had a PAP catheter placed at primary laparotomy or by a separate laparoscopic procedure under general anesthesia. In 13 patients a PAP catheter was placed during primary laparotomy, without complications. Thirteen patients had laparoscopic catheter placing, using routine Veress needle insufflation. After a bowel perforation at insertion of the umbilical trocar had occurred in one patient, due to extensive adhesions, we decided to use only an open laparoscopic procedure. No other procedure or catheter-related complications occurred. Laparoscopic-assisted placement of PAP catheters is feasible, but should preferably be performed by an open laparoscopic procedure in this patient population at risk for intraabdominal adhesions."}
{"id": "9570973", "title": "Unsuspected primary tubal carcinoma during operative laparoscopy.", "content": "Unsuspected primary tubal carcinoma during operative laparoscopy. To evaluate the possible risk of dealing with an unsuspected primary carcinoma of the fallopian tube during laparoscopic surgery. We performed a countrywide survey in Austria concerning laparoscopic procedures in cases of primary carcinoma of the tube. The questionnaire consisted of questions regarding the pre-, intra-, and postoperative management. Of 18,435 laparoscopies in cases of an adnexal mass, 5 cases were reported, when laparoscopy was performed on an unsuspected carcinoma of the tube. Therefore, the risk of detecting this malignancy during laparoscopy after preoperative evaluation is 1 in 3687 cases (0.028%). The risk of encountering an unsuspected primary carcinoma of the fallopian tube during laparoscopy in Austria is an extremely rare situation. In case of a malignancy, a staging or debulking laparotomy should be performed immediately or as soon as possible."}
{"id": "9564065", "title": "Laparoscopic conservative excision of ovarian dermoid cysts with and without an endobag.", "content": "Laparoscopic conservative excision of ovarian dermoid cysts with and without an endobag. To compare outcomes of conservative laparoscopic treatment of dermoid cysts removed from the abdominal cavity without (group A) and with an endobag (group B). Prospective, randomized, 4-year (June 1992-June 1996) study (Canadian Task Force classification I). Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of the Catholic University of the Sacred Heart in Rome. Fifty-five premenopausal women with dermoid cysts. Intervention. Patients were randomly assigned to removal of dermoid cysts from the abdominal cavity with or without an endobag through a 10- to 12-mm cannula sleeve. We assessed surgical time, spillage, complications, length of hospitalization, recurrences, and pregnancies. In the 55 women, 58 dermoid cysts (mean diameter 5.6 +/- 2.03 cm) were enucleated and removed at operative laparoscopy through a 10- to 12-mm cannula sleeve without intraoperative or postoperative complications. Mean operating time was 73 minutes. When cysts were removed with an endobag, operating time was significantly reduced over removal without the endobag (63 vs 81 min, p <0.05). Obvious spillage of endocystic contents occurred in 13 (43.3%) patients in group A but in only 1 patient in group B because the bag ruptured (p <0.05). No signs or symptoms of peritonitis were observed in women with evident cystic spillage or in those in group A in whom spillage was possible. Average postoperative hospital stay was 1.7 days and did not differ between groups. Among 20 infertile women, 9 (45%) experienced spontaneous pregnancy within a year, with no differences between groups. Echographic follow-up did not reveal cyst recurrence. Laparoscopic conservative cystectomy of dermoid cysts in premenopausal women is safe and effective and appears to be a valuable alternative to laparotomy. Removing cysts in an endobag significantly reduced both operating time and spillage. However, controlled intraperitoneal spillage of cyst contents does not increase postoperative morbidity as long as the peritoneal cavity is thoroughly washed."}
{"id": "9557831", "title": "Laparoscopic management of organic ovarian cysts: is there a place for frozen section diagnosis?", "content": "Laparoscopic management of organic ovarian cysts: is there a place for frozen section diagnosis? Only benign ovarian cysts can be treated by laparoscopic surgery. Although clinical examination and the results of pre-operative work-up do make a real contribution in indicating the benign or malignant nature of cysts, only histology can provide the absolute diagnosis. In this context, the goal of this study was to establish whether there is any advantage in performing frozen section during laparoscopic surgical management of organic ovarian cysts. Between January 1989 and March 1996, 228 patients underwent an adnexectomy for an ovarian mass. After the pre-operative work-up and the diagnostic phase of laparoscopy, 26 patients (11.4%) presented with suspected signs of malignancy restricted purely to the ovary. These 26 patients underwent a laparoscopic adnexectomy with extraction of the excised tissues using an endoscopic bag, followed by frozen section. For all these patients the results of the frozen section concluded that the lesion was benign. In every case the definitive histological results confirmed the frozen section findings. This strategy enabled us to avoid laparotomy, especially for the nine post-menopausal patients whose adnexal masses appeared to be complex by ultrasound. These encouraging preliminary results need to be confirmed by a larger series of patients, so as to specify the place of frozen section in the laparoscopic surgical management of organic ovarian cysts."}
{"id": "9553817", "title": "Leiomyomatosis peritonealis disseminata, endometriosis, and multicystic mesothelioma: an unusual association.", "content": "Leiomyomatosis peritonealis disseminata, endometriosis, and multicystic mesothelioma: an unusual association. A 32-year-old, previously healthy woman with a diffuse, complex tumoral process is described. While she was being evaluated for primary infertility, a laparoscopic procedure revealed a disseminated peritoneal process associated with bilateral ovarian lesions. A clinical diagnosis of stage III ovarian cancer was made and total hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, and omentectomy were performed. Pathologic studies showed an admixture of leiomyomatosis peritonealis disseminata (LPD) endometriosis, and an extensive multicystic mesothelial proliferation. Although endometriosis is known to occur in conjunction with either LPD or multicystic mesothelioma, to our knowledge this is the first report of all three lesions occurring simultaneously."}
{"id": "9521412", "title": "Clear-cell carcinoma of the ovary in a 19-year-old woman.", "content": "Clear-cell carcinoma of the ovary in a 19-year-old woman. The risk of inadvertently treating an ovarian malignancy is always present regardless of the patient's age, clinical history, ultrasound features, serum tumour markers, menopausal status and intraoperative findings. This risk can be minimized by paying particular attention to high-risk characteristics in any of the above assessment criteria and by obtaining an intraoperative frozen section if there is any suspicion of malignancy. The same approach should be used whether the initial treatment is by laparotomy or laparoscopy. We present a case of clear-cell carcinoma of the ovary in a 19-year-old woman where there was delay in diagnosis and treatment as a result of an incorrect initial histopathology assessment. This appears to be the youngest patient reported in the literature with a clear-cell carcinoma of the ovary."}
{"id": "9521397", "title": "The safety of laparoscopic treatment for ovarian dermoid tumours.", "content": "The safety of laparoscopic treatment for ovarian dermoid tumours. Whilst laparoscopic surgery has largely replaced laparotomy as the standard surgical option for the management of benign ovarian cysts, concern remains regarding the safety of laparoscopy for benign cystic teratomas. This is based on a higher rate of cyst content spillage compared to laparotomy and the known sequelae of chemical peritonitis and granuloma formation. We present 18 cases of laparoscopic dermoid cystectomy with recommendations for specimen removal from the peritoneal cavity. Our findings together with evidence from the literature confirms the safety of laparoscopy for the treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts."}
{"id": "9514797", "title": "Analysis of failures after negative second-look in patients with advanced ovarian cancer: an Italian multicenter study.", "content": "Analysis of failures after negative second-look in patients with advanced ovarian cancer: an Italian multicenter study. This multicenter retrospective study is based on 192 patients with advanced ovarian cancer in pathological complete response at second-look surgery. Ninety-four (48.9%) patients developed recurrent disease after a median time of 18 months (range, 4-89 months) from surgical reassessment. The recurrence involved the pelvis in 45 (47.9%) cases, the abdomen in 42 (44.7%), the retroperitoneal lymph nodes in 13 (13.8%), and distant sites in 20 (21.2%). On the whole series, 5- and 7-year disease-free survival rates after negative second-look were 47.4 and 44.5%, respectively. By log-rank test the disease-free survival rate was related to FIGO stage (P = 0.008), tumor grade (P = 0.0021), size of residual disease after initial surgery (P = 0.0038), and type of second-look (laparoscopy vs laparotomy, P = 0.0061), but not to histological type and first-line chemotherapy. Cox proportional hazard model showed that tumor grade, size of residual disease, and type of second-look were independent prognostic variables for disease-free survival. The risk ratio of relapse was 2.386 (95% CI, 1.140-4.990) for grade 2 and 3.118 (95% CI, 1.515-6.416) for grade 3 compared to grade 1 disease. For patients with residual disease 1-2 cm and > 2 cm the risk ratio was, respectively, 1.877 (95% CI, 1.117-3.156) and 2.156 (95% CI, 1.324-3.511) compared to patients with residual disease < 1 cm. The risk ratio was 1.826 (95% CI, 1.121-2.973) for patients who were submitted to a laparoscopic second-look compared to those who underwent a laparotomic reassessment. Poorly differentiated grade and large residual disease after initial surgery are the strongest prognostic variables for recurrence after a negative second-look."}
{"id": "9499545", "title": "[Current trends in the surgical management of ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Current trends in the surgical management of ovarian cancer]. Ovarian cancer is the leading cause of death from gynaecological malignancies in western countries, it is diagnosed at an advanced stage in approximately 75% of patients. The current standard treatment for ovarian cancer consists of maximum cytoreductive surgery to reduce tumor residuum to a minimum, followed by platin-based chemotherapy. If an unsuspected ovarian cancer is detected at diagnostic laparoscopy, staging and debulking by laparotomy should be undertaken without delay. For apparently early stages (I or II), appropriate surgical staging is extremely important and will result in the upstaging of about one-third of patients (usually to Stage III). Several retrospective clinical trials show that successful cytoreduction and systemic lymphonodectomy result in an improved survival, but prospective randomized studies have not been performed to evaluate this benefit. Patients who cannot initially be cytoreduced to an optimal stage should be considered candidates for interval cytoreduction after chemotherapy. Repeated surgical debulking in relapsed patients will probably only benefit a small subset of selected patients (e.g. disease-free interval > 2 years). Surgery may also be important for palliation, such as for the treatment of bowel obstruction to improve the patients quality of life. The question still remains whether the observed improved survival rates for patients with ovarian cancer are an effect of primary cytoreductive surgery or tumor biology."}
{"id": "9488571", "title": "Hand-assisted laparoscopic splenectomy for isolated splenic metastasis from an ovarian carcinoma: a case report with review of the literature.", "content": "Hand-assisted laparoscopic splenectomy for isolated splenic metastasis from an ovarian carcinoma: a case report with review of the literature. A 56-year-old woman was found to have a solitary metastasis to the spleen from ovarian cancer. A hand-assisted laparoscopic splenectomy was carried out. The operative technique and advantages of this technique are discussed. Laparoscopy with mini laparotomy allows for manual manipulation of the spleen with the ability to control bleeding, and facilitates mobilization and removal of the specimen. Postoperative recovery is rapid. Review of the literature indicates that secondary metastasis to the spleen is quite common."}
{"id": "9482623", "title": "Obstetrics and gynecology.", "content": "Obstetrics and gynecology."}
{"id": "9479720", "title": "Transperitoneal laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy for gynecologic malignancies (II). Indications.", "content": "Transperitoneal laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy for gynecologic malignancies (II). Indications. We reviewed the published experimental and clinical data, available in MEDLINE, and compared them with our own experience, in a university-affiliated tertiary medical center of obstetrics and gynecology in order to report on the accepted indications for laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy. Surgical staging of cervical carcinoma can be performed via the laparoscopic approach. Intraperitoneal biopsies, washings, and pelvic lymphadenectomy can also be carried out with high accuracy and limited morbidity. Node-negative women are better treated by a radical hysterectomy performed either simultaneously (using frozen sections) or secondarily after routine pathologic examination of the pelvic nodes. Node-positive patients have a poor prognosis, no matter what the treatment is, and are generally considered for radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy. The use of laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy in advanced cervical cancers is limited. Laparoscopy has a direct therapeutic application in endometrial carcinoma. Total hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, and pelvic lymphadenectomy can all be performed via laparoscopy. Thus, stage I and some stage II endometrial cancers can be treated exclusively laparoscopically. This approach seems as effective as laparotomy, but it dramatically reduces the costs and morbidity associated with conventional treatment. Currently, the use of laparoscopy in ovarian and tubal cancers is confined to referral centers. Laparoscopy appears to be as effective as laparotomy for second-look surgery. Treatment of stage II and more advanced ovarian cancers has been reported, but it cannot be recommended in a routine situation."}
{"id": "9454870", "title": "Conservative therapy of adnexal torsion employing color Doppler sonography.", "content": "Conservative therapy of adnexal torsion employing color Doppler sonography. To ascertain if color Doppler sonography (CDS) can detect viability of adnexa in torsion. Concurrent, nonrandomized study (Canadian Task Force classification II-2). Tertiary medical care center in a university hospital. Twenty-seven women suspected of having torsion of the ovary in which a benign tumor was present. Color Doppler sonography of the ovarian pedicle suggested torsion. Laparoscopy or laparotomy was performed in 19 patients and confirmed the diagnosis. We identified a twisted vascular pedicle of the ovarian tumor by CDS in 24 (88%) of 27 women. Pedicle arterial and venous blood flow was observed in 10 women; pathology specimens revealed normal tissue, edema with congestion, or early hemorrhage. In all nine in whom only arterial blood flow or no blood flow was observed, pathology revealed hemorrhagic necrosis. In five women with arterial and venous blood flow the tumor was managed conservatively, either by detorsion or cystectomy, after which no embolism or tumor recurrence was seen at follow-up ultrasonography. Normal follicular development and ovulation occurred in these patients. For women of childbearing age in whom torsion of benign adnexal tumors is suspected, CDS should be performed to confirm the diagnosis and ascertain whether or not pedicle arterial and venous blood flow is present. If such blood flow is detected, the adnexa is considered to be viable and detorsion or cystectomy may be performed, thus preserving the ovary. It is recommended that further studies with a larger group be undertaken to provide a basis for statistical analysis."}
{"id": "9454393", "title": "[Polycystic ovary syndrome I. Clinical presentation and treatment].", "content": "[Polycystic ovary syndrome I. Clinical presentation and treatment]. Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is probably the most prevalent endocrinopathy in women and the most common cause of menstrual disturbances during the reproductive age. It is characterised by the presence of polycystic ovaries on ultrasound examination together with clinical and biochemical signs of hyperandrogenaemia. The majority of patients will seek medical advice because of menstrual disturbances, infertility or signs of hyperandrogeneamia (hirsutism, acne, alopecia). In obese patients the therapeutic mainstay is weight reduction. Anovulatory infertility is treated by stimulation of ovulation, laparoscopic electrocautery or IVF, while patients with menstrual disturbances without a wish to conceive should be treated with cyclic gestagen therapy or oral contraceptives in order to reduce the increased life-long risk of endometrial cancer. Additionally, hirsutism may be treated by epilation or antiandrogen therapy. PCOS is a common disease with an increased risk of NIDDM, hypertension, cardiovascular disease and endometrial cancer. Polycystic ovary syndrome is thus a disease which needs attention from the health system."}
{"id": "9440109", "title": "Intraoperative laparoscopic sonography for improved preoperative sonographic pathologic characterization of adnexal masses.", "content": "Intraoperative laparoscopic sonography for improved preoperative sonographic pathologic characterization of adnexal masses. This study compares the diagnostic accuracy of laparoscopic sonography and transvaginal sonography in the evaluation of adnexal masses. Fifty-eight women underwent transvaginal sonography, which showed 69 adnexal masses, and laparoscopic ultrasonography, which showed 68 adnexal lesions. Conventional gray-scale ultrasonography (using transvaginal sonography and laparoscopic ultrasonography) was performed with morphologic characterization of internal architecture, followed by color Doppler imaging with spectral Doppler analysis where possible. A specific diagnosis was obtained with transvaginal sonography and laparoscopic ultrasonography based on a combination of imaging features. The specific diagnosis obtained with each imaging modality was compared with the final histologic diagnosis as the gold standard in 57 patients with 68 adnexal masses who underwent cystectomy or oophorectomy. The ability of laparoscopic sonography to detect the contralateral ovary and any residual ovarian tissue in the presence of a mass was also compared with transvaginal sonography. The accuracy of laparoscopic ultrasonography in the characterization of adnexal masses was 83.8% and that of transvaginal sonography was 73.5% (P < 0.05). Laparoscopic sonography showed greater morphologic detail than that obtained with transvaginal sonography, allowed more precise and specific characterization of adnexal masses, and detected additional adnexal lesions not evident on preoperative transvaginal sonography. Laparoscopic ultrasonography showed the contralateral ovary in 86.2% of patients, compared with 81.0% using transvaginal sonography (P = 0.51). In addition, laparoscopic ultrasonography was able to demonstrate the presence of residual ovarian tissue in the side affected pathologically in 76.5% of patients compared with 59.4% using transvaginal sonography (P < 0.005). Laparoscopic sonography allows more precise morphologic characterization of internal architecture and histologic diagnosis of adnexal lesions, but it is as yet unable to increase the diagnostic accuracy of borderline or malignant lesions, possibly due to the small sample size. Laparoscopic sonography is superior to transvaginal sonography in the evaluation of residual ovarian tissue in the side affected pathologically, which may help in surgical planning between cystectomy and oophorectomy, and also in the identification of the contralateral ovary, which may potentially increase the detection of bilateral pathologic conditions."}
{"id": "12292544", "title": "Contraceptive sterilization: trends, options, and surprising new data.", "content": "Contraceptive sterilization: trends, options, and surprising new data. In the US, 24% of women aged 15-50 rely on female or male sterilization for contraception. While all methods of sexual sterilization are highly effective, new data indicate that the risk of pregnancy after female sterilization varies according to type of procedure performed and the woman's age, but at 18.5/1000 procedures the risk is higher than previously believed. About 30% of all tubal sterilization failures result in ectopic pregnancy, with the greatest risk occurring 2-3 years after the procedure. Female sterilization can be performed at a time unrelated to conclusion of pregnancy or during the postpartum or postabortion periods using the minilaparotomy or laparoscopy surgical approach and surgical ligation or mechanical or electrical occlusion. Location of the vasa deferentia for occlusion in vasectomy can be achieved through two small incisions or with the no-scalpel method. Various methods are used to achieve occlusion. With a first-year pregnancy rate of only 0.15%, vasectomy is superior to female sterilization in terms of efficacy, safety, procedural complexity, and cost. The disadvantages of female sterilization include regret, the rare occurrence of surgical complications, a small risk of death (4/100,000), an increased risk of subsequent hysterectomy among younger women undergoing tubal ligation, and menstrual pain. Tubal sterilization, however, may protect against ovarian cancer. The few disadvantages associated with vasectomy include the small risk of immediate complications and regret. Because of the permanent nature of sterilization, effective counseling is important and should include presentation of information about the reversible, longterm contraceptive methods available to women."}
{"id": "9876656", "title": "Endoscopic management of adnexal masses.", "content": "Endoscopic management of adnexal masses. The laparoscopic management of suspicious adnexal masses and early ovarian malignancies is discussed with the aim of maintaining accepted oncologic treatment principles. Comparative survival data of patients with gynecological malignancies managed by laparoscopy or laparotomy are still very scarce and the survival of cancer patients must not be compromised by new techniques. It is time to closely analyze laparoscopy and determine if it has a positive impact on the diagnosis and treatment of ovarian malignancies. In this paper we will address the following points: 1) Which ovarian cysts can be surgically treated by laparoscopy (pelviscopy)? 2) Is staging laparoscopy an accepted technique? 3) Is laparoscopy, as a second-look procedure, of benefit? 4) Is laparoscopic staging, together with histologic tissue sampling, adequate surgical technique in inoperable ovarian cancer with ascites and peritoneal carcinomatosis? 5) Does endoscopic biopsy of ovarian cancer stage Ia change the destiny of a patient into ovarian cancer Ic? The above questions are analyzed based on our experience with the laparoscopic treatment of 1,225 patients with ovarian cysts and 165 ovarian cancer patients stage I to IV treated immediately by laparotomy during the years 1992-1995. Ovarian cystic tumors with no signs of malignancy can be dealt with by laparoscopic means with the option of immediate conversion to laparotomy or within one week if an ovarian malignancy is diagnosed. Today sampling laparoscopic lymphadenectomy of both pelvic and para-aortic is feasible and adequate. On a curative level, the number of lymph nodes to be resected has yet to be determined. The adnexa can be extracted from the abdominal cavity with bag extraction without the danger of spillage. The uterus can be removed transvaginally with laparoscopic assisted vaginal hysterectomy (LAVH). We must be cautious to advocate laparoscopy for ovarian cancer. However, it is an excellent tool when used as a staging procedure. A careful preoperative screening of the patient and an exact definition of existing cysts with imaging techniques allows us to frequently apply laparoscopic surgery for ovarian cysts, leaving only readily detectable cancer cases for laparotomy. Many gynecological oncologists employing staging and second-look procedures for ovarian cancer agree that initiating a case with laparoscopy may preclude laparotomy for many patients. Tumor propagation by performing a biopsy in FIGO stage Ia ovarian cancer patients does not occur if the patient receives adequate radical surgical treatment within one week. According to the reports of Sevelda et al. and Dembo et al., the degree of differentiation and the existence of ascites are more relevant to decreasing the five-year survival rate of patients with ovarian cancer stage I than the rupture of capsule or penetration of the tumor. A dependency on the first two parameters was found in these two large statistical studies. As the question of endoscopic operations for adnexal mass is predominantly put for the sanitation of small ovarian tumors (ovarian tumors with solid particles in the cysts can be put into the section of primary laparotomies) there remains a wide field of indications for the laparoscopic treatment of adnexal mass and ovarian cysts with benign indications. For many young patients with non-malignant ovarian lesions such as endometriosis, benign cysts, benign cystic proliferations and fibromas, a laparotomy can be avoided and these lesions treated by laparoscopy."}
{"id": "9770839", "title": "[Laparoscopic image of pelvic minor organs in women after ovary surgery].", "content": "[Laparoscopic image of pelvic minor organs in women after ovary surgery]. An analysis of indications to laparoscopy and an evaluation of the abdominal cavity organs in patients who earlier in their history have undergone laparotomy, is the object of this report. A group of 86 patients was studied and in all cases laparoscopy followed previous laparotomy. Infertility, PPS, and pelvic mass were found to be the most frequent indications to laparoscopy. In 74.4% of patients who had laparotomy in their history, our laparoscopy revealed pelvic adhesions and in 9.3% of patients--endometriosis. Laparoscopy constitutes safe diagnostic and therapeutic procedure, complications occurred in 2.3% of patients."}
{"id": "9536216", "title": "Diagnosis and therapy of hyperandrogenism.", "content": "Diagnosis and therapy of hyperandrogenism. Diagnostic categories in hyperandrogenism include polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and its variants, adrenal and ovarian steroidogenic enzyme deficiencies, adrenal and ovarian androgen secreting tumours and other endocrine disorders such as hyperprolactinaemia, Cushing syndrome and acromegaly. About 95% of hyperandrogenic women will have PCOS. Endometrial hyperplasia can be prevented in hyperandrogenic, anovulatory women by the oral contraceptive pill or progestins. Hirsutism is best treated by a combination of the oral contraceptive pill and an anti-androgen. The first line of therapy for ovulation induction is clomiphene citrate, with human menopausal gonadotrophins (hMG) or laparoscopic ovulation induction reserved for clomiphene failures. hMG together with gonadotrophin-releasing hormone agonist may decrease the risk of spontaneous abortion following ovulation induction in PCOS. Weight loss should be vigorously encouraged to ameliorate the metabolic consequences of PCOS."}
{"id": "9497606", "title": "[Borderline ovarian tumors: a series of 43 patients].", "content": "[Borderline ovarian tumors: a series of 43 patients]. Our objective was to evaluate the sonographic features, serum tumor markers in a series of 43 patients with borderline ovarian tumors. At sonographic examination, the majority of borderline tumors were multilocular. Serum CA-125 levels were elevated in 32.1%, CA-19-9 in 17.4%. In contrast, ACE levels were constantly normal. Twenty-four out of 43 patients (55.8%) had serous tumors, 18 (41.9%) had mucinous tumors and 1 (2.3%) had endometrioid tumor. Among, the 43 patients, 9 (20.9%) had first laparotomic approach and 34 had first laparoscopic treatment. Seven out of 34 patients treated by first laparoscopic approach had a laparoconversion (2 for presumption of invasive carcinoma and 5 for failure of laparoscopic procedure). Therefore, 27 had exclusive laparoscopic management. Among the 43 patients, 22 had conservative treatment and 21 radical surgery. The mean follow-up of patients was 41 months. Thirty-seven patients (86.1%) were alive without recurrence, 4 had a recurrence (9.3%), 1 patient (2.3%) was lost to follow-up and the last died of intercurrent disease. The mean delay of recurrence was 22 months (range 6 to 36). Three out of 4 recurrences occurred after cystectomy (2 ipsilateral and 1 controlateral). The fourth recurrence occurred after unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. All 10 second look procedures were negative. Our results point out about the feasibility of laparoscopic management of borderline tumors. However, cystectomy is associated with a high risk of recurrence."}
{"id": "9492110", "title": "A virilizing Leydig cell tumor of the ovary associated with stromal hyperplasia under gonadotropin control.", "content": "A virilizing Leydig cell tumor of the ovary associated with stromal hyperplasia under gonadotropin control. A 34-yr-old nulliparous black woman presented with hair loss, facial hirsutism, irregular menses and infertility associated with greatly increased serum total testosterone levels. The adrenal glands and the ovaries were normal on radiological and ultrasonographic investigation. Catheterization of the veins draining from the adrenal glands and the ovaries yielded testosterone levels of 20.3 nmol/L and 20.0 nmol/L in the right and the left adrenal veins, respectively, and 17.9 nmol/L and 27.4 nmol/L in the right and left ovaries venous plexus, respectively. Sequencial dexamethasone and ethynyl estradiol suppression test showed a decrease in cortisol level with no change in total testosterone level on dexamethasone while an increase in testosterone from 10.5 nmol/L to 20.1 nmol/L was observed ten days after ethynil estradiol had been associated to dexamethasone. When a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist (gonadorelin 3.5 mg i.m.) was administered for 2 months, serum gonadotropins levels decreased to less than 2 IU/L, total testosterone to 3.8 nmol/L and estradiol to less than 36 pmol/L. The patient was submitted to a pelvic exploratory laparotomy and a left salpingo-oophorectomy was performed. A solid and circumscribed ovarian tumor of 1.0 cm in diameter was found. The pathological diagnosis was a Leydig cell tumor with surrounding stromal hyperplasia. These findings may suggest that this tumor was gonadotropin-dependent being indirectly stimulated by ethynil estradiol, through a sensitization of the pituitary gonadotropes and increase in gonadotropin levels and suppressed by a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist."}
{"id": "9480574", "title": "[The polycystic ovary syndrome associated with ovarian tumor].", "content": "[The polycystic ovary syndrome associated with ovarian tumor]. Case report of a girl with PCOD (polycystic ovarian disease) and Sertoli-Leydig ovarian tumour. A sixteen-year old girl was clinically, endocrinologically, echosonographically and laparoscopically examined, and polycystic ovarian disease was diagnosed. After a two-year period she was reexamined: normal adrenal function was confirmed and left ovarian tumour was discovered echosonographically. Therefore, she was operated on and adnexectomy of the left ovarian tumour and biopsy of the right ovary were done. The histopathologic analysis revealed the Sertoli-Leydig tumour of the left ovary and polycystic degeneration of the right ovary. In conclusion, because of the greater frequency of ovarian tumours in women with PCOD, the permanent follow-up of women with PCOD is necessary."}
{"id": "9478301", "title": "Adolescent laparoscopy.", "content": "Adolescent laparoscopy. Laparoscopy is a useful and safe diagnostic procedure that provides excellent visualization of the pelvic structures and often permits the diagnosis of gynecologic disorders and pelvic surgery without laparotomy. During the period 1994-1996 40 laparoscopies were performed as a diagnostic procedure on adolescents aged between 14-19 years. In 21 cases of primary amenorrhea the laparoscopy showed 12 cases of Rokitanski-Kuster-Hauser syndrome (57.2%), hematocolpos-hematometra 4 (19.0%), polycystic ovarian disease 2 (9.5%), late onset of puberty 2 (9.5%) and gonadal dysgenesis 1 (4.8%). Laparoscopy which was performed in 12 cases of pelvic pain showed 6 with normal genitalia (50%), endometriosis in 2 (16.7%, infection in 2 (16.7%), fibroma in 1 (8.3%) and torsion in 1 (8.3%). Four laparoscopies were performed for ovarian mass; three cystic masses and one case of endometriosis were detected."}
{"id": "9463084", "title": "[The place of second-look laparoscopy in monitoring treatment of advanced malignant ovarian neoplasms].", "content": "[The place of second-look laparoscopy in monitoring treatment of advanced malignant ovarian neoplasms]. The role of second-look laparotomy in management of advanced ovarian cancer is still controversial. One of the arguments against this method is the risk of this wide operation. Replacement of second-look laparotomy by laparoscopy maybe the way to minimize that risk. The aim of this report is the comparison of second-look laparotomy and laparoscopy. The prospectively gathered material consists of 56 women with ovarian cancer, 17 of them were qualified for second-look procedures. Laparoscopy was the first step in this procedure. In 5 patient the residual malignancy in abdominal cavity was found. In 11 there were no evidence of the disease, and in 1 case laparoscopic inspection was impossible. When the laparoscopy was negative or impossible the second-look laparotomy was performed. Only in one case after negative laparoscopy the evidence of malignancy during laparotomy was found. In our opinion: 1) Positive second-look laparoscopy is equivalent to laparotomy and permits to avoid it. 2) The negative second-look laparoscopy with its contemporary technique still requires the subsequent laparotomy."}
{"id": "9454432", "title": "[Massive edema of the ovary].", "content": "[Massive edema of the ovary]. Massive edema of the ovary is a rare condition found in young women as a result of partial or intermittent torsion of the ovary. Differentiation of this entity from tumors of the ovary is important to prevent overtreatment. Organ-preserving surgical treatment is indicated as the correct approach to management. We present a case of massive edema of the ovary associated with post partum involution of the female genital tract and discuss the clinical features in the light of the known literature."}
{"id": "9417463", "title": "[Celioscopic ovariectomy. Retrospective study of 56 ovariectomies].", "content": "[Celioscopic ovariectomy. Retrospective study of 56 ovariectomies]. To describe a technique of laparoscopic oophorectomy, and evaluate its feasibility, limits and complications. We performed a retrospective study of 34 patients who underwent laparoscopic oophorectomy, from 1 December 1992 to 28 February 1995. Centre Hospitalier Intercommunal, Cr\u00e9teil, and Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif. Mean age was 58 years (range: 42 to 74 years). In post-menopausal patients with ovarian cyst, a systematic oophorectomy was performed (33 patients). Among post-menopausal women, a systematic contro-lateral oophorectomy was done in 77% of cases. Castration was preconized in one woman with previous breast carcinoma. Removal of the ovary was performed by dessication and division of the utero-ovarian junction and of the mesovarium. Among the 34 women, 32 (94%) had an exclusive laparoscopic procedure, 2 had laparo-conversion. The reasons of laparo-conversion were the presence of adhesions in one case and presumption of ovarian malignancy (Border-line ovarian tumor) in the other case. For the 32 women with laparoscopic treatment, 22 (65%) had bilateral oophorectomy. Per-operative complication rate was 6.2% (an epigastric vessel injury in one case and an hemorrhage during laparoscopic adhesiolysis in an other case). The post-operative time was uneventful. This technique of laparoscopic oophorectomy is simple, rapid and has a low rate of per and post-operative complications. In addition, this technique has the advantage to prevent the risk of ureteral injury."}
{"id": "9410389", "title": "[Laparoscopy and ovarian cancer: dangers and precautions].", "content": "[Laparoscopy and ovarian cancer: dangers and precautions]."}
{"id": "9408314", "title": "Second-look surgery (SLO) in the management of carcinoma of the ovary.", "content": "Second-look surgery (SLO) in the management of carcinoma of the ovary. There is a permanent controversy on the clinical relevance of second-look laparotomies. In the first approach the majority of clinical experts evaluated this procedure experimental. Our results support the idea of clinical relevance of this procedure as patients with SLOs through the early detection of recurrence really profited from the procedure."}
{"id": "9394652", "title": "CT-guided core-needle biopsy in omental pathology.", "content": "CT-guided core-needle biopsy in omental pathology. To assess the accuracy and clinical usefulness of CT-guided core-needle biopsy in the diagnosis of omental pathology. We retrospectively reviewed the results of CT-guided percutaneous core biopsies in 25 patients with focal (n = 2) or diffuse (n = 23) omental pathology. These results were compared to the final diagnoses as determined by laparotomy (n = 15), laparoscopic biopsy (n = 3), endoscopic biopsy (n = 1), or by the results of percutaneous biopsy and clinical-radiological and bacteriological modalities (n = 6). The final diagnoses showed 4 patients with isolated omental pathology and 21 with widespread peritoneal involvement. The CT-guided biopsies were performed with 1.0-1.8-mm Surecut core-needles. In 16 patients, the final diagnosis was metastatic adenocarcinoma--with the primary tumor sites in the ovary (n = 3), stomach (n = 1), appendix (n = 2), and unknown (n = 10). In the remaining 9 patients, the final diagnosis was hepatocellular carcinoma, lymphoma, and mesothelioma in 1 patient each; tuberculosis in 5; and actinomycosis in 1. Sufficient histological (n = 16) or cytological (n = 8) material was obtained by CT biopsy in 24/25 (96%) cases; the specimen was insufficient for diagnosis in 1 case. In differentiating benign from malignant disease, CT-guided biopsy showed a sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of respectively 89.5%, 100% and 92%. It gave a specific diagnosis in 78.9% (15/19) of patients with malignant conditions and in 50% (3/6) of patients with benign disorders. There were no biopsy-related complications. CT-guided percutaneous core-needle biopsy of the omentum is a safe, useful and highly accurate procedure for diagnosing malignant omental pathology."}
{"id": "9386034", "title": "Port-site recurrences following laparoscopic operations for gynaecological malignancies.", "content": "Port-site recurrences following laparoscopic operations for gynaecological malignancies. To determine the frequency of port-site recurrences following laparoscopic surgical treatment of gynaecological malignancies metastatic at the time of surgery. Retrospective review of metastatic primary and recurrent gynaecological malignancies. Twenty-five women were studied. Twenty-four had metastatic disease at the time of laparoscopic surgery, 22 in association with a primary malignancy (cervix: n = 12, ovary: n = 7, endometrium: n = 3), and two in association with recurrent ovarian cancer; all received pelvic or extended field radiation or chemotherapy after surgery. One woman with Stage IIIC ovarian cancer, disease-free at the completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy following laparotomy by a general surgeon, was included; she developed scalene node metastases 18 months after definitive laparoscopic surgery. Seventy-one 5 mm trocars and fifty 10 mm trocars (total n = 121) were used for surgery; thirty-one 10 mm trocar sites and forty-four 5 mm sites (total n = 75) received post-operative treatment with chemotherapy (n = 49) or radiation (n = 26). Four women (16%) developed recurrences in association with endometrial (n = 2) and cervical (n = 2) cancer at six trocar sites. All recurrences were associated with abdominopelvic and/or distant metastases, and all occurred at untreated 5 mm trocar sites. The difference in recurrence rates between 5 mm and 10 mm trocar sites (chi(2) = 6; P < 0.025), and between treated and untreated trocars (chi(2) = 5; P < 0.05) were both statistically significant (McNemar's test), but the effects of treatment and trocar size on the port-site recurrence rate were confounded. Port-site recurrences are local manifestations of disseminated disease that result from the enhancement of tumour growth characteristic of healing tissues and can be prevented by appropriate post-operative therapy."}
{"id": "9348369", "title": "Laparoscopic lateral ovarian transposition before radiation treatment of Hodgkin disease.", "content": "Laparoscopic lateral ovarian transposition before radiation treatment of Hodgkin disease. More than one-half of women treated with pelvic radiation therapy for malignant disease experience premature ovarian failure. Preservation of ovarian function by repositioning the ovaries out of the irradiation field is suggested in all women of reproductive age. This repositioning generally is done by moving the ovaries either medially so they are posterior to the uterus, or laterally so they are in the paracolic gutters. Laparoscopic medial transposition has been reported, with mixed results. A woman underwent successful laparoscopic lateral transposition before irradiation for stage IIIa Hodgkin disease. A review of published cases suggests that this is preferable to medial transposition."}
{"id": "9347806", "title": "Management of the adnexal mass in the 1990s.", "content": "Management of the adnexal mass in the 1990s. Ovarian carcinoma is the leading cause of deaths from female genital cancers in the United States. During the last three decades, advances in diagnostic techniques, surgical techniques, and adjuvant chemotherapy have led to improved survival in some patients who have an adnexal mass that is later diagnosed as malignant. A review of the current technique, compiled with our changing management, was done to help identify possible pitfalls in the initial management of the adnexal mass in specific age groups. The expensive and controversial issues such as screening, management of patients with a genetic history, and management with laparoscopy were reviewed. Appropriate initial surgery improves survival in patients with adnexal masses, later determined to be malignant, particularly when adjuvant, modern combination chemotherapy is used. Laparoscopy for suspicious adnexal masses cannot be condoned, unless immediate appropriate surgical staging can be done. Awareness and implementation of current diagnostic and treatment modalities can improve survival in the patient with an adnexal mass that is later found to be malignant."}
{"id": "9336750", "title": "Treating adnexal masses. Operative laparoscopy vs. laparotomy.", "content": "Treating adnexal masses. Operative laparoscopy vs. laparotomy. To compare operative laparoscopy vs. laparotomy for the treatment of adnexal masses. A retrospective review of all surgical cases who underwent operative laparoscopy or laparotomy for an adnexal mass during 1988-1995 at one multispecialty group practice. Preoperative screening for women over 45 included a CA-125 and ultrasound. If a malignant mass was encountered, it was immediately staged by laparotomy with the assistance of a surgical oncologist. During the study period 121 patients underwent ovarian cystectomy and 284 patients, oophorectomy. Laparoscopy was successfully completed in 118 of 127 (93%) oophorectomy and 71 of 72 (98%) of ovarian cystectomy patients. The incidence of malignant lesions at operative laparoscopy was 2%. The hospital stay for ovarian cystectomy was significantly shorter for laparoscopy (0.8 vs. 3.1 days). Hospital stay for oophorectomy was significantly shorter for laparoscopy (0.8 vs. 4.1 days). Ovarian cystectomy by laparotomy resulted in slightly more total complications than did laparoscopy (8% vs. 1%). Oophorectomy by laparotomy resulted in significantly more total complications than did oophorectomy by laparoscopy (29% vs. 3%). The mean total charge for laparoscopic oophorectomy was $5,873 versus $7,007 for laparotomy. The mean total charge for laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy was $4,507 vs. $5,541 for laparotomy. Treatment of adnexal masses by operative laparoscopy can be performed safely, with reduced morbidity and patient disability, and at a reduced cost. By having an oncologist backup in house, we have been able to convert most procedures to the laparoscopic approach."}
{"id": "9315174", "title": "Evaluation of adnexal masses using three-dimensional ultrasonographic technology: preliminary report.", "content": "Evaluation of adnexal masses using three-dimensional ultrasonographic technology: preliminary report. The purpose of the current study was to demonstrate the ability of three-dimensional ultrasonographic technology to enhance the morphologic scoring system and further improve the ability to differentiate benign from malignant ovarian masses. We performed conventional two-dimensional and three-dimensional transabdominal and transvaginal ultrasonography on eight women with adnexal masses. All patients underwent exploratory laparotomy or diagnostic laparoscopy. The three-dimensional ultrasonographic findings were compared with the two-dimensional ultrasonograms, the intraoperative observations, and gross and histopathologic findings. The morphologic scoring system as described by Sassone and coworkers was adopted, with scores of less than 9 suggestive of benign lesions, and this system was applied in both the two-dimensional and three-dimensional ultrasonographic examinations. The morphologic scores were subsequently compared. The images were dissected in the XYZ planes, and the areas suggestive of malignancy, as suggested by two-dimensional ultrasonography, were determined to be either negative or positive and confirmatory. In each of the eight adnexal masses, three-dimensional ultrasonography confirmed the preoperative diagnoses. The morphologic scores did not differ between two-dimensional and three-dimensional ultrasonograms for the benign cysts. In one case of benign solid fibroma, both the two-dimensional and three-dimensional gray scale morphologic scores were falsely positive at greater than 9. In one case of malignant serous papillary cystadenocarcinoma the two-dimensional morphologic score was a 9, where- as the three-dimensional score was 13. This difference in scores can be attributed to the additional views available with three-dimensional volume scanning, which allowed better characterization of the pathologic conditions. In addition, three-dimensional sonographic technology had the added advantage of high-speed image acquisition and recording to decrease the time of scanning to improve patient comfort. Furthermore, three-dimensional ultrasonography allowed the real-time analysis of the acquired image data to be conducted at a later time when the patient is off the examination table. Our preliminary results suggest that three-dimensional transvaginal ultrasonographic technology can enhance and facilitate the morphologic evaluation of both benign and malignant adnexal masses."}
{"id": "9308803", "title": "Another two cases of ovarian tumours in women who had undergone multiple ovulation induction cycles.", "content": "Another two cases of ovarian tumours in women who had undergone multiple ovulation induction cycles. Many questions have been raised recently about the possible association between ovulation induction and ovarian cancer. In order to contribute to the limited literature on this important issue, two cases of ovarian cancer in women who had multiple ovulation induction are presented here. In the first case the patient had ovarian induction by clomiphene citrate while she already had an ovarian cyst. The cyst enlarged under induction. During laparoscopy, the cyst was removed. Histological examination showed a borderline and invasive sero-papillary cystadenoma. In the second case, the patient underwent ovulation induction and intrauterine insemination. During the first ultrasound in the beginning of the cycle, an ovarian cyst was discovered. Laparoscopy was performed and the cyst removed. Histological examination showed a borderline and invasive mucinous cystadenoma."}
{"id": "9306122", "title": "Huge ovarian endometrial cyst: a case report.", "content": "Huge ovarian endometrial cyst: a case report. We are reporting a rare case of a huge ovarian endometrioma, one as large as an adult head, and the difficulty of differential diagnosis regarding this ovarian tumor."}
{"id": "9306114", "title": "Isolated torsion of fallopian tube during pregnancy; report of two cases.", "content": "Isolated torsion of fallopian tube during pregnancy; report of two cases. Isolated torsion of fallopian tube is very uncommon during pregnancy. Predisposing factors for torsion are hydrosalpinx, prior tubal operation, pelvic congestion, ovarian and paraovarian masses and trauma. Although the most important clinical symptom is abdominal pain in lower quadrants, the diagnosis is usually established during the operation performed for acute abdomen and salpingectomy is almost always necessary. Two cases of torsion of fallopian tube during pregnancy, one with hydrosalpinx, the other with paratubal cyst are presented and symptoms and predisposing factors are discussed."}
{"id": "9303790", "title": "[Postpartum ovarian vein thrombosis].", "content": "[Postpartum ovarian vein thrombosis]. An 28 years old women came on his 7. post partum day with an lower abdominal pain on the right hand side with the diagnosis of an unilateral rotating ovarian tumor. After computed tomography, ultrasound and laparoscopy the adnectomia dextra by laparotomy was performed. In the histology we find an ovarian vein thrombosis. The following therapy was made with an therapeutic anticoagulation with heparin combined with an antibiotic therapy and later with an oral anticoagulation."}
{"id": "9280737", "title": "[Treatment of adnexal tumors with laparoscopy].", "content": "[Treatment of adnexal tumors with laparoscopy]. This article shows the experience in 61 patients with adnexal tumors studied from June 1988 to June 1994; the origin of the patients in private and semiprivate, to whom we practiced a diagnostic and operative laparoscopy (56/61) at the same time. The inclusion and exclusion criteria were determined by clinical history (past history, age, symptoms, size, etc.), vaginal ultrasonography scan (ascites, papillas, cyst's content, etc.), laboratory tests (Ca 125 in postmenopausal patients), the macroscopic assessment during the diagnostic laparoscopy, transoperative biopsy (19/61) was made in order to confirm the benign findings seen before laparoscopy; and the results were accordingly on the 61 cases. The cause of consult was infertility in 24/61; 18/61 were primary infertility; 6/61 were secondary infertility. We did 22 cystectomies and 2 oophorectomies; 10 of them became pregnant. 37 from 61 had pain, nine of this group we did an oophorectomy (2 by torsion, 3 had hemorrhagic cysts that were ruptured and 4 were residual ovary), the rest 28 we performed cystectomy with frank improvement of their symptoms. The postoperative diagnosis of the tumors were: luteomas 13/61; functional cysts 17/61, Hemorrhagic cysts 8/61; endometriomas 9/61; serous cystoadenoma 3/61; mucinous cystoadenoma 1/61; ovaric fibroma 1/61; mature cystic teratoma 2/61; residual ovaries 4/61; paraovaric cysts 2/61 and Morgagni's hydatide 1/61. It is concluded that if one follows all the correct parameters for the evaluation of adnexal tumors, the endoscopic procedure could be safe with the benefits of the laparoscopic procedure."}
{"id": "9273108", "title": "[Laparoscopic surgery of ovarian tumors during pregnancy].", "content": "[Laparoscopic surgery of ovarian tumors during pregnancy]. During the first trimester of the pregnancy, the management of benign ovarian cyst can be performed by laparoscopy. When ovarian tumor is bulky, suspicious and after 16 to 20 weeks this treatment must be realised by laparotomy."}
{"id": "9265052", "title": "[Operative laparoscopy and the adnexal cystic mass: where to set the limit?].", "content": "[Operative laparoscopy and the adnexal cystic mass: where to set the limit?]. To study the importance and the consequences of several managements options for adnexal cystic masses suspicious at ultrasound and/or at laparoscopy. The importance of this question was evaluated by studying the correlation between the ultrasonographic appearance, the macroscopic diagnosis and the pathologic diagnosis in a series of 1098 patients operated over a 14-year period. The laparotomy rates obtained with the managements proposed were calculated by adding the laparotomies which would be performed because of the suspicious appearance to the laparotomies effectively performed in the department when treating the non suspicious masses. 32 of the 323 suspicious cases at ultrasound were malignant. The negative predictive value of the laparoscopic diagnosis of malignancy was 100%. Depending on the management used, the incidence of laparotomy could have varied from 6.1% to 31.3% between 1987 and 1991, and from 12.9% to 41.9% between 1992 and 1993. These results were related to preoperative selection. Using a simple management which includes diagnostic laparoscopy for masses suspicious at ultrasound and laparotomy for masses suspicious at laparoscopy, 80.1% of the patients would be treated by laparoscopic. This management seems reasonable until the long term results of large series about the laparoscopic treatment of ovarian cancer become available."}
{"id": "9264732", "title": "[A preoperative diagnostic concept for determining the extent of laparoscopic surgery of the adnexa].", "content": "[A preoperative diagnostic concept for determining the extent of laparoscopic surgery of the adnexa]. The operative laparoscopic therapy of pre- and postmenopausal adnexal tumors has become more and more important in routine gynecological surgery. Careful evaluation of malignancy criteria by preoperative diagnostics decides whether endosurgical treatment or laparotomy should be performed. Preoperative diagnostic measurements must secure a safe and efficient endosurgery without any negative financial impact due to unnecessary explorations. The proposed diagnostic concept offers maximal security with minimal investigations."}
{"id": "9263716", "title": "Laparoscopic management of gynecological malignancies.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of gynecological malignancies. The primary surgical management of endometrial and cervical carcinoma requires four operations: simple and radical hysterectomy, and pelvic and aortic lymphadenectomy. All these four operations can now be carried out laparoscopically with significant reduction in morbidity and among the patient population that develops these malignancies, namely, the elderly and the obese. Moreover, as judged by the number of nodes harvested and the proportion of positive nodes, the radicality of laparoscopic lymphadenectomy is equivalent to its 'open' counterpart. Thus, laparoscopic management is feasible in almost every patient who has carcinoma of the endometrium or cervix. Experience with the laparoscopic management of ovarian cancer is more limited. There has been concern that the increased frequency of cyst rupture makes laparoscopic management inappropriate, but cyst rupture per se does not impair survival provided patients are managed appropriately with adjuvant chemotherapy, and all but stage I, grade I ovarian cancer is treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Many patients who have stage II-IV disease can be satisfactorily 'debulked' laparoscopically, and a significant proportion of those who cannot be debulked primarily can be debulked laparoscopically after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The laparoscopic management of ovarian cancer promises to be the most active area of advance over the next few years."}
{"id": "9262302", "title": "Successful oocyte donation after stage 1C serous ovarian cancer.", "content": "Successful oocyte donation after stage 1C serous ovarian cancer. A stage 1C serous epithelial cancer was discovered and treated during laparoscopy performed for infertility investigation. An immediate in-vitro fertilization (IVF) was scheduled to obtain frozen embryos. Oncological treatment was then completed by radical surgery (with uterine conservation) and chemotherapy. Two years later, the thawed embryos were unsuccessfully transferred. However, following oocyte donation, the patient became pregnant and delivered two babies. From this observation, the authors discuss the strategy required in cases of early ovarian cancer associated with infertility."}
{"id": "9243202", "title": "Indications of laparoscopic hysterectomy.", "content": "Indications of laparoscopic hysterectomy. To determine when vaginal hysterectomy is contra-indicated and abdominal hysterectomy should be performed. To assess when laparoscopic surgery can avoid the abdominal procedure, and to determine the indications of this new technique in case of benign uterine lesions without prolapse. A retrospective study of 171 hysterectomies performed by the same surgeon for benign uterine lesions without prolapse. When possible the vaginal route was chosen and the following criteria were studied: indication for hysterectomy, previous surgery, uterine weight, duration of the procedure, intra- and post-operative bleeding, complications and recovery time. Statistical analysis was performed using the Chi2 test and the Fisher's exact test when appropriate with a level of significance of p < 0.05. One hundred and nine vaginal (60.4%) and 62 abdominal (39.6%) hysterectomies were performed and the main indication was menometrorrhagia (respectively 97 (89%) and 49 (79%) cases). The indication for abdominal surgery was an enlarged uterus in 47 patients (76%). In 10 cases (6%) laparoscopy was indicated because of severe endometriosis, previous abdominal surgery or a suspect adnexal cyst. No complications occurred in either group. The duration of the procedure, blood loss and recovery time were lower in the vaginal group (p < 0.05). Uterine volume limits vaginal hysterectomy, and this cannot be overcome by laparoscopic surgery. Only severe adhesions and endometriosis are more amenable to laparoscopic hysterectomy. The laparoscopic hysterectomy rate should not reasonably exceed 10 to 15%, yet is as high as 63% in some studies. Further studies are needed to determine the value of laparoscopic hysterectomy relative to the vaginal route."}
{"id": "9240618", "title": "The preoperative evaluation of ovarian tumors can be improved?", "content": "The preoperative evaluation of ovarian tumors can be improved?"}
{"id": "9240592", "title": "A randomized prospective study of laparoscopy and laparotomy in the management of benign ovarian masses.", "content": "A randomized prospective study of laparoscopy and laparotomy in the management of benign ovarian masses. Our purpose was to compare the results of laparoscopy with laparotomy in the management of ovarian masses not suspected to be malignant. In a prospective randomized study 102 patients requiring surgical management of ovarian masses were randomly assigned to laparoscopy (52) or laparotomy (50) in a teaching hospital from July 1994 to September 1995. Inclusion criteria was tumor not suspected to be malignant with a diameter of < or = 10 cm as measured by ultrasonography. All operations were performed by trainees under the supervision of an experienced surgeon. Statistical analysis included t tests and chi2 tests. There were no differences in demographic characteristics between the two groups nor any difference in the size of ovarian masses, adnexal adhesion score, or frequency of bilateral disease. All the ovarian masses were benign. Endometriotic cysts and dermoid cysts were the most common disorder in the two groups. Cystectomy was performed in > 70% of cases in each group. Operating time was not increased with the laparoscopic approach, and the frequency of inadvertent rupture of the ovarian masses was just as high as in laparotomy. The laparoscopic approach was associated with a significant reduction in operative morbidity (odds ratio 0.34, 95% confidence interval 0.13 to 0.88), postoperative pain and analgesic requirement, hospital stay, and recovery period. Patients in general were satisfied with the operation, but significantly more patients were satisfied with the laparoscopy scar. Operative laparoscopy should replace laparotomy in the management of benign ovarian masses."}
{"id": "9234937", "title": "Port site metastasis after laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy for endometrial cancer: possible mechanisms and prevention.", "content": "Port site metastasis after laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy for endometrial cancer: possible mechanisms and prevention. Only 19 cases of metastases at the cannula insertion site after laparoscopy for gynecological malignancy have been reported in the literature. One case has been diagnosed with cervical squamous cell carcinoma, whereas the others have been diagnosed with ovarian cancer and borderline ovarian tumor. We present a novel case of laparoscopy-site abdominal wall metastasis from endometrial cancer after laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy (LAVH). The 56-year-old female patient exhibited metastases of an abdominal wall trocar site and a perineal site after undergoing LAVH and laparoscopic-assisted (LA) bilateral pelvic lymph node sampling as well as LA para-aortic lymph node sampling for treating endometrial carcinoma, surgical staging IIIC, G3. The interval between the surgical extirpation of endometrial carcinoma and diagnosis of the tumor recurrence was 6 months, suggesting that overmanipulation of the diseased organ during laparoscopic surgery may have resulted in tumor spillage, intraperitoneal dissemination, and wound contamination. Although this procedure has been proven beneficial to patients with benign disease or early-stage gynecologic malignancies, laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy may not be efficacious to eradicate advanced gynecological malignancy."}
{"id": "9233893", "title": "Infiltrative subcutaneous metastases from ovarian carcinoma after paracentesis: CT findings.", "content": "Infiltrative subcutaneous metastases from ovarian carcinoma after paracentesis: CT findings. Implantation subcutaneous metastases from ovarian cancer are an uncommon event in surgery, and diagnostic procedures such as laparoscopy, fine-needle biopsy, and intraperitoneal catheter access are usually used. Findings of tumor implantations are rarely reported with diagnostic imaging techniques. In this case, an infiltrative subcutaneous metastasis appeared on computed tomography 4 months after paracentesis in a patient with untreated ovarian cancer. Differential diagnostic problems are discussed."}
{"id": "9224588", "title": "Laparoscopic removal of virilizing hilar cell tumor in a postmenopausal patient.", "content": "Laparoscopic removal of virilizing hilar cell tumor in a postmenopausal patient. A postmenopausal woman experienced rapidly progressing hirsutism and signs of virilization. Hormone evaluations showed markedly elevated serum testosterone levels and no evidence of excess cortisol or dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate production. A computerized tomographic scan of the adrenals and ovaries was normal, and transvaginal ultrasound revealed a left ovary with a maximum diameter of 3.2 cm. At outpatient laparoscopic bilateral oophorectomy, the left ovary had a benign, 2.5-cm Leydig cell tumor, hilar cell variant. Laparoscopy may be useful in the diagnosis and treatment of select cases of virilizing tumors of the ovary."}
{"id": "9222473", "title": "Pre and intraoperative diagnosis of ovarian tumours: how accurate are we?", "content": "Pre and intraoperative diagnosis of ovarian tumours: how accurate are we? In the assessment of malignant potential of ovarian tumours, frozen section has been found to be accurate in 97.1% (168 of 173) of cases. The positive predictive value of frozen section in the diagnosis of a malignant lesion was 100% (34 of 34). Errors were mainly made in the diagnosis of borderline tumours with a predictive value of 87.5% (7 of 8). The negative predictive value was 98.4% (127 of 129). Frozen section however, was less accurate in the diagnosis of specific histological type with an accuracy rate of 91.9% (159 of 173). Macroscopic features were found to be useful in the intraoperative prediction of malignant potential. Completely cystic tumours were benign in 96.4% (108 of 167) of cases. Solid/cystic tumors were malignant in 69% (27 of 38) of cases. Completely solid tumours were malignant in 56% (9 of 16) of cases. Frozen section in completely cystic tumours only marginally improved the clinical macroscopic diagnosis of malignancy. The sensitivity and specificity of ultrasound scan in the diagnosis of malignant/borderline tumours were 82% and 86% respectively. The false negative rate of 7% makes laparoscopic excision of unsuspected malignant ovarian cyst a significant possibility. The predictive value of ultrasound scan in the diagnosis of malignant ovarian tumour was 62% (26 of 42). In the preoperative assessment of malignant potential of ovarian tumours, this study shows that ultrasound scan has a high false positive and a significant false negative rate. Careful intraoperative assessment of gross features and the use of frozen section especially in those with solid/cystic and solid tumours will help achieve a high accuracy rate in the assessment of ovarian tumours."}
{"id": "9209664", "title": "Phase II study of the combination carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients with ovarian cancer.", "content": "Phase II study of the combination carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients with ovarian cancer. Recently the feasibility of combining carboplatin with paclitaxel has been demonstrated in dose-finding studies. Maximum tolerated doses were 550 mg/m2 and 200 mg/m2 (three hours), respectively. We report now a phase II study in ovarian cancer patients. Twenty-one chemo-na\u00efve patients with optimally (n = 6) or suboptimally (n = 15) debulked stage III or IV ovarian cancer were treated every three weeks for six courses with paclitaxel (200 mg/m2) as a three-hour infusion, immediately followed by carboplatin (550 mg/m2) as a 30-minute infusion. Uncomplicated neutropenia was the principal toxicity, with mild anemia occurring regularly. As observed in the preceding phase I study, a relative lack of thrombocytopenia, generally grade III was found. Other toxicities consisted of mild neurotoxicity, nausea and vomiting, alopecia, myalgia, and bone pain. All suboptimally debulked patients responded to therapy. Overall, 12 patients underwent second-look laparoscopy, which revealed a pathologically confirmed complete remission in six. The median follow-up interval at the time of analysis was 14 months. Twelve patients are currently free of progression, at 8+ to 19 +/- months after the start of therapy. The carboplatin/paclitaxel combination appears to be a well-tolerated regimen, yielding high response rates. This combination has now gone forward to be evaluated in prospective randomized trials versus the cisplatin/paclitaxel combination."}
{"id": "9207813", "title": "Endovaginal sonography for the diagnosis of upper genital tract infection.", "content": "Endovaginal sonography for the diagnosis of upper genital tract infection. To determine the clinical utility of transvaginal sonography for the diagnosis of upper genital tract infection. Fifty-five women who either met the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's minimal criteria for acute pelvic inflammatory disease or were being seen for non-classic signs of upper genital tract infection were evaluated. During abdominal and endovaginal ultrasound testing, fluid in the cul-de-sac, discrete tubes with or without tubal fluid, multicystic ovaries, and adnexal masses were noted. Upper genital tract infection was confirmed by laparoscopic visualization or histologic or microbiologic evidence of salpingitis of endometritis. The specificity of identifying fallopian tubes with or without intraluminal fluid on ultrasound was 97% (35 of 36); the sensitivity, however, was only 32% (six of 19). Calculated using Bayes theorem and based on a prevalence rate of 50%, the positive predictive value of visualizing fallopian tubes was 91%. The sensitivities associated with the visualization of a multicystic ovary or tubo-ovarian abscess were 42% (eight of 19) and 32% (six of 19), with specificities of 86% (31 of 36) and 97%, (35 of 36), and positive predictive values of 75% and 91%, respectively. Cul-de-sac fluid was associated with low sensitivity (37%; seven of 19), low specificity (58%; 21 of 36), and the lowest positive predictive value (47%). Endovaginal sonography has limited clinical utility in the diagnosis of upper genital tract infection due to its low sensitivity."}
{"id": "9197457", "title": "Bilateral ovarian leiomyoma.", "content": "Bilateral ovarian leiomyoma."}
{"id": "9194283", "title": "Prophylactic laparoscopic ovarian ablation for premenopausal breast cancer: medical and economic efficacy.", "content": "Prophylactic laparoscopic ovarian ablation for premenopausal breast cancer: medical and economic efficacy. Worldwide analysis showed a highly significant reduction in the annual rates both of recurrence and of death produced by ovarian ablation. We examined the safety, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness of prophylactic laparoscopic oophorectomy for premenopausal breast cancer. Prophylactic laparoscopic oophorectomy was attempted in 15 selected premenopausal patients with breast cancer. After mastectomy, these patients had laparoscopic ovarian ablation as treatment for breast carcinoma with positive estrogen receptors. To evaluate the economic impact of laparoscopic oophorectomy, comparisons were made between patients treated laparoscopically and those treated with conventional surgery, chemotherapy, and hormonal therapy. The average time required for laparoscopic bilateral oophorectomy was 44 min. Oral intake was resumed the next morning, and the patients were discharged 3 days after surgery. No limitation on physical activity and no complications were required during postoperative days. There was no reduction in the overall costs of laparoscopic surgery and conventional surgery in Japan. The cost of one year's supply of tamoxifen was equivalent to the overall cost of surgical oophorectomy. From medical and economic viewpoints, we conclude that laparoscopic ovarian ablation should be considered an alternative to adjuvant chemotherapy in premenopausal women."}
{"id": "9190966", "title": "Transvaginal sonography as a screening method for the detection of early ovarian cancer.", "content": "Transvaginal sonography as a screening method for the detection of early ovarian cancer. From December 1987 to December 1993, 6470 women underwent screening with transvaginal sonography (TVS) as part of the University of Kentucky Ovarian Cancer Screening Project. Two groups of women were eligible to participate in this investigation: (i) asymptomatic postmenopausal patients or patients >50 years of age, and (ii) asymptomatic women >30 years of age with a family history of ovarian cancer. Ovarian volume was calculated using the prolate ellipsoid formula (length x height x width x 0.523). An abnormal sonogram was defined by (1) an ovarian volume >10 cm3 in postmenopausal women or >20 cm3 in premenopausal women, and (2) a papillary or complex tissue projection into a cystic ovarian tumor. All women with an abnormal TVS had a repeat sonogram in 4-6 weeks. Patients with persistently abnormal scans had a serum CA-125 determination, tumor morphology indexing, and color Doppler sonography. Ninety patients (1.4%) with a persisting abnormality on TVS underwent exploratory laparotomy or laparoscopy for tumor removal. Thirty-seven patients had serous cystadenomas and six had primary ovarian cancers. Five patients had Stage IA ovarian cancer and one patient had Stage IIIB disease. Only one of the ovarian cancer patients had a palpable abnormality on pelvic examination, and none had an elevated (>35 u/ml) serum CA-125. All these patients are presently alive and well 1-5 years after conventional therapy. There was one false negative in this study, a 38-year-old white female who was noted to have a small ovarian cancer at the time of laparoscopic prophylactic oophorectomy 11 months after a normal scan. Over 17,000 screening years have been accrued and there have been no deaths from primary ovarian cancer in the screened population. A cost analysis of TVS screening is presented."}
{"id": "9179805", "title": "Tuboovarian abscess in the adolescent.", "content": "Tuboovarian abscess in the adolescent. Tuboovarian abscess is a serious consequence of pelvic inflammatory disease, especially in the adolescent population. Early diagnosis and treatment are essential to prevent further sequelae including infertility, ectopic pregnancy, and chronic pelvic pain. Not all patients, however, present with pelvic pain, pelvic mass, fever, and leukocytosis. We present the case of a sexually active 15-year-old black girl who presented with mild abdominal pain and excessive vaginal bleeding without pelvic mass, fever, or leukocytosis. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 66 mm/h. Pelvic ultrasound revealed bilateral complex ovarian masses. At laparoscopy, the patient had bilateral tuboovarian abscesses with extensive adhesions to the pelvic side walls. This case illustrates the need for a high index of suspicion of tuboovarian abscess in sexually active adolescents."}
{"id": "9175688", "title": "Salpingo-oophorectomy for adnexal masses. Place and results for operative laparoscopy.", "content": "Salpingo-oophorectomy for adnexal masses. Place and results for operative laparoscopy. The aim of the study is to specify the place, modalities and results of operative laparoscopy when adnexectomy is indicated in a patient presenting with an adnexal mass. A retrospective analysis of the 186 patients who underwent adnexectomy for an adnexal mass between January 1, 1989 and December 31, 1994. The operation took place via laparotomy in 34.9% of cases (65 patients) and by laparoscopic surgery in 65.1% of cases (121 patients). All the patients presenting a malignant ovarian lesion (15 cases) were operated by laparotomy. For these patients the laparotomy was decided from the outset in 7 cases and there was a conversion to laparotomy decided during the diagnostic phase of laparoscopy in 8 cases. The preoperative workup (clinical examination, study of past history, trans vaginal ultrasonography, doppler, tumoral markers etc.) together with the diagnostic phase of laparoscopy provide 100% sensitivity, a positive predictive value of 50% and a negative predictive value of 100% for diagnosis of malignancy. These results demonstrate that provided a strict selection system is used, it is possible to carry out adnexectomy using laparoscopic surgery in 70.8% of cases (121/171) for patients with benign adnexal mass."}
{"id": "9166300", "title": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses suspicious at ultrasound.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses suspicious at ultrasound. To evaluate the laparoscopic management of adnexal masses suspicious at ultrasound. In a prospective study, adnexal masses suspicious at ultrasound were managed by laparoscopy. Indications for laparotomy included general contraindications to laparoscopy, obviously disseminated ovarian cancer, and technically impossible laparoscopic treatment. After laparoscopic diagnosis, frozen sections were used to confirm a diagnosis of malignancy. Treatment was performed by laparoscopy whenever feasible. Over a 3-year period, 247 of the 599 adnexal masses (41.2%) treated in our department were suspicious or solid at ultrasound. Seventeen patients were evaluated by laparotomy and 230 by laparoscopy. Overall, 204 women (82.6%) were treated by laparoscopy, including seven of the 37 malignant tumors (18.9%) and 197 of the 210 benign masses (93.8%). One case of tumor dissemination occurred after a laparoscopic adnexectomy and morcellation of a grade 1 immature teratoma. Laparoscopic diagnosis of adnexal masses suspicious at ultrasound avoids many laparotomies for the treatment of benign masses and allows an improved inspection of the upper abdomen. The laparoscopic treatment of adnexal masses suspicious at surgery should be evaluated further in carefully designed prospective studies."}
{"id": "9164207", "title": "Phase I and pharmacologic study of the combination paclitaxel and carboplatin as first-line chemotherapy in stage III and IV ovarian cancer.", "content": "Phase I and pharmacologic study of the combination paclitaxel and carboplatin as first-line chemotherapy in stage III and IV ovarian cancer. To determine the maximum-tolerated dose for the combination paclitaxel and carboplatin administered every 4 weeks and to gain more insight into the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of this combination in previously untreated ovarian cancer patients. Thirty-five chemotherapy-naive patients with suboptimally debulked stage III (tumor masses > 3 cm) and stage IV ovarian cancer were entered onto this phase I trial in which paclitaxel was administered as a 3-hour intravenous (IV) infusion at dosages of 125 to 225 mg/m2 immediately followed by carboplatin over 30 minutes at dosages of 300 to 600 mg/m2. A total of six courses was planned, followed by a second-look laparoscopy/laparotomy. Patients with a response and/or minimal residual disease at second-look laparoscopy received three additional courses. Twenty-six patients participated in the pharmacokinetic part of the study. The most important hematologic toxicity encountered was neutropenia. Neutropenia was more pronounced for the higher dose levels (DLs) and was cumulative. Thrombocytopenia was mild in the first eight DLs, but increased during the treatment courses. Nonhematologic toxicities consisted mainly of vomiting, neuropathy, fatigue, rash, pruritus, myalgia, and arthralgia. Dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) in this trial were neutropenic fever, thrombocytopenia that required platelet transfusions, and cumulative neuropathy. Of 33 patients assessable for response, 26 major responders (78%, 20 complete response [CR] and six partial response [PR]) were documented. The maximal concentration (Cmax) of paclitaxel and the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) were not different from the historical data for paclitaxel as a single agent. Retrospective analysis using a modified Calvert formula showed that the measured carboplatin AUCs in plasma ultrafiltrate (pUF) were 30% +/- 3.4% less than the calculated carboplatin AUC. Neutropenia was more pronounced than could be expected on the basis of the historical times above a threshold concentration greater than 0.1 mumol/L (T > or = 0.1 mumol/L) or 0.05 mumol/L (T > or = 0.05 mumol/L), and thrombocytopenia was less than could be expected from historical sigmoidal Emax models. The combination of paclitaxel 200 mg/ m2 and carboplatin 550 mg/m2 every 4 weeks is a well-tolerated treatment modality. The paclitaxel-carboplatin combination is highly active in stage III (bulky) and stage IV ovarian cancer. No indications for a pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction between carboplatin and paclitaxel were found."}
{"id": "9156868", "title": "Wandering calcified ovary in children.", "content": "Wandering calcified ovary in children. A case of a mobile, calcified, intrapelvic mass representing an autoamputated ovary in an asymptomatic girl is presented. There was no previous history of acute abdominal pain indicating possible torsion of the adnexa. The diagnosis should be suspected when radiological investigations show a freely mobile, calcified intraperitoneal mass incidentally in young females with absent adnexa. The diagnostic and therapeutic role of laparoscopy in this case is emphasised."}
{"id": "9156710", "title": "[Treatment of ovarian cysts by laparoscopy].", "content": "[Treatment of ovarian cysts by laparoscopy]. to define limits, risks and results in the long term of laparoscopic treatment of ovarian tumors. retrospective study of adnexal tumors managed initially by laparoscopy from January 1986 to December 1992, among which 9 cancers, 25 borderline tumors, and 769 benign lesions. The ultrasonographic appearance was known for 698 of 803 lesions. 86 patients were postmenopausal (92 lesions). we treated 191 functional cysts, 160 serous cystadenomas, 178 endometriomas, 105 dermoid cysts, 39 mucinous cystadenomas and 96 miscellaneous lesions among which fibrothecomas, paraadnexal cysts, ovarian pregnancies, ovarian abscess. There is a great diversity of ultrasonographic patterns for a same histological type, specially for functional cysts and borderline tumors. Laparoscopic exploration has misdiagnosed two cancers and 10 borderline tumors and considered wrongly as suspects 19 benign lesions. 714 procedures have been led to term by laparoscopy, 89 have been ended by laparotomy, 26 for suspicion of malignancy and 50 for dissection failure. 27 postoperative complications have been counted among which 2 grafts on trocard sites after non protected extraction of one dermoid cyst and one borderline tumor. ultrasonographic appearance could not predict reliably the organic or functional nor benign or malignant character of an adnexal mass. Even careful laparoscopic examination can underestimate early stage ovarian cancer or borderline tumors. When diagnosed during or after laparoscopic procedure an ovarian cancer should always be managed by laparotomy. On the other hand, some borderline tumors can be treated by exclusive laparoscopy. When malignancy is suspected, an adnexectomy can be performed laparoscopically as a biopsy and allows a quick and appropriate treatment after paraffin-embedded sections. Both intraperitoneal and transparietal techniques have a minimal morbidity and allow a feasibility of more than 90%. The management of postmenopausal ovarian tumors differs only by the use of systematic oophorectomy if surgical procedure is indicated."}
{"id": "9138957", "title": "A combined Doppler and morphopathological study of ovarian tumors.", "content": "A combined Doppler and morphopathological study of ovarian tumors. To evaluate intratumoral blood flow in 46 patients with ovarian masses. Transvaginal color Doppler was carried out in each patient prior to the laparoscopy or laparotomy. Tumors were analyzed according to the size, morphology, presence of the neovascularization, configuration and distribution of the tumoral blood vessels and pattern of the intratumoral blood flow. Vascular patterns of surgically removed tumors were studied microscopically. Three types of vasculature were analyzed: neovascular capillaries without media, sinusoidal thin walled spaces and normal vessels' morphology. The RI (resistance index) values were analyzed in relation to gross appearance, histological type of the tumor, existence of inflammation/necrosis area and vascularization pattern of the tumor. Neovascularization was found in all the malignant tumors with low RI (less than 0.42) and solid or solid cystic gross morphology. Neovascular signals were obtained in only one patient with ovarian endometrioma. Sinusoidal spaces were identified in all the malignant ovarian tumors, but also in most of the benign lesions. Normal vessel morphology was identified in 60% of malignant ovarian tumors and in all the patients with benign ovarian lesions. There is a significant correlation between Doppler and histopathological studies in terms of vascularization pattern analysis (detection of neovascular capillaries, sinusoidal spaces and normal vessels morphology). In most of the malignant ovarian tumors there were few areas of vascularization which can be analyzed non-invasively by transvaginal color and pulsed Doppler ultrasound."}
{"id": "9133147", "title": "[During laparoscopy undetected perforation of the small intestine. Modern possibilities for prevention with Visiport and Minioptik].", "content": "[During laparoscopy undetected perforation of the small intestine. Modern possibilities for prevention with Visiport and Minioptik]. The postoperative course of a not recognized perforation of the small bowel will be reported. The patient underwent a control-laparoscopy because of ovarian cancer following radical surgery and postoperative chemotherapy. Prevention possibilities with the use of the Minioptik (Storz) and Visiport (Auto Suture) are described."}
{"id": "9103387", "title": "Unusual features of serous neoplasms of low malignant potential during pregnancy.", "content": "Unusual features of serous neoplasms of low malignant potential during pregnancy. Ten serous neoplasms of low malignant potential (LMP) resected during pregnancy were found in the files of the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center (UTMDACC). Microscopically, all tumors had marked epithelial proliferation with abundant eosinophilic cells, and eight had intraluminal mucin. Multiple areas of microinvasion were found in eight cases. Additional unusual features were found in three cases. One patient presented with a serous LMP tumor in a supraclavicular lymph node. After resection of an ovarian serous LMP tumor, she was treated with chemotherapy and is without evidence of disease after 21 years. One patient had tumor resected at 24 weeks of gestation and at 2 months postpartum. Marked regression of the epithelial proliferation, the number of eosinophilic cells, and the amount of mucin was seen in the second specimen. Another patient had multiple peritoneal nodules at cesarean section, one of which was biopsied and diagnosed as a primary serous LMP of the peritoneum with multiple areas of microinvasion. Two months later a diagnostic laparoscopy was performed and no residual disease was found. All patients are alive with no evidence of disease. In summary, serous LMP tumors during pregnancy have microscopic and clinical features suggesting aggressive behavior; however, these features appear to regress at the termination of the pregnancy."}
{"id": "9091337", "title": "Genital tuberculosis--a major pelvic factor causing infertility in Indian women.", "content": "Genital tuberculosis--a major pelvic factor causing infertility in Indian women. To study the effect of tuberculosis, a common infectious disease in the Indian subcontinent, on the female pelvic factor and its subsequent effect on female fertility. Retrospective case studies. Department of Infertility Management and Assisted Reproduction, Jaslok Hospital and Research Centre, Bombay, India. Three hundred women, between the ages of 25 and 35 years, with tubal factor as a cause of their infertile state. One hundred seventeen women with a tubal factor were found to have tuberculosis as the cause of tubal blockage. On laparoscopy, 49.5% were found to have simple tubal blockage, 15.3% showed tubo-ovarian masses, and 23.9% had a frozen pelvis. Seventy-five percent complained of menstrual irregularities, thus indicating endometrial involvement; 25.6% of these women underwent an IVF procedure. The pregnancy rate after IVF-ET was 16.6% per transfer. This study highlights the fact that tuberculosis, a chronic infectious disease, is one of the major etiologic factors of female tubal infertility, especially on the Indian subcontinent."}
{"id": "9091020", "title": "Clinical effect of meso-tetrahydroxyphenylchlorine based photodynamic therapy in recurrent carcinoma of the ovary: preliminary results.", "content": "Clinical effect of meso-tetrahydroxyphenylchlorine based photodynamic therapy in recurrent carcinoma of the ovary: preliminary results. This article addresses the use of meso-tetrahydroxyphenylchlorin-based photodynamic therapy (m-THPC-PDT) to treat recurrent gynaecologic malignancies of the ovary. Photodynamic therapy is an experimental approach in the treatment of neoplasms and results indicate it is a highly tissue selective, relatively simple intervention with few side effects, therefore reducing the overall burden on the patient. Of the three patients involved in the initial study, two were treated solely with photodynamic therapy by laparoscopy, and one underwent additional palliative debulking surgery of metastatic tumours. After a post-operative period of more than two years all three women remained free of relapses."}
{"id": "9087286", "title": "[Endoscopic cancer surgery--uterine and ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Endoscopic cancer surgery--uterine and ovarian cancer]. In recent years, laparoscopic surgery, with its minimum invasiveness, has been introduced in the field of gynecology, and continues to spread rapidly in conjunction with the development of peripheral equipment. In Japan, however, its use has been limited to patients with benign tumors. In a number of other countries, there are specialists now attempting to apply this technology to malignant tumors. The number of case studies is still small, making evaluation difficult, thus we will consider its effectiveness through a study of the literature."}
{"id": "9076424", "title": "Gray scale sonography, subjective evaluation of the color Doppler image and measurement of blood flow velocity for distinguishing benign and malignant tumors of suspected adnexal origin.", "content": "Gray scale sonography, subjective evaluation of the color Doppler image and measurement of blood flow velocity for distinguishing benign and malignant tumors of suspected adnexal origin. To compare the capacity of transvaginal Doppler ultrasound examination with that of gray scale sonography as an aid in distinguishing benign and malignant pelvic tumors of suspected adnexal origin. One hundred and fifty-one women scheduled for laparotomy or laparoscopic surgery because of a pelvic mass of suspected adnexal origin underwent ultrasound examination including color and spectral Doppler techniques within 8 days preceding the operation. Based on the gray scale ultrasound image, each tumor was classified as being either a unilocular cyst, a multilocular cyst, a unilocular cyst with solid parts, a multilocular cyst with solid parts or a solid tumor. Tumor vascularization was visualized with the color Doppler technique, each tumor being characterized by the color content of the scan, as rated subjectively on a visual analogue scale ('tumor color score'). Blood flow velocity waveforms were obtained by placing the Doppler gate over the colored area with the tumor. The blood flow velocity waveform with the highest time averaged maximum velocity was used to characterize the tumor . The results of gray scale imaging and Doppler ultrasound examination were compared with the histology of the specimen. Ultrasound morphology correctly identified all the malignant tumors, with a false-positive rate of 61%; none of the 49 unilocular or multilocular cysts without solid parts was malignant, whereas 24% (24/102) of the tumors with solid components were. Among multilocular cysts with solid parts, both tumor color scores and time average maximum blood flow velocities were significantly higher in malignant than in benign tumors, but among solid tumors there was complete overlap in Doppler results between the malignant and benign subgroups. Using Doppler examination to discriminate between benign and malignant multilocular cysts with solid parts and ultrasound morphology for differentiation of the remaining tumors, all the malignancies in the study were detected with a false-positive rate of 32 or 38% depending on which Doppler variable was used. The present technique of Doppler ultrasound examination is helpful only in the differential diagnosis of multilocular cysts with solid parts. Therefore, the degree to which Doppler examination can contribute to the differential diagnosis of pelvic tumors will depend on the proportion of multilocular cysts with solid parts in the population studied: the greater this proportion, the greater the potential of the Doppler examination to improve diagnostic accuracy."}
{"id": "9070692", "title": "Should prophylactic oophorectomy be performed on post-menopausal women undergoing laparotomy or laparoscopy for non-gynaecological indications?", "content": "Should prophylactic oophorectomy be performed on post-menopausal women undergoing laparotomy or laparoscopy for non-gynaecological indications?"}
{"id": "9062161", "title": "An umbilical metastasis after laparoscopy for squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix.", "content": "An umbilical metastasis after laparoscopy for squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix. Laparoscopic surgical techniques are being used with increasing frequency in patients with gynecologic malignancies. Abdominal wall metastases to trochar sites have been described after treatment for ovarian cancer and other adenocarcinomas but are very rare in patients with squamous cell carcinomas. We present a case of metastasis to a laparoscopic trochar site in a patient with squamous cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix. While this may be an unusual event, there is some concern that laparoscopy could disseminate otherwise isolated pelvic disease."}
{"id": "9060538", "title": "Surgical second look in ovarian cancer: a randomized study in patients with laparoscopic complete remission--a Northeastern Oncology Cooperative Group-Ovarian Cancer Cooperative Group Study.", "content": "Surgical second look in ovarian cancer: a randomized study in patients with laparoscopic complete remission--a Northeastern Oncology Cooperative Group-Ovarian Cancer Cooperative Group Study. The usefulness of extensive and repetitive surgery for patients with ovarian cancer still remains unproven (at least for some conditions). We planned an accurate prospective test of the hypothesis that patients with advanced-stage disease, after they had reached a clinical complete remission (CR), may benefit from surgical second look (SSL). One hundred two patients in CR (as assessed by clinical findings, markers, and visualization by computed tomographic [CT] scan and laparoscopy), after initial debulking and first-line chemotherapy, were randomized to two arms, which were well balanced for predictive criteria such as age, stage at presentation, histology, grading, date of randomization, and residua after first surgery. Forty-eight patients were randomly assigned to receive follow-up evaluation only, while 54 were assigned to receive second surgery (eight of them refused). Of 46 surgical patients, 35 had negative and 11 positive surgical findings (24% clinically false-negative). Despite the microscopic residua found at open surgery, and the fact that the patients were then treated with second-line chemotherapy, SSL did not increase the probability of survival in this setting. In an analysis of the results according to the intention-to-treat criteria, after a 60-month follow-up period, the overall survival rates in the two groups of patients (SSL v no SSL) were 65% and 78%, respectively (P = .14). Multivariate analysis according to predictive criteria confirmed there was no significant difference between the two groups (P = .39). Our study shows the following: (1) our second-line treatment is scarcely effective; (2) SSL accurately defines complete responders to first-line chemotherapy; (3) SSL per se does not prolong survival; and (4) if confirmed, a less invasive procedure could replace SSL as a valuable method in new first-line regimens in ovarian cancer patients with clinical CR confirmed by laparoscopy."}
{"id": "9050740", "title": "Laparoscopic excision of pelvic masses during pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic excision of pelvic masses during pregnancy. Ovarian neoplasms are infrequently found during early pregnancy and are typically benign corpus luteum cysts that regress. When a large mass persists or enlarges, surgical evaluation is mandated, preferably in the second trimester. To prevent the morbidity of a laparotomy and minimize length of stay, operative laparoscopy was performed on two pregnant women, gestational ages 18 and 15 weeks, with large ovarian tumors ranging in size from 10 to 18 cm. Laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy was successful in both patients, and frozen section confirmed the benign nature of the tumors. There were no complications and both pregnancies were continuing at the time of writing."}
{"id": "9050730", "title": "Safe and cost-effective laparoscopic removal of adnexal masses.", "content": "Safe and cost-effective laparoscopic removal of adnexal masses. To evaluate laparoscopic removal of adnexal masses using a plastic bag to avoid peritoneal spillage. An observational study. A university-affiliated private hospital. Thirty-one women (mean age 48.7 yrs) with adnexal masses. Laparoscopic removal of adnexal masses ranging from 3 to 12 cm (18 complex, 5 septated cystic masses, 8 persistent simple cysts). The masses were placed in plastic sandwich bag and removed through the umbilical incision. Hospital costs, length of stay and operating times were compared with those of 24 patients undergoing the removal of similar masses by laparotomy. Three masses were functional cysts, 4 were tubal cysts, 4 were endometriomas, and 20 were benign ovarian neoplasms. There were no malignancies. Peritoneal spillage occurred during one ovarian cystectomy. The only complication was bleeding from the cannula site. Comparing laparoscopy and laparotomy, average operating time was 73.45 minutes (range 34-148 min) and 81 minutes, average length of hospital stay was 17.4 hours (range 6-73 hrs) and 2.92 days, and average hospital cost was $2401 and $3539, respectively. Laparoscopic access provides a cost-effective method of removing adnexal masses with a very small risk of peritoneal spillage. When managed in this manner, rather than laparotomy, the cost reduction was significant."}
{"id": "9049293", "title": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal mass during pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal mass during pregnancy. To assess the use of laparoscopy in the management of persistent adnexal mass during the second trimester of pregnancy. Six consecutive pregnant women undergoing laparoscopic surgery for persistent adnexal masses in the second trimester. Laparoscopic removal of an adnexal mass was successfully performed in all patients. The median operating time was 37.5 minutes. There were no intra- and post-operative complications. Tocolytic therapy was not required and no patients developed uterine contractions. All patients delivered normal infants vaginally at term without complications. With attention to the surgical technique, laparoscopic removal of persistent adnexal mass during the second trimester of pregnancy is safe and carries the same benefits over laparotomy as in non-pregnant women."}
{"id": "15717442", "title": "Diagnosis and management of organic ovarian cysts: indications and procedures for laparoscopy.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of organic ovarian cysts: indications and procedures for laparoscopy. In the field of gynaecological surgery, the past few years have been significant due to the development of operative laparoscopy. Originally recommended for the diagnosis of female infertility, over the past 15 years laparoscopy has acquired the standing of a surgical discipline in its own right. Laparoscopic surgical treatment of ovarian cysts, whether conservative or radical, has now been completely standardized. The aim of this work is to specify the indications, procedures and risks involved with this surgery as applied to organic ovarian cysts. Only benign ovarian cysts are suitable for treatment by laparoscopic surgery; ovarian cancer must always be handled by classic surgery using a mid-line laparotomy. Given that clinical and other pre-operative investigations can give only an indication, ovarian lesions require surgical investigation to diagnose the histological type. Laparoscopy appears to be as reliable as laparotomy when assessing whether an ovarian tumour is malignant. The risk of parietal contamination and peritoneal dissemination if a malignancy is not recognized means that, if there are no signs of extra-ovarian extension, adnexectomy is mandatory whenever there is the slightest doubt. This adnexectomy must obey two important rules: it must be accomplished without rupturing the cyst, and the cyst must be placed, intact, inside an endoscopic bag before being extracted. Provided that all stages of the procedure, from pre-operative work-up to the initial diagnostic phase of the laparoscopy, are carried out meticulously, laparoscopic surgery is reliable for both the diagnosis and the management of benign organic-ovarian cysts."}
{"id": "15717440", "title": "Modern surgical approaches to female reproductive tract.", "content": "Modern surgical approaches to female reproductive tract. Laparoscopic and hysteroscopic surgery have changed the management of many gynaecological disorders. Procedures that previously required a long duration of hospitalization can now be done on an outpatient basis or with a short hospital stay. Surgical treatment remains the definitive and universal treatment of ectopic pregnancy and it can be safely done by laparoscopy. Most reproductive operations are done by laparoscopy and the results appear to be similar to those obtained with laparotomy. Those needing a laparotomy will be better treated by in-vitro fertilization. Laparoscopic ovarian drilling is a viable alternative for infertile women with polycystic ovarian syndrome. Most ovarian cysts and endometriosis should be treated by laparoscopy. Although uterine myomas can be removed by laparoscopy, the uterine integrity after the procedure is questionable. Surgery should be reserved for women who have completed their family or those with pedunculated or shallow intramural myomas. Alternatively, a laparoscopically assisted myomectomy can be done. For laparoscopic hysterectomies for benign lesions, supracervical hysterectomy appears to be a good option. Hysteroscopy has changed our management, particularly for abnormal uterine bleeding. A submucous myoma and polyp can be removed by hysteroscopy and, as an alternative to hysterectomy, endometrial ablation can be done. In the future, most procedures will be done by endoscopy and laparotomy will be reserved only for selected cases."}
{"id": "9679616", "title": "[Pseudomyxoma peritonei].", "content": "[Pseudomyxoma peritonei]. With reference to the clinical courses of three patients treated at the Department of Surgery, National Institute of Oncology, Budapest, the literature on the diagnosis and treatment of peritoneal pseudomyxoma has been reviewed. The disease is considered to be a rare low grade malignancy. Abdominal ultrasonography, computer tomography and laparoscopy are of significance in the diagnosis of this disease which is yet confirmed usually during surgery. The treatment is principally surgical, the results of chemotherapy are modest. The disease has a slow course and is susceptible to recurrence. Despite of early diagnosis and radical surgery cure can be reached rarely."}
{"id": "9275581", "title": "[Progresses in gynecology in China, 1996].", "content": "[Progresses in gynecology in China, 1996]."}
{"id": "9206164", "title": "[Analysis of complications following laparoscopic surgery].", "content": "[Analysis of complications following laparoscopic surgery]. To analysis the causes, management and prevention of complications following gynecological laparoscopic surgery. We analysed retrospectively the clinical data of 22 cases with complications following laparoscopic surgery performed from Sep 1992 to May 1994. The overall incidence of operative complications was 6.29% (22/350). Among them, 9 cases (including pneumoderma 6 and pneumo-omentum 3) were related to inappropriate CO2 insufflation. The other 10 cases were associated with bleeding, i.e. vessel injury 4 cases, hypodermal ecohymosis 5, and bleeding from the sutured site 1. The remaining 3 were omental or intestinal hernia of the incisional sites. One out of the 22 cases were turned to laparotomy. The outcomes of this group were all good. The occurrence of these complications was related to the doctors experiences and skills. Therefore, well-training and practice should be emphasized in order to avoid these complications."}
{"id": "9159256", "title": "Place and modalities of laparoscopy in surgical management of suspected adnexal masses.", "content": "Place and modalities of laparoscopy in surgical management of suspected adnexal masses. Only benign adnexal masses are suitable for treatment by operative laparoscopy. Ovarian cancer must always be managed by midline laparotomy. In our experience the preoperative workup (clinical examination, study of past history, trans vaginal ultrasonography, doppler, tumoral markers etc.) together with the diagnostic phase of laparoscopy provide a sensitivity value of 100%, a positive predictive value of 50% and a negative predictive value of 100% for diagnosis of malignancy. Provided a strict selection, laparoscopy is reliable both for the diagnosis and the management of benign ovarian masses."}
{"id": "9129133", "title": "Laparoscopy in gynaecological cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopy in gynaecological cancer. The use of laparoscopy in the management of gynaecological malignancies has significantly increased over the last 5 years. Patients with cervical, vaginal, endometrial and ovarian cancer can be managed laparoscopically either for staging or for treating. The feasibility of procedures through the laparoscope (such as hysterectomies, bilateral oophorectomies, pelvic and para aortic lymphadenectomies, omentectomies, colostomies, bowel resections, oophoropexies, radical hysterectomies and ovarian cancer debulking) has been demonstrated by skilled gynaecologists. Many of these procedures have been heralded as avant garde 'surgical standards' without appropriate evaluation of efficacy, effectiveness and efficiency. Larger series of patients have now replaced case reports to try to answer the numerous unanswered questions regarding the value of these procedures. Several prospective trials were begun to compare laparotomy and laparoscopy. If the results of these trials confirm the hope, laparoscopic management of gynaecological malignancies will leave the limited club of specialists to become a widely used technique. But the patients will benefit from laparoscopic procedures only when in the hands of well-trained surgeons."}
{"id": "9118426", "title": "Intralaparoscopic ultrasound and Doppler sonography in urology.", "content": "Intralaparoscopic ultrasound and Doppler sonography in urology. Common practice with intraoperative sonography during open surgery has demonstrated that ultrasounds supply important information that can help the urologist in decision making; in addition, the growing popularity of laparoscopy has underscored the importance of laparoscopic ultrasonography. Laparoscopic ultrasound combines the advantage of diagnostic laparoscopy and intraoperative contact ultrasonography. The authors report their experience with intralaparoscopic ultrasonography using a 7.5-MHz transesophageal probe in several paradigmatic urologic applications, in which intraoperative ultrasonography was employed to provide anatomical information, to supply efficiency in confirming and excluding anticipated or unexpected pathology, and to solve diagnostic problems using high-resolution, real-time, B-mode ultrasound. Intralaparoscopic ultrasound proves to be a simple, efficient procedure that provides useful information in order to help the urologist in intraoperative decision making."}
{"id": "9082236", "title": "[A rare case of primary abdominal actinomycosis].", "content": "[A rare case of primary abdominal actinomycosis]. The authors describe a case of primary abdominal actinomycosis operated on because of peritonitis sustained by a tubo-ovarian abscess. They discuss the pathogenesis of the case: the patient had been on intrauterine device contraception till two months earlier and had been operated on for breast cancer. Preoperative diagnosis is quite impossible and only the microscopic observation of the specimen can show the causative agent. Surgical options are reported, stressing the need for an adequate period of antimicrobial therapy. In September 1993 a 43-year-old female patient with cancer underwent left mastectomy followed by immediate reconstruction. 6 days passed without problems, but then she presented at the emergency ward with abundant exudation of serous material from the cicatrices. Microbiological test showed evidence of Staphylococcus epidermitis. Drainage of the skin and smooth muscle was performed and the secretion was immediately reduced and seemed to disappear in a short time. In the next 3 days fever arose accompanied by abdominal pain. Blood test showed leucocytosis (24,500 GB), increase of the suppressor lymphocytes (CD8) and the reduction of CD4/CD8 ratio. Abdominal-pelvic echogram showed evidence of an enlarged right adnexum as well as that of the homolateral tube, but no discharge of fluid in the pelvic cavity. Gynecological examination in this patient, who had worn an IUD two months prior, excluded lesions in the portio or vagina and the vaginal flora did not show fungi or parasites. Diagnostic laparoscopy followed, which demonstrated in the pelvic cavity a large para-uterine tumefaction. The pelvic organs were adhering to the parietal layer of the peritoneum and in the whole peritoneal cavity, including the interhepatic-diaphragmatic space, fibrin plaque and pus was observed. Laparotomy was performed, which confirmed a parauterine mass and a tubo-ovarian complex with numerous recesses containing fetid, grayish pus. Complete right adnexectomy was carried out with abundant lavage and multiple drainage of the peritoneal cavity. Subsequently, the abdominal situation improved, but a new examination of drained liquid showed the presence of cutaneous bacterial flora but no fungi or parasites. Ovarian actinomycotic abscess with acute peritonitis and salpingitis was demonstrated. Subsequent antibiotic therapy consisted of piperacilline for 15 days, and 4 months after the episode the patient was well without return of the foci of infection."}
{"id": "9065118", "title": "Laparoscopic management of benign cystic teratomas during pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of benign cystic teratomas during pregnancy. Our purpose was to evaluate the surgical management and outcome of laparoscopic removal of benign cystic teratomas during pregnancy. The records of women with benign cystic teratomas who were managed with operative laparoscopy during pregnancy were reviewed. Twelve women had laparoscopic removal of a benign cystic teratoma during pregnancy. Gestational ages at surgery ranged from 9 to 17 weeks, with a mean of 14 weeks. Cyst size ranged from 5 to 13 cm, with a mean of 8.5 cm. Intraoperative rupture of the cyst occurred in 10 of 12 (93%) women. No patient had evidence of chemical peritonitis. The mean operating time was 87 minutes and the mean postoperative hospital stay was 44 hours. No intraoperative or postoperative maternal or fetal complications occurred. Laparoscopic removal of a benign cystic teratoma of the ovary may be safely accomplished during pregnancy. In spite of a significant risk of cyst rupture, careful operative technique followed by copious irrigation of the pelvis may avoid chemical peritonitis and potential adverse sequelae."}
{"id": "9050665", "title": "Laparoscopic removal of a 103-pound ovarian tumor.", "content": "Laparoscopic removal of a 103-pound ovarian tumor. The surgical removal of extremely large abdominopelvic masses is associated with a high perioperative complication rate related to massive physiologic and anatomic distortions. The judicious use of minimally invasive techniques in carefully selected patients may diminish the convalescent stresses inherent to laparotomy. We removed a 103-pound benign, ovarian mucinous cystadenoma from a 22-year-old woman by laparoscopy. We believe this is the largest such tumor removed by this method, and it raises several issues relevant to the intraoperative and perioperative management of such neoplasms. Systematic laparoscopic drainage and excision of extremely large, benign, abdominopelvic tumors is not only feasible, but is a reproducible, safe, low-morbidity alternative to initial laparotomy in the treatment of these rare lesions."}
{"id": "9050664", "title": "Laparoscopic conservative removal of ovarian dermoid cysts.", "content": "Laparoscopic conservative removal of ovarian dermoid cysts. We compared the efficacy of two dissection methods of ovarian dermoid laparoscopic cystectomy in 41 women (age 17-38 yrs) who desired future fertility. Blunt dissection and scissors were used in 21 patients (group A), and aquadissection in 20 (group B). The mean size of the cysts was comparable in both groups. The mean operating time for aquadissection was 59.3 minutes compared with 78.4 minutes for blunt dissection and scissors (p <0.05). Intraoperative spillage was significantly less common with aquadissection because with this method it is easier to avoid cyst rupture. No complication occurred with either method. Hospital stay was similar in both groups. Operative laparoscopy is a safe and effective method in the management of ovarian dermoid cysts."}
{"id": "9050653", "title": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses."}
{"id": "9050650", "title": "Laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy for a benign teratoma in a 10-year-old girl.", "content": "Laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy for a benign teratoma in a 10-year-old girl. A 10-year-old girl was diagnosed with an 8-cm mature cystic teratoma. An outpatient ovary-conserving cystectomy was performed, and the girl recovered fully in 24 hours. We suggest that laparoscopy can be effective in the conservative management of some gynecologic disorders in properly selected children."}
{"id": "9050641", "title": "Laparoscopic techniques for extracting ovarian teratomas.", "content": "Laparoscopic techniques for extracting ovarian teratomas. We performed two techniques for laparoscopic extraction of benign ovarian teratomas. For cysts up to 5 cm, we used the pouch technique, with partial extraction followed by enlargement of the hypogastric port. A skin incision was enlarged to allow the use of a scalpel in the pouch. This enabled us to perform several stab incisions in the cyst to spill its contents while still holding it in the pouch. This was followed by suction irrigation and forceps removal of the contents until the collapsed cyst could be removed in the pouch. For a cyst over 5 cm, we performed endoscopic aspiration irrigation with hot water inside the cyst, followed by partial extraction of the cyst; an opening was made in the exposed cyst wall and the contents extracted as described. When the cyst wall collapsed, we proceeded with the final extraction. When spillage occurred, it was managed with extensive warm lavage of the peritoneum, skimming the floating debris with suction tubing until clear, and underwater inspection and removal of teeth and other solid material. With these techniques, we experienced no complications."}
{"id": "9050633", "title": "The prognostic significance of minimal intracystic vegetations during operative laparoscopy for adnexal masses in women of reproductive age.", "content": "The prognostic significance of minimal intracystic vegetations during operative laparoscopy for adnexal masses in women of reproductive age. To evaluate the prognostic significance of minimal intracystic vegetations in ovarian cysts approached by laparoscopy. Prospective study. A tertiary care university hospital. Ten of 208 women with adnexal cysts and minimal intracystic vegetations, under 40 years of age, carefully selected for operative laparoscopy on the basis of a preoperative sonogram suggestive of a unilocular cyst, with no thick septa or solid components in the absence of ascites. Adnexal cyst excision at operative laparoscopy. In all 208 women evaluation of the abdomen, pelvis, and external surface of the cyst was negative. In 10 patients minimal intracystic vegetations, not detected by preoperative sonography, were identified during endocystic evaluation. In all these cases frozen section examination was negative. Definitive histologic diagnosis confirmed the presence of benign cysts. The presence of minimal intracystic vegetations alone when diagnosed in highly selected patients under 40 years of age may not justify immediate midline laparotomy if frozen section is negative."}
{"id": "9026174", "title": "[Retroperitoneal technique of laparoscopic adnexectomy after previous hysterectomy for prevention of intraoperative organ ruptures].", "content": "[Retroperitoneal technique of laparoscopic adnexectomy after previous hysterectomy for prevention of intraoperative organ ruptures]. The possibility of the reduction of organ ruptures during laparoscopic adnexectomy for cystic adnexal masses after previous hysterectomy with retroperitoneal techniques was studied. Twenty-five patients with cystic adnexal masses after previous hysterectomy enetered the study. The danger of intraoperative organ ruptures was diminished by using the retroperitoneal operative technique and a 'salvage bag' (Endopouch). The laparoscopic operation was successfuly performed in 23 of 25 patients. In 2 patients a laparotomy was performed. The frequency of intraoperative ruptures decreased with increasing experience (1992 in 7 of 8; 1995 in 1 of 6 patients). The frequency of intraoperative organ ruptures during laparoscopic adnexectomy after previous hysterectomy can be significantly decreased by using the retroperitoneal operative technique and the Endopouch."}
{"id": "9019435", "title": "[Laparoscopic treatment of dermoid cyst. First report in Mexico].", "content": "[Laparoscopic treatment of dermoid cyst. First report in Mexico]. The laparoscopic treatment of adnexal masses has been controversial; however, the study of the case with the judicious use of the laboratory and ultrasound permit the laparoscopic approach of the most of the adnexal masses, including the dermoid cyst or mature cystic teratomas, and offer to the patient the benefits of the laparoscopic surgery with low morbidity. However, it should be do it in medical centers with the human and technics recourse need it for the performance. It present the first report in Mexico of laparoscopic treatment in contrast with a group of patients with laparotomy. The results of this study, are in conformity with the reports on the literature and suggest the initial laparoscopic approach of the dermoid cyst."}
{"id": "9007148", "title": "The management of dermoid cysts--a comparative study of laparoscopy and laparotomy.", "content": "The management of dermoid cysts--a comparative study of laparoscopy and laparotomy. The aim of our study was to compare laparoscopy with laparotomy for the removal of ovarian dermoid cysts. Thirty-eight women with benign ovarian dermoid cyst were allocated for either laparoscopy (18 patients) or laparotomy (20 patients). The two groups were compared for operative and hospitalization times and postoperative course. Operating time was longer (93.6 +/- 23.8 min) and hospitalization time significantly shorter (22.4 +/- 6.6 h) in the laparoscopy group. No complications were reported in either group. We conclude that operative laparoscopy is a safe procedure for the removal of dermoid ovarian cysts and is as effective as laparotomy."}
{"id": "8992817", "title": "[Laparoscopic para-aortic and pelvic lymph node excision--initial experiences and development of a technique].", "content": "[Laparoscopic para-aortic and pelvic lymph node excision--initial experiences and development of a technique]. It was the aim of this study to establish and analyze the laparoscopic technique of para-aortic and pelvic lymphadenectomy. During a one year period (from August 1994 till July 1995) 42 patients underwent pelvic and para-aortic laparoscopic lymphadenectomy. In 29 cases cervical cancer, in 11 cases endometrial cancer and in 2 cases tumors of low malignant potential of the ovary were the indication for lymphadenectomy which was combined with radical vaginal hysterectomy in 19 patients or simple vaginal hysterectomy in 13 patients. During the observation period the mean operating time for para-aortic and pelvic lymphadenectomy decreased and the efficiency of the lymphadenectomy increased significantly: the mean operating time for the first 10 para-aortic lymphadenectomies was 52 minutes and for the pelvic lymphadenectomies 141 minutes, respectively. For the last 10 procedures the para-aortic part took 35 minutes and the pelvic part 110 minutes. Whereas at the beginning of the study a mean of 25 lymph nodes were removed, a mean of 36 lymph nodes were sampled during the last 10 procedures. In 3 patients operative injuries to major vessels were encountered of which two were followed by laparotomy. In 3 other patients laparotomy due to postoperative hemorrhage was necessary. These 6 complications occurred during the first half of the study and were not encountered during the following operations by changing from monopolar to bipolar coagulation and by modifying the regimen for perioperative thrombosis prophylaxis. In the first half of the study in 9 women blood transfusions were necessary and in the second half only 4 patients had to be transfused. In the first 10 patients the mean intraoperative blood loss was 1300 cc, in the last 10 patients 300 cc. After a short learning curve laparoscopic para-aortic and pelvic lymphadenectomy is a safe and effective technique for staging cervical, endometrial, and early ovarian cancers. Though this technique is no standard procedure results of this pilot study warrant prospective studies comparing this technique with conventional procedures."}
{"id": "8991834", "title": "[Laparoscopic \"preliminary operation\" of ovarian malignancies].", "content": "[Laparoscopic \"preliminary operation\" of ovarian malignancies]."}
{"id": "8974900", "title": "[Incidence of primary malignant lesions in clinically benign teratoma: on the problem of adequate surgical procedure].", "content": "[Incidence of primary malignant lesions in clinically benign teratoma: on the problem of adequate surgical procedure]. The Problem of an Adequate Surgical Approach: Frequency of malignant teratomas is, according to the literature, 2%-10%. Examining 194 own cases (1983-1993) it was 1.5%. We found one squamous cell carcinoma (0.5%). Additionally we found 2 immature teratomas (1%). We point out the different biological behaviour of malignant mature teratomas and immature teratomas. We agree with the majority of authors that the method of choice is the intact removal of all teratomas without iatrogen rupture or contamination of the abdominal cavity by contents of the teratoma. This adequate surgical procedure can and should be performed by laparotomy or laparoscopy with endobag. The often practised method of cutting open the cyst during laparoscopy, sucking off the contents or cutting the teratoma into pieces, has been proven to lead to implantation and worsening the prognosis in case of a malignant teratoma. Even the rinsing of the abdominal cavity, usually carried out with this method, could not compensate always for the disadvantage of this \"dirty\" endoscopical method compared with usual oncological standards. This is pointed out by case reports in the literature and the first analysis of a German survey with early-follow-up of 192 laparoscopically managed ovarian malignancies [11a]. The principle of intact removal of every teratoma should again be kept in mind."}
{"id": "8964452", "title": "[Effect of surgical laparoscopy on prognosis of early and limited ovarian malignancies].", "content": "[Effect of surgical laparoscopy on prognosis of early and limited ovarian malignancies]. 9375 laparoscopies were performed at our clinic between 1987 and 1993. In this patient group the incidence of early or localised stages of ovarial malignomas FIGO I and II is 0.9 per cent. 81 laparoscopies were performed on patients suffering from localised stages of ovarial malignomas. 32% (n = 26) of these laparoscopised patients suffering from ovarial malignomas were subjected to extended diagnostic-surgical laparoscopy. These 26 localised stages of ovarial malignomas on which tumour-aggressive laparoscopy had been performed, were followed up and the relevant literature studied and processed. In 23 of the patients thus subjected to tumour-aggressive laparoscopic surgery we did not observe any deterioration of the prognosis during the treatment period (1-8 years). Problematic postoperative courses were seen in 3 patients; the reasons for this are discussed in the present paper. Measures resulting in opening of the tumours during diagnostic-surgical laparoscopy are neither accidental nor unforeseen incidents, but are rather part of an overall surgical strategy. If safety techniques are adopted-as described in this paper-diagnostic-surgical laparoscopy can be performed even during localised stages of ovarial malignomas without any presently recognisable adverse effect on patient prognosis."}
{"id": "8964451", "title": "[Benign increase of tumor marker Ca 12-5 in pelvic peritonitis with ascites].", "content": "[Benign increase of tumor marker Ca 12-5 in pelvic peritonitis with ascites]. Two patients suffering from pelveoperitonitis had ascites and elevated CA 12-5 serum level mimicking epithelial ovarian cancer. Both were treated successfully with antibiotics, after laparoscopic confirmation."}
{"id": "8964446", "title": "[Laparoscopic primary surgery of ovarian malignancies].", "content": "[Laparoscopic primary surgery of ovarian malignancies]."}
{"id": "8961701", "title": "Implantation metastasis of ovarian cancer after third-look laparoscopy.", "content": "Implantation metastasis of ovarian cancer after third-look laparoscopy."}
{"id": "8924007", "title": "Laparoscopic port site recurrences in oncologic surgery--a review.", "content": "Laparoscopic port site recurrences in oncologic surgery--a review. The aim of this paper was to review the world's literature regarding port site recurrences. A Medline search was performed for all port site recurrences published in the literature. These reports were analysed and port site recurrences studied to determine initial stage of cancers, time to recurrence and whether the port site was an isolated site of recurrence or part of widespread intra-abdominal disease. The possible aetiologies were similarly reviewed and several recent basic science reports assessed. To date, 93 port site recurrences have been published. These have occurred with colorectal cancers as well as ovarian, gastric, pancreatic and other malignancies. Often, these recurrences are isolated and most standard means of prevention of cell dissemination may not prevent their occurrence. Possible mechanisms include aerosolisation of tumour cells, exfoliation, and changes in immune function. Port site recurrences continue to be reported. Their aetiology is unclear but the occurrence is of concern and requires continued scrutiny for laparoscopic oncologic surgery."}
{"id": "8924000", "title": "Experience in laparoscopic hysterectomy: analysis of three hundred cases.", "content": "Experience in laparoscopic hysterectomy: analysis of three hundred cases. A personal experience with 300 cases of laparoscopic hysterectomy was analysed and its merits and demerits were discussed. The demographic features, indications, feasibility, complications, operating time, blood loss, hospital stay, cost effectiveness and its outcome were reviewed. The indications were uterine fibroid (40%), adenomyosis, dysfunctional uterine bleeding and pelvic inflammatory disease (36%), fibroid uterus with endometriosis (17.5%), postmenopausal bleeding (3%), ovarian neoplasm (2.1%) and fibroid uterus with ovarian cyst (1.4%). Two uterine malignancies and one case of potentially malignant ovarian neoplasm, were also encountered in our series. Assessibility score of above 20 was present in 55%. Haemorrhage was prevented intraoperatively by securing the large pedicles with electrocoagulation as well as large titanium clips (LT-400). Retrograde ureteric catheterisation was not necessary. Overall morbidity was present only in 10.62%. Intraoperative bladder injury was encountered in 1%, urinary fistula in 0.66%, primary and secondary haemorrhage in 0.33% respectively, and minor febrile morbidity in 4.66%. Conversion to conventional abdominal hysterectomy occurred in 0.66% of the cases. The average operating time was 141.99 +/- 31.678 min, the estimated blood loss was 237.07 +/- 76.76 ml and average hospitalisation was 3.37 +/- 0.66 days. The cost of laparoscopic hysterectomy was found similar to abdominal hysterectomy. Higher operating fee, operating theatre and anaesthesia charges did not affect the overall cost of laparoscopic hysterectomy because of shorter hospital stay. It is concluded that laparoscopic hysterectomy has definite role in gynaecological surgery."}
{"id": "8906667", "title": "Outpatient minilaparotomy ovarian cystectomy for benign teratomas in teenagers.", "content": "Outpatient minilaparotomy ovarian cystectomy for benign teratomas in teenagers. Benign cystic teratomas are the most common ovarian neoplasms in adolescents. An ovary-conserving method was developed for outpatient surgical removal of benign cystic teratomas by minilaparotomy in teenagers. The technique requires no specialized training, laser devices, or expensive disposable instrumentation. As a precaution, the first teenager in whom the technique was used was observed as an inpatient for 3 days. Following this, the method was used as an outpatient procedure in three further cases. No complications occurred in any of the four patients, and the mean operating time of 85 minutes (range, 60 to 95 minutes) was similar to the reported time for removal of benign cystic teratomas by laparotomy. Although a randomized controlled study with many more patients would be necessary for a definitive conclusion, considerable cost savings and reduction in morbidity over traditional laparotomy are suggested by this experience."}
{"id": "8900602", "title": "The efficiency of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of dermoid cysts.", "content": "The efficiency of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of dermoid cysts. The aim of the study was to assess the efficiency of sonography in differentiating dermoid cysts of the ovary (mature cystic teratoma) from other adnexal masses. It was carried out prospectively at Dr. Zekai Tahir Burak Women's Hospital of Ankara, Turkey. 943 women with 1035 adnexal masses who had undergone laparotomy and/or laparoscopy between January 1989 and March 1995 were included into the study group. All of these patients had a sonographic preoperatively examination within one week of surgery and the sonographic diagnosis was compared to histopathological findings. The visualization of: 1. echogenic mass with or without acoustic shadowing or enhancement (assumed to represent sebum with lipophilic contaminants or with hair) 2. Dermoid plug; layered lines and dots; fat-fluid level; isolated brigth echogenic foci with acoustic shadowing within the complex mass (assumed to represent Rokitansky protuberance; hair in low viscosity fluid; sebum as a supernatant of serous fluid; teeth or bone fragments respectively) 3. intraovarian echogenic mass with or without acoustic shadowing or enhancement (assumed to represent intraovarian dermoid cyst) were chosen as characteristical sonographic findings of dermoid cysts. Combining these with the subjective visual assessment of the operator, the sensitivity and the specificity were calculated for each visualized adnexal mass to assess the efficiency of sonography in differentiating dermoid cysts from other ovarian masses. All in all 1035 adnexal masses were visualized, 155 were suspected to be dermoid cysts and the diagnosis was confirmed by histopathology in only 147 cases. The sensitivity and specificity of sonography were 94% and 99% respectively. As a conclusion this study demonstrates that ultrasonography has an accuracy of 98% in differentiating dermoid cysts from other adnexal masses with a specificity of 99%."}
{"id": "8898169", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery in cases of ovarian malignancies: an Austria-wide survey.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery in cases of ovarian malignancies: an Austria-wide survey. The purpose of the study was to determine the frequency of discovering a malignant ovarian mass when laparoscopy is used to manage an adnexal mass. A countrywide survey was undertaken in Austria, comprising questions about ovarian malignancy detected or accidentally treated by laparoscopy. The response rate of 66.7% represented a total of 54,198 laparoscopies, 16,601 laparoscopic surgeries on adnexal masses, and 108 cases of ovarian tumors subsequently found to be malignant (96 well-documented). Twenty patients were treated with laparoscopy alone. In 22 cases, laparoscopy was followed by immediate laparotomy. A delayed laparotomy (3-1415 days) was performed in 54 cases. Staging revealed FIGO classifications from stages Ia to IV. The follow-up time ranges from 2 to 220 months. Four recurrences have been reported. Thirteen patients died of tumor progression. Laparoscopic surgery on ovarian malignancies is a rare situation (0.65% of all endoscopic surgeries on adnexal masses). In cases of malignancy, a laparotomy has to be performed to ensure optimal staging and treatment."}
{"id": "8886883", "title": "Adenoid cystic carcinoma of the submandibular gland with symptomatic ovarian metastases.", "content": "Adenoid cystic carcinoma of the submandibular gland with symptomatic ovarian metastases. We report the clinical and pathologic features of an adenoid cystic carcinoma of the submandibular gland that metastasized to the ovaries 10 years after initial presentation. A 30-year-old woman underwent excision of a right submandibular adenoid cystic carcinoma followed by regional external beam radiation therapy. Three years later, she underwent extended hepatic resection and localized radiotherapy to the hepatic region for metastatic disease. The patient was without evidence of disease for 7 years when she developed pelvic pain and a pelvic mass was found. A solid and cystic 10-cm left ovarian mass and a single metastatic tumor nodule involving the right ovary were excised via the laparoscope. Histologically, the tumor was identical to the patient's initial salivary gland neoplasm. The neoplastic cells were CAM 5.2 positive, S100 positive, muscle-specific actin positive, and smooth muscle actin positive. Ultrastructurally, characteristic pseudocysts (pseudolumina) with abundant basal lamina and true glandular lumina lined by short microvilli were present. Other than a single anecdotal account of a parotid gland adenoid cystic carcinoma, this case represents the first documented report of an adenoid cystic carcinoma of salivary gland origin that was associated with symptomatic ovarian metastases. This case demonstrates that the ovary is a potential site for metastatic disease many years following the diagnosis and treatment for a primary neoplasm however uncommon or remote the site of origin. Since metastatic adenoid cystic carcinoma can rarely present as an ovarian mass, a clinical history of this neoplasm should be heavily weighed in the differential diagnosis of any unusual ovarian tumor with a predominant cribriform, trabecular, or tubular pattern."}
{"id": "8886692", "title": "Diagnostic value of transvaginal color Doppler flow in ovarian torsion.", "content": "Diagnostic value of transvaginal color Doppler flow in ovarian torsion. To evaluate the role of Doppler flow in the diagnostic process of ovarian torsion. Twenty-two patients who displayed the clinical symptoms of abdominal pain concomitant with an ovarian mass and were scheduled for explorative laparoscopy were enrolled in the study. The cohort was divided into 3 groups: (A) 8 patients with clinical and sonographic evidence of torsion; (B) 8 patients with abdominal pain and sonographic diagnosis of hemorrhagic cyst; and (C) 6 patients with a simple cystic mass who had undergone explorative surgery due to abdominal pain. After Doppler flow imaging, Group A displayed no blood flow within the mass, and surgery confirmed the diagnosis of ovarian torsion. Seven of the 8 group B patients showed ovarian vascular flow (RI = 0.472 +/- 0.067). Only 2 of the 6 Group C patients displayed vascular flow (RI = 0.680 +/- 0.129) within an untwisted cyst, confirmed by laparoscopy. The combination of Doppler flow imaging with the morphologic assessment improves the diagnostic accuracy of ovarian torsion."}
{"id": "8881063", "title": "Port-site metastases of adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube after laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy and salpingo-oophorectomy.", "content": "Port-site metastases of adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube after laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy and salpingo-oophorectomy. Port-site metastases following laparoscopic surgery for cancer constitute an emerging problem. We report a case of cutaneous metastasis at a port site following laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy and salpingo-oophorectomy for unsuspected adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube. This complication occurred 7 months postoperatively and was treated with resection. A single site was involved. Possible etiologies are implantation from \"contaminated\" instruments or dissemination of tumor cells by the positive-pressure pneumoperitoneum. Preventive measures include precise and clean surgical technique, the use of a nonporous bag, postoperative trocar-site excision or irradiation, and conversion to laparotomy either intra- or postoperatively."}
{"id": "8875037", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery for ovarian cysts.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery for ovarian cysts. Laparoscopic surgery for ovarian cysts is one of the most frequent laparoscopic surgical procedures performed presently. The routine use of pelvic imaging (sonography), in the case of any gynaecological symptom or as a screening method in women at risk, explains why more and more ovarian cysts are encountered. The diagnostic and therapeutic challenge for the clinician to provide the best immediate and long-term benefits for the patient is to identify pre-operatively not only an ovarian malignancy (to be treated in a conventional way) but also functional cysts (usually disappearing spontaneously and requiring no form of treatment in most cases). Ideally, only benign 'organic' cysts should be treated laparoscopically. The technical aspects and the benefits of this approach have been documented extensively in recent years. The routine use of the 'closed technique' and of an impermeable bag for removal should limit the risk of spillage of the cyst contents with its inherent potential problems (chemical peritonitis, malignant cell dissemination and parietal implantation into the laparoscopic port sites). The adnexal torsion can be also properly managed by laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "8851090", "title": "[Laparoscopy in (apparently) benign ovarian tumors between benefit and catastrophy and the deceptive safety of laparoscopic lap sacs].", "content": "[Laparoscopy in (apparently) benign ovarian tumors between benefit and catastrophy and the deceptive safety of laparoscopic lap sacs]. Endoscopic ovarian surgery is currently spreading tremendously, but also rather uncritically. The technical possibilities both of organ preserving and ablative endoscopic surgery are controversial, so that structuring of the indication for an endoscopic procedure as well as optimization of the endoscopic removal of ovarian tumor or adnexae is of utmost relevance. Therefore, a study was performed at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology of the Heidelberg University with the following aims: Risk evaluation of operating into an ovarian malignancy at endoscopy for \"presumably\" benign cystic ovarian tumors in n = 100 cases in Heidelberg and literature survey Analysis of problems and complications during clinical application of laparoscopic lap sacs for removal of cystic adnexal tumors or adnexae (n = 50) Experimental examination of the risk of an endoscopic lap sacs to rupture during a procedure The risk of endoscopically operating into an ovarian cancer lies between 0.4 and 3% according to literature data. Despite maximal preoperative selection, mainly by ultrasound examination, in our group of 100 patients, in three women without preoperative signs of malignancy but with discreet intracystic structures in the ultrasound, an endoscopic adnexectomy with complete removal in a lap sac was performed, and though immediate section for microscopic examination was negative, final histology revealed one ovarian cancer la and 2 borderline tumors, same stage. In the time period analyzed, three further patients were referred to our center for secondary, delayed (median 3 months) staging after endoscopic procedures for presumed benign lesions. Clinical application of lap sacs proved the necessity of an intensive training. In 3 patients an intraperitoneal rupture of the sac occurred. Typical problems were volume discrepancies between sac respectively abdominal incision and tissue to be removed (28% of cases). The risk of rupture of the various lap sacs examined differed significantly (p < 0.05). Due to the complex pathological nature of cystic adnexal tumors, a 100% selection for the endoscopic approach is not feasible. Therefore, an endoscopic procedure should only be performed after optimal preoperative diagnosis and, in case of the slightest doubt, only if intraoperative microscopic examination is available, and the possibility to perform an immediate staging laparotomy. Sufficient information of the patient is relevant. Laparoscopic removal of tumor or adnexae should be performed in a lap sac. However, there is no absolute certainty of preventing spillage even with the lap sac, since not all endoscopic sacs available are of a sufficient quality."}
{"id": "8849961", "title": "Current status of staging laparotomy in colorectal and ovarian cancer.", "content": "Current status of staging laparotomy in colorectal and ovarian cancer. Colon and rectal carcinomas. Accurate staging of colon and rectal carcinomas (CRCs) is vital to insure appropriate surgical and adjuvant therapy, and appropriate enrollment in and interpretation of adjuvant or neoadjuvant trials. Historically, CRC staging has relied on pathologic examination of surgical speciments. These newer techniques of endoscopic and intraoperative ultrasound, laparoscopy, and radioimmunoguided surgery may permit increased accuracy of staging by the surgeon. Cautious interpretation of investigations of these modalities is warranted, as studies include small numbers of patients and some of the work is preliminary. Despite this, we remain optimistic that as surgeons become more familiar with these techniques and as these modalities become more widely available, more accurate staging will facilitate optimal patient management in terms of complete resection of occult disease and appropriate adjuvant therapy. Ovarian carcinoma. The survival of patients with ovarian cancer has not appreciably changed in the past several decades. There are several reasons for this, some of which are related to the surgical procedures used to diagnose and treat these cancers. First, despite a great deal of literature that suggests an elevated CA-125 level in a postmenopausal woman with a pelvic mass is virtually diagnostic of ovarian carcinoma, an unexceptably large number of patients are still explored in community hospitals by a surgeon or obstetrician-gynecologist who is not prepared or adequately trained to perform the aggressive cytoreductive surgery that the patients require. Similarly, a large percentage of patients with \"apparent\" early ovarian cancer are not fully surgically staged at their initial surgery and often require reoperation to accurately define the extent of their disease, which will then determine the need for adjuvant therapy. Despite ongoing health care reforms, these patients should be referred to centers where the appropriate surgical procedure can be performed by an experienced gynecologic oncologist. Second-look laparotomy (SLL) has become more and more controversial, mainly because of a lack of effective second-line therapy, and should not be performed unless the patient fully understands its limitations and is willing preoperatively to participate in a subsequent trial based on the operative findings. Laparoscopy, both in the initial staging surgery and at reassessment laparotomy (SLL), is being re-evaluated but should be considered experimental until definitive trials determine its role."}
{"id": "8841261", "title": "Ovarian Burkitt lymphoma: pelvic pain in a woman with AIDS.", "content": "Ovarian Burkitt lymphoma: pelvic pain in a woman with AIDS. Non-Hodgkin lymphomas, a common AIDS-defining manifestation of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), are aggressive, advanced at diagnosis, and tend to involve extranodal sites. Burkitt lymphoma comprises approximately 20% of AIDS-related non-Hodgkin lymphomas. Sites frequently affected by the disease include the central nervous system, bone marrow, gastrointestinal tract, and mucocutaneous tissue. Gonadal involvement is less common; reports of testicular lymphomas in adult males with AIDS have been sporadic. Ovarian involvement in AIDS-related lymphoma is exceedingly rare and usually involves pediatric patients. We report an unusual case in which disseminated Burkitt lymphoma presented as pelvic pain in a 32-year-old woman with AIDS. At laparoscopy, the ovaries were unremarkable in appearance but at the upper limits of normal size. However, extreme friability of the left ovary led to hemorrhage and oophorectomy. Pathologic evaluation of the ovary resulted in the diagnosis of Burkitt lymphoma. With improved survival because of antiretroviral therapy, the incidence of AIDS-related lymphomas is expected to rise. Lymphoma should be considered in the differential diagnosis of women with AIDS with perplexing abdominal or pelvic symptoms."}
{"id": "8841216", "title": "Second-look operation for epithelial ovarian cancer: laparoscopy or laparotomy?", "content": "Second-look operation for epithelial ovarian cancer: laparoscopy or laparotomy? To compare the results, complications, and hospital charges associated with laparoscopy versus laparotomy in second-look operations for epithelial ovarian cancer. We conducted a retrospective chart review of 109 patients with invasive epithelial ovarian cancer who underwent a second-look operation between July 1, 1992, and June 30, 1995. Thirty-one patients (28.4%) underwent laparoscopy, 70 patients (64.2%) underwent laparotomy, and eight patients (7.3%) underwent both procedures at the same operation. The majority of patients (60.6%) presented with stage IIIC disease. Persistent ovarian cancer was found in 65 of 109 (59.6%) patients, including 17 of 31 (54.8%) evaluated by laparoscopy, 43 of 70 (61.4%) by laparotomy, and five of eight (62.5%) by both procedures. Significantly lower mean blood loss was noted in patients undergoing laparoscopy (27 mL) compared with laparotomy (208 mL) (P < .01). In addition, the mean operating time for laparoscopy (129 minutes) was significantly shorter than that for laparotomy (153 minutes) (P < .01), and mean hospital stay was shorter for patients undergoing laparoscopy (1.6 days) compared with laparotomy (6.8 days) (P < .01). All intraoperative and immediate postoperative complications were noted in patients who underwent laparotomy. There was no difference in day of surgery charges between the two procedures; however, total hospital charges were significantly lower for patients undergoing laparoscopy ($ 9448) compared with laparotomy ($ 17,969) (P < .01). With a median follow-up of 22.0 months, recurrence after negative second-look surgery was noted in four of 27 (14.8%) patients evaluated by laparotomy and two of 14 (14.3%) patients evaluated by laparoscopy. Laparoscopy may be an acceptable alternative to second-look laparotomy for interval evaluation of epithelial ovarian cancer. Second-look laparoscopy probably results in less morbidity, shorter operating time, shorter hospital stay, and lower total hospital charges. These results require confirmation in a randomized clinical trial."}
{"id": "8835491", "title": "[Surgical therapy of ovarian carcinoma].", "content": "[Surgical therapy of ovarian carcinoma]. Aim of primary surgery in early stage ovarian cancer (FIGO I-IIA) is a complete removal of all visible tumors and an exact staging of intraabdominal and retroperitoneal tumor spread. Debulking of tumor as radical as possible is the aim of surgery in advanced stages of disease (FIGO IIb-IV). After 2 to 3 cycles of an active polychemotherapy interventional debulking surgery is performed with the intention to remove all existing tumors in those patients with postoperative residual tumor masses > 1 cm in diameter after first surgery. Second-look surgery is performed after 6 cycles of first line polychemotherapy either to confirm a clinical complete remission pathohistologically or to debulk persisting residual tumors. Secondary tumordebulking and its influence on survival as well as the diagnostic value of second-look surgery is discussed controversially, so today second-look is confined to clinical protocols. Cytoreduction of relapsing tumor masses seems to prolong survival in those patients with a relapse free interval of more than 12 months. This seems to be an attractive therapeutic alternative. For the future one can expect more selective operation strategies on the basis of new biologic prognosticators and new developments in minimal invasive operation techniques."}
{"id": "8832941", "title": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy in children.", "content": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy in children. Laparoscopy is a well-established diagnostic and therapeutic modality for adult gynecologic surgery. We have sought to assess the feasibility of the laparoscopic approach to a particular gynecologic procedure, oophorectomy, in the pediatric population. Five patients under-went laparoscopic oophorectomy during the past year. The indication for oophorectomy in three cases was ovarian torsion---one in association with a hemorrhagic cyst another with a benign teratoma, and one that occurred prenatally. The fourth patient had a teratoma with significant solid component and the final patient was a young with Turner's syndrome who had laparoscopic exploration and removal of bilateral streak ovaries. Oophorectomy was successfully completed laparoscopically in each patient. In two cases a trocar site had to be widened to remove the specimen from the abdominal cavity. Post operative recovery was prompt, with time to discharge being an average of 2 days. From this experience we conclude that laparoscopic oophorectomy can be successfully accomplished in infants and children. It is technically an easy procedure and has the benefits of excellent visualization of the entire lower abdomen and pelvis including the contralateral ovary, rapid postoperative recovery, and good cosmetic result."}
{"id": "8829058", "title": "Complications of major operative laparoscopy. A review of 452 cases.", "content": "Complications of major operative laparoscopy. A review of 452 cases. To evaluate complications of operative laparoscopy. Operative and postoperative complications in 452 consecutive cases from January 1, 1991, to August 31, 1993, were evaluated. The series was divided into three time segments--8, 12 and 12 months. Common and serious complications were classified and reviewed. Complications developed during and after major operative laparoscopy in 47 (10.4%) patients in the series; 24 (5.3% of cases, or 51% of total complications) were serious, such as hemorrhage, ureteral injuries and fistulas, and intestinal obstruction. Seventeen (3.8%) patients required unplanned surgery for management of complications. During the initial learning period of eight months, the rate of complications averaged 17.3%, decreasing to 7.7% and 10.1%, respectively, in the second and third periods in the series. There were no cases of death, postoperative ileus, thrombophlebitis or pulmonary complications. The overall incidence of complications in major operative laparoscopy was 10.4%. Serious complications accounted for half the complications. Surgical experience reduced the incidence of complications. Ovarian cystectomy produced the lowest rate of common complications and no serious ones. Laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy had the highest rate of serious complications."}
{"id": "8816863", "title": "The current role of laparoscopic surgery in gynecological oncology.", "content": "The current role of laparoscopic surgery in gynecological oncology. Transabdominal laparotomy is currently the standard approach to the surgical diagnosis and treatment of gynecological malignancies. Despite the fact that laparoscopy has been widely embraced by our gynecological/infertility colleagues for many years, it has only sporadically been utilized by gynecological oncologists. With the advent of video laparoscopy, novel instrumentation, and new techniques, a reevaluation of the applicability of this procedure is certainly in order. To date, laparoscopy has been employed for the performance of a multitude of intra-abdominal procedures. However, universal applicability may not be feasible or in the best interest of all patients with gynecological malignancies. As instrumentation and techniques evolve, it is possible that procedures currently nonamenable to the laparoscopic approach may become so. However, it is wise to approach these new procedures with healthy skepticism, and within the context of proper scientific study. This article summarizes the status of laparoscopic surgery in gynecological oncology."}
{"id": "8815133", "title": "[Laparoscopy-assisted and -prepared hysterectomy. A series of 80 cases].", "content": "[Laparoscopy-assisted and -prepared hysterectomy. A series of 80 cases]. Our objective was to determine the interest of laparoscopic assisted vaginal hysterectomy. Between January 1991 to december 1994, 80 patients had laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy. We reviewed with particular emphasis characteristic indications, complications. Eighty were performed as laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy. 14 patients (17.5%) had laparotomy conversion; because of size of uterus in 3 cases, suspected ovarian tumor in 3 cases. Pelvic adherences in 4 cases, urinary tract injuries in 1 case, hypercapnia in 1 case, hemorrhage in 2 cases. 9 patients experienced febrile morbidity and 1 urinary infection. 1 patient received 2 units of packed red blood cells. The hospital stay was 5 days for laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy versus 5.9 for laparotomic hysterectomy. Laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy offers a technique to convert certain abdominal hysterectomies into vaginal hysterectomies with a 17.5% laparoconversion rate."}
{"id": "8808559", "title": "Operative laparoscopy in the management of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Operative laparoscopy in the management of ovarian cancer. Advances in operative laparoscopic techniques have made possible the extension of this technology to the treatment of women with ovarian cancer. We present a detailed case series of eight patients with ovarian cancer who underwent a total of 11 operative laparoscopies for treatment of ovarian cancer ranging in stage from IA to IIIC. Three patients underwent initial laparoscopic staging and therapeutic debulking procedures. In three other cases that were incompletely staged via laparotomy, laparoscopy was used to complete the staging. Interval laparoscopic tumor debulking combined with second-look laparoscopy was performed in four cases. We describe our experience with these new applications of evolving techniques with particular regard to potential advantages, disadvantages, and complications. This detailed preliminary case series suggests the need for prospective clinical studies to establish the safety and efficacy of the approach."}
{"id": "8794421", "title": "Conservative management of postmenopausal pelvic echo-free findings--preliminary results.", "content": "Conservative management of postmenopausal pelvic echo-free findings--preliminary results. To develop a conservative protocol for the treatment of echo-free findings in the pelvis, diagnosed by sonography in post-menopausal women, in order to avoid unnecessary surgical intervention. A prospective study where each post-menopausal-patient underwent sonographic evaluation of the pelvic mass, serum Ca-125 levels, ambulatory aspiration of the cyst, and operative laparoscopy if necessary. One hundred and eighty-two women were included in the 3 years of the study. Only two cases of malignancy were diagnosed. There were no false-negative results. Although the results of our protocol of conservative management look promising, we cannot draw final conclusions because of the small sample size. Perhaps as our knowledge increases, physicians will feel more confident in handling adnexal findings conservatively."}
{"id": "8786211", "title": "Aspiration cytology of neoplastic and non-neoplastic ovarian cysts: is it accurate?", "content": "Aspiration cytology of neoplastic and non-neoplastic ovarian cysts: is it accurate? To evaluate the role of aspiration cytology in the distinction between neoplastic and non-neoplastic ovarian cysts, we examined the cytology of 81 aspirates from 80 women 14-67 years of age. We then correlated results with subsequent histology or the clinical follow-up. Aspiration were performed during laparoscopy (32 cases) or immediately after surgical removal of the tumors (49 cases). The cysts ranged in size from 1.0 to 43.0 cm. Papanicolaou-stained cytospin preparations of samples were evaluated, and the lesions were classified into non-neoplastic (68 cases), benign neoplasms (four cases), and malignant neoplasms (nine cases). Cytologic impressions were correlated with histologic findings in 74 cases and with the clinical follow-up in the remaining seven. Nine of the 12 (75%) cystadenocarcinomas, including two serous neoplasms of low malignant potential (LMP), were correctly diagnosed as malignant by cytology. There were no false-positive results. On the other hand, of the 26 benign neoplasms (19 cystadenomas and seven mature cystic teratomas), only four teratomas (15%) could be subclassified specifically. The remaining 68 aspirates were classified as non-neoplastic. Seventy-seven percent of all proven non-neoplastic cysts measured < 8.0 cm, whereas 77% of all benign and malignant neoplastic cysts were > 8.0 cm. The overall diagnostic accuracy was improved from 63% to 69% when cyst size was taken into consideration. In malignant cysts the diagnostic sensitivity was 75%, specificity 100%, and overall accuracy 96%. We arrived at the following conclusions: Aspiration cytology is an accurate predictor of malignancy in ovarian cystic lesions, but because the sensitivity of the technique is not high enough, one should not rely on aspiration cytology alone; The differential diagnosis between cystadenocarcinomas and tumors of low malignant potential cannot be made by cytology; Although it is difficult to distinguish between benign neoplasms and non-neoplastic benign cysts, diagnostic accuracy will improve when the size of the lesion is considered; Aspiration cytology can provide particularly useful information in young women with functional cysts of the ovary to avoid an unnecessary operation; Acellular cyst fluids should not be considered nondiagnostic because they represent benign cysts in the majority of cases; false-negative results of fine-needle aspiration of cystic ovarian lesions is usually due to low cellularity of the sample and secondary degenerative changes; negative fine-needle aspiration results should be followed clinically."}
{"id": "8775267", "title": "Unexpected ovarian malignancy diagnosed after laparoscopic surgery.", "content": "Unexpected ovarian malignancy diagnosed after laparoscopic surgery. The main concerns for laparoscopic management of ovarian masses are unexpected malignancy and the spillage of the cyst content. Careful preoperative evaluation is important in proper patient selection. We report a case of unexpected ovarian malignancy managed by operative laparoscopy in a 29-year-old woman. The role of ultrasonographic and laparoscopic assessment and their limitations are discussed. The potential role of intraoperative laparoscopic ultrasonographic assessment of the ovarian masses is proposed."}
{"id": "8775250", "title": "A review of results in a series of 113 laparoscopic colposuspensions.", "content": "A review of results in a series of 113 laparoscopic colposuspensions. The case records of 113 women having laparoscopic retropubic colposuspensions (Burch procedure) performed for the treatment of genuine urinary stress incontinence between December, 1992 and April, 1995 were retrospectively reviewed. The mean age of the group was 49.4 (30-80) years, mean weight 72.1 (44.5-114) kg, and mean parity 2.7 (0-8). All patients had preoperative urodynamic study to confirm genuine stress incontinence (GSI). Sixteen patients (14%) had dual pathology (GSI and detrusor instability). A transperitoneal approach was used in 93 operations and extraperitoneal in 20. The mean operating time was 108 (30-320) minutes and mean hospitalization 3.3 (1-10) days. In 13 women the operation was converted to laparotomy; 10 due to adhesions and diminished bladder mobility, 1 for inferior epigastric vessel injury, 1 for an ovarian tumour discovered incidentally at the procedure and 1 for equipment problems. Operative complications included 10 cystotomies (5 repaired laparoscopically), 2 extraperitoneal cases converted to transperitoneal, 1 inferior epigastric vessel injury, 1 vaginal tear, 1 suture through the bladder and 1 case of possible enterotomy oversewn at laparoscopy. The mean follow-up period was 8.4 (1-28) months. All patients were reviewed postoperatively and then contact was attempted either by telephone or in consultation. There was an overall 87% subjective success rate. Two patients felt sutures tear out at 4 and 6 months and were deemed failures; 4 felt their incontinence was improved but had ongoing stress incontinence of urine; 9 had symptoms of detrusor instability and one developed an enterocele 9 months after surgery."}
{"id": "8775247", "title": "Operative laparoscopic management of adnexal cysts: initial experience at the Royal Women's Hospital 1991-1994.", "content": "Operative laparoscopic management of adnexal cysts: initial experience at the Royal Women's Hospital 1991-1994. The introduction of operative laparoscopic surgery for benign adnexal cysts had led to shorter postoperative hospitalization (mean stay of 2.0 days) in association with a low rate of major complications (1.6%). A planned laparoscopic approach was successful in 95.2% (179/188) of patients. The majority of women were premenopausal (93.6%) and the most common procedure performed was an ovarian cystectomy (73.5% of cysts). Three ovarian cysts that were thought to be benign by preoperative and intraoperative assessment were subsequently found to be ovarian tumours of low malignant potential after histological examination. Operative laparoscopy has become the preferred mode of treatment for benign adnexal cysts at the Royal Women's Hospital. It confers a wide range of benefits to patients, reduces health-care costs and appears to be a safe and effective treatment modality."}
{"id": "8774657", "title": "What is the role of reassessment laparoscopy in the management of gynecologic cancers in 1995?", "content": "What is the role of reassessment laparoscopy in the management of gynecologic cancers in 1995? One hundred fifty-four patients with a diagnosis of ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube carcinoma underwent 181 reassessment procedures to detect persistent or recurrent disease between January 1, 1989 and December 31, 1994 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. One hundred four laparoscopic procedures were performed. Eleven of these procedures were converted to laparotomy due to severe adhesions. Therefore, a total of 88 reassessment laparotomies were performed during the study period. Fifty-seven of 93 laparoscopies and 69 of 88 laparotomies were done as second-look procedures. There was no significant difference between the two groups with respect to patient age, tumor histology, degree of primary cytoreduction, and tumor stage or grade. Significant differences were found between laparoscopy and laparotomy groups in the following outcome variables evaluated: estimated blood loss (33.9 ml vs 164.9 ml, P = 0.0001), operative time (81.3 min vs 130.4 min, P = 0.0001), days of hospitalization (0.3 days vs 6.8 days, P = 0.0001), and direct cost/case ($2765 vs $5420, P = 0.0001). Despite obtaining 50% fewer biopsies with laparoscopy than laparotomy, the ability to detect disease was similar between these two groups: 47.3% vs 55.7% for all procedures and 52.6% vs 53.6% in the patients undergoing second-look procedures. Major complications in the laparoscopy group included transverse colon perforation (1), small bowel perforation (2), enterocutaneous fistula (1), and a retroperitoneal hematoma (1). Major complications in the laparotomy group included cystotomy (1), left ureteral injury (1), enterotomy (2), and SBO (4). Laparoscopy, when technically feasible, appears equally as effective as laparotomy in detecting persistent or recurrent malignant disease with less blood loss, less days spent in the hospital, less financial burden, and no increase in patient morbidity."}
{"id": "8763123", "title": "[Role of laparoscopy in ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Role of laparoscopy in ovarian cancer]."}
{"id": "8759186", "title": "An ovarian lipid cell tumour causing virilization and Cushing's syndrome.", "content": "An ovarian lipid cell tumour causing virilization and Cushing's syndrome. We report a 73-year-old woman with rapidly developing symptoms and signs of Cushing's syndrome and high urinary free cortisol. She was virilized and hirsute with testosterone levels which became exceptionally high. ACTH was suppressed and CT scan of the adrenals and pelvis showed no abnormality. Ultrasound scanning showed enlargement of the left ovary. Venous catheter studies suggested a left ovarian source. A 2-cm diameter lipid cell tumor was removed from the left ovary laparoscopically. Histology was initially benign, and clinical and biochemical cure of Cushing's syndrome was rapid. However, the neoplastic nature of the ovarian tumour was demonstrated 12 months later when peritoneal metastases were detected and there was then clinical and biochemical relapse."}
{"id": "8751572", "title": "Incidence and effects on survival of abdominal wall metastases at trocar.", "content": "Incidence and effects on survival of abdominal wall metastases at trocar."}
{"id": "8736725", "title": "Sterilization.", "content": "Sterilization. Sterilization is accepted as a permanent method of contraception by many couples in the world. Female sterilization is more widely used than male sterilization, but the latter is used by many couples in developed countries. The most widely used methods for female sterilization are simple tubal ligation, electrocautery of the fallopian tubes, and occlusion of the tubes by Hulka or Filshie clips or Falope rings. These procedures may be carried out either by minilaparotomy or by laparoscopy, under local anaesthesia. Sterilization may be performed immediately following pregnancy, or as an interval operation. The effectiveness of female sterilization is high, with failure rates of about 1-2 per 1000 procedures. Immediate complications are few and minor, while there appear to be no serious, long-term adverse effects. It is possible that there is a protective effect against ovarian cancer. Potential new technologies for female sterilization include the use of chemicals, such as quinacrine, for transcervical tubal occlusion, and hysteroscopic methods. Male sterilization is more simple and can readily be performed under local anaesthesia. A new technique originating in China, the no-scalpel technique, has made the procedure even more simple and produces fewer complications such as haematoma. It is possible that the direct injection of plug-forming material into the vas may render the procedure more reversible. Concerns about possible adverse effects of vasectomy on cardiovascular diseases and testicular cancer largely have been dispelled, but a possible weak association between vasectomy and prostatic cancer continues to be studied. At present, the most widely used methods for female sterilization are simple tubal ligation, electrocautery of the fallopian tubes, and occlusion of the tubes by Hulka or Filshie clips or Falope rings. Potential new technologies include hysteroscopic methods and the use of chemicals such as quinacrine for transcervical tubal occlusion. Even more technical advances have occurred with male sterilization and concerns about a link to cardiovascular diseases and testicular cancer have been largely dispelled. The no-scalpel technique, originated in China, has made male sterilization simpler and free from complications such as hematoma. Direct injection of plug-forming material into the vas may increase the possibility of male sterilization reversal. Reviewed in this article is the clinical research on the effectiveness, long-term effects, reversibility, and surgical approaches of current and potential methods of sexual sterilization."}
{"id": "8735736", "title": "Epithelial ovarian carcinoma of low malignant potential.", "content": "Epithelial ovarian carcinoma of low malignant potential. The aim of this study was to evaluate the interest of sonographic features, serum marker tumors and conservative treatment especially by laparoscopic approach of epithelial ovarian tumors of low malignant potential (or borderline tumors). Thirty-four patients with 40 epithelial ovarian tumors of low malignant potential treated at Bichat Claude Bernard hospital were reviewed. Of these patients, 29 had preoperative sonographic control (85.2%), 19 (55.8%) had pretreatment serum CA 125 determination, 17 (50%) serum CA 199 determination and 19 CEA serum levels. Twenty patients (58.8%) had serous tumor and 14 (41.2%) had mucinous tumor. Six out of the 20 serous lesions were bilateral. Of the patients 31 (91%) had a stage I disease, one had stage II (3%) disease and two had stage III (6%) disease. Nine patients (26.5%) had laparotomic management, 25 (73.5%) had first laparoscopic management with seven laparoconversions (28%). The majority of borderline tumors (67.7%) exhibited multilocular aspects and seven patients had benign features (unilocular smooth sonolucent). Seven out of the 19 CA 125 serum levels were up to 35 U/ml; 4/17 CA 199 serum levels were above 40 U/ml but the CEA serum levels were always normal. Eighteen patients (52.9%) had radical surgery and 16 patients (47.1%) had conservative surgery including 7 cystectomies. Seven patients (20.6%) had subsequent laparotomic treatment, (five after laparoscopic management, one after laparoconversion management and another one after laparotomic surgery) and no residual disease was found. Fourteen patients (41.1%) had preoperative cyst rupture (13 during laparoscopic management). Four recurrences in stage I disease occurred; one after unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, three after cystectomy but only one recurrence was in ipsilateral ovary. All four recurrences were diagnosed by sonographic control and one was associated with CA 125 serum level elevation. Ten laparoscopic second look were negative. No specific sonographic aspect exists for borderline tumors but it is the best way to detect recurrence. The preoperative CA 125 serum levels was elevated in 36.8% of patients. The conservative treatment including laparoscopic procedure in borderline ovarian tumors appears to have a high risk of peroperative rupture but the rate of recurrence is similar to laparotomic treatment."}
{"id": "8730628", "title": "A combined approach for the early detection of ovarian cancer in asymptomatic women.", "content": "A combined approach for the early detection of ovarian cancer in asymptomatic women. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effectiveness of the combined procedure including pelvic examination and serum CA-125 determination, as a screening method for the early detection of ovarian cancer. In 2000 women over 45 years old, without any evidence of adnexal disease, pelvic examination and serum CA-125 determination were performed. When either the findings of the pelvic examination were ambiguous or positive, or the serum CA-125 level was > 35 U/ml, further investigation including ultrasonography and laparoscopy or laparotomy was done. Among 174 women with clinical findings of adnexal disease there were 15 (8.62%) who had serum CA-125 > 35 U/ml. Among 18 women with elevated serum CA-125 (> 35 U/ml) there were 15 women (83.33%) who had clinical findings of adnexal disease. In 15 women further investigation was suggestive of adnexal disease and surgical exploration revealed three cases of malignancy. One case of serious ovarian cystadenocarcinoma stage Ia, one case of borderline ovarian tumour and one case of metastatic carcinoma from the right kidney. The other 12 women had benign adnexal masses or pelvic endometriosis. In our study this combined approach had sensitivity 100%, specificity 99.70% and P.P.V. 22%. According to these data, the procedure could be a potential component of a strategy aimed to the early detection of ovarian cancer, regardless of the financial cost."}
{"id": "8727704", "title": "Indications for laparoscopic surgery of ovarian tumors.", "content": "Indications for laparoscopic surgery of ovarian tumors. To investigate the criteria for laparoscopic surgery in ovarian tumors, a retrospective review of indications, preoperative assessments using transvaginal ultrasonography, serum CA 125, surgical methods and diagnosis and post-operative complications were analyzed. Forty-three patients underwent surgical treatment for ovarian tumors, from November 1992 to October 1993. Of the 43 patients with ovarian tumors, 19 (44%) underwent laparoscopic surgery, and 24 (56%) underwent laparotomy. Laparoscopic surgery was performed in 18 of 34 (53%) patients with benign ovarian cysts. Eight patients with malignant ovarian tumors were treated by laparotomy. Coincidence of preoperative assessment and surgical diagnosis was 95%. No major complications were observed in the laparoscopic surgery. We suggest that malignant ovarian tumors and inextricable adhesions are contraindications to laparoscopic surgery. We propose the following criteria for laparoscopic surgery by classification into three groups: A) good indication: benign cystic tumors with good mobility, B) deliberation indication: benign tumors with poor mobility, including some dermoid cysts and endometrial cysts, C) contraindication: malignant tumors and dense adhesions. We conclude that indications of laparoscopic surgery for ovarian tumors should be determined by careful preoperative assessment using transvaginal ultrasonography and tumor markers."}
{"id": "8714064", "title": "[Laparoscopic surgery in gynecology. Experience at the Luis Castelazo Ayala Hospital].", "content": "[Laparoscopic surgery in gynecology. Experience at the Luis Castelazo Ayala Hospital]. The purpose of the present study was to demonstrate the various applications of the laparoscopic surgery in the field of gynecology. 40 patients who were submitted to laparoscopic surgery were studied and divided into 5 groups accordingly to the surgical procedure: adhesiolysis, surgery of ovarian tumors, hysterectomy, surgery of the Fallopian tube and myomectomy. All the patients had a preoperative study and once completed they were selected for laparoscopic surgery. The laparoscopic procedure was able to solve the gynecologic pathology. The mean overall surgical time was of 66.8 min with a maximum time of 180 and a minimum of 30 min, accordingly to the groups the surgical mean times were as follows: 1) adhesiolysis 111 min 2) ovarian surgery 69 min 3) hysterectomy 113 min 4) tubal surgery 60 min and 5) myomectomy 58 min. There were no surgical complications and they all had a brief hospitalization period and a fast return to active life. All procedures were done with a bipolar cautery. We conclude that laparoscopic surgery is a useful resource for the resolution of the majority of the benign gynecologic pathology and when indicated in the proper way there is no rise in the morbid-mortality, and offers a short hospitalization period and a quick return to active life."}
{"id": "8706964", "title": "Ovarian cysts.", "content": "Ovarian cysts. The Author intends to compare the data available in literature on the topic of 'laparoscopic surgery of ovarian cysts' to his case material. From 1985 to 1994, the author carried out 920 laparoscopic operations for the removal of ovarian cysts. Of these, 13 were converted to laparotomies, mostly because of peri-adnexal adhesions. There were 22 recurrences (endometriosic and mucinous multilocular cysts), and five severe complications (two purulent inflammations, one intra-operative haemorrhage and one post-operative one, one post-operative acute abdomen sine causa). In one case, an unrecognised endometrioid carcinoma was inadequately treated with laparoscopy. The author considers laparoscopy as the elective choice for surgical treatment of ovarian cysts. Suspect malignancy is not a contra-indication to laparoscopic surgery, since the removal of the operative specimen and its subsequent histological examination can be effected-in the large majority of cases-with the same results both laparoscopically and laparotomically. There is a problem with undiagnosed carcinomas in fertile females, but it is equally present in laparotomy."}
{"id": "8706963", "title": "Pelvic masses and endoscopic surgery: diagnosis.", "content": "Pelvic masses and endoscopic surgery: diagnosis. Most adnexal masses are benign but a careful preoperative evaluation is necessary to exclude malignancy. Pelvic examination is considered to be of limited importance Ultrasonography is of prime importance and also tumor marker's assays. The last step of evaluation to exclude malignancy is the laparoscopic inspection of the tumor. If any signs of malignancy are found, laparotomy is performed immediately. The majority of patients with a benign adnexal cyst can be treated by operative endoscopy."}
{"id": "8703147", "title": "Endoscopic surgery for mature teratoma of the ovary.", "content": "Endoscopic surgery for mature teratoma of the ovary. This study was undertaken to assess the value of laparoscopic surgery as treatment for benign mature teratomas of the ovary. A total of 70 patients treated exclusively with laparoscopic surgery for ovarian mature teratoma were studied. The tumors were either enucleated with preservation of the ovary or removed by salpingo-oophorectomy. Ovary-preserving surgery was performed in 60 cases; salpingo-oophorectomy was accomplished in 10 cases. All tumors removed were histologically benign. No surgical complications were encountered throughout the series. In eight patients who underwent primary ovary-preserving surgery, a second-look laparoscopy was undertaken with virtually no pathological findings noted. Our findings confirm those of other authors- when performed by experienced surgeons, laparoscopic removal of ovarian mature teratomas is a safe and recommendable alternative to laparotomy. Preoperative diagnosis and intraoperative inspection of the tumor must be as thorough as possible."}
{"id": "8686410", "title": "The laparoscopic approach of a torsion of a benign mature ovarian teratoma: a case report and review of the literature.", "content": "The laparoscopic approach of a torsion of a benign mature ovarian teratoma: a case report and review of the literature. Benign mature teratomas account for approximately 10-15% of all ovarian neoplasms. Many patients with these dermoid cysts are asymptomatic. The most frequent complication is torsion of the teratoma (in 3,5% of the cases). In a 26-year female patient admitted for severe, acute abdominal pain, a computerized abdominal tomography in accordance with the clinical characteristics of the abdominal examination, was highly suggestive for a torsion of a teratoma. The diagnose was confirmed by a celioscopic operative approach and the teratoma with the left tubo-ovarian complex was successfully removed laparoscopically."}
{"id": "8656414", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery in patients with a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. A case report.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery in patients with a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. A case report. Ventriculoperitoneal shunts have afforded many patients the opportunity to expect a normal lifespan. Since laparotomy is more likely to be associated with adhesion formation, potentially reducing the functional capacity of ventriculoperitoneal shunts, laparoscopy may be a preferable surgical alternative. A 64-year-old woman presented with a pelvic mass requiring surgical evaluation to rule out ovarian cancer. She had a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. Diagnostic laparoscopy was performed without complication. However, due to the significant adhesions from previous surgery, the mass could not be safely evaluated, and the procedure was completed by laparotomy. This is the first report of laparoscopy for a pelvic mass in an adult with a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. Laparoscopy is preferable to laparotomy for the replacement or repair of ventriculoperitoneal shunts. Also, laparoscopy should be considered for other problems requiring surgical intervention."}
{"id": "8654650", "title": "Adhesion formation from release of dermoid contents in the peritoneal cavity and effect of copious lavage: a prospective, randomized, blinded, controlled study in a rabbit model.", "content": "Adhesion formation from release of dermoid contents in the peritoneal cavity and effect of copious lavage: a prospective, randomized, blinded, controlled study in a rabbit model. To determine, in a rabbit model, whether peritoneal exposure to dermoid cyst material produces inflammation and adhesions above control levels and whether saline lavage reduces the degree of peritoneal reaction. A prospective, randomized, blinded, controlled study of adhesion formation. Thirty New Zealand white female rabbits were assigned randomly to five experimental groups: [1] laparoscopy with intraperitoneal injection of human dermoid material, [2] laparoscopy with intraperitoneal injection of human dermoid material and subsequent lavage to clear all visible dermoid material, [3] laparoscopy with saline lavage, [4] laparoscopy with intraperitoneal injection of human follicular fluid (antigenic control), and [5] laparoscopy alone. Six weeks after initial laparoscopy, inflammation and adhesions were scored in several categories via visual assessment (range 0 to 15) and histologic microscopic evaluation (range 0 to 24). Data were evaluated using Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney U nonparametric tests. For groups 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, respectively, mean +/- SEM total inflammation-adhesion scores were 13.85 +/- 0.55, 2.90 +/- 1.15, 0 +/- 0, 1.50 +/- 1.00, and 0 +/- 0 for clinical evaluation and 16.83 +/- 1.22, 7.33 +/- 1.76, 0 +/- 0,0 +/- 0, and 0 +/- 0 for histologic evaluation. Using nonparametric tests, significant differences were found between groups in clinical and histologic scores. Dermoid material produces a significant peritonitis. Results of the clinical evaluation demonstrate that saline lavage brings inflammation and adhesion formation close to control levels. However, results of the histologic evaluation suggest that the decrement in inflammation as a result of lavage may be less dramatic than that found by clinical evaluation."}
{"id": "8653926", "title": "Interleukin-6 and soluble interleukin-6 receptor in peritoneal fluid and serum of patients with endometriosis.", "content": "Interleukin-6 and soluble interleukin-6 receptor in peritoneal fluid and serum of patients with endometriosis. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) and soluble Interleukin-6-receptor (sIL-6R) concentrations were investigated in patients with endometriosis and other benign gynecologic diseases. During laparoscopy or laparotomy peritoneal fluid and serum were collected from 29 patients with endometriosis, 31 patients with benign ovarian masses and 4 patients with chronic inflammation or adhesions. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) concentrations were determined by Elisa-technique. Patients with endometriosis stage IV revealed slightly higher IL-6 concentrations in peritoneal fluid when compared to patients with stage I to II disease and ovarian masses/ chronic inflammation. IL-6 serum concentrations were higher in case of stage I and II when compared to stage III and IV and ovarian masses/chronic inflammation. Patients with endometriosis revealed significantly higher sIL-6 receptor concentrations in peritoneal fluid and serum as compared to patients with ovarian cysts and chronic inflammation. IL-6 and soluble IL-6 receptor may be considered to be involved in endometriosis. However, the patho-physiologic mechanism must be the subject of further investigation."}
{"id": "8641614", "title": "A phase I study of paclitaxel and cyclophosphamide in recurrent adenocarcinoma of the ovary.", "content": "A phase I study of paclitaxel and cyclophosphamide in recurrent adenocarcinoma of the ovary. We have conducted a disease specific phase I study of paclitaxel and cyclophosphamide in recurrent adenocarcinoma of the ovary. This was done to take advantage of the cellular and molecular synergism between paclitaxel and DNA-damaging agents, with the hope of avoiding paclitaxel-cisplatin toxicities. Paclitaxel was given as a 24-hr CIVI, after which cyclophosphamide was given as a 60-min infusion. Cycles of therapy were repeated every 3 weeks; and granulocyte colony-simulating factor (G-CSF) was given in a \"flexible\" dosing fashion. Starting doses were 170 mg/m2 paclitaxel and 750 mg/m2 cyclophosphamide. Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was seen at the doses of 250 mg/m2 paclitaxel and 1250 mg/m2 cyclophosphamide. DLT was cumulative thrombocytopenia. There were six nonhematologic grade 3 or 4 toxicities experienced in the study. Eleven of 20 evaluable patients (55%) have achieved an objective response (4 CCR;7 PR). Three of four CCRs were confirmed by negative findings at peritoneoscopy. The median number of prior therapies was 2 (range 1-4) and 17 individuals had platinum-refractory disease. We conclude that paclitaxel followed by cyclophosphamide is an active combination in recurrent ovarian cancer and that further study is needed to determine if this combination is truly better than paclitaxel alone."}
{"id": "8641503", "title": "Laparoscopic lateral ovarian transposition.", "content": "Laparoscopic lateral ovarian transposition. To determine if the new technique laparoscopic lateral transposition of the ovaries before pelvic radiotherapy for anal canal carcinoma prevents radiation-related ovarian failure. A case report. The operating room of a Canadian teaching hospital. A single patient with anal canal carcinoma, requiring pelvic radiotherapy, who desired preservation of ovarian function. Laparoscopic ovarian transposition to the level of the pelvic brim. Follow-up clinical and laboratory evidence of ovarian failure. Initially ovarian failure was confirmed with the appearance of postmenopausal symptoms and the elevation of serum gonadotropins. These symptoms resolved by 8 months after radiotherapy, normal menstrual cycles resumed, and normal FSH levels were detected at that time. The laparoscopic, lateral transposition of this patient's ovaries was effective at preventing radiation-related ovarian failure."}
{"id": "8631544", "title": "Incidence and effect on survival of abdominal wall metastases at trocar or puncture sites following laparoscopy or paracentesis in women with ovarian cancer.", "content": "Incidence and effect on survival of abdominal wall metastases at trocar or puncture sites following laparoscopy or paracentesis in women with ovarian cancer. The aim of this retrospective study was to examine the incidence and prognostic significance of abdominal wall metastases in patients with ovarian cancer present at the primary debulking at the entry sites of previous laparoscopy or paracentesis. The clinical records of 219 patients were studied. In 7 of 43 patients (16%) who had undergone laparoscopy and 3 of 30 patients (10%) who had undergone paracentesis previous to the primary debulking, an abdominal wall metastasis had developed at the entry sites. All metastases occurred in patients with FIGO stage IIIC-IV including ascites. Survival analysis using the Cox proportional hazards model showed that after adjustment for age, FIGO stage, histology, grade, ascites, and residual disease after primary debulking, the presence of abdominal wall metastases in the entry sites of previous laparoscopy or paracentesis was negatively, although not statistical significantly, correlated with survival (P = 0.14)."}
{"id": "8605142", "title": "Ovarian cancer presenting in a laparoscopy scar and metastatic to the spleen.", "content": "Ovarian cancer presenting in a laparoscopy scar and metastatic to the spleen."}
{"id": "8596842", "title": "Focal calcifications in otherwise ultrasonographically normal ovaries.", "content": "Focal calcifications in otherwise ultrasonographically normal ovaries. To analyze the natural history, clinical importance, and need for follow-up in patients with discrete calcifications in otherwise ultrasonographically (US) normal ovaries. US scans obtained in 28 women with ovarian calcifications but without masses or other structural abnormalities were retrospectively reviewed. Follow-up findings were available in 15 women (mean age, 38.0 years; range, 26-72 years). Two of the 15 women had trilateral calcifications. Thus, 17 ovaries had focal calcifications. Histopathologic confirmation was obtained in 10 cases; follow-up US findings, five cases; and follow-up laparoscopic findings, two cases. In 13 (76%) of the 17 ovaries, calcifications were not clinically important. In four (24%) of the 17, the calcification was the initial or only manifestation of a neoplasm. Lesions were benign in all four of these ovaries: There was one dermoid, one mucinous cystadenoma, and two adenofibromas. Until more data are available, findings of calcifications in ovaries with otherwise normal US findings warrant some form of follow-up."}
{"id": "12288783", "title": "Female sterilization. Patient update.", "content": "Female sterilization. Patient update. Around 28% of US women using contraception have accepted female sterilization. Female sterilization is a permanent contraceptive method. A surgeon usually uses a laparoscope to locate the fallopian tubes to either cut or obstruct them with clips, rings, or an electrical current under general or local anesthesia. Female sterilization is usually performed on an outpatient basis. The obstructed tubes keep sperm from fertilizing the egg. Female sterilization is very safe. The rare major complications tend to arise from general anesthesia use. The physician will discuss the risks and benefits of female sterilization before the surgery. The failure rate is 0.2-0.4%. Female sterilization might protect against ovarian cancer. Some sterilized women experience post-sterilization syndrome. Its symptoms include pelvic pain, change in sexual behavior, changes in mental health, changes in the menstrual cycle, increased blood loss, and increase in premenstrual symptoms. Most women do not suffer from this syndrome, however. It is not known whether sterilization is responsible for these changes or the changes are part of normal aging or gynecological problems. Terminating the previous contraceptive method (e.g., oral contraceptives) may contribute to the changes. Sterilization is for persons who do not want any more children. They should discuss sterilization first with their physician. They should ask the physician to explain the procedure and possible risks. Vasectomy should also be considered for couples who want no more children. Generally, due to less inhibition and more spontaneity without fear of pregnancy, sterilization improves sexual activity."}
{"id": "10150435", "title": "A comparison of laparotomy and laparoscopy in the management of ovarian masses.", "content": "A comparison of laparotomy and laparoscopy in the management of ovarian masses. To compare the results of laparoscopy with laparotomy in the management of ovarian masses not suspected of being malignant, a retrospective review was made of 115 patients with ovarian masses operated on, 50 by laparotomy and 65 by laparoscopy, in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Hong Kong, from November 1, 1992, to October 31, 1993. In the laparoscopy group, the average size of the ovarian masses was smaller, and there was a significant reduction in the intraoperative blood loss, postoperative analgesic requirement, morbidity (particularly febrile morbidity and urinary retention), length of hospital stay, and recuperation period. The incidence of rupture of the ovarian mass was not related to the operative approach but to the underlying pathology. Two patients in the laparoscopy group were converted to laparotomy, and 1 in the laparotomy group required a second laparotomy. The operating time was longer in the laparoscopic approach, but this could be reduced with experience and improved technique in specimen removal. Laparoscopy appears to be a better approach than laparotomy in the management of ovarian masses where malignancy is not suspected and a competent surgeon is available."}
{"id": "9050607", "title": "Laparoscopic excision of benign dermoid cysts with controlled intraoperative spillage.", "content": "Laparoscopic excision of benign dermoid cysts with controlled intraoperative spillage. Due to the risk of aseptic peritonitis associated with intraoperative rupture of dermoid cysts, many surgeons are reluctant to remove the lesions laparoscopically. In our series, 12 dermoid cysts were removed laparoscopically. Intraoperative spillage occurred in all cases and was managed with copious lavage. None of the patients experienced postoperative morbidity associated with peritonitis, indicating that intraoperative spillage of dermoid cysts is not associated with morbidity as long as vigorous lavage is performed."}
{"id": "9050603", "title": "Laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy during pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy during pregnancy. A 24-year-old primiparous woman had an 18 x 5-cm, left adnexal cyst at 8.5 weeks' gestation. The cyst's dimension remained unchanged over the next 4 weeks. During laparoscopy at 15.5 weeks' gestation, the cyst and its contents were judged to be benign, and a left salpingo-oophorectomy was performed. Pathology revealed a serous cystadenoma of the ovary. The patient was discharged from the hospital within 48 hours. Her pregnancy progressed uneventfully to term, and she delivered vaginally a live male weighing 3240 g."}
{"id": "9050572", "title": "Is laparotomy for staging early ovarian cancer an absolute necessity?", "content": "Is laparotomy for staging early ovarian cancer an absolute necessity? To demonstrate that palpation of the omentum, mesentery, and intestine can be omitted from the laparoscopic staging of stage I carcinoma of the ovary. Retrospective analysis of 223 women with stages III and IV ovarian cancer treated by laparotomy. Gynecological Oncology Clinic, M. Sklodowska-Curie Memorial Cancer Institute of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland. Observation of macroscopic spread of tumor to areas accessible to laparoscopic inspection versus spread to areas inaccessible to laparoscopic evaluation. Macroscopically detectable disease in the areas easily accessible to laparoscopic inspection was present in all cases of metastases to the mesentery, omentum, or intestine. The diagnosis of FIGO stage I ovarian cancer can be made with confidence if laparoscopic inspection of certain areas reveals no evidence of metastases."}
{"id": "9050555", "title": "The effectiveness of cryoendoscopic treatment for tubal infertility.", "content": "The effectiveness of cryoendoscopic treatment for tubal infertility. Seventy-three women experienced bilateral proximal tubal occlusion caused by adhesions or polyps arising from the uterotubal junction in at least one tube. There were no other identifiable causes of infertility. All patients were treated with cryosurgery, which restored tubal patency in 61 (83.6%). Of 45 women with restored patency, who were followed 6 to 12 months, 20 (27.4% of 73) conceived and 16 (21.9%) delivered viable babies."}
{"id": "8821246", "title": "Laparoscopic pelvic and aortic lymphadenectomy.", "content": "Laparoscopic pelvic and aortic lymphadenectomy. A systematic approach to the laparoscopic management of gynaecological malignancies began about 5 years ago more or less simultaneously in a few centres in France and the USA. Mature data and long-term follow-up are not yet available. Despite the absence of comparative studies, evidence is, in this author's opinion, now compelling that pelvic and aortic lymphadenectomy can be carried out just as effectively laparoscopically as via a laparotomy. This conclusion is based on traditional surgical, anatomical and pathological considerations such as the way in which the operation is executed, photodocumentation of the extensiveness of the dissection, the lymph node harvest and the proportion of positive lymph nodes recovered. The benefits of a laparoscopic approach have yet to be demonstrated in comparative studies, but compared with historical controls, the reduction in morbidity is so dramatic as to leave little doubt that patients benefit from laparoscopic treatment in experienced hands."}
{"id": "8821245", "title": "The role of laparoscopic surgery in gynaecological oncology.", "content": "The role of laparoscopic surgery in gynaecological oncology. Minimal access surgery is here to stay in gynaecological oncology. Within the last three years, rapid strides have been made in applying minimal access surgical techniques to a wide range of gynaecological oncology procedures. The re-assessment of radical vaginal surgery has come largely because of the ease of accessing the pelvic lymph nodes using retroperitoneal and intraperitoneal techniques. An ability to assess the lymph nodes of the pelvis and the para-aortic region prior to definitive therapy is making management of many oncological conditions more logical. Question marks still arise over the place of minimal access surgery in ovarian cancer. A recent study by Professor Gunther Kinderman (Munich) in which, following a postal questionnaire, he identified an unacceptably high rate of laparoscopic interventions in invasive cancer with a parallel unacceptably high rate of metastatic disease, particularly in the port sites, has demonstrated a need for constant vigilance and careful assessment of the application of minimal access surgery in certain areas of oncology. Even while this chapter was in press, Professor Daniel Dargent has shown the possibility of carrying out assessment laparoscopically of the groin lymph nodes using a combination of minimal access surgery and plastic surgical techniques to remove fat. This technique when applied to sentinel node identification may revolutionize our assessment of the groin. Clearly this is an exciting time in gynaecological oncology and many and new inventive applications are being visualized by surgeons throughout the world. When this chapter is rewritten in two years time, inevitably, a considerable part of it will be altered. A glimpse of the future has been seen and we await the full vision with bated breath."}
{"id": "8747403", "title": "Office laparoscopy as a screening tool for early detection of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Office laparoscopy as a screening tool for early detection of ovarian cancer. Laparoscopy is a safe and effective surgical procedures used in evaluating the peritoneal cavity. Laparoscopy, under local anesthesia, has been well documented in the literature. These studies support the concept that laparoscopy can be performed under local anesthesia. Several small studies have addressed the respiratory, cardiac, and hemodynamic changes observed using local anesthesia and suggest that, with proper monitoring, these procedures can be safely performed in an outpatient setting. Optical catheter systems now have diameters ranging from 0.25 mm to 2.5 cm. Image fibers 6 microns in diameter are combined in bundles. The catheter system produces a brighter though grainier picture than views produced by a xenon light source and a 5 mm laparoscope. An Adair Verres needle (18 gauge) is inserted through a 3 mm plastic introducer. The Adair Verres needle is removed and a gas extension tube is used to create a pneumoperitoneum with carbon dioxide. The optical catheter is placed through the extension tube. If a second site is required for biopsy or washings, a 3 mm port can be inserted under direct visualization. Miniature ultrasound transducers have now been developed as a means of imaging the internal structures of the ovary. These transducers, housed in #3.5-6.2 French catheters, can be passed through a laparoscope, adding a new dimension to laparoscopy. Although the technology of office laparoscopy as a means of detecting early ovarian cancer exists, it has limited applicability for screening the population at large. It may be more useful as secondary or tertiary testing in the work-up of patients suspected of having ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "8710141", "title": "[Hemoperitoneum from post-traumatic ovarian cystoma. Videolaparoscopic treatment].", "content": "[Hemoperitoneum from post-traumatic ovarian cystoma. Videolaparoscopic treatment]. Personal experience in a case of ovarian cystoma (misunderstood to the patient herself) broken consequently to a car trauma and cause of an intracystic angiorrhagy and hemoperitoneum is presented. The advantages of videolaparoscopic technique both for the diagnosis formulation and for the surgical treatment are underlined and the use of this new technique is suggested due to its advantages such as quickness, mini-invasiveness and post-operation comfort."}
{"id": "8672943", "title": "[Operative laparoscopy in gynecology oncology].", "content": "[Operative laparoscopy in gynecology oncology]. Because of the poor sensitivity and accuracy of noninvasive nonsurgical methods of detection of occult pelvic and para-aortic lymph nodes, as well as the cost and discomfort of surgical staging, Keelung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital introduced laparoscopic procedures in the staging of cervical cancer from May 1992. Since then, 112 such surgical procedures have been undertaken, including 36 pelvic lymphadenectomies, 20 para-aortic lymphadenectomies, 6 infrarenal paraaortic lymphadenectomies, 22 simple hysterectomies, 6 extended hysterectomies, 2 Schauta's radical hysterectomies, 4 omentectomies, 5 appendectomies, 3 ovarian transpositions, and 8 second look operations for ovarian cancer. All patients tolerated the procedures smoothly except for one who had hemostasis. There was also one complication of tumor seeding at the laparoscopic skin site. Our preliminary experience shows the feasibility and safety of laparoscopic procedures for gynecology and oncology patients. The potential application of laparoscopy in managing gynecologic malignancies is highly appreciated in our institute. The birth of operative laparoscopy in the subspecialty of gynecologic oncology has taken place."}
{"id": "8635009", "title": "The role of laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology.", "content": "The role of laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology. The use of laparoscopy in the management of gynecologic malignancies has significantly increased over the last 5 years. The safety and adequacy of pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy has been established by several investigators. Patients with early carcinoma of the cervix are now undergoing Schauta (radical vaginal) hysterectomy after laparoscopic lymphadenectomy. Patients with carcinoma of the endometrium are treated by laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy in conjunction with laparoscopic pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy. Staging and second-look procedures are now being performed laparoscopically in patients with carcinoma of the ovary. The Gynecologic Oncology Group is currently investigating the role of laparoscopic surgery for patients with carcinoma of the cervix, endometrium, and ovary in four Phase II trials. A randomized Phase III trial comparing laparoscopy to laparotomy for patients with carcinoma of the endometrium will begin soon."}
{"id": "8634989", "title": "Operative laparoscopy and the gynecologic oncologist. Commentary and review.", "content": "Operative laparoscopy and the gynecologic oncologist. Commentary and review. A rapid evolution in technology and surgical applications of endoscopy have occurred over the past 5 years. Surgical procedures once thought impossible except through large abdominal incisions are being performed with the use of laparoscopic surgical techniques. Laparoendoscopic techniques have limitations as well as advantages over conventional surgical approaches. The medical literature as it relates to laparoscopy and gynecologic oncology was reviewed. Procedures performed through the laparoscope include total hysterectomies, bilateral oophorectomies, pelvic and periaortic lymphadenectomies, omentectomies, colostomies, bowel resections, oophoropexies, and pelvic lid constructions as well as radical hysterectomies and ovarian cancer debulking procedures. These techniques are gaining popularity among gynecologic oncologists, and studies of individual case reports have been followed by studies involving a series of patients. Numerous limiting factors exist, however, foremost among these being the wide variability of endoscopic skills among surgeons and lack of objective long term data supporting the efficacy and safety of these techniques. Application of endoscopic techniques in gynecologic oncology procedures is occurring rapidly and is driven partly by market economy forces. Many gynecologic oncologists, however, do not have the necessary endoscopic skills and experience with which to perform such procedures. For these physicians to remain sufficiently qualified, fellowship training programs must encompass formal training curricula in endoscopic surgery, and such programs should often include the faculty as well. Formal and organized credentialing of laparoscopic cancer surgical expertise will ensure a minimum safe level of skills."}
{"id": "8587744", "title": "An overview of consumer-driven ambulatory surgery: operative laparoscopy.", "content": "An overview of consumer-driven ambulatory surgery: operative laparoscopy. Laparoscopy is considered one of the first truly consumer-driven medical advances. It is estimated that 30% to 70% of all gynecologic surgery currently performed via laparotomy incision could be completed by using the laparoscope. The emerging trend in recent years is the change from using the laparoscope in gynecology for diagnosis and tubal sterilization to treating ectopic pregnancy and ovarian neoplasm. The 1991 and 1992 Gynecologic and Obstetrical Society's review and recommendations of this surgical specialty reflect a 1.5-fold increase in the number of laparoscopic procedures reported in 1988. Pelvic pain is the most frequent indication for operative laparoscopy. There is a need for further evaluation of laparoscopy, including an evaluation of cost-savings claims and an evaluation of necessary recovery time in comparison with laparotomy. Primary care providers can effectively monitor patients' potential surgical needs and appropriately counsel patients when armed with knowledge of the benefits and risks of operative laparoscopy. This article provides a review of the history, purpose, benefits, risks, and patient surgical outcomes of operative laparoscopy."}
{"id": "8582588", "title": "[Laparoscopic preliminary surgery of ovarian malignancies. Experiences from 127 German gynecologic clinics].", "content": "[Laparoscopic preliminary surgery of ovarian malignancies. Experiences from 127 German gynecologic clinics]. A controversial discussion has arisen between endoscopists and oncologists about laparoscopic management of ovarian cancer and borderline tumours. A questionnaire was mailed to 273 German Departments of Gyn./Obst. A response rate of 46% (127 hospitals) was obtained concerning the endoscopical technique used, the kind and delay of post-endoscopical cancer operation and the early findings (follow-up) in cases of ovarian cancer, dysgerminoma, malignant teratoma, tubal cancer and borderline tumours of the ovary. In this German survey it could be shown that laparoscopic management of malignant ovarian tumours was not uncommon between 1991-1994. Totally, 61% of ovarian cancer stage Ia and 84% of ovarian borderline tumours stage Ia have been reported without any pathological finding in laparotomy subsequent to laparoscopic management of the lesions. The 192 cases cited here are undoubtedly an underestimate of the real present frequency of endoscopically managed ovarian malignancies. Patients with this early \"negative\" report should be followed up carefully and may not permit conclusions that laparoscopic management of ovarian malignancies may be harmless for them. In 16% of the stage Ia borderline tumours and in 39% of the stage Ia ovarian cancer early spread has been found totally, demonstrating that implantations and metastases subsequent to the endoscopical procedure can be found even in an early follow-up phase. In 92.4% laparoscopic capsule rupture, tumour morcellement with intraabdominal spilling, subsequent cystectomy or adnectomy had been the technique of choice with additional rinsing of the intraabdominal cavity. This was harmful for the majority of patients if the subsequent cancer surgery by laparotomy was delayed for more than 8 days. Early progression of these cases to stage I c has been reported in 20% (7/36 cases) and to stage II-III in 53% (19/36 cases). Only in 7.4% the endobag procedure was used in laparoscopic management of ovarian cancer stage Ia. In ovarian cancer stage Ic-III (n = 50) an early seeding in the laparoscopic tract was reported in 52% (13/25) if subsequent cancer surgery by laparotomy was delayed more than 8 days. The endoscopical techniques and the early findings after an endoscopical management are reported in detail. In conclusion, in respect of common oncological standards the actual practice in laparoscopic management of ovarian malignancy is considered poor surgery. Capsule rupture, tumour morcellement and unprotected \"biopsy\" in the intraabdominal cavity and an additional delay of adequate cancer surgery are the main pitfalls of that procedure. For the overwhelming majority of patients undergoing such endoscopical procedures very early implants and metastases in the pelvis, the abdominal cavity or the laparoscopic tract have been found. It seems necessary that laparoscopic management of ovarian malignancies and borderline tumours under the present technical conditions are given up and that we should return to reliable standards of oncological surgery comparable to laparotomy. This should be discussed urgently."}
{"id": "8582587", "title": "[Endoscopic therapy of adnexa tumors using endobag extraction].", "content": "[Endoscopic therapy of adnexa tumors using endobag extraction]. Evidence of 39 treated cases of cystic adnexal tumours of unclarified quality indicates that laparoscopic resection with subsequent extraction of the entire tumour in an endobag could provide the possibility of an endoscopic operation even in cases of indistinct tumours or of patients with enhanced perioperative risks. In particular patients with increased morbidity due to immobilisation might especially benefit from the technique."}
{"id": "8579388", "title": "[Contra endoscopic ovarian surgery].", "content": "[Contra endoscopic ovarian surgery]."}
{"id": "8579212", "title": "[The surgical treatment of ovarian formations by a laparoscopic approach].", "content": "[The surgical treatment of ovarian formations by a laparoscopic approach]. This study was aimed at assessment of the efficacy of surgical treatment of bulky formations in the ovaries. Surgical laparoscopy for benign tumors and tumor-like processes in the ovaries was carried out in 548 patients. The operations were performed for benign tumors (17%), tumor-like formations (23%), endometrioid cysts (16%), polycystic ovaries (14%), gonadal dyskinesia (2%), and stable menstrual dysfunction (24%). The size of ovarian formations varied from 2 to 8 cm. Partial or clinoid resection of the ovaries, adnexectomy, oophorectomy, removal of the parovarian cyst, or extended biopsy of the ovaries were carried out. The results were good. No relapses were recorded. Blood loss was virtually null. The mean duration of an operation was 67.34 +/- 10.5 min. Follow-up of 6 months to 3 years revealed no adhesions in 34.2% cases and first-degree adhesions in 65.8%."}
{"id": "8571460", "title": "The value of transvaginal color Doppler in the assessment of pelvic inflammatory disease.", "content": "The value of transvaginal color Doppler in the assessment of pelvic inflammatory disease. This study compares transvaginal color and pulsed Doppler (TVCD), laparoscopic and clinical findings in 102 women with proven pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Seventy-two (72) of them had acute symptoms, 11 presented with chronic pelvic pain and 19 patients were infertility cases suspected of tubal etiology. Uterine sonographic findings were demonstrated in 72 patients (70.6%). Free fluid in the cul-de-sac was demonstrated in 39 (38.2%) patients. Ovarian enlargement as the only finding was demonstrated in 6 (5.9%) patients, 22 (21.6%) presented with tubular adnexal structure, while in 74 (72.5%) patients it was of a complex nature. Color flow was obtained in all 6 patients presenting with ovarian enlargement, in 12 (54.5%) of those presenting with tubular adnexal structure, and in 56 (75.7%) of those with complex adnexal mass. Ovarian morphology was clearly delineated from adnexal mass in 59 patients (55.9%). The ipsilateral ovarian flow was altered in 50 of them (84.7%). The mean resistance index (RI) in patients with acute symptoms was 0.53 +/- 0.09 (+/-SD). It significantly differed from those obtained in patients with chronic pelvic pain (RI = 0.71 +/- 0.07) and infertility cases (RI = 0.73 +/- 0.09). We concluded that transvaginal color Doppler is useful additional tool in diagnosis and treatment monitoring in patients with PID."}
{"id": "8549598", "title": "Synchronous endometrial and ovarian cancer in young woman taking oral contraception.", "content": "Synchronous endometrial and ovarian cancer in young woman taking oral contraception. Oral contraceptives have been reported to confer protective effect against tendometrial and ovarian carcinoma. An uncommon presentation of concomitant endometrial and ovarian cancer in a young patient using oral contraception is reported. Use of combined oral contraceptives (OCs) has been associated, in numerous studies, with a duration-linked protective effect against ovarian and endometrial cancers. Reported in this paper is the case of a 28-year-old US OC user with concomitant carcinomas of the cervix and endometrium. The woman had been taking combined OCs for 4 years when she presented for intermittent mid-cycle bleeding of about 9 month's duration. The pelvic examination showed a normal size uterus slightly irregular in contour; the Pap smear was normal. The patient did not return for the recommended dilatation and curettage until 6 months later, when her symptoms persisted. At that time, laparoscopy revealed bilateral ovarian enlargement. Frozen section biopsies identified adenocarcinoma in both ovaries and the uterus. Total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-ophorectomy, omenectomy, and complete cervical staging were performed. The lesion in the left ovary was considered to represent a metastasis from the endometrial primary, while the lesion in the right ovary was viewed as a separate primary. Although synchronous primary cancer of the endometrium and ovary is a rare event, the women affected tend to be premenopausal with a median age of 41 years."}
{"id": "8542730", "title": "Fine-needle aspiration cytology of the ovary.", "content": "Fine-needle aspiration cytology of the ovary. FNA cytology has been shown to be highly accurate in diagnosing malignant tumors. In gynecology, an overall accuracy of 94.5% in the differentiation between benign and malignant tumors has been reported. Despite many controversial views regarding its safety, aspiration cytology has been accepted as an innocuous procedure that can be accomplished with minimal discomfort or complications and, in association with laparoscopy, assist in the management of ovarian cysts and masses. Although FNA cannot be considered the first-hand diagnostic procedure for ovarian cancer in postmenopausal patients, it may be extremely helpful in young women, even during pregnancy, to safely differentiate functional and other benign ovarian cysts from malignant ones. In postmenopausal women, especially those in the high risk group for surgical procedures and those undergoing a \"second look\" intervention following radiation or chemotherapy, aspiration cytology may provide sufficient information to warrant abandoning unnecessary surgery. During laparotomy for suspected unilateral disease, FNA may provide sufficient data about the opposite ovary to allow that organ to remain in place, thus preserving its function in a young patient. The pathologist must be familiar with the cytology of normal pelvic structures and the diagnostic criteria used to differentiate benign from malignant lesions, as well as potential diagnostic pitfalls, such as interpretation based on very few cells or the absence of appropriate clinical information. Although proper classification of ovarian masses can be achieved through FNA, the pathologist should be aware of its limitations, such as difficulties in differentiating adenomas from non-neoplastic cysts, and tumors of low malignant potential from well-differentiated carcinomas. Descriptive histologic terminology should be applied, and terms such as \"suspicious\" or \"atypical\" avoided. The aspirated material may not only be used for the diagnosis and classification of ovarian neoplasms, it may also be used for DNA analysis, detection of estrogen receptors and other prognostic markers, thus providing information regarding biologic behavior of the tumors. Finally, it is hoped that aspiration of ovarian lesions routinely detected by sonography, in elderly women or those with a strong family history of ovarian cancer, will allow the physician to accomplish detection of early ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "7879398", "title": "[Laparoscopic interventions in gynecology].", "content": "[Laparoscopic interventions in gynecology]. Gynecological surgery is performed in a difficult anatomical area of vital organs close to the pelvic wall. It requires precise hemostasis to prevent blood loss and postoperative complications. Both blood loss and complications are reduced by pelviscopic operation techniques. Patients who undergo gynecological pelviscopic operations often experience in comparison to laparotomy less fever, require less postoperative analgesia and are able to tolerate a full diet within 24 hours of surgery. Very often they have a faster recovery and a shorter hospital stay than patients undergoing traditional abdominal or transvaginal operations. The endoscopic operative technique lays the foundation for minimal invasive surgery. The mainly organ-resecting gynecological laparotomy, aiming to avoid recurrence, is increasingly being replaced by pelviscopic organ preservative techniques. Meanwhile we tend to perform many hysterectomies laparoscopically assisted (LAVH). It avoids laparotomy in casesa of adhesions and high uterine tissue mass and seems to lower intraoperative risks such as infection by strong operative restriction of the vaginal approach. CISH (classic intrafascial S*E*M*M* hysterectomy, S*E*M*M denoting \"serrated edge macro-morcellated\") even leaves the pelvic floor intact. Furthermore, we perform pelviscopic operations in cases of endometriosis, benign tumors of the ovaries, ectopic pregnancies and genital malformations (i.e., Vecchietti genitoplasty in the MRK-syndrome)."}
{"id": "7867272", "title": "The potential value of magnetic resonance imaging in infertility.", "content": "The potential value of magnetic resonance imaging in infertility. The potential value of magnetic resonance imaging as a diagnostic tool in infertility was investigated. Twenty-six women with primary or secondary infertility and symptoms of dysmenorrhoea or menorrhagia were studied prospectively using conventional T1- and T2-weighted spin-echo techniques. Positive diagnoses were obtained in 20 of 26 (76.9%) patients. Of these, 18 (69.2%) had lesions likely to be significantly contributing to infertility. Adenomyosis was detected in 14 patients (53.8%) with 11 showing the diffuse pattern while three had discrete adenomyomas. Cystic lesions typical of endometriosis were detected in seven patients (26.9%), four of these also had evidence of adenomyosis. The endometriotic lesions were also seen at laparoscopy in each case. Five patients (19.2%) had leiomyomas, one in a patient with adenomyosis and endometriosis and one in a patient with endometriosis alone. Only one patient had submucous leiomyomas causing significant distortion of the endometrial mucosa likely to affect fertility. Magnetic resonance imaging is valuable in the investigation of unexplained infertility where it provides a high diagnostic yield particularly if uterine pathology is suspected."}
{"id": "7824738", "title": "Adnexal masses: accuracy of characterization with transvaginal US and precontrast and postcontrast MR imaging.", "content": "Adnexal masses: accuracy of characterization with transvaginal US and precontrast and postcontrast MR imaging. To determine the accuracy of transvaginal ultrasound (TVUS) and of precontrast and contrast material-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in the differentiation of adnexal masses. Five blinded readers analyzed images of 80 masses in 72 patients. MR and TVUS images were interpreted in separate sessions. Findings were confirmed at surgery or laparoscopy. Higher diagnostic accuracy was attained with MR imaging in mature cystic teratomas and endometriomas. However, better accuracy was achieved with contrast-enhanced MR imaging and TVUS in simple cysts, cystadenomas, and malignant tumors because internal details could be visualized. Receiver operating characteristic study indicated that observer confidence was significantly higher with contrast-enhanced MR imaging than with precontrast MR imaging (P = .011) or TVUS (P = .002) in the differentiation of benign and malignant masses. Contrast-enhanced MR imaging is superior to precontrast MR and TVUS imaging in the characterization and differentiation of adnexal masses."}
{"id": "7805922", "title": "Association of Chlamydia trachomatis immunoglobulin gamma titers with dystrophic peritoneal calcification, psammoma bodies, adhesions, and hydrosalpinges.", "content": "Association of Chlamydia trachomatis immunoglobulin gamma titers with dystrophic peritoneal calcification, psammoma bodies, adhesions, and hydrosalpinges. To correlate Chlamydia trachomatis immunoglobulin gamma (IgG) titers with psammoma bodies, dystrophic peritoneal calcification, degree of calcification, adhesions, and hydrosalpinges. This is a prospective single-blinded histologic analysis of tissue and retrospective analysis of historical laboratory and clinical variables. Tertiary hospital and private practice patient charts. Sixty consecutive patients with C. trachomatis IgG titers reported on the coding sheets of a previous study for endometriosis. The histologic slides were reviewed in a blinded fashion for calcification. Previously used data sheets were reviewed for C. trachomatis IgG titers. Historical data, adhesion scores, hystrosalpingogram findings, and laparoscopic findings were obtained from charts. Dystrophic calcification, psammoma bodies, moderate-to-severe dystrophic calcification and hydrosalpinges were associated with positive C. trachomatis IgG titers. This study suggests relationship of C. trachomatis with dystrophic calcification, psammoma bodies, adhesions, and hydrosalpinges. This relationship suggests that C. trachomatis IgG titers can be used as a marker to help determine those infertility patients who might best benefit from hysterosalpingogram or laparoscopy and in clinical studies of endometriosis, infertility, pain, or ovarian cancer. However, there is no current data to suggest a need for therapy on the basis of a positive C. trachomatis IgG titer or of dystrophic peritoneal calcification."}
{"id": "7800323", "title": "Transvaginal ultrasonography in the diagnosis of cystic teratoma.", "content": "Transvaginal ultrasonography in the diagnosis of cystic teratoma. To assess prospectively the role of transvaginal ultrasonography in screening for cystic teratoma and in differentiating cystic teratoma from other ovarian masses. Three hundred seventy-six premenopausal non-pregnant women underwent transvaginal ultrasonography 1 week before undergoing laparotomy or laparoscopy. The visualization of localized or diffuse echogenicity was chosen as the characteristic ultrasonographic finding of cystic teratoma. Endosonographic diagnosis was compared with surgical and pathologic findings. Sensitivity and specificity for the ultrasonographic screening were 57.9 and 99.7%, respectively, calculated for each visualized ovary (n = 659), and 84.6 and 98.2%, respectively, for differentiating cystic teratoma from other ovarian masses, calculated for each visualized cyst (n = 123). Transvaginal ultrasonography has a better predictive ability for differentiating cystic teratoma from other ovarian masses (kappa value 0.84) than in screening for cystic teratomas (kappa value 0.69)."}
{"id": "7800309", "title": "Laparoscopically assisted vaginal removal of ovarian dermoid cysts.", "content": "Laparoscopically assisted vaginal removal of ovarian dermoid cysts. Dermoid cysts were diagnosed by transvaginal sonography in 19 patients who subsequently underwent laparoscopy to confirm the nature and extent of the lesion and the mobility of the adnexa. Eighteen patients underwent surgery after the ovary was exteriorized through a posterior colpoceliotomy. No intraoperative complications were observed, and sonographic follow-up at 3 and 6 months after surgery showed a normal sonographic ovarian pattern. Laparoscopically assisted vaginal removal of dermoid cysts should be considered as an alternative to laparotomy and operative laparoscopy in cases when adnexal mobility is proven and vaginal extraction is feasible."}
{"id": "7794638", "title": "[Emergency laparoscopy. A 20-year experience].", "content": "[Emergency laparoscopy. A 20-year experience]. We revised 7988 laparoscopies over twenty years. Three hundred and ninety three were urgent laparoscopies: 325 patients with acute spontaneous abdomen and 68 acute traumatic abdomen. Emergency laparoscopy is made in patients with, both spontaneous and traumatic acute abdomen, when diagnosis is not made in 8 hours with the usual clinical and imaging methods. Acute diffuse peritonitis was the commonest finding in the first group (21%) and splenic rupture in the traumatic group (34%). There were two severe complications (0.5%): pulmonary oedema in a patient with myocardial disease and a respiratory failure in a old patient, which were resolved. We had two deaths related to laparoscopic diagnosis: massive mesenteric thrombosis and fecal peritonitis. There are few contraindications and tolerance is very good. This study shows a sensitivity of 98%, a specificity of 90%, a predictive positive value greater than 98% and a negative predictive value of 100%. In summary, the present study demonstrates that emergency laparoscopy is a effective diagnostic method in acute abdominal pain of uncertain aetiology."}
{"id": "7778428", "title": "Laparoscopic surgical procedures for early ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgical procedures for early ovarian cancer. Early stage la ovarian cancer diagnosed at the time of laparoscopic procedure was managed by laparoscopy accordingly. The procedures included oophorectomy, contralateral ovarian biopsy, total omentectomy, paraaortic lymphadenectomy and appendectomy. The patient tolerated the procedures smoothly and resumed work in two days."}
{"id": "7746172", "title": "Is there any value in bimanual pelvic examination as a screening test.", "content": "Is there any value in bimanual pelvic examination as a screening test. To assess the place of bimanual pelvic examination as a routine procedure in healthy women. 2623 healthy, asymptomatic volunteers (mean age, 51 years; range, 25-92 years) underwent pelvic examination as part of an ovarian cancer screening program. The presence of a bulky or fibroid uterus and adnexal abnormality was noted. Pelvic ultrasonography was used to investigate adnexal abnormalities and was also performed in all women with an elevated serum CA-125 antigen level (> 35 U/mL). Laparoscopy or laparotomy was performed as clinically indicated. A bulky or fibroid uterus was detected in 12.9% of women. The prevalence of abnormal adnexal findings was 1.5%, with a positive predictive value for a subsequent diagnosis of benign adnexal abnormality of 22%. The specificity of vaginal examination for malignancy was 99.9%. No ovarian malignancies were identified at initial screening. This \"routine\" procedure is undertaken in the belief that it serves a screening purpose. The detection of benign uterine abnormality is of no clear benefit as progression to malignancy is rare. Bimanual pelvic examination is of questionable value as a screening strategy in view of the low incidence of ovarian cancer in healthy women, and the relatively high prevalence (1.5%) of relatively unimportant adnexal abnormalities."}
{"id": "7742518", "title": "Minimal access surgery in gynecologic cancer: we can, but should we?", "content": "Minimal access surgery in gynecologic cancer: we can, but should we? Operative laparoscopists continue to refine surgical techniques applicable to patients with gynecologic malignancies. Various techniques for radical hysterectomy and larger series of patients with endometrial cancer have now been reported. The technical feasibility of such operations is being established. Although oncologic patients may enjoy the known benefits of laparoscopic surgery, such as shorter hospitalization, the known shortcomings, such as longer operative times and increased cost, are a concern. The unknown shortcomings and the unknown overall survival of laparoscopically managed patients continue to keep the majority of oncologic surgeons a safe distance away."}
{"id": "7736636", "title": "The role of endovaginal ultrasound in differentiating endometriomas from other ovarian cysts.", "content": "The role of endovaginal ultrasound in differentiating endometriomas from other ovarian cysts. Endometriomas have a prevalence of 24% among all ovarian cysts. Various sonographic features have been proposed to identify endometriomas. Although the visualization of ovarian masses with low-level internal echoes is suggestive for the endometriotic origin of the cyst, no data are yet available on the specificity of endovaginal ultrasonography in differentiating endometriomas from other ovarian masses. To address this issue, the sensitivity, specificity, negative and positive predictive values of endovaginal ultrasonography in comparison with pathology were calculated for each visualized cyst. The study population (n = 251) consisted of all premenopausal non pregnant women submitted to laparotomy or laparoscopy between May 1991 and March 1993 at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of the University of Cagliari. Within one week before surgery, all patients underwent endovaginal ultrasonography and 93 ovarian cysts were visualized. After the scan, the physician gave prospective impressions as to the presence of endometriomas using the visualization of round-shaped homogeneous hypoechoic \"tissue\" of low-level echoes within the ovary as characteristic ultrasonographic finding. Ultrasonographic impression was compared with histopathological diagnosis. Out of 93 adnexal masses detected by ultrasound, 31 were suspected to be endometriomas and the diagnosis was confirmed in 24. The sensitivity and the specificity of endovaginal ultrasonography in differentiating endometriomas from other ovarian cysts were 83% and 89%, respectively. This specificity (89%) is comparable with that obtainable with magnetic resonance imaging (91%)."}
{"id": "7730461", "title": "Role of transvaginal sonography in the detection of endometriomata.", "content": "Role of transvaginal sonography in the detection of endometriomata. Endometriosis is a common cause of pelvic pain and infertility in young women. Transvaginal sonography is major means for diagnosing ovarian In our study, we scanned 60 patients with endometriomata who underwent laparotomy or laparoscopy. We compared preoperative ultrasonographic diagnosis with histological reports. The sonographic criteria for the diagnosis of endometriomata were (1) cystic structure with low, homogeneous echogenicity and (2) thick cystic wall with regular margins. In 50 patients, sonography suggested an endometrioma. In 47 cases, the diagnosis was correct. The false-positive cases were all caused by cystic teratomas with a homogeneous sonographic pattern. Ten false-negative cases were diagnosed by ultra-sonography as functional ovarian cysts (5), teratomas (3), and benign ovarian cystoma (1). Only 1 case of a 5-mm endometrioma was demonstrated by laparoscopy but not by TVS. The sensitivity of TVS for diagnosing endometriomata was 82.4% and specificity 97.7%; the positive and negative predictive values were 94% and 92.8%, respectively. The diagnostic accuracy of TVS was 93%. In our experience, TVS is a very specific means for diagnosing endometriomata when the typical pattern is detected; however, the sensitivity of the technique needs to be improved."}
{"id": "7729731", "title": "Comparison between soluble tumor necrosis factor receptors and CA125 in peritoneal fluids as a marker for epithelial ovarian cancer.", "content": "Comparison between soluble tumor necrosis factor receptors and CA125 in peritoneal fluids as a marker for epithelial ovarian cancer. The levels of the soluble forms of the membrane-bound receptor for tumor necrosis factor (TNF), p55 and p75, were assessed in peritoneal fluid samples from 50 patients with ovarian cancer, from 20 patients operated for benign pelvic masses, and from 26 healthy women undergoing laparoscopy. The 95% cutoff for normal levels were 14.0 and 5.2 ng/ml for p55 and p75, respectively. In patients with active ovarian cancer, elevated levels of p55 and p75 were found in 54 (p55) and 84% (p75) of the patients, and elevated levels were seen in all histologic types. The levels correlated with peritoneal fluid quantity and with stage of disease. Among 20 patients operated for benign pelvic masses, 1 patient had elevated p55 and 8 patients (40%) had elevated p75. The concentration of CA125 in peritoneal fluids showed a 95% cutoff value in healthy individuals of 8.950 U/ml; and elevated CA125 levels were found in 7 patients with ovarian cancer (14%) and in none of the patients with benign masses. The results indicate that in peritoneal fluid, measurement of soluble TNF receptors, and particularly of p75, has an increased sensitivity and accuracy over CA125 in distinguishing ovarian cancer from benign pelvic masses."}
{"id": "7701484", "title": "[Preoperative identification of malignancy among women with a pelvic mass].", "content": "[Preoperative identification of malignancy among women with a pelvic mass]."}
{"id": "7699286", "title": "[Studies on diagnosis of endometriosis by magnetic resonance imaging by means of fat saturation technique].", "content": "[Studies on diagnosis of endometriosis by magnetic resonance imaging by means of fat saturation technique]. It is difficult to distinguish a small endometrial implant from adipose tissue by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). I assessed the usefulness of fat saturated MRI in detecting small endometrial implants by comparing it with conventional MRI. Seventy-four patients with clinically suspected endometriosis were referred for MRI. In every patient, laparoscopy or laparotomy was performed. MRI was performed with a 1.5T superconducting magnet with spin echo T1, T2 and fat saturated T1 weighted images. Surgery revealed a normal pelvis in 6 patients, endometriosis in 65, and cystic lesions in three others. With fat saturated MRI, overall sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value were 87.7%, 66.7%, 95.0% and 42.9%, respectively. At surgery, 160 pigmented lesions of endometriosis were detected. Conventional MRI permitted identification of almost all ovarian endometriomas > 10mm in diameter, as with fat saturated MRI. With conventional MRI, 18 endometrial implant lesions < 10mm in diameter were detected. Including those detected by fat saturated MRI, altogether 42 lesions were detected. Conventional MRI demonstrated only 3 lesions among the 48 blueberry spots, but the additional fat saturated MRI technique increased the detection rate to 21 out of 48. Fat saturated MRI can therefore be used for detecting small endometrial implants."}
{"id": "7672696", "title": "Laparoscopic staging of early ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic staging of early ovarian cancer. The relevance of staging in early ovarian carcinoma is reviewed in light of the advances in surgical laparoscopy. Data from the literature suggest that a lymphadenectomy should be performed instead of a sampling. We have realized the former through laparoscopy. In this paper we propose a detailed surgical technique, similar to the laparotomy approach, that ensures an adequate nodal evaluation. Ten patients underwent a completion of staging by laparoscopy, including peritoneal washings for cytology, peritoneal and ovarian biopsies, an infracolic omentectomy, and a lymph node dissection. The use of laparoscopy for staging of early ovarian carcinoma appears to be a valuable alternative to traditional surgical staging."}
{"id": "7658856", "title": "Laparoscopy and spread of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopy and spread of ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "7646909", "title": "Nuclear DNA content of persistent tumour lacks prognostic relevance for length of survival in patients undergoing second-look laparotomy for ovarian cancer.", "content": "Nuclear DNA content of persistent tumour lacks prognostic relevance for length of survival in patients undergoing second-look laparotomy for ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "7644634", "title": "Ovarian cancer recurrence: value of MR imaging.", "content": "Ovarian cancer recurrence: value of MR imaging. To assess magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in depiction of ovarian tumor recurrence and for identification of patients who may not benefit from surgical reexploration. In a prospective study, 34 patients (mean age, 57.07 years) with surgically staged ovarian cancer underwent MR imaging before reexploration. Findings at MR imaging and surgery were correlated. MR imaging tumor depiction was correlated with tumor size, presence of ascites, and CA-125 levels. Tumor recurrence was identified in 29 patients at surgery. MR imaging depicted tumor in 20 patients. Accuracy for lesions smaller than 2 cm was 35% and increased to 82% for lesions larger than 2 cm (P < .01). MR imaging had low sensitivity for depiction of implants in the peritoneum and mesentery. Ascites improved depiction of smaller lesions (< 2 cm). MR imaging in combination with CA-125 levels improved detection of recurrent disease (CA-125 measurement alone 53% vs CA-125 measurement and MR imaging 75%, P = .048). MR imaging is a useful adjunct to the clinical examination to identify patients with recurrent disease and those in whom reexploration may not be beneficial."}
{"id": "7640058", "title": "The present role of laparoscopy in gynaecological oncology; the EORTC point of view.", "content": "The present role of laparoscopy in gynaecological oncology; the EORTC point of view."}
{"id": "7640039", "title": "Single-dose intraperitoneal radioimmunotherapy with the murine monoclonal antibody I-131 MOv18: clinical results in patients with minimal residual disease of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Single-dose intraperitoneal radioimmunotherapy with the murine monoclonal antibody I-131 MOv18: clinical results in patients with minimal residual disease of ovarian cancer. Sixteen of 19 enrolled patients with minimal residual disease of ovarian cancer (macroscopic disease < 5 mm or positive blind biopsies and/or positive peritoneal washing), demonstrated by surgical second-look, underwent intraperitoneal radioimmunotherapy (RIT) with the radiolabelled monoclonal antibody I-131 MOv18 (mean dose 14 mg of MOv18 with 3700 GBq of I-131) 30-40 days after the second-look procedure. Clinical follow-up and/or third-look evaluation performed 90 days after RIT showed complete response (CR) in 5 patients, no change (NC) in 6 patients and progressive disease (PD) in 5 patients. Follow-up study showed long-term maintained CR in 1 patient (34 months) and relapses in the other 4 patients after a mean disease-free period of 10.5 months. 5 NC patients showed clinical or instrumental progression after a mean disease-free period of 13 months. The toxicity of RIT was negligible. Only 1 patient showed mild and transient bone marrow suppression (platelet count nadir 52,000 mm3 after 30 days). HAMA production was demonstrated in 94% (15/16) of patients. In conclusion, RIT appears to be a very promising therapeutic approach to treat minimal residual disease of ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "7616797", "title": "Ovarian cancer spread: is laparoscopy to blame?", "content": "Ovarian cancer spread: is laparoscopy to blame?"}
{"id": "7605086", "title": "Comparison of the usefulness of serum CA 125 level and a risk scoring system in detecting malignancy in ovarian cysts.", "content": "Comparison of the usefulness of serum CA 125 level and a risk scoring system in detecting malignancy in ovarian cysts. A prospective study was carried out to compare the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and the accuracy of serum CA 125 measurement with a clinical risk scoring system in the detection of malignant ovarian cysts. One hundred and three patients admitted to one department of obstetrics and gynaecology within a 12-month period were studied. There were 22 cases of malignant ovarian cysts. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and accuracy were 81.8%, 72.0%, 43.9%, 93.7% and 75.0% respectively for a raised serum CA 125 measurement (> or = 35 u/ml) alone, and 90.9%, 64.8%, 40.8%, 96.4% and 70.2% respectively for a high risk score system (> or = 7 scores) alone. The specificity and positive predictive value were both further improved to 93.9% by combining a raised CA 125 level and high risk score of 7 or more as the predictive test. When used alone, the clinical risk scoring system picked up more FIGO stage I ovarian cancer than the raised serum CA 125 level. The findings of this study indicated that the risk scoring system is a useful predictor of malignant ovarian cysts. It needs to be assessed further in populations with different prevalence of ovarian cysts of various pathological types and malignancy before it can be advocated for general application, particularly in selecting ovarian cysts for laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "7593516", "title": "The value of cyst puncture in the differential diagnosis of benign ovarian tumours.", "content": "The value of cyst puncture in the differential diagnosis of benign ovarian tumours. A prospective collection of serum samples and ovarian cyst fluid was used to assess the use of different tumour markers and cyst fluid cytology in combination with serum tumour markers for the differential diagnosis of benign ovarian cysts. A consecutive series of 108 women of median age 30 years (range 15-75) undergoing laparotomy or operative laparoscopy for presumedly benign ovarian cyst(s) were studied at a teaching hospital at the University of Milan, Italy. The main outcome measures were tumour markers CA 125, CA 19.9 and carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA) in serum and ovarian cyst fluid, oestradiol and progesterone concentrations in cyst fluid, and cytology of the sediment. The studied cysts were endometriotic (55 subjects), dermoid (16), mucinous (12), serous (10) or of miscellaneous histotype (15, including four follicular and one luteal). Serum CA 125 concentrations were significantly higher in the endometrioma patients than in the other groups. The sensitivity of CA 125 in the differentiation of endometriomas from other adnexal tumours was 61.8% and the specificity 94.3%; combining CA 125 and CA 19.9 assays yielded a sensitivity of 83.6% and specificity of 62.3%. Cyst fluid tumour markers values were extremely scattered with ample overlap between different cyst types. Oestradiol and progesterone concentrations were similar in the histological subgroups. Cyst fluid cytology was non-specific. We concluded that the aspiration of fluid from presumedly benign ovarian cysts appears to contribute little to the differential diagnosis of various tumours. The use of combining serum CA 125 and CA 19.9 assays in the diagnosis of endometriomas needs further confirmation."}
{"id": "7578972", "title": "Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy.", "content": "Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy. Technical advances in operative laparoscopy are increasing its role in the management of gynecologic malignancies. The feasibility of both para-aortic and pelvic lymphadenectomies, as demonstrated in recent studies, have suggested that complete surgical staging of pelvic malignancies is not far away. We present a review of the progress made to date, and a view of where we need to go."}
{"id": "7578970", "title": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy.", "content": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy. Laparoscopic oophorectomy is one of the most controversial and challenging areas of endoscopic surgery. Judicious preoperative evaluation along with careful patient selection can reduce the risk of operating on an unsuspected ovarian malignancy. Appropriate patient consent and planning should be obtained before the procedure, in case an ovarian neoplasia should be encountered. Although endoscopic pelvic biopsy, treatment and staging has been reported recently, the standard of care still appears to be by a laparoscopy. The removal of benign cystic teratomas of all sizes can be handled laparoscopically with the assistance of a retrieval bag or pouch. Reports of endoscopic treatment of ovarian remnant syndrome, androgen insensitivity syndrome, and even prophylactic oophorectomy are appearing in the literature. They have major benefits to patients including reduced cost, decreased hospitalization and time away from work, and with similar or lower complication rates compared with other modes of treatment. Pelviscopy or operative laparoscopy is gaining in popularity and acceptance as our experience and training improves."}
{"id": "7571964", "title": "Neoplastic or nonneoplastic ovarian cyst? The role of cytology.", "content": "Neoplastic or nonneoplastic ovarian cyst? The role of cytology. To improve the discrimination between neoplastic and functional cysts of the ovary in order to avoid superfluous surgery. Clinical examination, including ultrasound and laparoscopy, was performed on 347 women admitted to the hospital with ovarian cysts. In addition, we evaluated the contents of the cysts cytologically as well as by determining the estradiol level in the fluid via radioimmunoassay. No single method was able to offer definitive diagnoses distinguishing between neoplastic and nonneoplastic cysts. All methods were subject to a relatively high rate of false negative findings indicating a neoplasm. To some extent, however, they were complementary. Within our three-parameter scheme, hormonal analysis yielded the best results. Cytology had drawbacks with simple serous cystomas due to the scanty and degenerated cell material. However, in proliferating cases, carcinomas and mucinous cystomas, cytology renders nearly no false negative diagnoses. In cases of a three-parameter indication of a neoplasm, the diagnosis may be taken as definitive, and surgery should be performed. In the case of contradictory diagnoses, surgical intervention is required on a precautionary basis. In approximately 15% of cases a nonneoplastic cyst will be removed unnecessarily. In the case of a three-parameter negative indication of a neoplasm, an expectant attitude is acceptable."}
{"id": "7557611", "title": "Laparoscopic surgical staging of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgical staging of ovarian cancer. The feasibility of laparoscopic staging in patients with ovarian cancer was undertaken prospectively to determine the ability to adequately evaluate both the intraperitoneal cavity and the retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Two groups of ovarian cancer patients were evaluated: those with optimally debulked advanced disease undergoing second-look procedures and those with presumed stage I disease undergoing surgical staging. Twenty-four of the 44 laparoscopic second-look procedures (56%) were positive for persistent disease. Five of these patients had microscopic disease only, in the omentum, washings, pelvic peritoneum, and in para-aortic lymph nodes (2 patients). In the group of 14 patients undergoing staging for presumed early ovarian carcinoma, metastatic disease was discovered in 8 (57%) patients. Two patients had peritoneal washings positive for adenocarcinoma; 3 had pelvic disease, 1 confined to a fallopian tube and 2 to the pelvic peritoneum; and 3 patients had para-aortic lymph nodes positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma. There were no serious complications in this category. The average hospital stay was 1.6 days. Laparoscopic staging appears to be an accurate staging technique, and further investigation into the validity of this approach is warranted."}
{"id": "7557223", "title": "[Initial experiences with laparoscopic intraoperative ultrasound].", "content": "[Initial experiences with laparoscopic intraoperative ultrasound]. Preoperative ultrasound as well as intraoperative laparoscopic diagnosis have both their limits, a fact that might be significant for laparoscopic surgical management. In particular, since in this surgical domain, where almost everything has become technically feasible, the operator must decide what is to the benefit of the patient. A possible solution could be laparoscopic ultrasound, i.e. ultrasound diagnosis per laparoscopy at the very site of the lesion. The advantages are evident. Due to the closeness to the organ to be examined, the frequency of the scan head can be extremely high, resulting in better resolution. Also, structures could be visualized by ultrasound which e.g., due to adhesions cannot be seen with the laparoscope. Moreover, ultrasound offers a view into the structures which can be seen only from the exterior with the laparoscope. To perform these examinations we used a specially designed scanhead (Toshiba): Instead of the optical system a crystal array was inserted into a conventional gastroscope. The result was a high resolution 7.5 MHz linear array at the distal end of a freely movable gastroscope. Colour doppler sonography is feasible with this scanhead. We examined 19 patients, 16 of them with ovarian tumours, and attempted visualization of the uterine myometrium/endometrium as well as of the liver. In six cases of ovarian tumours in which only cystic structures were found by preoperative transvaginal sonography, laparoscopic ultrasound additionally revealed solid inner structures. In 5 cases direct laparoscopic view of the ovarian lesions was impossible due to severe adhesions. They were, however, easily detected by intraoperative ultrasound.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7557204", "title": "[Total pelviscopic removal of ovarian tumors in a bag bag posterior colpotomy].", "content": "[Total pelviscopic removal of ovarian tumors in a bag bag posterior colpotomy]. Treatment of suspicious ovarian masses requires the oophorectomy in toto without opening the tumor or cyst wall. We describe a laparoscopic technique for the in-toto-removal of clinically suspicious ovarian tumours without puncture or morcellation of the tumour before it is entirely brought outside of the abdominal wall and without performing any abdominal incision longer than 25 mm: Oophorectomy is performed by means of bipolar coagulation and the CO2-laser. A nylon bag (Lapsac, Cook Inc.) is inserted into the abdomen and the ovary is enclosed in this bag by pulling the drawstring. The drawstring is held with a needleholder while the posterior vaginal fornix is opened. The needleholder drives the drawstring out of the pelvis through the vagina; this manoeuvre only takes a short amount of time, therefore preventing loss of CO2-gas and of visibility. By pulling the drawstring from outside the vagina the bag can be easily removed with its unmorcellated content. There is no danger of the intestines being damaged by a grasping forceps. Such a problem could occur in the event of extraction through a posterior culdotomy under impaired visibility due to loss of CO2-gas. Because the bag itself serves as a closing valve of the vaginal opening, there is a good visibility all the time."}
{"id": "7557201", "title": "[Histology and cytology of laparoscopically operated \"simple ovarian cysts\"].", "content": "[Histology and cytology of laparoscopically operated \"simple ovarian cysts\"]. In a retrospective study the histopathological findings of 127 laparoscopically operated unilocular anechoic smooth-walled ovarian cysts have been correlated with clinical characteristics (age, duration of observation, complaints, hormonal treatment), size by ultrasound, kind and colour of cysts content as well as cytological findings. The age of patients differed from 16-61 years (mean +/- s: 36 +/- 16). The histopathologic findings yielded 15 (11.8%) functional cysts, 30 (23.6%) persistent corpus luteum cysts, 9 (7.1%) endometriomas, 7 (5.5%) cystic teratomas, 9 (7.1%) undifferenciated cysts and 57 (44.9%) cystadenomas. There were no differences between histopathologic diagnosis groups according to age and cysts size by ultrasound. Functional cysts with complaints (n = 6) may explain that the observation time in 60% of all functional cysts was smaller than 6 weeks, whereas persistent corpus luteum cysts, endometriomas, cystic teratoma and cystadenomas had been observed for longer than 6 weeks in more than two thirds. Intraoperative evaluation of cysts content as \"chocolate\"-like was suspicious of endometriomas, but was also present in cysts of other histopathological findings. By means of cytology, endometrioma (siderophages) was suspected in 44.4% and a cystadenoma in 42.1% of all histopathologically verified cases. In all, the cytologic findings were useful for correct histopathological diagnosis in only 33.9% of all 127 cases. It is concluded that differential diagnosis of simple ovarian cysts is not possible by clinical characteristics, neither by ultrasound nor by cytological evaluation. Ovarian cysts should be observed for at least two hormonal cycles. A hormonal treatment by combination preparations containing high doses of oestrogen is also recommended. In cases of persisting ovarian cysts laparoscopic removal is necessary."}
{"id": "7556836", "title": "Laparoscopic management of malignant ovarian cysts: a 78-case national survey. Part 2: Follow-up and final treatment.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of malignant ovarian cysts: a 78-case national survey. Part 2: Follow-up and final treatment. This paper reports a retrospective multi-institutional French survey carried out in 1992 to determine the incidence of laparoscopic management of malignant ovarian cysts. Of 5307 ovarian lesions treated endoscopically, 78 were malignant (1.47%) including 60 borderline tumours (77%) and 18 ovarian cancers (23%). Laparoscopic treatment was puncture in 23% of cases, partial exeresis in 51% and total removal in 26%. Laparotomy was immediately performed in 25% of the cases and as a second stage procedure in 58% (mean delay: 78 days). Laparotomy was not performed in 16% of the cases. Our findings suggest that laparoscopic management of ovarian lesions that subsequently prove to be malignant is not uncommon. To prevent the risk of metastasis, thorough pre-operative and per-operative evaluation is mandatory. In 22.4% of the patients presenting lesions in this study, laparoscopic tampering resulted in an upgrading of FIGO stage."}
{"id": "7555942", "title": "Laparoscopic diagnosis of peritoneal serous papillary carcinoma.", "content": "Laparoscopic diagnosis of peritoneal serous papillary carcinoma. Peritoneal serous papillary carcinoma is a rare primary tumor of the peritoneum. We report here a case diagnosed by laparoscopy, and summarize the clinicopathological features previously reported in patients with this tumor. Laparoscopy was performed in a 66-year-old woman with high-protein ascites and a three-month history of lower abdominal pain. Macroscopically, the parietal and visceral peritoneum was studded with prominent white nodules up to 5 mm in diameter. Multiple biopsies revealed a tubulopapillary serous adenocarcinoma. After exclusion of metastatic peritoneal carcinomatosis (especially ovarian cancer) and malignant mesothelioma, the diagnosis of peritoneal serous papillary carcinoma was established. The patient was placed on chemotherapy (first-line: 5-fluorouracil, adriamycin, and mitomycin C; second-line: paclitaxel). She died 22 months after diagnosis. The present case is also remarkable for the coexistence of granulomatous peritonitis overshadowing the malignant nature of the process. This case report emphasizes the importance of laparoscopy with multiple biopsies in the workup of undetermined exudative ascites."}
{"id": "7554608", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery: does it have a role in the management of gynecologic malignancies?", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery: does it have a role in the management of gynecologic malignancies?"}
{"id": "7554604", "title": "Laparoscopic removal of the adnexal mass: the case for caution.", "content": "Laparoscopic removal of the adnexal mass: the case for caution."}
{"id": "7554603", "title": "The case for laparoscopic management of the adnexal mass.", "content": "The case for laparoscopic management of the adnexal mass. Careful patient selection criteria can be used to identify patients who are appropriate for management of an adnexal masses via operative laparoscopy. Proper intraoperative assessment and liberal use of rapid frozen section are also important for optimal clinical outcome. Reported studies show that laparoscopic management of adnexal masses can be safely done. The short hospital stay and rapid return to normal activity combine to potentially reduce the overall cost of patient care. When cancer is unexpectedly found at the time of laparoscopic surgery for an adnexal mass, the surgeon should be prepared to proceed with staging laparotomy for appropriate treatment."}
{"id": "7547764", "title": "Ovarian cancers related to minimal access surgery.", "content": "Ovarian cancers related to minimal access surgery. To review the clinical features of women with ovarian cancer on whom minimal access surgery has been performed and to determine guidelines for the safe use of minimal access surgery for adnexal masses. Postal survey of members of the British Gynaecological Cancer Society (BGCS) and retrospective case review. BGCS consultants used ultrasound scanning (70%) and serum CA-125 estimations (53%) prior to adnexal mass surgery. The membership felt that adnexal masses with solid elements, diameter greater than 8 cm, multi-ocular or bilateral cysts or increased blood flow on Doppler scanning should not be operated on by minimal access surgery. A positive family history was also considered to be a contraindication. A total of 29 cases of ovarian cancer were identified on whom MAS had been performed. The incidence of cases was 4.1% of referrals to a tertiary referral centre (the Royal Marsden Hospital). The median age of patients was 37 years (range 20 to 68 years) and 13 had State I cancers. The mean delay between diagnosis and staging was 6.5 weeks. Guidelines on the use of minimal access surgery in the management of adnexal masses need to be agreed. Women who have an ovarian cancer diagnosed whilst having minimal access surgery should have an accepted staging procedure. We do not recommend the routine use of minimal access surgery for the treatment of ovarian cancer outside a trial."}
{"id": "7534970", "title": "Serum tetranectin in patients with acute pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Correlation to clinical and laboratory findings.", "content": "Serum tetranectin in patients with acute pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Correlation to clinical and laboratory findings. To clarify the impact of the presence of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) and activation of the acute phase response on the serum level of tetranectin (Se-TN), a potential new tumor marker for ovarian cancer. The study group consisted of 70 patients with a laparoscopically verified PID and 47 healthy female controls. Lower Se-TN levels were found for the PID group compared to the control group (p < 0.0001). It was not possible to relate the decreases in Se-TN levels to any distinct bacterial strain. Neither was it possible to find any correlation between Se-TN and severity of PID (p = 0.5). A significant positive correlation was found between Se-TN and ALB (p < 0.001). A just significant negative correlation was found between Se-TN and C-reactive protein (CRP) (p = 0.04), while no correlation was found with any of the other acute phase reactants. Highly significant correlations were found between all the acute phase reactants and grade of PID. A slight, but significant reduction in Se-TN was found in PID patients. The decrease was minor compared to the reported findings of very low Se-TN levels for ovarian cancer patients. However, the finding is important in the assessment of TN used as a potential screening marker for ovarian cancer, or as a diagnostic tool for pelvic tumors. Furthermore, Se-TN does not seem to behave as a negative acute phase reactant."}
{"id": "7496181", "title": "[The future of surgical gynecology: from dogma to science--from science to practice standard].", "content": "[The future of surgical gynecology: from dogma to science--from science to practice standard]. In the future of gynecologic surgery, there will be a reduction of traditional and an increase of endoscopic surgery. Development, progress, and realization of new technologies have to be based on scientific results, as it has been shown for the surgery of early-stage ovarian cancer. Endoscopy is already part of daily routine surgery in nearly all gynecologic departments, although important questions like the optimal technique, proper indications, and the consequences of these new technologies regarding the course of ovarian cancer are still not answered. Especially gynecological surgery has to turn away from a dogmatic way of thinking to a critical science-oriented practice in the future."}
{"id": "7485751", "title": "[Current approaches to the diagnosis and management of patients with tumors and tumor-like formations of the ovaries].", "content": "[Current approaches to the diagnosis and management of patients with tumors and tumor-like formations of the ovaries]."}
{"id": "7483637", "title": "[Preoperative diagnosis of malignancy of ovarian space-occupying lesions with special reference to new, laparoscopic surgical techniques].", "content": "[Preoperative diagnosis of malignancy of ovarian space-occupying lesions with special reference to new, laparoscopic surgical techniques]."}
{"id": "7478032", "title": "Laparoscopic lymph node dissection in the evaluation and management of patients with pelvic malignancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic lymph node dissection in the evaluation and management of patients with pelvic malignancy. This retrospective investigation describes our experience with laparoscopic pelvic and paraaortic lymph node dissection at a military medical center. The charts of all patients undergoing laparoscopic pelvic and paraaortic lymph node dissection between July 1992 and May 1994 were reviewed for age, weight, cancer type, tumor stage, operative procedures, estimated blood loss, complications, number and pathologic results of lymph nodes removed, preoperative computed tomography findings, and postoperative therapy. The study group was composed of 20 patients, of which 15 had cervical cancer, 2 had ovarian cancer, and the rest had other pelvic malignancies. The mean age was 46 years old, with a mean weight of 155 pounds. The average number of lymph nodes removed was 26, with 9 of the 20 patients having positive nodes. Only one patient had preoperative radiographic evidence of lymphadenopathy. Mean estimated blood loss was 224 cc. Four patients required open procedures, two for bleeding during the laparoscopic node dissection and two who were unable to be completed through the laparoscope for technical reasons. Radical hysterectomy was avoided in two of the studied patients after finding positive lymph nodes. We conclude that in a military medical center, laparoscopic pelvic and paraaortic lymph node dissection in patients with certain pelvic malignancies is feasible and helps guide the management of these patients."}
{"id": "7473436", "title": "Surgical management of benign cystic teratoma. Laparoscopy vs. laparotomy.", "content": "Surgical management of benign cystic teratoma. Laparoscopy vs. laparotomy. To compare laparoscopy to laparotomy for the surgical treatment of benign cystic teratomas. This was a retrospective, case series comparison of 20 patients who had surgery at Rochester General Hospital from June 1991 to January 1993 for benign cystic teratomas. Statistical comparisons were made by Student's t test or chi 2 analysis. Eight patients had surgery via laparoscopy and 12 via laparotomy. Laparoscopic oophorectomy and cystectomy resulted in significantly shorter hospital stays and decreased hospital costs, but the surgery time was significantly increased. The patients' fertility status influenced the choice of conservative cystectomy or nonconservative oophorectomy as the surgical procedure. There were no serious complications in any patients, including those with laparoscopic cystectomies and intraperitoneal spill. Oophorectomy and ovarian cystectomy via operative laparoscopy appear to be reasonable options for the surgical treatment of benign cystic teratoma."}
{"id": "9138874", "title": "Comparison of minimally invasive surgery and laparotomy in the treatment of adnexal masses.", "content": "Comparison of minimally invasive surgery and laparotomy in the treatment of adnexal masses. To compare the outcome of laparoscopic treatment of adnexal masses with treatment by laparotomy. The procedures, their duration, and associated complications also were evaluated. Women were randomized to undergo either procedure based on the ward to which they were admitted. A university teaching hospital. The 192 patients were admitted with a preoperative diagnosis of adnexal mass. Surgical procedures were cystectomy, salpingectomy, oophorectomy, and unilateral or bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Organ-preserving techniques were used wherever possible. All tissue specimens were examined histologically. The mean duration of surgery was statistically not significantly different between the groups, 96.8 minutes for minimally invasive surgery, and 116 minutes for laparotomy. Organ preservation did reach statistical significance at 65.7% and 17.2% respectively (p <0.001). Postoperative morbidity was statistically lower in patients undergoing minimally invasive procedures. Preoperative tumor marker levels did not correlate well with postoperative histology. One woman in the laparotomy group had histologically proved ovarian cancer. Minimally invasive surgery was converted to laparotomy in three patients in whom malignancy was suspected at the start of operation. Laparoscopic management of adnexal masses has definite advantages over laparotomy, for example, lower postoperative morbidity. In addition, intraoperative endoscopic diagnosis is highly accurate, and the frequency of unnecessary procedures is lower."}
{"id": "9050540", "title": "Laparoscopic adnexal surgery during pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic adnexal surgery during pregnancy. Adnexal masses diagnosed in a gravid woman sometimes must be surgically evaluated and treated during the pregnancy. A laparoscopic approach may have several advantages over laparotomy, but only one case of laparoscopic adnexal surgery during pregnancy has been previously reported. Two pregnant patients with acute pelvic pain and adnexal masses were treated by operative laparoscopy. One patient had a large benign cystic teratoma and the other had torsion of the fallopian tube secondary to a paratubal cyst. Cystectomies were performed in both women, and in the second patient the tube was reduced and conserved. It appears that with proper care of surgical technique and caution to exclude malignancy, laparoscopy may be performed successfully to remove adnexal masses during the second trimester of pregnancy."}
{"id": "9050536", "title": "A new laparoscopic aspiration technique for ovarian dermoid cysts.", "content": "A new laparoscopic aspiration technique for ovarian dermoid cysts. A new method for aspirating benign dermoid cysts enables removal of the collapsed cyst wall without the need for extending laparoscopic incisions or opening the pouch of Douglas. The technique has been used by one of the authors in 10 patients with good effect and minimal or no spillage of dermoid cyst contents into the peritoneal cavity."}
{"id": "9050499", "title": "New laparoscopic instrument for removing hair from ovarian dermoid cysts.", "content": "New laparoscopic instrument for removing hair from ovarian dermoid cysts. A new laparoscopic instrument is available to remove hair from an ovarian dermoid cyst. It is constructed of Teflon, and is 35 cm in length and 9 mm in diameter. The distal 6 cm of the instrument tapers form 9 to 6 mm, and has longitudinal and transverse grooves. When the tapered part is rotated in the mat of hair, the hair attaches firmly to it and can be brought out easily."}
{"id": "9050490", "title": "Management of benign ovarian cystic teratomas: laparoscopy compared with laparotomy.", "content": "Management of benign ovarian cystic teratomas: laparoscopy compared with laparotomy. To determine the outcomes of laparoscopic management of benign ovarian cystic teratomas (dermoids) compared with traditional laparotomy and excision. A retrospective analysis of patients treated from October 1988 to May 1993. University of Connecticut Health Center-affiliated hospitals. Thirty-eight women with dermoid cysts that were managed either by laparotomy or laparoscopy, 19 matched patients in each group. The majority of lesions in both groups were diagnosed at routine pelvic examination. The two groups were assessed with respect to age, gravidy, parity, size of lesions, and estimated blood loss at surgery. Two values were significantly different in the group treated by laparoscopy: more dermoids ruptured intraoperatively, and the mean hospital stay was significantly shorter (p</=0.01). In most cases cystectomy was performed with preservation of the involved ovary. After a mean follow-up of 11 months no complications such as severe chemical granulomatous peritonitis or persistent pelvic pain have been encountered in the laparoscopy group. Laparoscopic management of dermoids is safe and cost effective, and provides patients the benefit of a shorter hospital stay and recovery time."}
{"id": "9050487", "title": "Preoperative sonographic evaluation and laparoscopic management of persistent adnexal masses: a 1994 review.", "content": "Preoperative sonographic evaluation and laparoscopic management of persistent adnexal masses: a 1994 review. Carcinoma of the ovary is a frightening disease because it is a major cause of death due to cancer in women and is the leading cause of deaths from gynecologic malignancies. The disease is associated with a common clinical problem: persistent adnexal masses, most of which are benign. Operative laparoscopy has become an increasingly attractive way of diagnosing and removing adnexal masses. The practicing general gynecologist thus faces two new dilemmas: not to miss an early ovarian cancer or manage an unsuspected one to the patient's detriment, and not to perform extensive major surgery for adnexal masses, most of which can be handled laparoscopically. Fortunately, pertinent data exist on which the resolution of these dilemmas may be based."}
{"id": "8306249", "title": "Pharmacokinetics and toxicity of an yttrium-90-CITC-DTPA-HMFG1 radioimmunoconjugate for intraperitoneal radioimmunotherapy of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Pharmacokinetics and toxicity of an yttrium-90-CITC-DTPA-HMFG1 radioimmunoconjugate for intraperitoneal radioimmunotherapy of ovarian cancer. The intracavitary route for the administration of monoclonal antibodies is used in a variety of locally spreading cancers. The authors have been treating patients with ovarian cancer in Phase I and II studies assessing toxicity and response to improved radioimmunoconjugates. Nineteen patients, 34-65 years of age, were treated with a new radioimmunoconjugate, 90Y-CITC-DTPA-HMFG1, instilled in the peritoneal cavity after second-look laparoscopy. Activity was increased in a stepwise fashion. Following the intraperitoneal administration of 90Y-CITC-DTPA-HMFG1, levels of the radioimmunoconjugate in the blood increased, reaching a peak of about 30% of injected activity at around 54 hours posttreatment. Approximately 18% of the radiolabel was excreted in the urine within 96 hours. Bone-marrow toxicity was the dose-limiting factor. Grade III platelet and granulocyte toxicity was observed at 19.3 mCi/m2. A type III immunologic response was observed in a number of patients. A dose of 18.5 mCi/m2 for subsequent treatments is recommended, based on a linear correlation of activity dose-to-body surface area. The clinical profile of a mild to moderate hypersensitivity syndrome is presented and hypotheses regarding its etiology are suggested."}
{"id": "8296843", "title": "Urinary tract injuries during laparoscopically assisted hysterectomy: causes and prevention.", "content": "Urinary tract injuries during laparoscopically assisted hysterectomy: causes and prevention. Two patients who had urinary fistulas after laparoscopic hysterectomy are described. In both cases the ureters were dissected free and the uterus was freed laparoscopically. Injury to the urinary tract occurred during transvaginal closure of the vaginal cuff. Preventative strategies are discussed."}
{"id": "8296831", "title": "Is there still a need for laparotomy in case of postmenopausal adnexal tumors?", "content": "Is there still a need for laparotomy in case of postmenopausal adnexal tumors?"}
{"id": "8193109", "title": "Wound recurrence by implantation of a borderline ovarian tumour following laparoscopic removal.", "content": "Wound recurrence by implantation of a borderline ovarian tumour following laparoscopic removal."}
{"id": "8187587", "title": "Transvaginal sonographic characterization combined with cytologic evaluation in the diagnosis of ovarian and adnexal cysts.", "content": "Transvaginal sonographic characterization combined with cytologic evaluation in the diagnosis of ovarian and adnexal cysts. A transvaginal sonographic (TVS) scoring system using morphologic features has been developed at our institution to maximize discrimination between benign and malignant ovarian and adnexal cysts. Low (4-7) or intermediate (8-9) scores have been found to correlate with benignity, hence TVS-guided or laparoscopically directed needle aspiration of low-scoring lesions may safely be performed. High-scoring lesions (10-14) are often malignant, therefore in situ needle aspiration of such lesions is not recommended. The aim of our study was to correlate the results of TVS characterization of ovarian and adnexal cysts with the aspiration cytologic evaluation. Twenty-three of the 43 cysts studied were aspirated in situ from the patient; 20 were aspirated from resected surgical specimens. Thirty-six benign cysts had TVS scores ranging from 4 to 12, with a median score of 7. All 25 cysts that were benign by TVS and/or histology were also cytologically benign as well as an additional 11 cysts that were not resected (TVS scores: 4 to 9). Seven cytologically and histologically malignant cysts had high TVS scores (TVS scores 10-14; median = 12). The combination of TVS and needle aspiration cytology is valuable, particularly in the diagnosis of cysts having low or intermediate TVS scores and benign cytology. Aspiration of cysts or masses with high TVS scores is not recommended. This combined evaluation may allow a more limited surgical approach, such as operative laparoscopy, or, in some cases, obviate the need for operative treatment altogether."}
{"id": "8180356", "title": "The application of operative laparoscopy to gynecologic oncology.", "content": "The application of operative laparoscopy to gynecologic oncology. The application of operative laparoscopy to patients with gynecologic malignancy is in its infancy, but promising findings have been demonstrated for surgical end staging after cytotoxic therapy for ovarian cancer, laparoscopic lymph node sampling for cervical cancer, and laparoscopic staging, vaginal hysterectomy and adnexectomy for corpus cancer. The most significant difficulty in integrating operative laparoscopy with gynecologic oncology, at this time, is the lack of controlled studies to demonstrate the ability of endoscopy to improve the contemporary management of these diseases. Further study will be necessary by subspecialists in gynecologic oncology to demonstrate the proper application of these new techniques."}
{"id": "8178893", "title": "Numerators without denominators: again?", "content": "Numerators without denominators: again?"}
{"id": "8167873", "title": "Laparoscopy-assisted colostomy.", "content": "Laparoscopy-assisted colostomy. The surgical modality of laparoscopic cholecystectomy is now widely accepted, and other intra-abdominal operations are also being done laparoscopically. This paper presents a case of laparoscopy-assisted colostomy in which a complete obstruction of the sigmoid colon associated with intraperitoneal dissemination and massive ascites in the end-stages of ovarian cancer was encountered. This procedure was found to be less invasive and thus should be considered the treatment of choice for an obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract in patients with a poor general status."}
{"id": "8164928", "title": "Laparoscopic diagnosis of adnexal cystic masses: a 12-year experience with long-term follow-up.", "content": "Laparoscopic diagnosis of adnexal cystic masses: a 12-year experience with long-term follow-up. To study the value and the immediate and long-term consequences of the laparoscopic diagnosis of adnexal cystic masses. We studied all patients who underwent laparoscopy for an adnexal cystic mass at the Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Medicine of the Clermont-Ferrand University Hospital between January 1980 and December 1991. The preoperative workup included routine clinical and ultrasonographic examinations. At laparoscopy, the technique involved peritoneal cytology, ovarian and peritoneal inspection, cyst puncture, and endocystic examination. If a malignant mass was encountered or suspected, the patients were treated by immediate laparotomy with a vertical midline incision. The laparoscopic and pathologic diagnoses were compared. Long-term follow-up was studied using data obtained either clinically or by mail using a standardized questionnaire. A total of 757 patients with 819 masses were managed by laparoscopy. The mean age was 35.8 +/- 12.6 years and the mean diameter of the cysts was 6.0 +/- 2.7 cm (range 1-20). During this study, 12 tumors of low malignant potential and seven ovarian cancers were encountered (2.5%). The sensitivity of the laparoscopic diagnosis of malignancy was 100%, the specificity 96.6%, and the negative predictive value 100% (773 cases). The positive predictive value was only 41.3%, as 27 tumors were falsely diagnosed as suspicious or malignant. Among eight complications attributed to the diagnostic procedure, three involved spillage of cyst contents. Using cautious management and strict guidelines, laparoscopic diagnosis of adnexal masses appears reliable and safe, allowing immediate and adequate surgical treatment."}
{"id": "8151182", "title": "[Laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy (adnexectomy) with percutaneous organ extraction instruments].", "content": "[Laparoscopic salpingo-oophorectomy (adnexectomy) with percutaneous organ extraction instruments]."}
{"id": "8147211", "title": "DNA ploidy of ovarian and adnexal cyst fluid. A useful adjunct to cytology.", "content": "DNA ploidy of ovarian and adnexal cyst fluid. A useful adjunct to cytology. It is increasingly common for cytology laboratories to receive ovarian, adnexal and pelvic cyst fluids obtained via sonographically directed aspiration and laparoscopic techniques, especially from women who are desirous of preserving fertility or who are undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF). Accurate characterization of such cysts is a worthwhile goal, given the superior prognosis for ovarian carcinomas that are diagnosed at an early stage. In an effort to improve upon the false-negative diagnosis rate associated with cytology, we evaluated DNA ploidy as a possible adjunctive criterion. We examined 55 benign, 3 borderline and 6 malignant aspirates received by our cytopathology laboratory; 35 were aspirated directly from the patient from clinically and ultrasonographically benign cysts, and 29 were aspirated from surgically removed benign (20) and malignant (9) cysts. Adjunctive DNA ploidy and cell cycle analysis was performed using the Cell Analysis Systems CAS-200 on Feulgen-stained cytologic smears of the 64 cyst fluids. Adequate material for DNA analysis was obtained from 33/35 in situ aspirated cysts and from 19/29 surgical specimen cysts. Forty-seven of 52 cytologically benign cysts were diploid. Of the 5 nondiploid benign cysts, 3 were follicle cysts (2 from hormonally stimulated IVF patients and 1 from a postpartum patient), and 1 was a benign cystic teratoma. Their nondiploid DNA pattern or tetraploidy may be due to a high proliferative index. The fifth nondiploid benign aspirate was from a resected benign epithelium-lined cyst; its DNA histogram contained a conspicuous tetraploid population. All 9 malignant cysts were cytologically malignant. Of the 3 borderline cysts, 1 was nondiploid, and 2 were diploid. All 6 fully malignant cysts were nondiploid; 2 of them were tetraploid. Based on our results, we conclude that DNA ploidy analysis of cells derived from ovarian and adnexal cyst aspirates is feasible (in 95% of cases) and relatively specific (90%) and has a relatively high negative predictive value (92%). The results are not sufficiently predictive of the histology of the lesion to warrant therapeutic intervention based on ploidy alone (sensitivity of nondiploid results, 78%; positive predictive value of nondiploid results, 58%). Nondiploidy should suggest consideration, but is not conclusive, of a malignancy diagnosis. There may even be prognostic implications to the ploidy pattern, particularly in borderline tumors, in which nondiploidy portends a poor prognosis."}
{"id": "8126386", "title": "[Laparoscopic removal of ovarian dermoid cysts using specimen-retrieval bag].", "content": "[Laparoscopic removal of ovarian dermoid cysts using specimen-retrieval bag]."}
{"id": "8111714", "title": "Laparoscopic infrarenal paraaortic lymph node dissection for restaging of carcinoma of the ovary or fallopian tube.", "content": "Laparoscopic infrarenal paraaortic lymph node dissection for restaging of carcinoma of the ovary or fallopian tube. The purpose of the study was to investigate the feasibility of laparoscopic paraaortic lymphadenectomy in the restaging of ovarian carcinomas. Nine patients in a referral center seen initially with ovarian (eight patients) or tubal (one patient) carcinoma who had experienced substandard staging during a previous laparotomy or laparoscopy underwent laparoscopic paraaortic lymphadenectomy as part of a surgical staging procedure that included peritoneal fluid sampling and multiple staging biopsies. Omentectomy, appendectomy, pelvic lymphadenectomy, contralateral salpingo-oophorectomy, salpingectomy, or laparoscopically assisted total vaginal hysterectomy was performed during the same operative session when necessary. All nine lymphadenectomies up to the level of the renal veins were successfully completed. The postoperative periods were uneventful, with an average postoperative stay of 2.8 days. Laparoscopic surgery may be an acceptable procedure for paraaortic lymph node sampling, sparing the patient a restaging laparotomy."}
{"id": "8089599", "title": "[Laparoscopic extirpation of ovarian tumor: a trial to prevent spilling of tumor contents].", "content": "[Laparoscopic extirpation of ovarian tumor: a trial to prevent spilling of tumor contents]."}
{"id": "8059816", "title": "Laparoscopic adnexectomy: a comparison with laparotomy.", "content": "Laparoscopic adnexectomy: a comparison with laparotomy. Our purpose was to compare the newer technique of laparoscopic adnexal excision with conventional laparotomy. With the same entry criteria, a retrospective, consecutive series of 26 women who underwent adnexectomy by laparotomy was compared with a later prospective consecutive series of 64 women who had laparoscopic adnexectomy in a university referral practice. The two groups were similar in all characteristics examined. The ages of the women ranged from 18 to 70 years, but only two women were postmenopausal. Pelvic pain with or without an ovarian cystic mass was the surgical indication in 91% to 92% of the women. Seven women had a persistent adnexal cystic mass and one woman had a unilateral androgen-secreting ovary. Bipolar coagulation was the laparoscopic method used. Median operating time (88 vs 107 minutes), blood loss (72 vs 222 ml), days in the hospital (1 day vs 3 days), total costs ($4573 vs $6044), and recovery time (1 week vs 4 weeks) were significantly less with laparoscopic adnexectomy. There were no differences between the two techniques in major complications (one in each group), blood transfusions, adhesion formation, or the proportion of women noting improvement of pain symptoms. In this preliminary assessment of laparoscopic adnexectomy, this surgical procedure offers significant advantages to laparotomy in selected patients when performed by a laparoscopist experienced in advanced techniques. In Winston-Salem, North Carolina, researchers compared prospective data on 64 consecutive women (18-70 years old, only 2 of whom were postmenopausal) who experienced laparoscopic adnexectomy between January, 1991, and March, 1993, with retrospective data on 26 consecutive women (21-44 years old) who experienced adnexectomy by laparotomy between January, 1989, and December, 1991. The indication for adnexectomy for most women was pelvic pain (91% for laparoscopy patients and 92% for laparotomy patients). The reasons for the pelvic pain included chronic pelvic inflammatory disease, recurrent ovarian cyst, endometrioma, cyclic ovarian pain, and periovarian adhesions. Among women with no pelvic pain, 7 women had a chronic adnexal cyst, and 1 woman had an ovary secreting an androgen. The median operative time for laparoscopy was significantly shorter than for laparotomy (88 vs. 107 minutes; p = .04). Even though the estimated blood loss was significantly less among laparoscopy patients than laparotomy patients (72 vs. 222 ml; p = .01), the change in hematocrit in both groups was not significant (3.9 vs. 5.2), and no one needed a blood transfusion. Women in the laparoscopy group were in the hospital for a significantly shorter period (1 vs. 3 days; p = .0001) and recovered more rapidly (1 vs. 4 weeks; p = .001) than did those in the laparotomy group. The total cost was lower for laparoscopic adnexectomy than for adnexectomy by laparotomy ($4573 vs. $6044; p = .02). Women in both groups noted improvement in pelvic pain. Just 1 woman from each group had a major complication. These findings suggest that experienced laparoscopic surgeons can quickly, safely, and effectively perform adnexectomy using laparoscopy."}
{"id": "8059620", "title": "Ovarian cysts: a clinical dilemma.", "content": "Ovarian cysts: a clinical dilemma. The rapid development of ultrasound technology and its routine application during gynecological examinations has led to the more frequent detection of ovarian cysts. Such cysts can be diagnosed at any age or stage of a woman's life, and detected as early as the fetal stage or as late as the postmenopause. Ovarian cysts in female fetuses are usually detected during screening in pregnancy and followed after delivery as neonates. A few months are usually sufficient for spontaneous regression, although symptomatic cysts should be promptly operated. In fertile women, most cases present benign functional cysts which disappear after menstruation or can be managed easily with the combined oral contraceptive pill. When pregnancy is complicated with an adnexal mass, the second trimester is the preferable time of action in cases when operation is demanded. Transvaginal sonography plays an important role, not only in the detection of ovarian cysts but also in the diagnosis of malignancy. Large cysts, multiloculi, septa, papillae and increased blood flow are all suspected signs of neoplasia. The incidence of ovarian cancer increases with age and is predominantly a disease of peri- and postmenopausal women with an average patient age of 50-59 years. Vaginal sonography has been established as the examination of choice in screening and follow-up of patients, with complementary color Doppler studies and determination of serial serum levels of CA-125. If a malignant cyst is suspected, at any age, explorative laparotomy should be performed promptly. Sonographic or computerized tomographic scanner aspiration procedures, as well as laparoscopic surgery, should be reserved for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes in low-risk cancer patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8043553", "title": "Combined laparoscopic and micro-laparotomy removal of benign cystic teratomata.", "content": "Combined laparoscopic and micro-laparotomy removal of benign cystic teratomata."}
{"id": "8039002", "title": "[Operative laparoscopy: genuine surgical advance or simple temptation by the feasible?].", "content": "[Operative laparoscopy: genuine surgical advance or simple temptation by the feasible?]. Laparoscopic surgery appears now to be not just a series of simple modifications to operative techniques, but more truly a revolution. This is due to three factors: the simultaneous diagnosis of lesions, establishment of the prognosis and actual treatment: greater respect for the anatomy and physiological processes; the shift in the theatre of operations which is now represented by the pelvis itself and not the operating room we were used to. This surgical revolution has achieved a number of indisputable advances, especially where the adnexa are concerned. Tubo-peritoneal infertility, of course, for which Raoul Palmer developed laparoscopy; the approach relies on a thorough knowledge of the tubal condition. Ectopic pregnancy where laparoscopic treatment has become the standard. Ovarian cysts which raise the specific problems of discovering, and even more important, overlooking malignancy. Endometriosis for which surgical treatment has become appropriate again thanks to endoscopy. This revolutionary cycle is not yet complete for subperitoneal surgery is now being addressed. Hysterectomy, so highly symbolic for the gynecologist, is now regularly carried out in this manner. Even cancer surgery may now employ endoscopy, with second-look laparoscopy for ovarian cancer and above all lymphadenectomy techniques which were developed for a large part in France and will no doubt bring about a total change in the strategies for surgical treatment of cancer. Once the technical difficulties have been resolved radical hysterectomy has the potential to become the reference thanks to its precision and radicality. Prolapse too can draw benefit from endoscopic surgery. This is already the case for colpocervical suspension and other factors concerning prolapse are under study. We must not forget that this surgery must not only comply with the standard rules for surgery, but must also benefit from regulated and rigorous training. Collaboration with the engineers and equipment manufacturers is yet another new element with which French medicine is not yet very familiar."}
{"id": "8038406", "title": "The role of laparoscopic surgery in gynecologic oncology.", "content": "The role of laparoscopic surgery in gynecologic oncology. As a result of recent technological advances, laparoscopic lymphadenectomy is becoming the standard method for the staging of pelvic cancer. More extensive procedures, such as para-aortic lymph node dissection and radical hysterectomy, have also been demonstrated to be feasible by advanced laparoscopic surgery. This new approach appears to be very promising. In the future, because of its well documented advantages, laparoscopic surgery may appear as a way to decrease the morbidity of cancer treatment in patients with low-risk tumors and to propose more aggressive treatments of patients with tumors associated with a poor prognosis. These new techniques should be reserved for surgical teams trained in oncologic and major laparoscopic surgery. More clinical research is required before this approach can be proposed as an alternative to laparotomy, and guidelines have to be established. Training in oncology is essential to ensure optimal patient care and to avoid the consequences of inadequate laparoscopic management with regard to cases of tumor dissemination reported after laparoscopic biopsy or resection of undiagnosed ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "8033451", "title": "Laparoscopic approach to the adnexal mass.", "content": "Laparoscopic approach to the adnexal mass."}
{"id": "8030726", "title": "Has laparoscopy a role in the treatment of early ovarian cancer?", "content": "Has laparoscopy a role in the treatment of early ovarian cancer?"}
{"id": "8023610", "title": "[Diagnosis and endoscopic therapy of cystic adnexa tumors].", "content": "[Diagnosis and endoscopic therapy of cystic adnexa tumors]. Between July 1, 1990 and July 31, 1992, altogether 81 female patients were operated on endoscopic surgery, diagnosis was: cystic adnex tumour. Of the overall number of patients with the same diagnosis, which ran up to 110, those 81 made up roughly 75 per cent. If the patient was under 45 years old, the organ was saved, if the patient was more than 45 years old, an adnexectomy was carried out. For the time being patients are chosen for an endoscopic operation on the basis of the results of a preoperational vaginal ultrasound examination. In the beginning one patient showed a cystic tumour of the borderline type in the pathologic anatomy examination. With all other patients the histology showed that the original statement of a benign tumour was right. There was no age limit. The youngest patient was 16 years old, the oldest 82 years old. Both patients were diagnosed the same plain ovarian cyst. Furthermore, the size of the cystic adnex tumour did not primarily keep us from applying the endoscopic operational treatment. A preoperative determination of the tumourmarker 12-5 does not seem to be useful. There was no case of a premalign or malign process going along with a preoperative increase."}
{"id": "8015768", "title": "Laparoscopic management of the adnexal mass.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of the adnexal mass. Careful preoperative evaluation of women found to have an adnexal mass may select patients for whom operative laparoscopy is appropriate. The role of ultrasonography and serum tumor markers in patient selection is discussed. Operative techniques for the laparoscopic management of the adnexal mass are also presented."}
{"id": "8015759", "title": "Management of early-stage epithelial ovarian cancer.", "content": "Management of early-stage epithelial ovarian cancer. Because ovarian cancer is asymptomatic until the late stages of the disease and because accurate methods of early detection are lacking, only about 40% of these cancers present in stages I and II. As a result, ovarian carcinoma remains the leading cause of death from gynecologic malignancy in the United States. However, proper management of early cases may lead to a good prognosis for long-term survival and, in some cases, may even permit preservation of reproductive capacity. The appropriate management of these early cases includes meticulous and thorough staging at the time of the initial surgery. In women who do not desire further reproduction, total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy should be carried out. In those who eagerly wish to maintain reproductive potential, the uterus and contralateral ovary may be preserved, providing certain criteria have been met. Patients with stage Ia or Ib grade 1 disease can be followed-up without further therapy after definitive surgery; those with Ic or grade 3 tumors should receive adjuvant therapy. Patients with stage I epithelial ovarian cancer who are without evidence of disease after comprehensive staging surgery and primary adjuvant chemotherapy do not require second-look laparotomy. In the future, laparoscopy will play an increasingly important role in the diagnosis and management of early-stage epithelial ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "8010483", "title": "Tension hydrothorax during laparoscopy in a patient with ascites.", "content": "Tension hydrothorax during laparoscopy in a patient with ascites."}
{"id": "8005309", "title": "Scoring system for prediction of ovarian endometriosis based on transvaginal color and pulsed Doppler sonography.", "content": "Scoring system for prediction of ovarian endometriosis based on transvaginal color and pulsed Doppler sonography. To develop a new noninvasive scoring system using clinical signs and symptoms, CA-125 levels, sonographic findings, and transvaginal color and pulsed Doppler parameters for preoperative recognition of ovarian endometriosis. A 5-year prospective study in patients undergoing laparotomy and laparoscopy. Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Zagreb, Sveti Duh Hospital, Zagreb, Croatia. Six hundred fifty-six benign and malignant adnexal masses, among which 103 were surgically proved to be ovarian endometriosis. All patients undergoing laparotomy and laparoscopy were examined by transvaginal ultrasonography with color Doppler imaging. Serum levels of CA-125 were measured the day before surgery. The total score was applied in all patients with adnexal masses. The scoring system proved to be very useful in distinguishing ovarian endometriosis from other benign and malignant ovarian lesions, with a sensitivity of 99.02% and a specificity of 99.64%, compared with morphological scoring system's sensitivity of 83.91% and specificity of 97.12%. The new noninvasive scoring system improves significantly the ability to discriminate between endometriosis and other benign and malignant ovarian entities."}
{"id": "8005149", "title": "Endometrioid carcinoma of the ovary. A clinicopathological study of 17 cases.", "content": "Endometrioid carcinoma of the ovary. A clinicopathological study of 17 cases. Seventeen patients with endometrioid carcinoma of the ovary were studied in order to establish clinical, surgical and histological prognostic factors. Disease recurred in 7 cases (41%) and statistically correlation was found between presence of ascites above 200 ml, advanced stage of the disease, low level of cellular differentiation and peritoneal disease and/or a residual tumour after surgery. No correlation was found between age at presentation, menopausal status, size of tumour or bilaterality. The estimated survival rate for 5-years was placed between 40%-50%. Pathological study found associated endometrioid disease in 3 cases (20%) (2 adenocarcinomas, 1 hyperplasia with atypias), and ovarian endometriosis in 2 cases (12%). Furthermore, two extremely rare cases are reported: clinical presentation of paraneoplastic dermatomiositis and recurrence at the laparoscopic puncture site."}
{"id": "8005137", "title": "Laparoscopic prophylactic oophorectomy in women belonging to ovarian cancer-prone families. Advantages and shortcomings.", "content": "Laparoscopic prophylactic oophorectomy in women belonging to ovarian cancer-prone families. Advantages and shortcomings. Laparoscopic prophylactic oophorectomy was performed on four women who belonged to ovarian cancer prone families. The procedure was of short duration with an uncomplicated intra- and postoperative course and required only brief hospitalization. These merits may outweigh those of prophylactic oophorectomy performed by laparotomy during which hysterectomy is usually also performed. When prophylactic oophorectomy is contemplated, operative laparoscopy should also be considered."}
{"id": "7999719", "title": "Wound recurrence by implantation of a borderline ovarian tumour following laparoscopic removal.", "content": "Wound recurrence by implantation of a borderline ovarian tumour following laparoscopic removal."}
{"id": "7992183", "title": "Treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts. Place and modalities of operative laparoscopy.", "content": "Treatment of ovarian dermoid cysts. Place and modalities of operative laparoscopy. The purpose of this study was to discuss the place and the specific modalities of laparoscopic surgery in the management of ovarian dermoid cysts. This retrospective and noncomparative study was carried out in 65 patients who presented dermoid ovarian cyst between January 1986 and December 1990 in our institution. The surgical treatment was performed purely by laparoscopy in 86.2% of the cases (56 patients). The modalities of laparoscopic surgery were as follows: ovariectomy (8 cases; 14.3%), transparietal cystectomy (4 cases; 7.1%) and intraperitoneal cystectomy (44 cases; 78.6%). In 15 cases (15/44 = 34%) the intraperitoneal cystectomy was carried out without opening the cyst and the intact cyst was extracted using an endoscopic impermeable sack. We observed no cases of chemical peritonitis. The risk of recurrence after conservative treatment is 4% (two patients) and out of the ten patients for whom a second-look laparoscopy was performed only two (20%) presented adhesions. Laparoscopic treatment of dermoid ovarian cysts is feasible, safe, and effective. The treatment can be conservative in over 80% of the cases. The specific risk of chemical peritonitis can be countered by a change in the cystectomy technique. The use of an impermeable laparoscopic sack permits extraction of the cyst without any peritoneal contamination."}
{"id": "7988849", "title": "[When may, should, must the ovary by removed--with which technique?].", "content": "[When may, should, must the ovary by removed--with which technique?]. The growing demand for minimally invasive operative processes and the unmistakable progress in pelviscopy, have led to an extension of the indications for minimally invasive surgery. At the same time, the operative treatment of ovarian cysts is the third most frequently performed pelviscopic operation. The indication for ovarectomy depends, above all, on anamnestic factors, the clinical findings and the results of pre-operative vaginal sonography. In the event of inadequate hormone secretion by the ovaries, the indication for organ removal should be generously applied. Vaginal sonography is not capable of proving or excluding the existence of a malignancy with 100% certainty. The average rate of ovarian carcinomas is 2.6% in case of smooth-walled, unicamerate cysts. Pelviscopy is also unable to differentiate reliably between benign and malignant ovarian tumours. With the aid of pelviscopic operative processes, a cystic ovarian tumour cannot be extirpated in toto with the necessary certainty. In spite of the conflicting results in the literature, an iatrogenic rupture of an early ovarian carcinoma can be expected to result in worsening the prognosis. The Department of Obstet. Gynecol. University of G\u00f6ttingen, adopted the following procedure: 1. A (mini-) laparotomy with immediate section for microscopic examination is always performed on sonographically suspect ovarian tumours. 2. On smooth-walled unicamerate ovarian tumours > or = 3 cm which persist or fail to respond to treatment with oral contraceptives, (mini-) laparotomy is performed with complete extirpation of the cystic ovarian tumour and immediate section for microscopic examination; a conceivable alternative is, if possible, total pelviscopic extirpation of the ovarian cyst with immediate section for microscopic examination.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7982547", "title": "[Diagnosis and therapy of adnexal tumors in postmenopause. A prospective study].", "content": "[Diagnosis and therapy of adnexal tumors in postmenopause. A prospective study]. The management of postmenopausal adnexal tumours is still controversially discussed. Approximately 30% of all postmenopausal tumours are malignant. The standard operative approach for these adnexal masses is still the exploratory laparotomy although the advantages of laparoscopic procedure are obvious, even in older patients. The aim of this prospective study was to find out to what extent diagnostic-operative laparoscopy is able to replace laparotomy in the therapy of postmenopausal adnexal masses. From January 1990 to August 1992, 169 postmenopausal patients entered the prospective study. After careful preoperative diagnostics, 63 patients underwent a laparotomy (group B) and 106 patients a laparoscopy (group A). 10 of these 106 cases underwent laparotomy after diagnostic laparoscopy (group Ab). The main operative procedure in group Aa was laparoscopic adnexectomy after Semm. Mean operative time and mean postoperative hospital stay were significantly lower in patients, who only underwent laparoscopic operation (group Aa). One case (0.9%) of the laparoscopically operated patients was subsequently found to be malignant (histologic assessment) and immediately treated by laparotomy with hysterectomy and contralateral adnexectomy. The combination of vaginal examination, vaginal/abdominal ultrasonography (tumor marker CA 125) and a sufficient preoperative diagnostic during endosurgery (no proliferations on the ovary or peritoneal surface, no ascites) reduces the risk of operating a malignant tumour by laparoscopy to a minimum. We believe that operative laparoscopy of postmenopausal adnexal masses is a safe and efficient method in carefully selected women."}
{"id": "7982546", "title": "[Safety and effectiveness of endosurgical management of benign adnexal tumors in the premenopausal period: a prospective study].", "content": "[Safety and effectiveness of endosurgical management of benign adnexal tumors in the premenopausal period: a prospective study]. Between January 1985 and December 1989, a prospective laparoscopic study was performed in premenopausal women with pelvic cysts growing or persisting for at least three months or evoking acute abdominal complaints. The aim of this prospective study was the investigation of the functional/nonfunctional rate, the relapse and the malignancy rate. 372 women underwent a diagnostic-operative laparoscopy in the absence of irregular solid and cystic parts detectable by preoperative vaginal ultrasonography. The treatment consisted of non-randomised endosurgical ovarian cystostomy, cystectomy or ovarectomy. Histopathological assessment showed functional ovarian cysts in 268 women and non-functional benign ovarian tumours in 104. 2 cases were subsequently found to be malignant. After a mean follow-up-time of at least one year, we found an overall recurrence rate of 4.6% after cystostomy, 2% after cystectomy and 0% after ovarectomy in the group of functional ovarian cysts and a total of 1% after endosurgical therapy of the non-functional ovarian tumours. The diagnostic operative laparoscopy proved to be a safe and efficient treatment of pelvic cysts in women of reproductive age, provided a sufficient preoperative vaginal ultrasound examination had been performed."}
{"id": "7980313", "title": "Unusual contents of a dermoid cyst of the ovary removed by laparoscopy.", "content": "Unusual contents of a dermoid cyst of the ovary removed by laparoscopy. Benign cystic teratoma (dermoid cyst) of the ovary is a common pathological entity. Usually, the cyst contains representative tissues of the 3 embryonic germ cell layers: ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm. Sebaceous material, hairs, cartilages, teeth, even thyroid tissue are frequently observed. In this case, the tumour was a well-formed jaw and tongue, and was successfully removed via the laparoscope."}
{"id": "7980312", "title": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian masses: the initial experience and learning curve.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian masses: the initial experience and learning curve. Fifty two consecutive patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery for ovarian masses were reviewed. The operative time depended on the experience of the surgeon and size of the tumour. It dropped progressively within the first 10 cases and then remained static until after 40 cases when there was a further decline. Postoperative pain was minimal and the median hospital stay was 2 days (range 1-7 days). The majority of patients returned to full activity within 2 weeks. The overall morbidity was 7.8% and was mild in nature without sequelae."}
{"id": "7978948", "title": "Endoscopic treatment of dermoid cyst.", "content": "Endoscopic treatment of dermoid cyst. Seven cases of benign cystic teratoma (dermoid cyst) were managed laparoscopically (six cyst excisions and one adnexectomy) using a surgical procedure to avoid spillage. Outcome was good in all cases without any complications."}
{"id": "7936509", "title": "Abdominal-wall tumor implantation after laparoscopy for malignant conditions.", "content": "Abdominal-wall tumor implantation after laparoscopy for malignant conditions. To determine the incidence of abdominal-wall tumor implantation after laparoscopic procedures in patients with known malignancies. We reviewed 557 laparoscopic procedures performed by the Gynecologic Oncology Service between November 1990 and February 1994. In 105 procedures, malignancy was documented cytologically or histologically, 88 with intraperitoneal disease and 17 with retroperitoneal disease. Ovarian cancer represented 80% (70 of 88) of the procedures with intraperitoneal malignancy, and the remaining cases consisted of carcinoma of the fallopian tube (two), endometrium (11), cervix (one), breast (three), and stomach (one). Histologically, ovarian carcinomas ranged from low malignant potential to poorly differentiated. Among 88 patients with intraperitoneal disease, 77 had gross disease and 11 had microscopic disease. Four hundred thirty-seven different abdominal-wall puncture sites were used (38 Veress needle sites and 399 laparoscopic ports). One of the 437 (0.2%) abdominal-wall puncture sites developed implantation, a frequency of 1.0% (one in 105) per procedure; this developed after a second-look laparoscopic procedure for ovarian carcinoma in which only microscopic disease was present. If only intraperitoneal disease is considered, the incidence of implantation was 0.3% (one in 363) per abdominal puncture and 1.1% (one in 88) per procedure. Tumor implantation at the abdominal-wall puncture site is an infrequent occurrence after laparoscopy in patients with intraperitoneal and retroperitoneal carcinoma."}
{"id": "7926236", "title": "Laparoscopic surgical therapy and staging in a case of early malignant granulosa cell tumor of the ovary.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgical therapy and staging in a case of early malignant granulosa cell tumor of the ovary. An early right granulosa cell tumor was removed without rupture through the vaginal route after laparoscopic division of the ovarian ligament. Staging biopsies, peritoneal cytology, infracolic omentectomy, pelvic and right infrarenal para-aortic dissection were completed laparoscopically. The patient was discharged on the third day, and she is doing well 22 months postoperatively."}
{"id": "7922758", "title": "[150 cases of vedio-laparoscopic gynecologic surgery].", "content": "[150 cases of vedio-laparoscopic gynecologic surgery]. From September 1992 to September 1993, 150 patients aged 15-68 years underwent laparoscopic gynecologic surgery. These patients included 63 patients with acute abdominal diseases (46 had ectopic pregnancy, 9 rupture of ovary, and 8 torsion of ovarian cyst), which consisted of 90% of total patients with acute abdomen in corresponding period, 63 patients with mass of adnexa, which made up 72% of total patients with ovarian tumors, and 24 patients with uterine diseases. We successfully performed laparoscopic salpingostomy, fallotomy, removal of ovarian cyst, oophorosalpingectomy, myomectomy and laparoscopy assisted vaginal hysterectomy (LAVH) with 2-4 puncture technic after general anesthesia. The largest ovarian tumor and the enlarged uterus were 14 and 16 cm in diameter respectively. Four patients had laparotomy because of severe pelvic adhesions and the laparotomy rate was about 2.6%. The procedure lasted 20-240 minutes and bleeding was less than 200ml. No major surgical complication was encountered."}
{"id": "7889049", "title": "[Urologic applications of intralaparoscopic echography].", "content": "[Urologic applications of intralaparoscopic echography]. The impossibility to palpate organs and tissues is probably the most important drawback of the laparoscopic approach: laparoscopic sonography represent the only real alternative to manual palpation. The laparoscopic approach in the field of urology was initially limited to the identification of the undescended testes in paediatric urology and to the laparoscopic ligation of varicocele. More recently, it took into account the pelvic lymphadenectomy for staging prostatic and bladder cancer. The upper urinary tract and the retroperitoneum were approached more recently. In a preliminary phase the indications for laparoscopic nephrectomy were limited to benign diseases, such as atrophic kidney in patients with renal hypertension, and scarred pyelonephritic kidney. At present some preliminary experiences are reported about nephrectomy performed for carcinoma of the urether or of the upper collecting system and for renal masses of unknown origin. Another indication for a laparoscopic approach to the kidney is represented by symptomatic renal cysts. These cysts have been usually treated with percutaneous aspiration and/or sclerosis, but a high rate of recurrence is reported. Laparoscopy may be used to approach renal cysts with the advantage that most of the cystic wall could be excised, reducing the change of recurrence. Another possible indication for laparoscopy and laparoscopic sonography is the retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy in testes cancer with staging or therapeutic purposes. Nowadays preliminary experiences in laparoscopic adrenalectomy have been reported in a limited series of cases. In this report the Authors present their initial experience using a 7.5 MHz rigid probe having 400 crystal which can be inserted into a 10 mm trocar.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7882629", "title": "Operative laparoscopy in gynaecological oncology.", "content": "Operative laparoscopy in gynaecological oncology. Initial reports on the role of laparoscopy in gynaecological malignancies have centred around staging procedures. Laparoscopic lymphadenectomy, both pelvic and para-aortic, appears to be feasible and adequate. It appears that laparoscopy may play an important role in reviving the radical vaginal hysterectomy for patients with early cervical cancer. Similarly, an abdominal incision may be avoided in patients with early endometrial carcinoma by employing laparoscopic staging with vaginal hysterectomy. The role laparoscopy will play in ovarian cancer is still to be defined, and laparoscopic advocates must be cautious in this subset of patients. However, for those gynaecological oncologists employing second-look procedures, it appears that beginning with laparoscopy may make laparotomy unnecessary in the majority of patients. Survival data for patients with gynaecological malignancies managed using laparoscopy in lieu of laparotomy are still lacking. It is imperative that survival is not compromised by employing a new surgical technique. Cost data comparing laparoscopy to laparotomy in our subspeciality is unavailable. This increasingly important aspect of medical care may influence the future of laparoscopy. These and other important issues need to be addressed by future trials before the role of laparoscopy in gynaecological oncology can be determined."}
{"id": "7855480", "title": "The role of laparoscopy in the management of gynecologic malignancy.", "content": "The role of laparoscopy in the management of gynecologic malignancy. With the advent of minimally invasive laparoscopic techniques, most gynecologic procedures for benign conditions can be performed in an outpatient setting. However, the role of such techniques in gynecologic oncology is not well defined. By reviewing the literature and presenting some new data, we attempt to elucidate the applications of operative videolaparoscopy in gynecologic oncology. Advanced laparoscopic techniques are utilized for the management of cervical cancer as well as the staging and treatment of endometrial and ovarian cancers. Such techniques are used in performing radical hysterectomy for early stage cervical cancer, pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy, and second look laparoscopy following chemotherapy for ovarian cancer. Even though preliminary data are encouraging, large prospective controlled studies with long-term follow-up are necessary to better define the role and limitations of laparoscopy in the treatment of gynecologic malignancies."}
{"id": "7855346", "title": "From the archives of the AFIP. Ovarian epithelial neoplasms: radiologic-pathologic correlation.", "content": "From the archives of the AFIP. Ovarian epithelial neoplasms: radiologic-pathologic correlation. Ovarian carcinoma is the most common cause of death from a gynecologic malignant neoplasm. The typically advanced stage at presentation and aggressive nature of these neoplasms result in an overall 5-year survival rate of less than 40%. Most malignant ovarian neoplasms are of the surface epithelial cell type, which includes serous, mucinous, clear cell, endometrioid, and Brenner tumors. However, among the epithelial neoplasms, benign lesions are more common than malignant neoplasms, and other entities (including nonneoplastic masses) are far more common causes of a pelvic mass. Imaging studies (ultra-sound, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging) can depict the tumor morphology: solid or cystic, unilocular or multilocular cystic, with or without thickening of the walls or septa, with or without papillary excrescences or other soft-tissue elements, and with or without calcifications. Evaluation of these morphologic characteristics allows attempted differentiation among malignant, benign neoplastic, and nonneoplastic lesions. Lesion characterization assists in surgical planning. Malignant neoplasms nearly always require laparotomy, whereas benign neoplasms may be managed laparoscopically. In the case of ovarian carcinoma, treatment is primarily surgical, and most patients also receive chemotherapy. Unfortunately, recurrence is common."}
{"id": "7846978", "title": "[Changes in surgical treatment of cystic teratoma--620 cases].", "content": "[Changes in surgical treatment of cystic teratoma--620 cases]. Among 3492 patients with ovarian tumors subjected to operation between 1/1957 and 3/1994 at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the University of Rostock 620 (17.8%) cases of teratomas were found. Histology findings, age, tumor size, bilaterality and malignity of these 620 cases were analyzed. The histologic differentiation yielded 604 (17.3%) mature teratomas (dermoid cysts), 15 monodermale and 1 immature teratoma. Division of total period in the time before and after 1990-since then we have got the possibility of laparoscopic operation-reveals that presumably by increasing use of ultrasound a decrease in mean age at time of diagnosis from 40.2 +/- 20 to 30.7 +/- 12 as well as in tumor size (9 +/- 4 resp. 4 +/- 2 cm) has been achieved. A secondary malignant transformation of epithelial component has been found in 0.5% (3/604) and bilaterality in 11% of the cases. With regard to general rules of laparoscopic operations the intact dermoid cyst enucleation is recommended in premenopausal and extirpation in postmenopausal women. For opening, reduction of volume, and removal of the dermoid cyst from the abdominal cavity, an endo-bag or endo-catch respectively should be used."}
{"id": "7835810", "title": "Management of the adnexal mass.", "content": "Management of the adnexal mass. The methods for preoperative diagnosis and evaluation of the woman with a suspected ovarian neoplasm have evolved significantly with little or no impact on the surgical treatment, which remains removal of the abnormal ovary. Although most adnexal masses are benign, the primary goal of the diagnostic evaluation is the exclusion of malignancy. A complete history, physical examination, and ultrasonic imaging are vital in evaluating a suspected ovarian mass. In postmenopausal women, serum CA-125 determinations further improve sensitivity and specificity. Once the presence of an ovarian mass is established, the crucial decision is whether to observe the patient or proceed with surgical removal. If surgical removal is indicated, the proper procedure is important for staging and initiation of effective therapy. While many surgeons are now using the less invasive laparoscopic approach, the standard of care continues to be a laparotomy with either an ovarian cystectomy or oophorectomy. Future clinical research in the management of adnexal masses should focus on decreasing the number of patients undergoing a surgical procedure, and in patients who require surgery, further evaluation of laparoscopy as a safe, cost-effective means of treatment. Improved imaging techniques may allow for nonoperative management of probably benign ovarian neoplasms."}
{"id": "7835808", "title": "The role of prophylactic oophorectomy in cancer prevention.", "content": "The role of prophylactic oophorectomy in cancer prevention. Prophylactic oophorectomy is presently the only effective method of ovarian cancer prevention. This study reviews current data on how prophylactic oophorectomy (PO) should be used in different risk groups. It is estimated that 7% of ovarian cancer patients have positive family history, of which 3-9% may end up having hereditary cancer syndromes. Women in direct genetic lineage of family cancer syndromes may have up to 50% lifetime risk of ovarian cancer. Because of such a high risk, PO is indicated for women with familial cancer syndromes after childbearing or the age of 35-40 at the latest. Most women with positive family history of ovarian cancer do not have one of the recognized hereditary cancer syndromes. However, women with one or two affected relatives do have an increased lifetime risk of ovarian cancer from a baseline of 1.6 to 5-7%. This risk is not high enough to warrant PO recommendation for a large number of women. After being properly informed and the patient still desires surgical prevention (i.e., cancer phobia), PO then becomes an indicated procedure. In women without family history of ovarian cancer, the role of PO remains controversial. The decision of PO as a concurrent procedure to other indicated gynecologic surgeries should depend on the individual patient and her ability to comply with lifelong estrogen replacement therapy."}
{"id": "7827157", "title": "Surgery for gynecologic cancer.", "content": "Surgery for gynecologic cancer. Surgery is an integral part of staging procedures for ovarian, endometrial, and vulvar cancers, with a move toward surgicopathologic rather than clinical staging in cervical cancer. Morbidity can be reduced without compromising patient cure by individualizing surgery for patients with early vulvar cancer, and reproductive potential can be maintained in some women with early ovarian cancer. The place of prophylactic oophorectomy and primary and secondary surgery in ovarian cancer remain controversial and await prospective study. Recent developments in laparoscopic techniques have been applied to a number of problems in gynecologic cancer surgery, and the feasibility of laparoscopic lymphadenectomy and radical pelvic surgery has been demonstrated. Care must be taken, however, to ensure that the tenets of surgical oncology are not sacrificed in order to offer minimal-access surgery to women with gynecologic cancer."}
{"id": "7822711", "title": "[Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian tumors in menopausal women].", "content": "[Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian tumors in menopausal women]. The authors report their experiences in the laparoscopical therapy of ovarian tumours with 94 postmenopausal women. The patients were treated in the Department of Gynecology at G\u00f6ppingen Medical Center from March 1, 1992 until December 31, 1993. Tumour marker CA 125 was not within normal limits (< 35 U/ml) in all patients. Preoperatively all findings were verified by ultrasound examination. In some cases, cysts were single-chambered, smooth-bounded or without endovegetations. Choice therapy has been bilateral adnectomy without opening the ovarian cyst and without trauma to the ovary capsula. Adnectomy was performed by bipolar coagulation and sharp preparation. In every case the specimen was positioned intact in a \"Lap-Sac\" and then removed via second puncture. In case of ultrasonographic or laparoscopic-macroscopic conspicuous findings an obligatory fast microscopic random sample was performed. In one case the microscopic test sample revealed carcinoma of the ovary--the operation was terminated by standard laparotomy. No other cases showed signs of malignancy. There were no peri- or postoperative complications. The average operation lasted 35 min (20-80 min), all operations were performed without significant blood-loss. Usually the patients were discharged at the 4th to 6th postoperative day. This operation-technique guaranteed \"oncological aseptic\" results at any time of operation. Therefore you can waive the standard laparotomy for the benefit of laparoscopy in many elderly patients even with suspicious findings."}
{"id": "7821490", "title": "Laparoscopic management of malignant ovarian cysts: a 78-case national survey. Part 1: Pre-operative and laparoscopic evaluation.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of malignant ovarian cysts: a 78-case national survey. Part 1: Pre-operative and laparoscopic evaluation. This paper reports a retrospective multi-institutional French survey carried out in 1992 to determine the incidence of laparoscopic management of malignant ovarian cysts. Of 5307 ovarian lesions treated endoscopically, 78 were malignant (1.47%) including 60 borderline tumors and 18 ovarian cancers. In 33% of cases preoperative diagnosis indicated that the tumor was benign. Preoperative findings were suspicious in 59%. Laparoscopic treatment was puncture in 23% of cases, partial exeresis in 51% and total removal in 26%."}
{"id": "7810245", "title": "[Tumor asepsis in organ saving pelviscopic ovarian surgery exemplified by dermoid cysts].", "content": "[Tumor asepsis in organ saving pelviscopic ovarian surgery exemplified by dermoid cysts]. Three different surgical techniques were performed to remove ovarial tumors by pelviscopic organ-preserving surgery. Contamination of the peritoneal cavity with cystic and tumorous materia had to be prevented. Ovarian surgery was done in 112 pre-menopausal patients. Three techniques were compared: 1. complete extirpation of the cyst, 2. extirpation of the cystic wall after careful irrigation of the cyst, 3. the 'diaphragm technique': the affected ovary is operated inside a bag. Contamination of the peritoneal cavity was prevented only by the 'diaphragm technique'."}
{"id": "7808126", "title": "[Laparoscopy is not suitable in malignant tumors. Risk of neoplasm seeding by instrument].", "content": "[Laparoscopy is not suitable in malignant tumors. Risk of neoplasm seeding by instrument]."}
{"id": "7735015", "title": "Elevated serum CA-125 in tuberculous peritonitis: report of a case.", "content": "Elevated serum CA-125 in tuberculous peritonitis: report of a case. A 37-year-old female presented with a 2-month history of abdominal distention. Omentum masses with massive ascites were found and ovarian cancer with peritoneal carcinomatosis was suspected. Her serum CA-125 level was over 500 U/ml before therapy. Tuberculous peritonitis was diagnosed via peritoneal biopsy. The serum CA-125 level returned to normal after antituberculous therapy. Elevated serum CA-125 does not always indicate ovarian malignancy. This tumor marker may be used to monitor the disease activity in non-neoplastic ascitic states."}
{"id": "7733593", "title": "[Place of celiosurgery in the extensive diagnosis of gynecologic cancers].", "content": "[Place of celiosurgery in the extensive diagnosis of gynecologic cancers]. Laparoscopic surgery occupies an increasingly important place in the diagnosis and staging of gynaecological cancers. It allows repeated complete investigation of the abdomen and retroperitoneum: macroscopic examination of the peritoneum, cytology, biopsies, infracolonic omentectomy, appendicectomy, pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy, without interfering with therapeutic procedures (simple or radical hysterectomy) which can be associated. In cancers of the endometrium, it is part of a surgical strategy associating vaginal hysterectomy. In ovarian cancers, it is essentially applied to restaging of insufficiently explored apparent stage I tumours. In operable cervical cancer, it guides the therapeutic protocol and surgical indication by allowing interiliac lymphadenectomy. In advanced cervical cancers, it is used to detect para-aortic lymph nodes."}
{"id": "7660384", "title": "Follow-up laparoscopy in patients with ovarian cancer.", "content": "Follow-up laparoscopy in patients with ovarian cancer. Between 1982 and 1990, two hundred and fourteen consecutive laparoscopies were performed on 75 patients with epithelial ovarian cancer when the disease appeared to be clinically in complete remission according to simultaneous CT scan or ultrasonography. Evaluation were based on macroscopic findings through the laparoscope, by cytologic examination of ascitic and peritoneal washings and by intraperitoneal biopsy. The results were positive in 34 laparoscopies for 19 patients, suspicious in 15 laparoscopies for 13 patients and negative in 164 laparoscopies. the intraperitoneal recurrence rate after negative second-look laparoscopy was 14.0% as a whole, and 4.5% in cases with more than two consecutive negative evaluations. Serum CA-125 levels exhibited and elevation in 28 of 34 positive laparoscopies before treatment and remained within the normal range in 22 (78.6%) of the 28 cases after treatment despite positive follow-up laparoscopies. The repeated laparoscopies offer the advantage of lowering the false negative rate. This will enable early detection of intraperitoneal recurrence, better prognoses and reduction of unnecessary laparotomies."}
{"id": "7648897", "title": "[Tumor dissemination after celioscopic treatment of an ovarian tumor].", "content": "[Tumor dissemination after celioscopic treatment of an ovarian tumor]."}
{"id": "7569156", "title": "[Laparoscopy: an alternative to second-look laparotomy in ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Laparoscopy: an alternative to second-look laparotomy in ovarian cancer]."}
{"id": "7505830", "title": "Dose-intense taxol: high response rate in patients with platinum-resistant recurrent ovarian cancer.", "content": "Dose-intense taxol: high response rate in patients with platinum-resistant recurrent ovarian cancer. Paclitaxel (Taxol), a diterpene plant product that promotes tubulin polymerization, has documented activity against a number of solid tumors, including ovarian cancer and breast cancer. Our purpose was to conduct a phase II clinical trial investigating the response of patients with advanced recurrent ovarian carcinoma to high-dose paclitaxel combined with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). A prospective phase II clinical trial of patients with advanced-stage, recurrent ovarian cancer was undertaken. Patients received 250 mg/m2 paclitaxel every 21 days; cycles were given on a rigid schedule; delays were permitted only for extreme circumstances. G-CSF at a dose of 10 micrograms/kg per day was given to ameliorate myelo-suppression. If a patient showed fever and neutropenia, G-CSF dosage was increased to 20 micrograms/kg per day so that paclitaxel dose intensity could be maintained. Patients were assessed for response every two cycles, and those with complete radiographic resolution of disease underwent peritoneoscopy. Forty-four patients were assessable for response. Twenty-one had a reduction in tumor volume greater than 50%, yielding an objective response rate of 48% (21 of 44 patients; 95% confidence interval, 32%-63%). Six (14%) of the 44 patients had complete radiographic resolution of disease; two of the six also had negative biopsy specimens and washings at peritoneoscopy. Age, number of prior regimens, and clinical platinum resistance did not influence response rate or ability to maintain dose intensity. Dose intensity was maintained at the targeted level for up to 14 consecutive cycles of therapy. We observed a 48% response rate with dose-intense paclitaxel for patients with advanced-stage, platinum-resistant, recurrent ovarian cancer. The response rate is higher than previously reported for paclitaxel at a lower dose in similar cohorts of patients treated without G-CSF. Comparison of phase II studies of paclitaxel suggests a dose-response relationship. Therapy with dose-intense paclitaxel and G-CSF should be considered for patients with advanced, platinum-refractory ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "9420927", "title": "Principles of surgical management of ovarian carcinomas.", "content": "Principles of surgical management of ovarian carcinomas. Nearly 80% of the approximately 20,000 women who develop ovarian carcinoma each year in the United States are diagnosed at stages II, III, or IV. The main goals of surgery in these patients are confirmation of diagnosis, accurate staging of the tumor, and reduction of tumor bulk. Among the topics discussed are intraoperative management, differential diagnosis by frozen section, pediatric tumors, ovarian carcinoma during pregnancy, second-look operations, and laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "8513635", "title": "Management of the adnexal mass by operative laparoscopy.", "content": "Management of the adnexal mass by operative laparoscopy."}
{"id": "8513634", "title": "Laparoscopic surgery for ovarian lesions: potential pitfalls.", "content": "Laparoscopic surgery for ovarian lesions: potential pitfalls. Laparoscopic surgery for ovarian lesions has the potential for an enormous positive impact on the care that we are able to provide for our patients. Technologic advances and the proliferation of new equipment have occurred at a rapid rate. However, the criteria for the safe and appropriate use of endoscopic surgery have not been developed fully or followed by all surgeons, and there is some evidence that a lack of adherence to carefully considered protocols has the potential to have an adverse impact on women with ovarian lesions. McDonough made a thoughtful presentation on the need for technology assessment in the reproductive sciences, focusing on the fact that there has been a rapid diffusion of technology without prior broad-based critical peer review and stressing the need to have scientific technology assessment. Pitkin, in his editorial on operative laparoscopy, questioned whether we are evaluating therapeutic appropriateness properly as a separate and independent issue from technical feasibility. Obviously, it would be preferable to have had more controlled prospective data on the relative merits and risks of the use of the laparoscope for resection of ovarian cysts before the widespread use of this technology. However, there are several situations in which it currently appears to have important clinical utility for the patient. In addition, it already is being used widely, and it would be inappropriate to withhold this method from our patients. However, it should be urged that careful prospective evaluation be undertaken so that both the scientific community and the public are able to have an accurate understanding of the risks, benefits, indications, and contraindications of this technology. In addition, when a surgeon is considering pelviscopic surgery for an ovarian mass, it is essential that this be done with strict adherence to carefully constructed preoperative criteria and intraoperative protocols."}
{"id": "8508878", "title": "Pseudomyxoma peritonei: treatment with intraperitoneal 5-fluorouracil.", "content": "Pseudomyxoma peritonei: treatment with intraperitoneal 5-fluorouracil. Four patients with pseudomyxoma peritonei associated with mucinous tumors of the ovary were treated with cytoreductive surgery followed by intraperitoneal (IP) 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). CA-125 was elevated in three, and ca cinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in one patient; both fell to within normal levels following treatment. Two patients underwent reassessment laparotomy and one a reassessment laparoscopy with no evidence of disease following chemotherapy. The fourth patient refused surgical reassessment but remains clinically free of disease. Intraperitoneal 5-FU appears to be effective in pseudomyxoma peritonei. Pr\u00e9cis: Four patients with pseudomyxoma peritonei associated with ovarian tumors were successfully treated with surgery and intraperitoneal 5-FU."}
{"id": "8506762", "title": "Ovarian electrocautery: responders versus non-responders.", "content": "Ovarian electrocautery: responders versus non-responders. The endocrine and biophysical attributes of 29 patients with polycystic ovarian disease (PCOD) were examined before and after laparoscopic ovarian electrocautery to establish the criteria which determined their clinical response. Patients with high luteinizing hormone (LH) levels (> 12 IU/l) had a better response than patients with lower LH values but a high LH: follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) ratio (> or = 2:1). However, the body mass index, ovarian volume or pretreatment testosterone values were not helpful in predicting the clinical outcome. Both responders (n = 22) and non-responders (n = 7) showed a decline in LH and testosterone and an increase in FSH 6-h mean values, following 15-min blood sampling 1 month after surgery, compared to the corresponding pretreatment levels. The magnitude of change was significantly higher for LH (p < 0.01) in responders but there was no difference in the corresponding values of the other hormones between the two groups (p > 0.05). Accordingly, unsupplemented ovarian electrocautery is better reserved for the treatment of patients with PCOD and high LH values. Four of the 17 patients who had second-look diagnostic laparoscopy showed minimal to mild pelvic adhesions and all patients had patent Fallopian tubes. The performance of a second-look diagnostic laparoscopy is not indicated as a routine procedure in all cases following surgery."}
{"id": "8498956", "title": "Pelvic actinomycosis in association with an intrauterine device.", "content": "Pelvic actinomycosis in association with an intrauterine device. A case of pelvic actinomycosis is described which occurred in association with the use of an intrauterine device (IUD). Initially medical management alone was used, but surgical intervention was necessitated for multiple pelvic abscesses. We would strongly recommend that any IUD be removed should it be associated with actinomyces on genital smears and/or culture. If sepsis is also apparent, IUD removal with use of long-term antibiotics is required. In Australia, a 31-year old IUD user with 3 children came to the Royal Women's Hospital in Melbourne, Victoria, for elective laparoscopic sterilization. Cytological examination of a Pap smear revealed actinomyces-like organisms (ALO), yet she had no symptoms. Her physician removed the IUD during tubal occlusion 2 months later, at which time she was febrile. She received 2 g intravenous (IV) cefoxitin. The physician applied a clip to the right tube, but not to the left tube due to dense adhesions around a small ruptured tubo-ovarian abscess. Aspirate culture indicated Actinomyces israelii and Fusobacterium rusii. No. A israelii grew from the removed cultures IUD, however. Histological examination of the curettings revealed proliferative endometrium with IUD effect and ALO-like microcolonies. After the operation, she received IV amoxycillin and rectal metronidazole. Upon a positive Actinomyces culture, she received IV crystalline penicillin and metronidazole. This treatment did not resolve her anorexia, fever, and pelvic infection signs. She received 4 units of blood. Ultrasound showed 4 complex masses near the ovaries and too the right of the fundus. Her physician did a laparotomy to drain the abscesses. Extensive adhesions made the bowel dilate and mat together and to the abdominal wall. The physician removed the left xanthomatous salpinigitic tube. Postoperatively, she underwent nasogastric suction, administration of IV fluids via a central line, a blood/plasma transfusion, and gentamicin. After developing a chest infection, she received IV cefotaxime. 7 days later she no longer had a fever, took oral fluids, and was ambulatory. She took oral penicillin and probenecid. 2 months later, she suffered lower abdominal and adnexal tenderness. Ultrasound revealed a mass near the left tubal stump and a mass near the right ovary. Over the next few weeks the left mass disappeared, but the other mass grew. The physician aspirated hemoserous fluid. They switched to doxycycline over 4 months. 12 months after the initial operation, she had no symptoms and no pelvic abnormalities."}
{"id": "8482555", "title": "Laparoscopic paraaortic node sampling in gynecologic oncology: a preliminary experience.", "content": "Laparoscopic paraaortic node sampling in gynecologic oncology: a preliminary experience. Because of the poor accuracy of nonsurgical methods in the detection of occult paraaortic lymph node metastasis, and because of the cost and discomfort of surgical staging, the feasibility of selective or elective paraaortic lymphadenectomy has been investigated in a preliminary series of four cases. Selective sampling of the lower paraaortic nodes in two cases of cervical carcinoma and of the infrarenal paraaortic nodes in two cases of early ovarian carcinomas were successfully completed by laparoscopy. The potential application of this new technique are discussed."}
{"id": "8476839", "title": "Combined laparoscopic and micro-laparotomy removal of benign cystic teratomata.", "content": "Combined laparoscopic and micro-laparotomy removal of benign cystic teratomata."}
{"id": "8463563", "title": "[Treatment using laparoscopic surgery of dermoid cysts. Apropos of a series of 33 cysts].", "content": "[Treatment using laparoscopic surgery of dermoid cysts. Apropos of a series of 33 cysts]. Laparoscopy is a surgical method which is now widely used for the treatment of ovarian cysts. The authors wish to present their experience concerning the management and treatment of dermoid cysts or dysembryomas since these lesions embody all the problems persisting in this field. They report 33 cases exclusively treated by laparoscopic surgery in a series of 407 adnexal cysts treated over a 4-year period (April 1988 to April 1992). As regards diagnosis, the principal difficulty is not to miss the odd malignant lesion (1 to 2%) encountered mainly in older women. Technically, the most delicate stage in the operation is extraction of the cyst, especially when it is large and has an important solid component. Provided all precautions are taken in the diagnosis and the operative technique, this new method seems to be quite acceptable as it enables women who carry these lesions, which require excision, to benefit from the well-known advantages of laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "8462826", "title": "[Echographic evaluation of the integrity of adnexa tumors].", "content": "[Echographic evaluation of the integrity of adnexa tumors]. The preoperative diagnosis of pelvic tumours is getting more and more important. This has special relevance to the increasing possibilities of conservative management of adnexal tumours and cysts (puncturing or operating by laparoscopy). We reviewed sonographical and histological data of 514 patients, who were operated on in the 2nd Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology in Vienna because of pelvic masses. We correlated sonographical parameters like size of tumour, distinctness of margins, different kinds of internal echo pattern, papillary vegetation on the cystic wall or septa, with the defined histopathological diagnosis. A close relationship between size of tumour and tumour status could be found. The size of benign tumours was 7.1 cm. Malignant tumours had a size of 10.7 cm. The size of the high-echogenic area within the tumour, as well as its homogeneity, seemed to be of great importance. Such tumours with high-echogenic areas within, and especially those who had nonhomogeneous structures of these areas, proved to be malignant in 81% of the cases. Similarly, we found a close correlation of papillary vegetation either on cystic walls or on septa with the confirmed diagnosis of malignancy. Septa without papillarities or changing of their thickness were less important. By means of using our criteria a less experienced sonographic examiner could reach as good results as an experienced one in predicting malignancy."}
{"id": "8458916", "title": "Lasers in infertility.", "content": "Lasers in infertility. Lasers have been used in fertility surgery for the past two decades. This article reviews the development of different wavelength lasers, the different tissue effects and their applications in infertility surgery. The CO2 laser remains the most precise laser, especially in the ultrapulse mode, for the division of adhesions and the accurate and safe vaporization of deposits of endometriosis. The neodymium:YAG laser, because of its greater depth of penetration, is more suited to hysteroscopic surgery, and attempts to focus the energy by sapphire tips and sculpted quartz fibres merely enable tissue to be incised by a thermal effect. Carbon dioxide laser energy is strongly absorbed by the water molecule and is rendered ineffective in the presence of blood so the visible light lasers, argon and potassium titanyl phosphate (KTP/532) lasers, are more suitable for the treatment of ovarian endometriomas and ectopic pregnancies. Techniques and results of laser surgery in endometriosis, tubal surgery, ectopic pregnancy and polycystic ovarian syndrome are reviewed. The main advantage of the various lasers is that they allow fertility surgeons to perform operative surgery by the minimally invasive approach of laparoscopy rather than laparotomy."}
{"id": "8458520", "title": "Adhesions after resection of ovarian endometriomas.", "content": "Adhesions after resection of ovarian endometriomas."}
{"id": "8455221", "title": "Sonographically guided laparoscopy and mediastinoscopy using miniature catheter-based transducers.", "content": "Sonographically guided laparoscopy and mediastinoscopy using miniature catheter-based transducers. Miniature ultrasound transducers (12.5 MHz) housed in 9 Fr catheters were passed through a laparoscope or mediastinoscope to image a variety of normal and abnormal structures within the peritoneal cavity and mediastinum in 20 patients. These transducers made it possible to visualize the gallbladder and bile ducts and evaluate for the presence of stones, to detect masses and provide guidance for their aspiration or biopsy, and to image the internal structures of the ovary and fallopian tube. In addition, these miniature transducers were used to locate such normal vital structures as blood vessels, thereby allowing the surgeon to decide on the best approach for dissection during mediastinoscopy. During conventional surgery, the surgeon or gynecologist can palpate an area of abnormality not directly visualized. However, during laparoscopy and mediastinoscopy direct palpation is not possible. Therefore, it is important to find another method to determine what structures lie beneath the visualized surface. These miniature ultrasound transducers appear to offer a means for making such determinations."}
{"id": "8455217", "title": "The role of sonographically guided aspiration in the clinical management of ovarian cysts.", "content": "The role of sonographically guided aspiration in the clinical management of ovarian cysts. This study was undertaken to verify the role of fine-needle aspiration (FNA) followed by cytologic examination as a possible alternative to surgery in case of cystic pelvic masses. From January 1988 to March 1989, 204 patients with a proven cystic pelvic mass underwent FNA under sonographic guidance. In 20 cases the aspiration was performed transvaginally. Thirty-six patients were postmenopausal. In all cases the aspirated fluid was collected for cytologic evaluation. Other than one case of persistent hematuria, no complications occurred. The overall recurrence rate, verified 3 months from FNA, was 65%. Fifty-two per cent of patients developed a new cyst after a complete aspiration. Fifty-three patients underwent a laparotomy, allowing a comparison between cytologic and histologic patterns. The sensitivity of cytologic examination of aspirated fluids was 40% (3 of 5 malignancies were missed) and the specificity was 100% (no false positives were observed). We conclude that FNA might be proposed in young women with a unilocular ovarian cyst to avoid a surgical procedure. In postmenopausal women with a unilocular cystic mass 5 cm or less, FNA may be considered as an important step in the diagnosis. In all instances the ultrasonographic appearance of the cyst (echo texture and regularity of wall) and the characteristics of aspirated fluid are the most important findings. When the aspirated fluid contains mucus or blood, or when a complex mass is present, exploratory laparotomy or a laparoscopy is recommended."}
{"id": "8445418", "title": "A randomized trial comparing single-agent carboplatin with carboplatin followed by radiotherapy for advanced ovarian cancer: a North Thames Ovary Group study.", "content": "A randomized trial comparing single-agent carboplatin with carboplatin followed by radiotherapy for advanced ovarian cancer: a North Thames Ovary Group study. To determine in a randomized trial of advanced ovarian carcinoma whether consolidation therapy with whole-abdominal radiotherapy (RT) after chemotherapy improves survival and disease-free survival compared with the continued chemotherapy. Two hundred fifty-four patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer (stages IIB to IV) were entered onto a study of five monthly courses of 400 mg/m2 of carboplatin. One hundred seventeen patients with residual disease of 2 cm or less at second-look laparotomy or laparoscopy were then randomized to receive consolidation therapy, either five further courses of carboplatin at the same dosage or whole-abdominal RT (24 Gy). There was no control arm. Chemotherapy was well tolerated and was usually administered on an outpatient basis. Myelosuppression that was sufficient to delay chemotherapy occurred in only 3% of 1,418 courses analyzed. The main toxicity of carboplatin was nausea and vomiting, but this was easier to control than that with cisplatin. Although RT was well tolerated in the majority of the 58 patients, one patient who had been found to have multiple adhesions at second-look surgery developed fecal fistulae post-RT that resulted in the patient's death from peritonitis. Median survival for the whole group from date of surgery was 25 months. No statistical difference was found in either survival or disease-free survival between those patients who received consolidation chemotherapy and those who were treated with abdominal RT. Prognostic factors used to assess survival were stage, histology, amount of residual disease after primary surgery, and presence of tumor at second-look surgery. There seems to be no significant advantage for consolidation whole-abdominal RT compared with the continuation of the same chemotherapy in the management of advanced epithelial carcinoma of the ovary, even when no macroscopic residual disease is apparent at second-look surgery."}
{"id": "8428695", "title": "Feasibility of intraoperative administration of chemotherapy for gynecologic malignancies: assessment of acute postoperative morbidity.", "content": "Feasibility of intraoperative administration of chemotherapy for gynecologic malignancies: assessment of acute postoperative morbidity. In order to assess the acute effects of the intraoperative administration of intraperitoneal (IP) carboplatin with and without intravenous (IV) doxorubicin in patients with gynecologic malignancies, 25 patients were treated at the conclusion of their surgical procedure. Twenty-three had epithelial ovarian cancer and 2 had advanced endometrial cancer. Twelve patients received IP carboplatin and IV doxorubicin at the conclusion of their primary cytoreduction. The remaining 13 received IP carboplatin alone and consisted of 4 reassessment laparotomies for ovarian cancer, 7 secondary cytoreductions, 1 minilaparotomy for the placement of an IP catheter, and 1 second-look laparoscopy. The median age of the 25 patients was 59 years. Eight patients underwent bowel resections with anastomoses; 2 had ureteral resections and ureteroneocystostomies, 1 required a splenectomy, and 1 underwent a partial hepatic resection. There were no mortalities. Three of the 13 patients who received the IP carboplatin alone had postoperative fevers with no infectious source, which did not delay discharge. No other morbidity was noted in this group. However, 7 patients who received IV doxorubicin along with the IP carboplatin developed severe leukopenia requiring antimicrobial and colony-stimulating factor support. One patient required reexploration for postoperative hemorrhage and also developed a pulmonary embolus. One woman developed postoperative pneumonia. The median hospital stay for the 25 patients was 9 days. Intraoperative chemotherapy can be administered with tolerable immediate adverse effects."}
{"id": "8422646", "title": "The cellular composition in the peritoneal cavity and the cytotoxic function of the peritoneal cells from patients with ovarian cancer; effect of tumor necrosis factor-alpha treatment.", "content": "The cellular composition in the peritoneal cavity and the cytotoxic function of the peritoneal cells from patients with ovarian cancer; effect of tumor necrosis factor-alpha treatment. In patients with epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC), the cellular composition in the peritoneal cavity and the functional capacities of the peritoneal cells (PC) are unknown. Especially the peritoneal macrophages (m phi) could play an important role in defense against tumor cells. To study the cellular composition in the peritoneal cavity and the functional capacities of PC, these cells were obtained from three patients with EOC. The PC were immunophenotyped and tested functionally in vitro in a cytotoxicity assay. One of the patients was treated intraperitoneally (i.p.) with a single dose of 0.06 mg/m2 tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). PC were obtained before the treatment, after 24 h and after 1 week. PC from healthy women undergoing laparoscopic sterilization served as controls. It appeared that patients with EOC have a lower percentage of macrophages (m phi) in the peritoneal cavity than healthy persons. These m phi of patients were also less capable of killing U 937 tumor cells as compared to the peritoneal m phi of control persons. However, in the patient treated i.p. with TNF-alpha the cytotoxic capacities of the peritoneal m phi were strongly improved. The percentage cytotoxicity at an effector to target ratio of 10, increased from 17% to 80%. Thus, the peritoneal m phi in this patient were activated in vivo to a tumoricidal state. These findings indicate that PC in patients with EOC differ from controls, but further investigation is necessary to define the contribution of the disease and/or prior chemotherapy to this defect."}
{"id": "8410840", "title": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy.", "content": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy. Oophorectomies were performed on 312 women as part of an operative laparoscopic procedure over an eight-year period. The average age of the women was 40.4 +/- 0.6 (SEM) years; 36.5% had previously undergone a hysterectomy. The median operating time was 120 minutes. The length of hospitalization was less than 24 hours in 77.6% of women, between 24 and 48 hours in 15.1% and over 48 hours in 7.4%. Intraoperative and/or postoperative complications occurred in 12 women (3.8%). Estimated blood loss greater than 300 mL occurred in two women. The most frequent diagnoses were endometriosis/endometrioma, functional cysts and normal ovarian tissue (usually from ovaries enmeshed in adhesions); two ovaries demonstrated borderline malignant potential. Laparoscopic oophorectomy is acceptable under appropriate conditions. Further studies are necessary to provide criteria for accurate differentiation of benign from malignant ovarian enlargement."}
{"id": "8406189", "title": "The Groshong catheter as an intraperitoneal access device in the treatment of ovarian cancer patients.", "content": "The Groshong catheter as an intraperitoneal access device in the treatment of ovarian cancer patients. With the development of new intraperitoneal treatments in ovarian cancer, safe and convenient access to the peritoneal cavity is now required. This report reviews the University of Alabama at Birmingham's experience with the Groshong catheter as an intraperitoneal access device. The Groshong was easily inserted intraperitoneally in 20 ovarian cancer patients and used to deliver 81 courses of intraperitoneal therapy over 2310 patient-days. There were no catheter-related complications during treatment and only one exit site infection after catheter removal. Further investigation of the Groshong catheter as a novel intraperitoneal access device appears warranted."}
{"id": "8397149", "title": "[Ovarian mucinous carcinoma in a 12-year old girl].", "content": "[Ovarian mucinous carcinoma in a 12-year old girl]. Epithelial tumors are uncommon in young girls. The case of 12 years old girl (pre-menarche) with ovarian mucinous carcinoma was described. It was successfully treated by completely removed and then was carried out chemotherapy with ADM, CPM and CDDP. Neoplastic markers and laparoscopy was used to follow-up."}
{"id": "8375700", "title": "[Ultrasonography, laparoscopy, neoplastic markers--new possibilities of conservative operative treatment for ovarian neoplasms in girls and young women].", "content": "[Ultrasonography, laparoscopy, neoplastic markers--new possibilities of conservative operative treatment for ovarian neoplasms in girls and young women]. The knowledge of ovarian physiopathology and the employing of modern diagnostic methods (ultrasonography, laparoscopy) allow to avoid to operate patients with functional cysts. Girls and young women should be evaluated individually for ovarian surgical procedures. The operative treatment should be so conservative as possible employing all diagnostic and monitoring methods including specific markers assays."}
{"id": "8372885", "title": "Laparoscopic evaluation of the onset and progression of endometriosis.", "content": "Laparoscopic evaluation of the onset and progression of endometriosis. To clarify the pathogenesis of endometriosis on the basis of analysis of primary lesion sites, age at onset, rate of progression, and response to drug treatment. The clinical records of 690 women with laparoscopically confirmed endometriosis were retrospectively analyzed based on the revised American Fertility Society point system. The primary site of endometriosis was the uterosacral ligament and pelvic peritoneum/pouch of Douglas in 73% of patients with stage I disease, whereas only 16% had ovarian lesions. However, disease progression was associated with an increasing frequency of ovarian lesions. In terms of the revised American Fertility Society score, endometriosis progressed at a mean rate of 0.3 point per month. Thus the earliest onset of endometriosis was estimated at 3 to 4 years after menarche. Drug therapy improved the revised American Fertility Society score by about 50%. Patients with a low response to an initial cycle of therapy generally showed further improvement after an additional treatment cycle. Because endometriosis may occur as early as 3 to 4 years after menarche and gradually progresses, drug therapy, including long-term treatment, should be carried out in women with definitive evidence of endometriosis who must maintain their reproductive potential."}
{"id": "8351061", "title": "[Role of the second look in ovarian neoplasia].", "content": "[Role of the second look in ovarian neoplasia]. The indications for the execution of a second look in patients affected with ovarian cancers and the possible benefits of this procedure, related to the stage of the neoplastic disease, are examined. The second look, at first largely used in patients in which had been performed adjuvant chemotherapy with drugs containing platinum and with no evidence of residual disease, has been later strongly criticized and the effective usefulness of this invasive procedure discussed. At the moment, we think that the indications for its execution are still large because with the second look it is also possible to put into the abdomen a catheter which can be used for locoregional chemotherapy and there is now the opportunity to perform this procedure also in video-laparoscopy."}
{"id": "8343261", "title": "Phase I-II intraperitoneal mitoxantrone in advanced pretreated ovarian cancer.", "content": "Phase I-II intraperitoneal mitoxantrone in advanced pretreated ovarian cancer. 36 previously treated patients (25 with anthracyclines) with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer have been treated with intraperitoneal (i.p.) mitoxantrone (M) at increasing doses. The response was evaluated through repeated laparoscopy with multiple biopsies and serial measurement of Ovarian Cancer Antigen 125 (CA 125); 11/36 patients had a complete (6 patients) or partial (5 patients) response. Toxicity (both local and general) was observed starting from 25 mg/m2 of M per cycle. The amount of drug reaching systemic circulation was monitored by measuring M plasma value after i.p. treatment. This study showed wide variations in serum levels obtained after i.p. doses ranging from 23 to 36 mg/m2. The area under the curve (AUC) of mitoxantrone plasma samples, did not correlate with the i.p. administered dose. Conversely, a correlation seems to exist between the plasma AUC and the responder status. Patients who showed clinical responses to i.p. treatment with mitoxantrone had AUCs and plasma peak levels of the drug that were significantly higher than those in non-responders (P = 0.03, Fisher's exact test)."}
{"id": "8337440", "title": "[MR in the characterization of benign ovarian masses].", "content": "[MR in the characterization of benign ovarian masses]. To investigate the role of MRI in characterizing benign ovarian masses, the MR images of 64 patients affected with benign ovarian masses were retrospectively reviewed. The benign nature of the masses was proven at surgery (42 cases), fine-needle biopsy (10 cases), laparoscopy (6 cases) and follow-up (6 cases). MRI correctly characterized 56 of 64 masses (87.5%). In particular, all the cases of simple serous cyst (9), of hemorrhagic cyst (10), of fibroma (4), of dermoid cyst (18) and of tubo-ovarian abscess (7). MRI misdiagnosed 4 endometrial cysts--2 of them as hemorrhagic cysts and 2 as dermoid cysts-, 1 serous cystoadenoma as cystoadenocarcinoma and 1 suppurative mucinous cystoadenoma as tubo-ovarian abscess. Moreover, 1 angiofibroma and 1 hematosalpynx were misdiagnosed as endometrial cysts. In conclusion, MRI can be considered a second-choice diagnostic tool which can replace CT in the evaluation of the patients in whom US alone fails to yield an unquestionable diagnosis."}
{"id": "8334637", "title": "The case against aspirating ovarian cysts.", "content": "The case against aspirating ovarian cysts. Developments in ultrasonographic technology have increased the possibilities of ovarian cyst aspiration. The risk of an extension of indications for ovarian cyst aspiration, however, is iatrogenic spread of malignant cells. In this article, the diagnostic accuracy and therapeutic effectiveness of ovarian cyst aspiration are discussed, and the potential risk from different forms of tumor spill are considered. Two cases are presented in which a laparoscopic puncture and aspiration of a malignant ovarian cyst were performed. In both cases, there were diagnostic problems with the cytologic assessment. In one case, aspiration of an apparently benign cyst, based on ultrasonographic and laparoscopic findings, yielded cytologically negative fluid, but 8 weeks later an extensively disseminated ovarian carcinoma was found at laparotomy. It is postulated that the time interval between first tumor spill and eventual removal of the diseased ovary is the most important determinant of prognosis. The conclusion of these case reports is that aspiration of ovarian cysts, except for the purposes of oocyte retrieval, is potentially dangerous and should not be regarded as routinely acceptable clinical practice."}
{"id": "8330712", "title": "[Experiences with colpocoeliotomia posterior within the scope of surgical laparoscopies].", "content": "[Experiences with colpocoeliotomia posterior within the scope of surgical laparoscopies]. Laparoscopically performed culdotomy is a safe and easy procedure to remove enucleated myomas or benign ovarian pathological structure. So far, we have not seen any culdotomy-related complications in a group of 19 patients treated in this way. All wounds healed by primary intention. Operating time exceeded the norm by 10 to 30 minutes. The use of an endobag in connection with culdotomy, effectively facilitates removal of dermoids and myomas."}
{"id": "8329645", "title": "Surgery for malignant gynecologic disease.", "content": "Surgery for malignant gynecologic disease. The surgical management of malignant gynecologic disease continues to evolve as more is learned about the natural history and biology of these neoplasms. Whereas curing malignancies remains the ultimate goal of most surgical procedures for gynecologic cancers, the importance of quality of life cannot be ignored. Surgical procedures that enhance the quality of life without compromising cure continue to be explored. In vulvar cancer, the disfiguring classical radical vulvectomy is being replaced by more conservative procedures. As anesthetic techniques and postoperative care continue to improve, the role of radical surgery for invasive and recurrent cervical cancer has been extended to include older women. Ovarian cancer continues to be the most lethal of all gynecologic malignancies, and the role of aggressive primary and secondary cytoreduction continues to be defined. The new International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics staging system for endometrial cancer has generated controversy regarding the benefits and morbidity associated with surgical staging."}
{"id": "8323922", "title": "Laparoscopy in adnexal pathology in the child: a study of 28 cases.", "content": "Laparoscopy in adnexal pathology in the child: a study of 28 cases. We report our experience with laparoscopy in adnexal pathology in the child. Twenty-eight children (mean age 13 years; range 8 to 16) underwent 30 laparoscopy procedures. Therapeutic laparoscopy was performed in 3 cases: transposition of an ovary before radiotherapy, bilateral gonadal excision for Turner's syndrome and ovarian fixation after contralateral torsion of normal adnexa (TNA). Diagnostic and potentially therapeutic laparoscopy was performed in 25 cases: 12 suspected torsion of adnexa (6 confirmed), 4 possible ovarian or appendicular pathology (1 appendicitis), 4 to confirm the histological nature of an ovarian tumor (2 functional cysts, 1 old TNA, 1 dermoid cyst), 3 suspected salpingitis (2 confirmed), and 2 chronic pelvic pain (1 endometriosis). No pathology was found in 2 cases, and in 1 case pelvic adhesions prevented confirmation of the diagnosis. Thirteen laparoscopically-guided surgical acts were performed: 2 detorsions of adnexa, 2 excisions of necrosed adnexa and 9 punctures with or without biopsy for functional cysts. Intralaparoscopic detorsion of TNA was complicated in one case by fibrinolysis requiring secondary laparotomy. Mean hospitalisation was 3 days (range 1 to 16). the preferential therapeutic indications for laparoscopy in the child are transposition of an ovary and ablation of the gonads in case of sexual ambiguity. It is used diagnostically in cases of sudden pelvic pain. In addition to this diagnostic role, it now allows most treatments to be carried out (detorsion with or without fixation, transparietal cystectomy), including those for associated lesions (appendicectomy). Its morbidity is quite low, which warrants increasing the number of indications in pediatric pathology."}
{"id": "8318336", "title": "Anaesthetic implications of the anti-cardiolipin antibody syndrome.", "content": "Anaesthetic implications of the anti-cardiolipin antibody syndrome. The anti-cardiolipin antibody syndrome (or anti-phospholipid antibody syndrome) is characterized by the presence of autoantibodies to phospholipids. Its major association is with systemic lupus erythematosus. It is characterized further by in vitro prolongation of phospholipid-dependent coagulation tests. However, in vivo it is associated with a markedly increased incidence of thrombosis, both arterial and venous. We describe the case of a 36-yr-old female patient with the anti-cardiolipin antibody syndrome who presented initially for diagnostic laparoscopy and later for exploratory laparotomy. Her postoperative course after the first general anaesthetic was complicated by disseminated intravascular coagulation and adult respiratory distress syndrome. After the second operation, she deteriorated further with worsening cardiac, renal and respiratory function and eventually died. As far as we are aware, this is the first reported case of the anti-cardiolipin antibody syndrome in anaesthetic literature. Further aspects of this puzzling condition and its anaesthetic implications are discussed."}
{"id": "8318102", "title": "Adhesions after resection of ovarian endometriomas.", "content": "Adhesions after resection of ovarian endometriomas."}
{"id": "8316556", "title": "Prevention of adhesions in ovarian surgery.", "content": "Prevention of adhesions in ovarian surgery."}
{"id": "8283415", "title": "[Ectopic pregnancy in tropical climate. An ultrasonographic study of 93 consecutive cases].", "content": "[Ectopic pregnancy in tropical climate. An ultrasonographic study of 93 consecutive cases]. Ectopic pregnancy (EP) is common in Cameroon, and incidence is increasing. Ultrasound (US), has been shown to play a key role in its diagnosis, particularly when the transvaginal (TV) route is used. The purpose of our work is to describe sonographic features of EP, and to assess the role of the transvaginal route in the diagnosis of this disease in our environment. The study was prospectively carried in the US unit of the Yaound\u00e9 University teaching Hospital (Cameroon) during a 2 year period. 502 patients aged 14 to 45 were included because of clinical suspicion of EP. The criteria for sonographic diagnosis of EP were the presence of an embryo outside the uterus, a ring-like adnexal structure, or complex adnexal mass separate from the ovaries, in conjunction with free peritoneal fluid. The EP was considered ruptured if significant fluid was found in the upper peritoneal recesses. The diagnosis was confirmed by laparoscopy or laparotomy. Ninety six patients were found to have an EP. 56 patients had only TV pelvic US, 13 had both TV and TA routes, and 24 patients had only TA pelvic US. The mean age was 29 years (interval: 17-42). The main clinical findings included: pain (88%), amenorhea (84%), bleeding (72%), cardio-vascular instability (14%), pelvic mass (9%). The pregnancy was tubal for 93 patients, and abdominal for 3. It was ruptured for 46 (49%). Adnexal abnormalities were present for 86 patients (92%). These were a gestational sac (78%) with a living embryo in 31 patients (33%), or a complex adnexal mass (15%). Uterine findings (40%) included: endometrial thickening (20%), pseudosac (19%), fibroids (6%). An ovarian cysts was present for 10 patients. As a rule, TV route delineated all these findings better than the TA route. An exceptionally high proportion of EP was seen after rupture in this study. Our recommendations include: educate patients to seek immediate medical advice for any missed period associated with pain, increase health providers' awareness of EP, and promote availability of TVUS."}
{"id": "8282239", "title": "[Laparoscopy in clinical practice. I. Indications].", "content": "[Laparoscopy in clinical practice. I. Indications]. In the paper the authors analyzed indications to 1527 laparoscopies. The most frequent indications were: sterility (72.2%) and suspicions of adnexal tumours or extrauterine gravidity (14.1%). In 173 diagnostically difficult cases laparotomy was avoided. In these cases laparoscopy allowed to exclude the pelvic pathology or to quality to laparoscopic operation of ovarian cysts and intact tubal pregnancy. Diagnostic and operative laparoscopy give the possibility of quick diagnosis in diagnostically difficult cases and enables avoidance of laparotomy in many cases."}
{"id": "8280577", "title": "Current status of operative laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology.", "content": "Current status of operative laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology. The role of laparoscopy in gynecologic oncology has expanded in the last few years to include a variety of situations and cancers. Patients with invasive cervical carcinoma can be spared radical hysterectomy if laparoscopy documents positive lymph nodes. Therapeutic laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy has been performed successfully in patients with small cervical lesions. Laparoscopy can be used for staging in patients with advanced cervical cancer who are scheduled for definitive radiotherapy. Laparoscopically assisted surgical staging is also feasible, safe, and adequate in patients with clinical stage I endometrial cancer, and is being investigated in patients with stage I ovarian cancer. Second-look laparoscopy is proving useful in ovarian cancer patients who are candidates for a second-look procedure. Laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy is being investigated in patients with small stage I vaginal carcinoma who are being considered for treatment with brachytherapy alone."}
{"id": "8272811", "title": "[Surgical laparoscopy in tumors of the adnexa].", "content": "[Surgical laparoscopy in tumors of the adnexa]. The laparoscopic management of adnexal masses is still controversial. The main problems are preoperative diagnosis, operative technique and the possibility of compromising the prognosis by spillage of cancer cells when operating on a hitherto unrecognized early stage ovarian cancer. We report on our experience with minimal invasive surgery of adnexal masses. From June 1989 to July 1992, 375 patients underwent surgery for adnexal tumors at the University Hospital, Zurich. In 112 cases a laparoscopic operation was performed. The indications were unilateral or bilateral masses in the adnexal region with or without clinical symptoms. The preoperative workup included patient's history, clinical examinations, vaginal sonography and intraoperative evaluation of the tumor. In 72% (83) of cases the organs were preserved by the laparoscopic procedure while in 28% (32) salpingo-oophorectomy, ovariectomy or salpingectomy was performed. The histopathologic findings included cystadenomas, cystadenofibromas, benign cystic teratomas, simple and functional cysts, mesothelium cysts, tubo-ovarian abscesses, endometriomas, and torqued tubes and/or ovaries. In no patient was a malignant process found. Only one postoperative complication was noted in a patient who had to be relaparoscoped due to adhesions to the operated ovary. One recurrence occurred in a hydrosalpinx. Adnexal masses may safely be managed laparoscopically, with all the advantages of minimal invasive surgery, provided that strict diagnostic and therapeutic rules are observed."}
{"id": "8270153", "title": "[Laparoscopic removal of dermoid cysts].", "content": "[Laparoscopic removal of dermoid cysts]. Benign dermoid cysts between 1.5 and 6 cm in diameter were laparoscopically removed in 9 premenopausal women. Cystectomy was performed in eight patients, and unilateral oophorectomy in one. Surgical and postoperative complications were not observed. Chemical peritonitis due to the dermoid contents can be avoided, provided, careful lavage of the peritoneal cavity is performed."}
{"id": "8258730", "title": "[Laparoscopic resection of ovarian cysts: precautions and improvements in the procedure and application of the mini-laparotomy].", "content": "[Laparoscopic resection of ovarian cysts: precautions and improvements in the procedure and application of the mini-laparotomy]. We previously devised and reported a laparoscopic resection of benign ovarian cysts. In the present paper, we report precautions and improvements in the procedure and the application of the mini-laparotomy. 1. The subjects consisted of a total of 41 cases with preoperatively diagnosed cysts. These were 17 cases with simple cysts, 15 cases with dermoid cysts, and nine cases with chocolate cysts. The present surgical procedure was performed on 34 (83%) cases. 2. One case, preoperatively diagnosed as a chocolate cyst, was diagnosed as an endometrioid adenocarcinoma. 3. Laparotomy was required in 7 cases; in four as a result of hard adhesions, in one because it was impossible to withdraw fluid, in one due to a damaged urinary bladder and in one due to endometrioid adenocarcinoma. 4. It became essential to classify the ovarian cysts into three groups according to size. 5. Mini-laparotomy was performed for two giant ovarian cysts and five ovarian cysts in pregnant women. In this procedure the goal is minimal, simple, safe and reliable surgery with results equal to those of standard laparotomy."}
{"id": "8257050", "title": "[Malignant epidermoid degeneration of dermoid cysts of the ovary. Apropos of 2 cases].", "content": "[Malignant epidermoid degeneration of dermoid cysts of the ovary. Apropos of 2 cases]. Malignant transformation of benign ovarian cystic teratomas has been reported in 0.5 to 2% of cases. Many different types of cancer can develop, including squamous cell carcinoma, which is by far the most frequent (75%). The mean age of diagnosis is over 50 years. Minimal surgical techniques have been increasingly popular and laparoscopic removal of benign ovarian cysts has become common practice. Malignant transformation is rare but needs to be recognized in order to avoid dissemination of malignant cells during surgery. Direct invasion of the adjacent pelvic structures and small intestine represents the most common mode of spread. Survival is not improved by post-operative radiotherapy or adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with extracapsular disease. We report two cases, one of which presented with spontaneous ovarian abscess and paraneoplastic hypercalcemia."}
{"id": "8252224", "title": "Laparoscopic hysterectomy and cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopic hysterectomy and cancer. Laparoscopic hysterectomy with or without oophorectomy is a procedure which is now gaining popularity in the UK. It has been clearly demonstrated that this technique is superior to abdominal hysterectomy and oophorectomy via laparotomy, and often replaces this procedure. In cases where vaginal hysterectomy is likely to prove difficult or impossible in the hands of most surgeons, the laparoscopic route is of value. In those cases where dense pelvic adhesions or poor vaginal access exist, or where oophorectomy is co-indicated, laparoscopic surgery converts operation via laparotomy to a less invasive procedure, with consequent benefits in terms of both patient care and bed occupancy. In the case of malignant disease, laparoscopic hysterectomy and oophorectomy is a viable alternative to open abdominal hysterectomy, but great care must be taken that patients with malignant disease are not under-treated."}
{"id": "8235778", "title": "Staging ovarian cancer diagnosed during laparoscopy: accuracy rather than immediacy.", "content": "Staging ovarian cancer diagnosed during laparoscopy: accuracy rather than immediacy. Immediate staging and debulking of an unsuspected ovarian malignancy detected at the time of diagnostic laparoscopy is appropriate when personnel knowledgeable in these procedures are available. However, when assistance is unavailable, termination of the diagnostic laparoscopy and timely referral is acceptable. This report reviews techniques to preoperatively distinguish a benign from a malignant adnexal mass, steps to evaluate an adnexal mass during laparoscopy, and ovarian cancer staging procedures."}
{"id": "8224260", "title": "The efficiency of transvaginal ultrasonography in the diagnosis of endometrioma.", "content": "The efficiency of transvaginal ultrasonography in the diagnosis of endometrioma. To assess the efficiency of transvaginal ultrasonography in the screening of endometriomas and in differentiating endometriomas from other ovarian masses. Prospective study with surgical and pathological confirmation of the sonographic diagnosis. Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy. All premenopausal nonpregnant women (n = 236) submitted to laparotomy or laparoscopy from May 1991 to December 1992. Transvaginal ultrasonographic examinations were done within 1 week before surgery. Ultrasonographic diagnosis was compared with surgical and histopathological findings. The visualization of round-shaped homogeneous hypoechoic \"tissue\" of low-level echoes within the ovary was chosen as characteristic ultrasonographic finding of endometrioma. Sensitivity, specificity, and predicted values were calculated for each visualized ovary (group A) to assess the efficiency in the screening, and for each visualized cyst (group B) to assess the efficiency in differentiating endometriomas from other ovarian masses. Four hundred twenty-three of 466 ovaries were visualized. Of the 82 visualized cysts, 27 were suspected to be endometriomas, and the diagnosis was confirmed by pathology in 21. The sensitivity and the specificity were 75% and 99%, respectively, in group A, and 84% and 90%, respectively, in group B. The study demonstrates that transvaginal ultrasonography has an efficiency of 88% in differentiating endometriomas from other ovarian masses with a specificity of 90%."}
{"id": "8218501", "title": "Surgery for gynecologic malignancies.", "content": "Surgery for gynecologic malignancies. There is almost universal acceptance of the importance of cytoreductive surgery in advanced ovarian cancer. However, recent studies argued against attempts to remove every last vestige of tumor in patients with many large tumor masses in the upper abdomen. Successful secondary cytoreduction at second surgery may improve survival in some selected patients. The change from a clinical to a surgical staging for endometrial neoplasia undoubtedly improved the accuracy of staging, but it remains to be seen if appropriate clinical treatment of high-risk patients improves survival. Large loop excision of the transformation zone has become increasingly popular for treating cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. Lesions with no more than a 3-mm depth of invasion and with no vascular space involvement may be treated by simple hysterectomy. The morbidity and postoperative mortality with treatment of invasive squamous carcinoma of the vulva have been reduced by modifying the extent of vulvar and groin dissection. Recent studies suggested that the femoral nodes should be removed when performing inguinal lymphadenectomy. Laparoscopic pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomies and even laparoscopically assisted radical hysterectomies have been reported in patients with gynecologic malignancies. It remains to be seen what place laparoscopy will come to occupy in the armamentarium of the gynecologic oncologist."}
{"id": "8204944", "title": "[Is there a place for 2nd look laparotomy in the treatment of ovarian cancers?].", "content": "[Is there a place for 2nd look laparotomy in the treatment of ovarian cancers?]. The charts of 147 patients with advanced ovarian cancers responding completely (CR) or partially (PR > 50%) to a primary cisplatin-based chemotherapy are reviewed. All fulfilled our criterias to undergo second-look laparotomy. One hundred patients (group A) underwent second-look laparotomy and 47 patients (group B) other features of control: laparoscopy 37 patients, clinical control ten patients. Apart metastatic spread more frequent in group B (A vs B = 10 vs 32%) and tumor grade 1 more frequent in group B (A vs B = 33 vs 49%), the two groups were well balanced concerning tumor characteristics and treatment features. All patients had received a complementary treatment after the second-look procedures. With a median follow-up of 86 months in group A and 104 months in group B, no difference was found in overall nor in recurrence-free survival. Within group A, 34 patients had achieved pathologic proved complete remission. Their 5-year survival was 73% with an incidence of recurrence of 32%. Second-look laparotomy was found an invasive technique with a 15% operative morbidity. Its therapeutic apport seems absent and the diagnostic role limited to indication of radiotherapy in CR patients. Second-look laparotomies should be reserved to trials evaluating its proper place but should not be used systematically to assess tumor response to chemotherapy. The good 5-year survival of the CR mi group suggest the beneficial impact of complementary treatment, but prospective trials are needed to evaluate the place of this treatment."}
{"id": "8179552", "title": "Laparoscopic removal of dermoid cysts using endopouch.", "content": "Laparoscopic removal of dermoid cysts using endopouch. Laparoscopic oophorectomy was successfully performed in 6 patients with ovarian dermoid cysts. The use of Endopouch eliminates the risk of spillage and the need to extend the wound. The duration of operation ranged from 60 to 90 minutes and all patients were discharged within 48 hours with minimal pain and no complications."}
{"id": "8163617", "title": "[Voluminous ovarian cyst in children. Therapeutic strategy].", "content": "[Voluminous ovarian cyst in children. Therapeutic strategy]. Ovarian cysts are rare in children but can sometimes become extremely large, leading to difficult therapeutic decisions. There is general agreement that the therapeutic attitude for benign serous cysts less than 5 cm in diameter includes echographic monitoring and possible echo-guided punction. For cysts larger than 5 cm, most authors favour cystectomy via the celioscopic route using either celio-surgery or mini-laparotomy. On the contrary, the clinical manifestations of large cysts greater than 15 cm in diameter may vary greatly, presenting as increased abdominal volume, pain, respiratory impairment. The large size of the cyst should not be allowed to mask an associated torsion of the annexes in cases of paroxysmal abdominal pain. We report our experience of 6 voluminous ovarian cysts with a largest diameter varying between 15 and 40 cm. The children's age varied from 10 to 15 years. There were 3 dermoid cysts, 2 treated by ovariectomy and 1 by celio-surgery, 1 torsion of the annexes on dermoid cyst was treated via laparotomy. There were two cases of mucinous cystadenomas, 1 treated by mini-laparatomy and the other by celio-surgery. Finally one serous cyst with torsion of the annex was treated by annexectomy. The large size of the cysts may impair the surgical approach. Prudent ceilo-surgery should be preferred to wide laparotomy. Introduction should be performed under visual control followed by leak-free punction. The cyst is emptied before exeresis of the ovary via a mini-laparotomy since, in many of these cases of voluminous tumours, cystectomy cannot always be performed and ovariectomy must be preferred."}
{"id": "8118353", "title": "[Laparoscopic operation of dermoid cysts].", "content": "[Laparoscopic operation of dermoid cysts]."}
{"id": "8118352", "title": "[Laparotomy vs. pelviscopy in adnexa processes--preoperative assessment, therapy planning and histology].", "content": "[Laparotomy vs. pelviscopy in adnexa processes--preoperative assessment, therapy planning and histology]."}
{"id": "8118351", "title": "[Surgical therapy of adnexa tumors. A comparison of minimally invasive surgery and laparotomy in 192 patients].", "content": "[Surgical therapy of adnexa tumors. A comparison of minimally invasive surgery and laparotomy in 192 patients]."}
{"id": "8118350", "title": "[Treatment of ovarian tumors: laparoscopy versus laparotomy].", "content": "[Treatment of ovarian tumors: laparoscopy versus laparotomy]."}
{"id": "8118345", "title": "[Laparotomy vs. pelviscopy in ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Laparotomy vs. pelviscopy in ovarian tumors]."}
{"id": "8102278", "title": "Laparoscopic management of benign ovarian tumors.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of benign ovarian tumors. Forty-six consecutive cases of laparoscopic management of ovarian tumors are reported. In the present study, patients were not included if there was any suspicion of malignancy. Indications for laparoscopic management of ovarian tumors included ovarian cyst (n = 20), endometrioma (n = 22), dermoid cyst (n = 3) and gonadal dysgenesis (n = 1). Postoperative intra-abdominal bleeding occurred in one case in our series and laparotomy was then performed for check-up. The average hospital stay was 2.4 days. The entire tumor was removed through the infraumbilical incision or through the culdotomy. Laparoscopic management of ovarian tumors is a cost-effective and safe procedure."}
{"id": "8018126", "title": "Abdominal wall metastases from ovarian cancer after laparoscopy.", "content": "Abdominal wall metastases from ovarian cancer after laparoscopy. We report three cases of abdominal wall metastases from ovarian cancer after laparoscopy. The implants occurred at the site of insertion of laparoscopy trocars. One patient had an implant of serous papillary carcinoma of low malignant potential at the trocar sites after laparoscopic oophorectomy. Laparoscopic surgery is inappropriate in patients with malignant ascites or when preoperative or intraoperative findings are suggestive of ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "7991849", "title": "[Borderline tumors of the ovary. Laparoscopic management?].", "content": "[Borderline tumors of the ovary. Laparoscopic management?]. Two cases of epithelial ovarian tumors of borderline malignancy initially approached by laparoscopy are presented. The role of laparoscopy are presented. The role of laparoscopy in the management of ovarian tumors is discussed."}
{"id": "7951609", "title": "[Ovarian cysts: strategy and prognosis].", "content": "[Ovarian cysts: strategy and prognosis]. The management of an adnexal masses involves several steps: establish the diagnosis of organic ovarian cyst, avoiding a useless and iatrogenic surgery of a functional cyst, knowing that functional cysts may persist more than 3 months and may occur even on low-dose oral contraceptives; cure painful cysts, by ultrasound guided aspiration of some functional cysts or laparoscopic detorsion of twisted adnexae; exclude malignancy, with the help of ultrasound, Doppler and Ca-125 preoperatively, then laparoscopic examination and pathology; failed diagnosis of cancer becomes rare (1 out of 300 laparoscopic surgeries for ovarian cyst); the association of a benign ultrasound and Doppler pattern and of a Ca-125 lower than 35 mUI/ml is almost pathognomonic of a benign cyst; cure benign ovarian cysts with a minimum of surgical trauma; in our series, 84.4% of ovarian cysts are managed laparoscopically, 11.1% by elective laparotomy, 4.5% by laparotomy after an attempt at laparoscopic surgery (that implies that the patient must be informed of the risk of laparotomy); adapt the surgical technique to the pathologic type and size of the cyst, with a high rate of laparotomy in large dermoid cysts, and a high rate of (salpingo-)oophorectomy in peri or postmenopausal cysts; ensure an adequate therapy of early ovarian carcinomas, avoiding understadification and undertreatment; prevent ovarian cancer by a careful long-term follow-up of patients with benign ovarian cysts and by the use of bilateral oophorectomy in postmenopausal patients."}
{"id": "7951595", "title": "[Is it necessary to operate on every ovarian cyst?].", "content": "[Is it necessary to operate on every ovarian cyst?]. In the absence of a prospective study comparing the complications in a series of patients with operated and non-operated ovarian cyst, all ovarian tumours must be operated and examined histologically. Apart from ultrasound-guided aspiration, which may be proposed as sole treatment under very strictly defined conditions, laparoscopic surgery has transformed the treatment of ovarian cysts. The first difficulty is to eliminate malignant or borderline lesions which require classical treatment via laparotomy. The second difficulty consists of avoiding any peritoneal and parietal dissemination. Dissection of the closed cyst, occasionally ovariectomy, and extraction via a sac have been proposed as solutions to this problem."}
{"id": "7900396", "title": "[A case of pure gonadal dysgenesis treated laparoscopically].", "content": "[A case of pure gonadal dysgenesis treated laparoscopically]. In a 20-year-old patient with primary amenorrhoea with phenotypically female external reproductive organs, 46 XY genotype was found. Gynaecological examination, USG and CT showed small hypoplastic uterus and rudimentary ovaries. During the final stage of the diagnosis, laparoscopic assessment of the ovaries with their removal was performed. On histopathological examination gonadoblastoma was diagnosed."}
{"id": "7805478", "title": "[Celioscopic pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy].", "content": "[Celioscopic pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy]. Because small volume lymph node metastases are difficult to recognize despite modern imaging techniques and since staging laparoscopy is costly and leads to important patient discomfort, pelvic then para-aortic lymph node endoscopic dissection has been introduced for staging gynaecological cancers. Since 1988, we have performed 110 pelvic and 17 para-aortic lymph node dissections using this technique. Pava-aortic endoscopic biopsy is indicated for advanced cancer of the cervix and subrenal biopsy for cancer of the ovary. Pelvic node dissection alone is useful in early stage cancers of the uterus and in cancers of the endometrium as well as in urological indications."}
{"id": "12343971", "title": "Operative laparoscopy.", "content": "Operative laparoscopy. Operative laparoscopy has almost replaced laparotomy as the approach for treating ectopic pregnancy, adhesiolysis, distal tube disease, and other gynecologic problems. Required and/or suggested operating room equipment for operative laparoscopy include insufflator, video equipment, irrigator, coagulator, TV monitor, 2 Mayo stands, laser, an operating table, and Allen stirrups. The surgeon also needs the following surgical instruments: graspers, various scissors, hemostatic instruments, irrigation and suction instruments, and suturing instruments such as staplers and clip appliers. He/she must confirm that the patient has undergone a routine medical history, physical, and laboratory tests (e.g., CBC and urinalysis) and has been well informed about the surgery. The surgeon should perform operative laparoscopy under general anesthesia with endotracheal intubation. Operative laparoscopy results in decreased hospitalization, rapid return to activity, and likely economic benefits. In ectopic pregnancy cases where the patient wishes to bear future children, salpingostomy is the best procedure. Traditional treatment for distal tubular disease tends not to be very effective. Even if the results from operative laparoscopy were not much better, operative laparoscopy is the best surgical procedure choice for distal tubular disease since it leads to reduced morbidity and rapid return to normal activity. The 3 recommended techniques for distal tubal surgery include simple eversion salpingostomy, incisional salpingostomy suture, and the Bruhat technique. Surgeons can also use operative laparoscopy for removing an ovary, ovarian cysts, and uterine tumors."}
{"id": "1729791", "title": "Value of lipid- and water-suppression MR images in distinguishing between blood and lipid within ovarian masses.", "content": "Value of lipid- and water-suppression MR images in distinguishing between blood and lipid within ovarian masses. The distinction between blood and lipid in ovarian masses on MR imaging is important in the differential diagnosis of these lesions. However, this is often difficult on routine MR images because both blood and lipid within tumors can have the same signal intensity as subcutaneous fat. Accordingly, we studied the value of lipid- and water-suppression MR images in making this distinction in 16 patients (21 lesions). As proved by surgery (six patients) or laparoscopy (10 patients), there were 16 endometriomas, one hemorrhagic leiomyosarcoma, and four lipid-containing mature cystic teratomas. The signal intensity in all 17 hemorrhagic lesions was greater than that of subcutaneous fat on lipid-suppression images and less than that of fat on water-suppression images. This compared with the signal intensity of the four lesions that contained lipid, in which the signal intensity was similar to that of subcutaneous fat on both the lipid- and water-suppression images. Thus, the lipid- and water-suppression MR images allowed an accurate distinction between the two. Our experience suggests that the appearance of blood and lipid in ovarian tumors is sufficiently different on lipid- and water-suppression MR images to allow an accurate distinction between the two. The two techniques should be useful in the differential diagnosis of such lesions by MR imaging."}
{"id": "1609137", "title": "MR imaging of the female pelvic region.", "content": "MR imaging of the female pelvic region. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is a valuable technique for noninvasive evaluation of the female pelvic region. This article presents the normal anatomy and abnormalities of the female pelvis. MR imaging may be more useful than clinical evaluation or other imaging modalities in diagnosing or staging developmental anomalies, leiomyomas, adenomyosis, endometrial or cervical carcinoma, vaginal neoplasms, ovarian cysts, endometriosis, teratomas, polycystic ovaries, or other ovarian masses. It could potentially replace laparoscopy as a more useful tool in the diagnosis of uterine anomalies. MR imaging is generally capable of helping determine whether a pelvic mass is uterine or adnexal in origin and may be used to characterize some adnexal masses. In some cases, MR imaging is used to differentiate recurrent disease from posttreatment fibrosis, which aids in treatment planning."}
{"id": "1606122", "title": "The multidisciplinary management of a family with epithelial ovarian cancer.", "content": "The multidisciplinary management of a family with epithelial ovarian cancer. To describe the management of a family with an inherited predisposition to ovarian and breast cancer. Particular attention is paid to the problems of contraception, screening, prophylactic surgery and hormone replacement therapy. The multidisciplinary Grampian Familial Epithelial Ovarian Cancer Study Group. 162 members of a family extending over five generations. In the third generation, five of the 10 women died with epithelial ovarian cancer. Three women in generation IV have developed pre-menopausal breast cancer. There are now 78 family members in the fifth generation aged between 2 and 22 years. Counselling of female family members is started at the age of 18 years. The combined oral contraceptive pill is advocated to suppress ovulation. Gynaecological follow-up after the age of 28 includes yearly pelvic examination, transvaginal ultrasonography and serum CA125 estimation. Laparoscopy with peritoneal cytology is indicated if any part of this yearly assessment is abnormal. Prophylactic oophorectomy is advised between the ages of 35 and 40 years after the family is complete. In generation IV, 20 of the 29 women have undergone prophylactic oophorectomy. Oestrogen hormone replacement therapy with a cyclical progestogen is recommended after prophylactic oophorectomy. Breast cancer screening starts at the age of 25 and involves annual clinical breast examination augmented by mammography and breast ultrasound. Only by the careful questioning and recording of family history, including at least third degree relatives (cousins), will similar groups with familial ovarian/breast cancer be identified. When predisposing genes are characterized it will be possible to identify carriers within the family and concentrate clinical effort on them while offering appropriate reassurance to those with decreased risk."}
{"id": "1593762", "title": "[Assessment of ovarian tumors by transvaginal scanning and clinical significance of ultrasonic examination in postoperative follow up].", "content": "[Assessment of ovarian tumors by transvaginal scanning and clinical significance of ultrasonic examination in postoperative follow up]. A hundred and sixty cases of ovarian tumor were preoperatively examined by transvaginal (TV) and Transabdominal (TA) scanning and accuracy of the assessment for histologic type was compared. We also examined 56 cases of postoperative ovarian cancer by ultrasonography to detect recurrent lesions. Positive predictive values for serous cysts and endometrial cysts were higher with TV than TA. Sensitivity for cancer was also high, but false negative rate was lower with TV than TA. The results showed that scatter from small particles and small mural echo in the cystic mass are visualized more clearly with TV, so that TV is more useful for assessing histological type of ovarian tumors. Sensitivity and specificity of ultrasonographic examination for detecting intraperitoneal recurrent lesions were 88.2% and 97.4%, respectively. Those for extraperitoneal lesions were 86.7% and 97.6%. Ultrasonography is suggested to be useful for detecting recurrence ovarian cancer especially for experitoneal lesions, as laparoscopy is not effective for such lesions."}
{"id": "1579297", "title": "CA 125 in peritoneal fluid: reliable values at high dilutions.", "content": "CA 125 in peritoneal fluid: reliable values at high dilutions. Forty-three samples of peritoneal fluid from women undergoing laparotomy or laparoscopy for various gynecologic diseases were examined to determine and characterize CA 125 antigen. The data were compared with the corresponding serum levels. CA 125 levels in undiluted peritoneal fluid ranged between 41-301 U/mL and were significantly higher than levels in serum, except in cases of ovarian carcinoma. However, when CA 125 of peritoneal fluid was measured at dilutions greater than 1:50, higher antigen levels were measured (1120-31,500 U/mL), with the highest CA 125 values in patients with ovarian carcinoma. Measurements at dilutions of less than 1:50 were also affected but did not show any decreased binding of the antigen. Immunoblotting analysis of serum and peritoneal fluid indicated the presence of two main bands in each. The monoclonal antibody OC 125 reacted strongly with peritoneal fluid CA 125, in agreement with the CA 125 values obtained by immunoradiometric assay using high dilutions. These data suggest that CA 125 measurements in peritoneal fluid are unreliable unless the samples are diluted 1:50 or more. Furthermore, the statistical difference found between patients with benign and malignant tumors and those with leiomyomata uteri and controls suggests that diluted peritoneal fluid could have a role in identifying abnormal antigen levels."}
{"id": "1541366", "title": "[A case of significant, non-neoplastic, ovarian hypertestosteronism].", "content": "[A case of significant, non-neoplastic, ovarian hypertestosteronism]. A 24-year-old female with significant ovarian hypertestosteronism, who responded well both to gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist and cyclic administration of estrogen and gestagens in terms of suppressing circulating testosterone levels is reported. The patient's menstrual periods had been regular since menarche at the age of 12 until she became amenorrheic at the age of 20. She visited our facility in November 1988 after receiving three cycles of estrogen and gestagen replacement therapy from a previous physician which caused withdrawal bleeding. Clomiphen citrate reportedly failed to induce apparent ovulation. On her first visit with us, she was 160 cm tall weighing 47 kg with apparent hoarseness but not with hirsutism. Pelvic examination revealed significant clitoromegaly but otherwise normal external and internal genitalia. Laparoscopic examination disclosed that her uterus appeared to be normal with bilateral ovaries relatively small (4 x 4 x 3 cm) without tumorous or polycystic appearance. Histological examination of her ovaries obtained at laparoscopy showed several primary follicles with mild infiltration of the stromal cells. No thickened tunica albuginea or cystic formation were observed. These findings did not support either polycystic ovary or hyperthecosis. Serum testosterone (T) levels were extremely high (7.1 ng/ml), while serum androstenedione levels were only slightly above normal range (3.1 ng/ml). Urine 17-KS excretion was slightly increased (6.1 mg/day), while 17-OHCS output was within normal range (4.0 mg/day). Basal serum LH and FSH levels were within normal range and LH pulse frequency was reduced to 1 in 4 hours. Administration of dexamethasone 1 mg/day for 2 days did not suppress circulating T and free T levels but lowered serum cortisol concentration and urine excretion of 17-OHCS. Blood glucose and insulin levels were within normal limits and their responses to oral glucose administration were normal. Abdominal and pelvic ultrasonography and computed tomography as well as adrenal scintigraphy did not reveal any tumorous lesions in bilateral adrenals and ovaries. Administration of GnRH agonist, Buserelin 900 micrograms/day, suppressed circulating T concentrations to 0.7 ng/ml in 8 days, while it had no significant effects on DHEA and DHEA-S levels. After 16 weeks of Buserelin administration, ovulation was successfully induced by hMG administration. Cyclic estrogen and gestagen replacement therapy by Kaufmann's schedule for 2 cycles also suppressed serum T levels to normal, female range. Thus, the present case represents non-neoplastic, non-PCO, ovarian hypertestosteronism which responded well both to GnRH agonist and estrogen and gestagen replacement therapy in terms of lowering circulating T levels."}
{"id": "1535798", "title": "Operative laparoscopy.", "content": "Operative laparoscopy. Minimally invasive surgery is going through a rapid phase of evolution and over a relatively short time we have witnessed progress from simple ablative procedures such as the division of adhesions and destruction of endometriosis to far more complex operations such as laparoscopic myomectomy, hysterectomy, and, perhaps the hardest of all, cul-de-sac dissection and resection of bowel involved in dense fibrotic endometriosis. Some of these newer procedures reach the very limits of technical virtuosity and are extremely time consuming and will need careful appraisal before their true place in clinical gynecology is established."}
{"id": "1535114", "title": "[The place of laparoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of ovarian cysts].", "content": "[The place of laparoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of ovarian cysts]. Laparoscopy as a diagnostic and therapeutic tool was tried in 56 patients. Laparoscopy was indicated in ovarian cysts detected by ultrasound, sterility, suspected external endometriosis. The diagnosis at laparoscopy coincided with histological pattern of the removed neoplasms in 100% in relation to malignancy. Endoscopic interventions had complications in 1.8% of cases. Recurrences were not recorded 18 months."}
{"id": "1534495", "title": "Benefit of operative laparoscopy for ovarian tumors suspected of benignity.", "content": "Benefit of operative laparoscopy for ovarian tumors suspected of benignity. Ovarian tumors need to be treated systematically due to the risk of complications and degeneracy. The aim of this study was to show the usefulness of laparoscopic surgical treatment of ovarian tumors suspected of benignity. From September 4, 1985 through December 1, 1989, 108 patients were operated on in our unit for ovarian tumors suspected of benignity (absence of clinical and ultrasound scanning signs of malignancy). There were 111 operations due to three recurrences. Operative laparoscopy was carried out 100 times. The laparoscopic operations were 71 transparietal cystectomies, 20 intraperitoneal cystectomies, 8 transparietal oophorectomies, and 1 intraperitoneal oophorectomy. Of these, 43 operations were performed in emergency situations and 57 were not. Eight patients were pregnant at the time of laparoscopic treatment, there were no miscarriages. Average operation time and hospital stay duration were 51.80 min and 3.27 days, respectively. Three borderline tumors were diagnosed (one through laparoscopy and two through histology) and were treated by secondary laparotomy. Operative laparoscopy was the only treatment for ovarian tumors 98 times out of 111 (88.28%). A histological diagnosis was obtained in every case. Laparoscopic treatment of the tumor was efficient and safe. For ovarian tumors suspected of benignity this technique is of double interest: diagnostic and therapeutic. Operative laparoscopy allows determination of a histological certainty without the disadvantages of laparotomy."}
{"id": "1533814", "title": "Simplified instrumentation for laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy.", "content": "Simplified instrumentation for laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy. A modified technique that requires fewer specialized instruments for laparoscopic cystectomy is demonstrated. Twelve consecutive cases of laparoscopic management of the ovarian tumors are reported. Patients were not included if there was any suspicion of malignancy. Laparoscopic management of the ovarian tumors included ovarian cyst (N = 8) and endometrioma (N = 4). No intraoperative or postoperative complications occurred. The average hospital stay was 2.6 days. The whole tumor was removed through an infraumbilical incision. Laparoscopic cystectomy is a cost effective and safe procedure."}
{"id": "1533584", "title": "Selected aspects of polycystic ovarian disease.", "content": "Selected aspects of polycystic ovarian disease. Although there is general agreement about the polycystic ovary as an anatomic entity, a classic description of an associated syndrome remains elusive. This lack of definition, however, has not impeded clinical investigation. This article focuses on the diagnosis, pathogenesis, hypotheses, and treatment of polycystic ovarian disease. Ultrasonography provides physicians much information for the epidemiology and diagnosis of polycystic ovarian disease (PCOD)--a yet to be defined associated syndrome. For example, some physicians used it to reveal that 92% of women with hirsutism and regular menstrual cycles had PCOD. Considerable research exists on the link between insulin resistance. PCOD, and hyperandrogenism. Some results confirm the link while others do not. Abnormal gonadotropin dynamics are 1 of the most consistent characteristics of PCOD. Researchers have conceived various hypotheses for PCOD. A long-lived hypothesis is that elevated estrone levels which occur regularly in PCOD increase the sensitization of pituitary luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion and reduces secretion of follicle stimulating hormone to the gonadotropin releasing hormone stimulus. Another hypothesis is that progesterone deficiency facilitates PCOD. Various PCOD treatments exist. Physicians have treated PCOD with clomiphene citrate or nighttime small doses of corticosteroids for 20-30 years. Recent observations indicate the dexamethasone has a longer half life than prednisone or prednisolone. Since almost 50% of women with PCOD are obese, weight reduction has beneficial effects. Administration of progesterone is a possible treatment that is often ignored. Several clinical studies have included administration of bromocriptine to women with PCOD since a sizable number of such women have high levels of prolactin indicating a possible dopamine deficiency. The studies with bromocriptine have not showed much promise. Evidence suggests that administering oral contraceptives to premenopausal women with PCOD may reduce their risk of later developing ovarian cancer. Gonadotropin and gonadotropin releasing hormone therapies are possible means of inducing ovulation in PCOD women. Various physicians have used laparoscopy to apply different techniques to induce ovulation in women with PCOD. These techniques included sharp puncture, electric current, and laser vaporization or endocoagulation of the cysts."}
{"id": "1533405", "title": "[Primary cancer of the fallopian tube. A case revealed by pelvic peritonitis].", "content": "[Primary cancer of the fallopian tube. A case revealed by pelvic peritonitis]. We report the case of a primary carcinoma of the fallopian tube in which the diagnosis was done through laparoscopy for pelvic peritonitis. The pathologic diagnosis was possible with tubal sampling at the same time. The treatment associated radical surgery and radiotherapy. This rare kind of tumor is exceptionally diagnosed this way."}
{"id": "1533025", "title": "Laparoscopic removal of dysgenetic gonads containing a gonadoblastoma in a patient with Swyer syndrome.", "content": "Laparoscopic removal of dysgenetic gonads containing a gonadoblastoma in a patient with Swyer syndrome. Dysgenetic streak gonads were removed laparoscopically from a phenotypic female with Swyer syndrome (ie, XY karyotype, sexual infantilism, primary amenorrhea, and m\u00fcllerian structures). Pathologic examination revealed a small (3 mm) gonadoblastoma in one of her gonads without evidence of malignant transformation. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was back at work the next day. We propose that laparoscopy is a safe, cost-effective, and simple procedure to perform on individuals requiring prophylactic gonadectomy for the prevention of neoplasia."}
{"id": "1532991", "title": "Laparoscopic adnexectomy in postmenopausal women.", "content": "Laparoscopic adnexectomy in postmenopausal women. Postmenopausal palpable ovaries and pelvic masses require histologic examination to preclude missing ovarian carcinomas. However, the majority of such lesions are benign. Of 44 such patients, 42 (95.4%) underwent successful management with laparoscopic adnexectomy. The average operating time was 115.8 minutes, and 40 patients were discharged the day of surgery. Thirty-eight patients had a blood loss of less than or equal to 50 mL. The laparoscopic procedures were well tolerated and allowed the patients to return rapidly to normal activity."}
{"id": "1532155", "title": "[Endoscopic surgery in a gynecologic outpatient clinic].", "content": "[Endoscopic surgery in a gynecologic outpatient clinic]. From 1988 to 1989, we operated on 784 women in our daily ambulant clinic. In 462 of these cases, we performed laparoscopic surgery with 679 therapeutical interventions. Sterilisation is the most frequent operation in our cases of Fallopian tube surgery, but we have also had tubal pregnancy in 5 cases. In ovarian surgery, we found a great number of benign ovarian cysts followed by a high rate of ovarian adhesions, which, counted together with the Fallopian tube and intestinal adhesions, amounted to 201 cases. In 9 women, the extirpation of a myoma was necessary and the largest one was 5.5 cm in diameter. In comparison with the total number of our surgical interventions, we had a high rate of appendectomies. Each surgeon is aware of the various locations of the appendix, of its close relation to the adnexae and the difficulty of clinical diagnosis of appendicitis in women, especially in pregnant women. We removed the appendix in two pregnant women (4th and 18th week of pregnancy). A pathological substrate was found in more than 80%. Because of a good preliminary selection of our patients, we found no carcinoma in the abdominal cavity, except from an early metastasis on the appendix of an ovarian carcinoma. This patient came for staging re-laparoscopy after treatment of the ovarian carcinoma years ago. Since the beginning of 1989, we have used a Neodym: Yag laser in endoscopic operations. The good cutting effect loses its benefits of precision and time saving through bleeding as soon as a large vessel is involved.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1530989", "title": "Comparison of different treatment methods of endometriomas by laparoscopy.", "content": "Comparison of different treatment methods of endometriomas by laparoscopy."}
{"id": "1511124", "title": "Metastatic breast cancer presenting as an ovarian cyst: diagnosis by fine needle aspiration cytology.", "content": "Metastatic breast cancer presenting as an ovarian cyst: diagnosis by fine needle aspiration cytology. A fifty-year-old woman with a history of breast cancer presented with a clinically benign ovarian cyst. Laparoscopic aspiration of cyst fluid was performed and the cytology was suspicious of epithelial neoplasia. At subsequent hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, the specimen showed extensive metastatic breast carcinoma. Although the cytological examination of fluid from ovarian cysts is often unrewarding, this case shows that metastatic carcinoma may occasionally be diagnosed in this fashion."}
{"id": "1500022", "title": "Long-term follow-up of ovarian cancer with monthly determinations of serum CA 125.", "content": "Long-term follow-up of ovarian cancer with monthly determinations of serum CA 125. Monthly serum CA 125 determinations were used for monitoring of 33 patients with advanced nonmucinous epithelial ovarian cancer during the follow-up after the primary treatment. The observation time ranged between 3 and 7 years. All patients had elevated CA 125 levels at the start of chemotherapy with subsequent normalization during treatment. Seventeen patients were classified as having no evidence of disease during the whole follow-up period. Out of 649 samples analyzed from these patients only 6 of the samples from 4 patients were greater than 35 U/ml (rate of false positives, 0.9%). These high values were all singular; the serum samples for the preceding and following months were normal. Out of 20 verified recurrences in 15 patients, 19 had elevated CA 125 levels (sensitivity, 95.0%). The CA 125 increase was the only sign that initiated clinical investigation in 16 recurrences (sensitivity for early diagnosis, 80.0%). With examination under anesthesia, fine needle aspiration for cytology, CT scan, and sometimes laparoscopy or laparotomy a relapse could be verified in 13 of these cases (sensitivity for the whole procedure, 65.0%). In 2 recurrences the increase in CA 125 was obvious at the same time as the clinical evidence of recurrence and in 1 case the elevation was delayed. One additional patient is presently under investigation because of an increase in CA 125. We conclude that monitoring with monthly determinations of serum CA 125 is a reliable method with very few false-positive values. We regard this as a step forward in the management of the follow-up of ovarian cancer patients."}
{"id": "1491135", "title": "[Hematoma of the rectus abdominis muscle. Incident or accident of laparoscopy: A case report].", "content": "[Hematoma of the rectus abdominis muscle. Incident or accident of laparoscopy: A case report]. Laparoscopy can lead to complications in the abdominal wall, usually benign in outcome, including damage to an umbilical or epigastric vessel. A few simple rules can be drawn up to avoid (but not always) this type of accident. The treatment of this complication and the prognosis is discussed."}
{"id": "1481968", "title": "[Clinical course, diagnosis and treatment of genital endometriosis].", "content": "[Clinical course, diagnosis and treatment of genital endometriosis]."}
{"id": "1479017", "title": "CA 125 concentrations in ovarian 'chocolate' cyst fluid can differentiate an endometriotic cyst from a cystic corpus luteum.", "content": "CA 125 concentrations in ovarian 'chocolate' cyst fluid can differentiate an endometriotic cyst from a cystic corpus luteum. In a prospective study, the concentrations of CA 125, 17 beta-oestradiol and progesterone were assayed in 52 consecutive ovarian cysts, laparoscopically suspected to be endometriomas. Cysts with dark brown 'chocolate' fluid (n = 42) were excised by CO2-laser endoscopy. Cysts with clear fluid were diagnosed by pathology as follicular cysts (n = 5) or pseudoperitoneal cysts (n = 5). Fluids (n = 53) aspirated during echo-guided puncture for in-vitro fertilization (IVF) were assayed simultaneously. Of the 42 women undergoing a cystectomy, the clinical diagnosis of an endometrioma was confirmed by pathology in only 68%, the other cases being corpora lutea (27%) or follicular cysts (5%). Cyst fluids from corpora lutea had lower CA 125 concentrations (< 1000 IU/ml) together with high 17 beta-oestradiol concentrations (> 2000 pg/ml) and/or high progesterone concentrations (> 100 ng/ml). Endometriotic cysts had either very high CA 125 concentrations (> 10,000 IU/ml) as occurred in 78% or lower CA 125 concentrations (< 1000 IU/ml) together with low 17 beta-oestradiol and/or progesterone concentrations. 'Chocolate' fluid-containing cysts aspirated during IVF had similar concentration profiles of CA 125, 17 beta-oestradiol and progesterone and the diagnoses derived from these concentrations were not contradicted in 19/27 women undergoing a laparoscopy within 4 months. In eight women, however, with high CA 125 concentrations in their cyst fluid, no endometriotic cysts were found at laparoscopy. Only 68% of cysts containing 'chocolate' material were endometriotic cysts and CA 125 could be useful in making this diagnosis. This method is recommended when dark brown fluid is aspirated in IVF."}
{"id": "1473747", "title": "Office laparoscopy and biopsy for evaluation of patients with intraperitoneal carcinomatosis using a new optical catheter.", "content": "Office laparoscopy and biopsy for evaluation of patients with intraperitoneal carcinomatosis using a new optical catheter. We report seven patients who underwent diagnostic laparoscopy and biopsy under local anesthesia using a new optical catheter. Six of these procedures were performed in the office. Four patients had previous malignancies (lung, breast, and fallopian tube), and intraperitoneal recurrences or new primaries were suspected. In two of these patients, laparoscopically directed biopsies confirmed adenocarcinoma similar to their prior malignancies, and in one a new primary was diagnosed. The fourth patient had no evidence of intraperitoneal disease. In the three patients with new intraperitoneal malignancies, biopsies obtained laparoscopically confirmed adenocarcinomas of the ovary in two patients and of the gastrointestinal tract in one patient. We feel that this procedure is a safe, simple, effective, and economical way to evaluate the intraperitoneal cavity and to obtain histologic or cytologic specimens for evaluation in patients with intraperitoneal malignancies. This is an ideal, minimally invasive method for detecting small-volume intraperitoneal disease. In addition, it allows some patients to be spared major operative procedures."}
{"id": "1465664", "title": "[Cavernous hemangioma of the liver].", "content": "[Cavernous hemangioma of the liver]. Over the last six years 8 patients with cavernous haemangioma of the liver were operated in our institute, of whom 7 women and 1 man, aged from 32 to 77 years average, 19.6 years. In two patients double haemangiomas of the liver were removed. So the number of resected haemangiomas was 10. The size of these haemangiomas was 2, 2, 3, 3.5, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6.5 and 16 cm respectively, average 5.7 cm. Diagnosis was established by ultrasonography, computed tomography, blood pool 99m-technetium-scintigraphy, laparoscopy and selective angiography. Indications for the operation were: palpable tumour and pain in 2 patients; suspected liver metastases secondary to colon cancer 7 years after right colectomy; suspicion to primary haematoma of the liver and suspicion to secondary liver tumour in a patient with a big tumour of the left ovary. Incidental ultrasonic finding of the liver tumour occurred in a patient with obstructive jaundice. In a female with Bartter's syndrome ultrasonography and explorative surgery were carried out in order to reveal endocrine tumour (reninoma), as well as an occasional finding during cholecystectomy. Various operative techniques were performed in these 5 patients: 3 left lobectomies, 1 segmentectomy of the V and the VI liver segments, and 3 atypical resections. The only postoperative complication in our series was a mild superficial variceal thrombophlebitis of the leg in one female patient which disappeared on conservative treatment. These 5 patients have been followed-up from 1 to 48 months (average 18 months), and were symptom-free, except the patient with Bartter's syndrome who stayed on treatment."}
{"id": "1457508", "title": "Surgery for gynecologic malignancies.", "content": "Surgery for gynecologic malignancies. The surgical management of invasive and preinvasive gynecologic malignancies continues to evolve at a brisk pace. Several good techniques are available for the treatment of preinvasive cervical disease, including cryotherapy, loop electrocautery excision, laser therapy, and standard knife conization. The use of radical surgery for early invasive cervical cancer has been extended to older women, and complications have been minimized. There has been a significant trend toward more conservative surgery in the management of invasive vulvar cancer. The new surgical staging system for endometrial cancer has generated much controversy. The importance of thorough surgical staging for ovarian cancer is clear, and our understanding of the role of cytoreduction has increased. The role of new techniques, including operative laparoscopy, is being defined in the management of gynecologic cancers."}
{"id": "1430912", "title": "[Technique and preliminary results in second-look laparoscopy in epithelial malignant ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Technique and preliminary results in second-look laparoscopy in epithelial malignant ovarian tumors]. Second-look laparotomy is the usual mean of intraperitoneal evaluation in patients treated for ovarian carcinoma. We present a preliminary study of 33 second-look. Thirteen of these procedures were performed by laparoscopy. Because of previous surgical history a specific technique is necessary including safety tests, cytologic evaluation after peritoneal washing, and biopsies of any abnormal peritoneal areas, original tumors sites and normal appearing peritoneum. In order to achieve the evaluation of the entire peritoneal cavity a complete bowel adhesiolysis is required. For trained laparoscopists the surgical complication rate is low. In this preliminary study we found that prognosis following negative second-look laparoscopy and second-look laparotomy are similar, suggesting that laparoscopy is a valuable alternative to laparotomy for second-look evaluation in ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "1427408", "title": "Serum CA125 regression in epithelial ovarian cancer: correlation with reassessment findings and survival.", "content": "Serum CA125 regression in epithelial ovarian cancer: correlation with reassessment findings and survival. Findings at reassessment laparotomy and disease-free survival are reported for a group of patients with advanced-stage epithelial ovarian cancer who have had a complete clinical response to cytoreductive surgery and multiagent platinum-based chemotherapy. The predictive value of the number of chemotherapy cycles to achieve a serum CA125 of < 35 U/ml is compared to the predictive value of s, the rate of achieving a normal serum CA125. s is generated from an exponential regression model. This study suggests that s accurately predicts which patients have residual disease at reassessment laparotomy, who will be free of disease, and, of those in the latter group, who are at greatest risk to recur, as well as overall survival. If these observations are confirmed, physicians may base further therapeutic intervention on the basis of a calculated parameter following complete clinical response to first-line treatment rather than relying on findings at reassessment laparotomy."}
{"id": "1398256", "title": "[Tumor seeding after laparoscopic cyst puncture].", "content": "[Tumor seeding after laparoscopic cyst puncture]."}
{"id": "1388333", "title": "Four ovarian cancers diagnosed during laparoscopic management of 1011 women with adnexal masses.", "content": "Four ovarian cancers diagnosed during laparoscopic management of 1011 women with adnexal masses. This study was conducted to assess the value of laparoscopic management of adnexal masses. Two concerns we wish to address are the failure to diagnose early ovarian cancer at laparoscopy and worsening the prognosis of stage I cancer by spilling fluid during surgery. The setting is a predominantly referral-based, private subspecialty practice. All operations were preformed in the outpatient surgical suite of a large suburban hospital. After extensive patient screenings, which included history and physical examination, preoperative serum CA 125 levels (since 1988), and pelvic ultrasonography, 1209 adnexal masses were managed laparoscopically. Of 1011 patients with surgical management, ovarian cancer was discovered intraoperatively in four. Our findings indicate that with consistent use of frozen sections of all cyst walls and suspicious tissue, laparoscopic management did not alter the prognosis. Neither CA 125 level, pelvic ultrasonography, nor peritoneal cytologic testing had sufficient diagnostic specificity to predict malignancy. Experienced surgeons using intraoperative histologic sampling may safely evaluate adnexal mass laparoscopically."}
{"id": "1388132", "title": "Pelviscopic treatment of ovarian cysts in premenopausal women.", "content": "Pelviscopic treatment of ovarian cysts in premenopausal women. Between 1984 and 1989, 773 patients less than or equal to 45 years of age, presenting with a total of 809 ovarian cysts, underwent pelviscopy at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of Kiel University. In 36 cases, cysts were bilateral. 678 cysts (84%) were treated by pelviscopy alone. Organ-preserving treatment was performed in 83%, oophorectomy or adnexectomy in only 17% of cases. Two stage Ia ovarian carcinomas (0.26% of all cysts) were operated on by pelviscopy before laparotomy. Sonography is particularly important in determining whether a pelviscopic approach is appropriate. Pelviscopic procedures are unacceptable in multilocular cysts measuring greater than or equal to 7 cm in diameter with echo-dense components. Special caution is required for any cyst measuring greater than 9 cm in diameter. The risk of opening a malignant cyst must be weighed against the advantages of pelviscopic surgery: minimal physical strain, better postoperative quality of life, and organ conservation. In doubtful cases, laparotomy is recommended."}
{"id": "1388069", "title": "Laparoscopically-assisted hysterectomy for the management of a borderline ovarian tumor: a case report.", "content": "Laparoscopically-assisted hysterectomy for the management of a borderline ovarian tumor: a case report. Borderline ovarian tumors account for 4% of ovarian neoplasms, an incidence which remains constant despite advancing age. Management for younger women can be unilateral oophorectomy, although simple hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy is more appropriate for women beyond childbearing age. The authors report a laparoscopic approach to a case of borderline ovarian tumor."}
{"id": "1387913", "title": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian dermoid cysts.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of ovarian dermoid cysts. Benign cystic teratoma (dermoid cyst) was managed laparoscopically in 25 cases (16 cyst excisions and 9 oophorectomies). Surgical procedures to avoid spill during ovarian cystectomy and oophorectomy were developed (14 cases). This series demonstrates a gradual evolution in surgical technique. Surgical outcome was good in all cases, complications were rare, and the procedure required a hospital stay less than 24 hours."}
{"id": "1387907", "title": "Management of ovarian masses. AAGL 1990 survey.", "content": "Management of ovarian masses. AAGL 1990 survey. The American Association of Gynecologic Laparoscopists (AAGL) membership was surveyed on the use of laparoscopy in the management of persistent ovarian masses in 1990. A total of 13,739 laparoscopies were performed for this indication. Ninety-six percent of the respondents performed laparoscopy for this indication on premenopausal women only. Among respondents performing laparoscopy for suspected cancer, there was a 14% conversion rate to laparotomy, compared to 9% among those who performed direct laparotomies when cancer was suspected. An overall incidence of 4 per 1,000 cases of stage I ovarian cancer was found, and about 70% of women with persistent adnexal masses were managed by laparoscopy alone. The risks to women with cancer, as well as the benefits to those without, are discussed."}
{"id": "1387905", "title": "Laparoscopic aspiration of ovarian endometriomas. Effect with postoperative gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist treatment.", "content": "Laparoscopic aspiration of ovarian endometriomas. Effect with postoperative gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist treatment. In the period 1988-1990 this prospective study of 33 women with moderate or severe endometriosis who underwent laparoscopy for infertility and/or chronic pelvic pain, was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of aspirating endometriotic cysts followed by administration of a gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist in reducing the size of ovarian endometriomas. The cysts (mean diameter, 4.5 cm; range, 2-7; unilateral, 21 cases; bilateral, 12 cases) were punctured, aspirated, washed and emptied completely. After laparoscopy, 15 subjects received goserelin administered as a 28-day subcutaneous depot for three months, whereas 18 patients undergoing simple observation constituted internal controls. Ultrasound scans were performed before and at one, three and six months after laparoscopy. One case and three controls requested surgery between the four- and five-month follow-up scans and did not complete the study. All the other women had recurrent cysts at the six-month scan. There were no significant differences in mean endometrioma diameter between the two groups at any observation time nor between prelaparoscopic and six-month ultrasound examinations within each treatment group. We conclude that aspiration and washing of endometriotic cysts, combined with postoperative administration of GnRH agonists or not, is ineffective."}
{"id": "1387786", "title": "Diagnosis and surgical management of endometriomas.", "content": "Diagnosis and surgical management of endometriomas. Fifty two patients with endometriomas greater than 1 cm were treated by surgical excision either with or without ovarian closure. Diagnosis is reliable when clinical features of the pain, vaginal ultrasound, and laparoscopy, including ovarian mobilization and needling, are considered. Fifty of 52 patients were free of pain after 1 year and 26 (50%) became pregnant within 1 year. A second laparoscopy is justified if pain persists or pregnancy does not occur. Adhesive disease was the most common complication (40%), and persistent or recurrent endometriosis occurred in 15%. Surgery by laparoscopy with drainage and excision of the endometrioma without ovarian sutures may be more effective than excision of the endometrioma and ovarian suture."}
{"id": "1386658", "title": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy: comparative study of ligatures, bipolar coagulation, and automatic stapling devices.", "content": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy: comparative study of ligatures, bipolar coagulation, and automatic stapling devices. We assessed laparoscopic oophorectomy using three techniques. From January 1989 to October 1991, 65 patients underwent laparoscopic oophorectomy using three techniques: bipolar coagulation, pretied ligature placement, and automatic stapling devices. The patients were aged 18-57 years and had the indications of pain, ovarian endometriosis, adhesions, unilateral blocked tubes, breast cancer, and recurrent benign ovarian cysts. The primary method of adnexal removal involved the automatic stapling device in 17, bipolar coagulation in 30, and pretied ligatures in 18. Total anesthesia time ranged from 45-123 minutes, with means of 77 minutes for pretied ligatures, 84 minutes for bipolar coagulation, and 84 minutes for automatic stapling devices. Sixty-two patients were discharged within 23 hours, two stayed two nights, and one stayed three nights. Rectus muscle bleeding and hematoma formation were the only complications in this series. All three methods of laparoscopic oophorectomy are effective, with similar operative times and uniformly good results for the patients."}
{"id": "1342458", "title": "[Hydronephrosis and urinary retention secondary to extrinsic compression by an ovarian cyst in a girl].", "content": "[Hydronephrosis and urinary retention secondary to extrinsic compression by an ovarian cyst in a girl]. The indications for laparoscopy have increased markedly in the last few years. It is becoming necessary to define it's role and it's limits. Currently laparoscopy should only be used to treat ovarian tumors that are benign by clinical and ultrasonographic criteria. This case report describes a 12-year-old girl who presented with urinary retention and was found to have bilateral hydronephrosis and a ovarian cyst. She had no evidence of renal compromise and the cyst appeared benign by ultrasonographic criteria. The ovarian cyst appeared to be causing external bilateral ureteral compression. A laparoscopic cystectomy was performed with resolution of hydronephrosis. This case report helps illustrate the benefits and disadvantages of the laparoscopic approach to ovarian surgery."}
{"id": "1342433", "title": "[Endoscopic surgery of the ovary: the resection of a mature cystic teratoma. Translaparoscopic oophorectomy].", "content": "[Endoscopic surgery of the ovary: the resection of a mature cystic teratoma. Translaparoscopic oophorectomy]. Mature teratoma cyst translaparoscopy resection (oophorectomy) is reported. Details of surgical technics are shown in a video."}
{"id": "1341510", "title": "Laparoscopic hysterectomy.", "content": "Laparoscopic hysterectomy. Approximately 600,000 hysterectomies are performed each year in the United States, more than 75% of which are removed via an open laparotomy. Most hysterectomies that currently require an abdominal approach may be performed with laparoscopic dissection of part or all of the abdominal portion, followed by vaginal removal of the specimen. Indications for laparoscopic-guided hysterectomy include endometriosis, extensive fibroid disease, adnexal masses, adhesions from prior surgery, or inflammatory disease. Laparoscopic hysterectomy may also be considered for stage I endometrial, ovarian, and cervical cancer."}
{"id": "1330244", "title": "Operative laparoscopy in benign cystic teratoma of ovary.", "content": "Operative laparoscopy in benign cystic teratoma of ovary. Eighteen women of reproductive age underwent laparoscopic management of unilateral ovarian benign cystic teratoma from 3 to 7 cm in diameter. Nine patients received pelviscopic enucleation of ovarian cysts and nine patients received unilateral oophorectomy or salpingo-oophorectomy. No major surgical complication was encountered and the hospital stay was short. Our series suggest that operative laparoscopy is a safe and effective method in the management of benign cystic teratoma."}
{"id": "1325052", "title": "[Serum testosterone level in the diagnosis of virilizing ovarian neoplasms].", "content": "[Serum testosterone level in the diagnosis of virilizing ovarian neoplasms]. The paper is concerned with the results of investigation of 15 patients with virile ovarian tumors (VOT). The following methods were employed for instrumental diagnosis: USI, computerized tomography and laparoscopy. Hormonal investigation included the determination of basal levels of serum testosterone (T), excretion with urine of 17-ketosteroids and their time course against a background of suppression tests with dexamethasone and stimulation tests with CG. The results of hormonal investigations were compared with those of similar investigations of 14 patients with stromal ovarian thecomatosis and 8 patients with androgen producing adrenal tumors. Ovarian tumors were detected in 40% by instrumental and clinical methods. Hormonal studies revealed a high level of T in patients with virile ovarian and adrenal tumors exceeding 3-3.8-fold a similar indicator in patients with stromal thecomatosis. All patients with a \"tumor\" level of T underwent laparotomy after excluding an adrenal lesion. Ovarian tumors of 1.0-2.5 cm in diameter were detected."}
{"id": "1315353", "title": "[Celioscopic removal of cysts: a fortuitous histological discovery of an ovarian carcinoma. A case report].", "content": "[Celioscopic removal of cysts: a fortuitous histological discovery of an ovarian carcinoma. A case report]. The authors report a case of cancer of the ovary that had not been recognised but which was discovered after laparoscopic surgical cystectomy. Laparoscopy is very reliable in a presumptive diagnosis of the nature of an ovarian mass, but in this case shows that the operator has to be very attentive especially when there is a rapid recurrence of cyst formation in the ovary that has been operated on. They discuss the indications for intra-peritoneal laparoscopic ovariectomy in short term recurrences after ovarian cyst removal and in particular when these were mucinous. For most authors the risk of dissemination when an ovarian cyst which has proved to be malignant is punctured, seems to be nil, and unlikely to effect the prognosis. It may be possible that in the future the diagnosis of these cases can be improved when the clinical picture, the ultrasound picture and the laparoscopic picture are added to a new development of intraperitoneal laparoscopic ultrasound which will make it possible to view the contents of the cyst with direct contact."}
{"id": "1314779", "title": "Hepatocellular carcinoma metastatic to the ovary: a report of three cases discovered during life with discussion of the differential diagnosis of hepatoid tumors of the ovary.", "content": "Hepatocellular carcinoma metastatic to the ovary: a report of three cases discovered during life with discussion of the differential diagnosis of hepatoid tumors of the ovary. Three cases of hepatocellular carcinoma with ovarian metastases discovered during the patient's life are reported. A 31-year-old woman presented with back pain, and radiographic studies disclosed massive liver enlargement and bilateral ovarian tumors. The second patient, a 38-year-old woman, had an enlarged liver at the time of laparoscopic tubal ligation, and subsequently underwent right hepatic lobectomy for hepatocellular carcinoma. Three months later a left ovarian tumor was detected and a total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy performed. The third patient, a 68-year-old woman, presented with gastrointestinal symptoms and weight loss, and had bilateral ovarian tumors and widespread tumor at laparotomy. Two patients died of their disease at 18 months and 4 years 7 months; the third patient is alive with residual tumor at 7 months. The ovarian tumors, which were bilateral and multinodular in two cases and focally cystic in one case, ranged from 4 to 11 cm in maximum dimension, and had yellow-green or yellow sectioned surfaces. On microscopic examination, they were composed of cells with moderate to abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm growing diffusely and in nodules, nests, and trabeculae; cysts or glands were conspicuous in two cases. Bile was present in one tumor. The main differential diagnostic considerations were hepatoid yolk sac tumor and hepatoid carcinoma, primary or metastatic in the ovary. A variety of features, including the age of the patient, unilaterality or bilaterality of the ovarian tumors, distribution of disease, and microscopic features of the neoplasm, including the identification of bile, established the diagnosis. Metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma must be included in the differential diagnosis of oxyphil cell tumors of the ovary."}
{"id": "1311965", "title": "Early-stage squamous cell and adenocarcinoma of the cervix.", "content": "Early-stage squamous cell and adenocarcinoma of the cervix. Articles on early-stage squamous cell and adenocarcinoma of the cervix published between August 1990 and July 1991 are reviewed. A new monoclonal antibody used to distinguish endocervical from endometrial differentiation is described, as well as a histochemical means of distinguishing in situ from invasive adenocarcinoma. In vitro and in vivo studies of cell lines immortalized with human papillomavirus DNA are described with a discussion of the mechanism of the development of malignancy. An animal model to test and develop an anti-human papillomavirus vaccine is presented. The epidemiology of adenocarcinoma is also reviewed, and the development of invasive carcinoma after conservative therapy or conization for dysplasia is discussed. Computed tomography scanning has been found to be no more accurate than examination for staging of early cervical cancer. Several studies in the review period have evaluated risk factors for recurrent disease in patients treated for early-stage cervical cancer, including a prospective surgical pathologic study by the Gynecologic Oncology Group. The optimal treatment of early stage I adenocarcinoma of the cervix is discussed, comparing the efficacy of primary surgical therapy with the efficacy of radiation therapy. The risk of ovarian metastases in patients with early-stage cervical cancer is very low for both squamous cell and adenocarcinoma. The surgical technique and efficacy of laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy for patients with early-stage cervical cancer are discussed. Lateral transposition of the ovaries at the time of radical hysterectomy for cervical cancer has significant potential benefits but also risks. Finally, surveillance methods that detect recurrent cervical cancer after treatment for early-stage disease are discussed."}
{"id": "1306052", "title": "Second-look laparoscopy after laparoscopic cystectomy of large ovarian endometriomas.", "content": "Second-look laparoscopy after laparoscopic cystectomy of large ovarian endometriomas. Forty-two patients who underwent a second-look laparoscopy after a unilateral or bilateral intraperitoneal cystectomy for treatment of an ovarian endometrioma of greater than 3 cm were included. At second-look laparoscopy, 92.4% of the adnexae treated for a large endometrioma had no deep ovarian endometriosis. Adhesion de novo formation occurred in 21% of the treated adnexae and in 17% of the contralateral adnexae. Complete or partial recurrence of dense adhesions occurred in 82% of the cases. Laparoscopic cystectomy is effective in treating large endometriomas. However, operative difficulties may be encountered, explaining persistent endometriomas and postoperative adhesions."}
{"id": "1305144", "title": "[Video-laparoscopically modified hysterectomy with vaginal vault suspension].", "content": "[Video-laparoscopically modified hysterectomy with vaginal vault suspension]. Thanks to advanced operative techniques to traditional indications for operative laparoscopy, such as: adhesion lysis, endometriosis center coagulation, biopsy, myomectomy, hysteropexy, colpopexy, ovarian wedge resection and biopsy, pelvic herniorrhaphy, aspiration of cystic fluid it can be add laparoscopic treatment of ectopic pregnancy, adnexal tumors, polycystic ovary drilling and endoscopic hysterectomy. However, so complex a surgery necessitates in having an experienced surgical team and the state of art equipment. For the first time in Europe a 32 year old woman was subjected to video-laparoscopic modified hysterectomy with vaginal vault suspension, what was described in this paper."}
{"id": "1291571", "title": "Laparoscopic removal of benign mature teratoma.", "content": "Laparoscopic removal of benign mature teratoma. Laparoscopic removal of benign mature teratoma is safe and effective in pre-menopausal patients. Fourteen patients underwent laparoscopic removal of such tumours. There were no operative complications. Post-operative hospitalization was short (average: 2 days). All patients undergoing a second-look laparoscopy had mild adhesions around the operated ovary. Two spontaneous and one in-vitro fertilization pregnancy occurred. If a teratoma is diagnosed during laparoscopy or oocyte retrieval, it should be promptly removed as malignant transformation is not excluded. In this case, the embryos should be frozen for later transfer."}
{"id": "1288782", "title": "[Laparoscopic operations of neoplastic changes of the ovary].", "content": "[Laparoscopic operations of neoplastic changes of the ovary]."}
{"id": "1282408", "title": "Successful treatment of two viable tubal pregnancies by two-step local injection.", "content": "Successful treatment of two viable tubal pregnancies by two-step local injection. Two viable tubal pregnancies were diagnosed by transvaginal ultrasound with a serum beta-hCG level of up to 3,004 mIU/mL in Case 1 and 16,676 mIU/mL in Case 2. Under transvaginal sonographic guidance, a local injection of potassium chloride (0.5 mL = 1.0 mEq) into the embryo was performed for the purpose of embryocide. In Case 1, a follow-up of serum beta-hCG levels showed an initial plateau and subsequent regression to negative, 49 days after the local injection. However, a persistent increase in serum beta-hCG levels was noted in Case 2 for two samples at intervals of two days during follow-up, 27,800 and 36,500 mIU/mL, in spite of the fact that no fetal cardiac activity was visible. Six days later, laparoscopy was done and methotrexate, 50 mg in 6 mL of normal saline, was injected into the ampullar mass of the right fallopian tube in two divided dosages. The serum beta-hCG levels then gradually decreased and returned to negative 60 days after the methotrexate injection. For a viable ectopic pregnancy, this new modality of two-step local injection, first with potassium chloride and then with supplemental methotrexate, separately by two procedures, may offer an additional choice of conservative treatment."}
{"id": "10150038", "title": "The choice of therapy for the operative treatment of endometriosis is endoscopic laser surgery. Con.", "content": "The choice of therapy for the operative treatment of endometriosis is endoscopic laser surgery. Con."}
{"id": "10150037", "title": "The choice of therapy for the operative treatment of endometriosis is endoscopic laser surgery. Pro.", "content": "The choice of therapy for the operative treatment of endometriosis is endoscopic laser surgery. Pro."}
{"id": "2070851", "title": "Reproductive and menstrual factors and risk of peritoneal and ovarian endometriosis.", "content": "Reproductive and menstrual factors and risk of peritoneal and ovarian endometriosis. Between 1987 and 1989 data were collected to evaluate risk factors for pelvic endometriosis. A case-control study was conducted on 241 cases with laparoscopically or laparotomically confirmed peritoneal or ovarian endometriosis consecutively admitted to three teaching hospitals in Northern Italy. The control group consisted of 437 women admitted to hospitals for acute conditions covering similar catchment areas. Compared with nulliparous women, the risk of endometriosis decreased with increasing number of births: the point estimates were 0.4 and 0.3, respectively, for those with one and two or more births (X2(1) trend = 50.3, P less than 0.001). No relation emerged with age at first birth and spontaneous miscarriages. Relative to women whose menarche occurred at age 11 or younger, the risk of endometriosis was slightly lower in those who experienced later menarche, but the trend in risk was not significant. Women with irregular menstrual cycles showed a lower frequency of the disease (relative risk, 0.3; 95% confidence interval, 0.2 to 0.5). The role of various factors was largely similar for different disease locations (ovary, peritoneum, and both) and indication for diagnostic surgery (sterility, pelvic pain, and other reasons). This study found that parity and irregular/long menses lower the risk of endometriosis. These findings were similar in different subgroups of disease location and indication for surgery, giving strong evidence of the consistency of the general results."}
{"id": "2045855", "title": "A randomized trial of carboplatin versus iproplatin in untreated advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "A randomized trial of carboplatin versus iproplatin in untreated advanced ovarian cancer. Between August 1984 and October 1987, 120 patients with stage IC to IV epithelial ovarian cancer were randomly assigned to receive carboplatin (400 mg/m2) or iproplatin (300 mg/m2) every 4 weeks as initial treatment. Stratification was made according to International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage and according to size of residual disease after surgery. Response was evaluated after six courses when patients were restaged, with laparoscopy or laparotomy in clinical complete responders or those with no assessable disease. Treatment was then stopped in surgically proven complete responders. Patients with partial (PR) or minor response (MR) received a further six courses of their original drug at a reduced dose (carboplatin 300 mg/m2, iproplatin 225 mg/m2). Patients with stable (SD), progressive (PD), or recurrent disease were treated with cyclophosphamide (1 g/m2). The response rates were 63% (95% confidence interval [CI], 50% to 74%) for carboplatin and 38% (95% CI, 26% to 51%) for iproplatin. Fifteen patients were not assessable for response. The median survival was 114 weeks (95% CI, 82 to 233 weeks) for carboplatin patients and 68 weeks (95% CI, 48 to 82 weeks) for iproplatin patients (P = .008). The amount of residual disease after initial laparotomy was a prognostic factor for survival. Myelosuppression was the main toxicity and was greater with iproplatin. This study shows carboplatin to be more active than iproplatin in the treatment of ovarian cancer and less toxic. Few responses to cyclophosphamide occurred following either drug, implying resistance to the alkylating agent."}
{"id": "1955662", "title": "[Ovarian tumors and cysts after 50 years of age. Retrospective study from 1979 to 1989 at the Foch hospital].", "content": "[Ovarian tumors and cysts after 50 years of age. Retrospective study from 1979 to 1989 at the Foch hospital]. This is a retrospective study carried out between the years 1979 and 1989 to look at the anatomopathology of tumours and ovarian cysts occurring in women over 50 years of age who had operations in our department. We found a raised incidence of malignant tumours (30%) when a late diagnosis is made (70% diagnosed at stages 3 and 4). There was a higher incidence of fibrothecomas (10%) along with the nine tumours. This is an important finding because functional cysts have only been found in non-menopausal women or in women who have recently had their menopause who have been taking hormone replacement therapy. Ovarian cysts in menopausal women are therefore primarily organic. This result makes it possible to outline a therapeutic regime specifically designed for the menopausal women. In effect the proposed treatment would either be laparoscopic surgery or laparotomy because it is very doubtful whether ultrasound puncture should be carried out because one cannot be sure that it is not a malignant cyst. The authors take the occasion of this study to view the complimentary tests that can be carried out for ovarian cysts. These are mainly ultrasounds and estimations of CA125. The therapeutic methods that are available are then transparietal cystectomy or intraperitoneal cystectomy or intraperitoneal cystectomy which means laparotomy with removal of the cyst."}
{"id": "1878513", "title": "Pathology of the fallopian tube.", "content": "Pathology of the fallopian tube. Tubal carcinoma and serous adenocarcinoma of the ovary are remarkably similar in biologic characteristics and tumor markers, which suggests that the management for tubal carcinoma would be based on that for ovarian carcinoma. The cases with rare histologic features, including endometrioid carcinoma, mixed m\u00fcllerian tumor, and malignant fibrous histiocytoma have been reported. In the genesis of tubal pregnancy, microscopic evidence of silent inflammation has attracted special interest recently. With the development of sophisticated diagnostic tests and the progress of medical management, it has become possible to treat unruptured tubal pregnancies by pharmacologic approaches, laparoscopy, or transvaginal sonographic control. This review briefly outlines the conspicuous pathologic and etiologic features of neoplasms, ectopic pregnancy, and abnormality of the fallopian tube, and discusses some recent observations regarding these disorders."}
{"id": "1860672", "title": "[Tubo-peritoneal factor. Endometriosis].", "content": "[Tubo-peritoneal factor. Endometriosis]. Fifty cases of tuboperitoneal endometriosis with sterility, are reviewed. Laparoscopy was done in all the patients to confirm disease, and its severity was classified to AFS; 18 cases were of minimal endometriosis; 8 slight; 12 moderate; and 12 severe. The endometriotic profile in our environment is described and compared with which has been described in progresist countries; 32% of pregnancy at term, was obtained. The possible mechanisms producing sterility, are mentioned."}
{"id": "1839884", "title": "Surgery for endometriosis.", "content": "Surgery for endometriosis. Advanced operative laparoscopy in general, and videolaseroscopy using CO2 laser via operative channel of the laparoscope and video, specifically, has revolutionized the management of endometriosis. Adhesion formation is reduced and subsequent fertility rates exceed those obtained with laparotomy. The most complicated cases of endometriosis, including involvement of the rectovaginal septum, gastrointestine, and urinary tract, can now be treated endoscopically by an experienced operative laparoscopist."}
{"id": "1839658", "title": "What can we expect from the surgical management of endometriosis?", "content": "What can we expect from the surgical management of endometriosis? In endometriosis, radical surgery to remove both ovaries appears to be the only truly lasting cure. However, to retain or improve fertility potential, conservative surgery to remove all visible endometriotic deposits is often employed. Traditional conservative surgery using laparotomy is time-consuming and involves large, painful, slow-healing incisions, but, it is argued, modern developments in minimally invasive endoscopic surgery using advanced laparoscopy with lasers offer significantly reduced operation time, discomfort and convalescence. These surgical advances are reviewed. Although their effectiveness remains to be confirmed in controlled clinical trials, they appear to produce good results and are safe in experienced hands."}
{"id": "1839457", "title": "[Endometriosis: indications, operative techniques, results].", "content": "[Endometriosis: indications, operative techniques, results]. Laparoscopic treatment of endometriosis is essential, elegant, efficacious. It is a more complex laparoscopic surgical procedure because of the adnexial lesions, now performed thank's to recent improved instrumentation. At the time of diagnosis, a complete evaluation of lesions appropriately staged according to the American Fertility Society classification scheme is necessary before destruction of endometriotic implants, adhesiolysis and ovarian cystectomy. CO2 videolaseroscopy with laser adhesiolysis and vaporization has been developed with precise destructions of disease tissue and minimal tissue reaction. Laser surgery with complex operative laparoscopy has many advantages: minimal damage of the adjacent normal tissue, minimal ovarian destruction, minimal bleeding and minimal postoperative adhesion formation."}
{"id": "1839015", "title": "[Laser laparoscopy in therapy of adnexa tumors].", "content": "[Laser laparoscopy in therapy of adnexa tumors]. Of 149 laser laparoscopies 50 were performed for adnexal masses. Histological evaluation revealed benign cysts in 54%, endometrioma in 24% and other benign tumors in 14%. In 2 cases, a mucinous cyst was diagnosed, in 1 case a borderline ovarian tumor and in 1 case adenocarcinoma was found. There were no complications. 10% of the patients underwent secondary laparotomy. During the observation period, 6% of the patients required operation for recurrent disease. Low complication rate, little blood loss and a short hospital stay are advantages of laparoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "1838758", "title": "[Rupture of hemorrhagic ovarian cysts. Value of celioscopic surgery].", "content": "[Rupture of hemorrhagic ovarian cysts. Value of celioscopic surgery]. The rupture of haemorrhagic cysts of the ovary occur frequently and are often missed. Review of the literature and an analysis of our series of 20 patients makes it possible to summarise the typical clinical picture, which is of a young woman who has sudden severe pelvic pain in the second half of her menstrual cycle, during intercourse, or when she has pelvic trauma. Ultrasound in 90% of cases shows up signs suggesting the diagnosis and these are: a mass beside the uterus, or an intra-abdominal effusion. Endoscopic surgery is indicated particularly in women of reproductive age who suffer this pathology which is always benign. The indications to treat the patients should always take in to account the histology; 100% of these are luteal cysts. There is no reported case of cancer of the ovary or of an organic haemorrhagic cyst. On the other hand occasionally a primary ovarian pregnancy may occur and that can be confused with a haemorrhagic cyst. Finally haemorrhagic cysts can occur with an intra-uterine pregnancy and this means that the corpus luteum must be preserved. We propose the following treatment for those cases with symptoms: simple peritoneal washout when pregnancy has been ruled out on the laparoscopy exploration and when the bleeding is widespread: systematic taking of a biopsy for histology if there is the slightest doubt that there is a pregnancy in the ovary and an intraperitoneal removal of the cyst when haemorrhage persists during the operation."}
{"id": "1838455", "title": "Laparoscopic adnexectomy.", "content": "Laparoscopic adnexectomy. We are now performing laparoscopic adnexectomy in selected cases of benign pathology of the adnexa. This report is presented to show that even fairly large tumors may be removed by this technique. It involves 30 cases of tumors having a diameter more than 4 cm that were operated on over a period of 12 months. Cystectomies and cystotomies were not included in this study. Patients were excluded if there was any suspicion of malignancy. Indications for laparoscopy were functional and organic cysts, tubo-ovarian abscesses, and adnex torsions due to large hydrosalpinx. No complications have been encountered during the laparoscopic operation or during the follow-up period of 6-18 months."}
{"id": "1838204", "title": "[Echographic guided puncture of ovarian cysts. Possibilities and limitations].", "content": "[Echographic guided puncture of ovarian cysts. Possibilities and limitations]. Ultrasound-guided puncture is a simple and easy to perform procedure. It would seem to be a good idea to suggest simple puncture as a first intention in cases of an image of ovarian cyst. In theory, the advantages are obvious: a puncture is performed, the liquid is analyzed and an appropriate treatment is administered. Coelio-surgery could surely be avoided in cases of functional cysts and perhaps in some non-malignant ovarian cysts. In fact, it must be remembered that a cancer of the ovary in its early stages may have the appearance of a banal cyst, and that puncture does not allow pathological examination. Cytological examination is insufficient to totally rule out malignancy or to allow detailed histological diagnosis. There is, therefore, a risk of leaving in place the pocket of a cyst which may be organic and which may recur or even develop. For these reasons, ultrasound-guided puncture can be undertaken only in pre-selected patients and in the context of a specific protocol: 1) The ultrasound image of the cyst must be liquid, anechoic, unilocular (or bilocular with a fin wall), with no vegetation, the serum level of CA 125 must be low; 2) it the puncture liquid is oily, tarry or viscous, a celioscopy must be carried out as soon as possible, only a yellow-colored liquid can justify waiting; 3) the analysis of the cyst fluid is not always determinant, and the cytology findings are conclusive only if positive. A high 17 beta-estradiol level suggests a functional cyst.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1836716", "title": "[Contribution of celioscopy in the early diagnosis of ovarian cancers].", "content": "[Contribution of celioscopy in the early diagnosis of ovarian cancers]. Four hundred and eighty-one patients with an ovarian cyst considered to be benign on the basis of clinical and ultrasonographic findings underwent diagnostic laparoscopy. All malignant tumours (9 cases) were recognized by diagnostic laparoscopy and were treated immediately via laparotomy. When a cyst was identified as being benign on laparoscopy, the diagnosis was always confirmed by histological examination. Sixty one patients (64 cysts) were treated via laparotomy immediately after laparoscopy for the following reasons: malignant or suspicious lesions (19 cases) dense adhesions or anatomical conditions making laparoscopic surgery difficult (42 cases). 420 patients (444 cysts) were treated by laparoscopic surgery with either intraperitoneal cystectomy or transparietal cystectomy. The postoperative course following laparoscopic surgery for annexal cysts was uneventful in 417 cases (3 patients developed a complication)."}
{"id": "1836402", "title": "Laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy during pregnancy.", "content": "Laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy during pregnancy. A pregnant woman with a history of endometriosis and persistent bilateral adnexal masses underwent laparoscopic ovarian cystectomies at 16 weeks of gestation. There were no adverse sequelae, and the patient had an otherwise uneventful pregnancy and delivery. Operative laparoscopy should be considered to replace laparotomy in appropriate cases during pregnancy."}
{"id": "1835805", "title": "[Ovarian tumor. Diagnostic and therapeutic course].", "content": "[Ovarian tumor. Diagnostic and therapeutic course]."}
{"id": "1835564", "title": "Videolaseroscopy for oophorectomy.", "content": "Videolaseroscopy for oophorectomy. Laparoscopic oophorectomy was performed on 94 ovaries in 76 patients. Indications included recurrent pain associated with endometriosis and adhesions in 17 patients (18 ovaries), ovarian endometriomas in 40 patients (40 ovaries), prophylactic oophorectomy (breast cancer) in one patient (2 ovaries), removal of the ovaries at the time of laparoscopic assisted vaginal hysterectomy in 15 patients (30 ovaries), and other indications in three patients (four ovaries)."}
{"id": "1835528", "title": "Indications and general techniques for lasers in advanced operative laparoscopy.", "content": "Indications and general techniques for lasers in advanced operative laparoscopy. Lasers are but one of the several energy delivery systems used by the operative laparoscopist in the performance of advanced operative laparoscopy. Safety is a key factor in the selection of a laser because the tissue damage produced by this instrument is absolutely predictable. The surgeon must be totally familiar with the chosen wavelength and its tissue reaction if this safety factor is to be realized. Other instruments complement the use of lasers in advanced operative laparoscopy, and without thorough knowledge of all available techniques and instruments, the operative laparoscopist will not achieve the full potential of this specialty. It is beyond the scope of this issue on gynecologic laser surgery to present all of the useful nonlaser techniques. Suffice it to say that we often use laser, loop ligature, sutures, hemoclips, bipolar electricity, hydrodissection, and endocoagulation during the course of a day in the operating room and sometimes during one case. As enthusiasm for advanced operative laparoscopy grows and endoscopic capability increases, more complicated and prolonged surgical feats are reported. Radical hysterectomy and lymphadenectomy have been performed by the laparoscopic route, and endoscopic management of ovarian tumors also has been reported. At this moment, these must be viewed as \"show and tell\" procedures unsupported by statistics to demonstrate any advantage (or disadvantage) when compared with conventional surgical methods. The time required of advanced operative laparoscopy for any given procedure is certainly an important factor. Prolonged operative and anesthesia time certainly can negate the supposed benefit of small incisions and minimally invasive surgery. What goes on inside the abdomen is certainly the most important part of advanced operative laparoscopy. Good surgeons must recognize their own limitations and the limitations of available technology. The operative laparoscopist must know when to quit and institute a laparotomy. In general, when the magnitude of the operative laparoscopy greatly increases the time required to perform the surgery or exceeds the capability of the surgeon, laparotomy is necessary. Patients should never be promised that an operation will be done by laparoscopy. In advanced operative laparoscopy, informed consent means that the patient has had a reasonable explanation of the method, its benefits and its dangers, and has also been told that laparotomy is always a possibility. In our large series, the laparotomy rate is about 3%. It is also wise not to promise the patient that advanced operative laparoscopy will be done by the laser.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1835468", "title": "[Value of celioscopic surgical treatment of ovarian tumors at the beginning of pregnancy].", "content": "[Value of celioscopic surgical treatment of ovarian tumors at the beginning of pregnancy]. Ovarian tumours complicate one in every thousand pregnancies. New techniques have changed the way of diagnosing and treating this condition. This study aims to demonstrate the value of laparoscopic surgery for ovarian cysts in the early months of pregnancy. From the 7th November 1985 to the 1st September 1989, eight pregnant women with less than 17 weeks amorrhoea consulted for ovarian tumours that were more than 6 centimeters in diameter. They were all operated on for ovarian tumours of more than 6 centimeters diameter and they were all operated on laparoscopically. Four operations were emergency and four non-emergency. In seven cases cystectomy was carried out transparietally and in one oophorectomy was. Laparoscopic surgery was possible in every case. These was no complication to the pregnancy due to the operation. Laparoscopic surgery permits early treatment of ovarian tumours in pregnancy without the risks of laparotomy. In emergency a quick diagnosis and treatment diminishes the risk of abortion. In non urgent cases a simple technique made it possible to avoid complications of the cyst and to obtain a histological assessment that they were benign."}
{"id": "1833691", "title": "Mature cystic teratoma of the fallopian tube associated with an ectopic pregnancy.", "content": "Mature cystic teratoma of the fallopian tube associated with an ectopic pregnancy. We describe the occurrence of a mature cystic teratoma of the fallopian tube discovered at laparoscopy for an ectopic pregnancy. Only five previous reports of this concurrence have been found in the medical literature. We review the reported cases of tubal teratoma and summarize all cases found with an ectopic tubal pregnancy."}
{"id": "1833045", "title": "The use of a panel of monoclonal antibodies can lower false-negative diagnoses of peritoneal washings in ovarian tumors.", "content": "The use of a panel of monoclonal antibodies can lower false-negative diagnoses of peritoneal washings in ovarian tumors. A correct surgical staging of ovarian carcinoma and the identification of persistent microscopic disease at second-look surgery largely rely on the cytologic examination of peritoneal washings (PW). Nevertheless, the morphologic analysis of these fluids frequently provides false-negative findings. As shown in other areas of cytodiagnosis, monoclonal antibodies (MoAb) to tumor-associated antigens may be a useful adjunct to overcome the limitations of conventional cytopathologic examination of PW. To evaluate this question, immunocytochemical tests were done using a panel of four MoAb to ovarian carcinoma-associated antigens (B72.3, MOv18, MOv19, and OC-125) to analyze 117 PW sampled during initial surgical staging and 121 PW harvested at second-look operations. The results of this study showed that immunocytochemical tests using the combination of the four reagents could improve cytodiagnosis more than 15% in both groups of PW. Thus a significant fraction of patients could be correctly staged and treated or become potentially curable by second-line salvage therapy."}
{"id": "1832408", "title": "[Endoscopic therapy of cystic ovarian tumors and parovarian cysts].", "content": "[Endoscopic therapy of cystic ovarian tumors and parovarian cysts]. 108 patients with cystadenomas, 49 patients with teratomas, 17 patients with parovarial cysts and 400 patients with functional ovarian cysts were treated by endoscopic therapy from 1985 to 1989. 72 patients (42%) with cystadenomas, teratomas and parovarial cysts were operated in an organpreserving manner. Follow-up of 70 patients showed, in one case, an incompletely operated teratoma. Careful preoperative and intraoperative attention must be paid to the differential diagnosis. The difficulties and dangers of unexpected ovarian cancer are shown in two cases. The advantage of endoscopic therapy should not allow us to forget the fundamental rules of cancer surgery."}
{"id": "1831746", "title": "[Diagnostic value of fibrolaparoscopy and direct-vision peritoneal biopsy in atypical tuberculous peritonitis].", "content": "[Diagnostic value of fibrolaparoscopy and direct-vision peritoneal biopsy in atypical tuberculous peritonitis]. Fifty-three cases of atypical tuberculous peritonitis were diagnosed by Machida FLA-8 fibrolaparoscope and direct-vision peritoneal biopsy in our hospital during the last few years. The misdiagnosis rate of this disease is very high. The rate of accurate clinical diagnosis was only 39.6% in patients of this study, while 60.4% was misdiagnosed as other diseases, such as cirrhosis, chronic hepatitis, hepatic carcinoma ovarian cyst etc. In addition, many patients with other diseases were misdiagnosed as tuberculous peritonitis by clinical consideration, for instance, 56 cases who were diagnosed or doubted as tuberculous peritonitis by clinical consideration were diagnosed as other diseases by laparoscopy and liver and peritoneal biopsy under direct-vision. Among them chronic hepatitis accounted for 32 cases, peritoneal carcinoma 11 cases, cirrhosis 7 cases, normal peritoneum, liver, gall bladder and spleen 6 cases. Therefore, the patient who is presumptively diagnosed as tuberculous peritonitis by clinical consideration should have laparoscopy and direct-vision peritoneal biopsy performed."}
{"id": "1831082", "title": "An oncologic view of when to do endoscopic surgery.", "content": "An oncologic view of when to do endoscopic surgery."}
{"id": "1831080", "title": "Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian endometriomas.", "content": "Laparoscopic treatment of ovarian endometriomas."}
{"id": "1830559", "title": "[Pelviscopic ovarian surgery--a retrospective study of 1,016 operated cysts].", "content": "[Pelviscopic ovarian surgery--a retrospective study of 1,016 operated cysts]. In 969 patients, we observed 1016 ovarian cysts at pelviscopy between the years 1984-89. 36 of these were non-benign. On the basis of the pre- and intraoperative findings (palpation, sonography, inspection of the cyst surface under eye-glass magnification) we treated 827 cysts exclusively by pelviscopy, 189 cysts by laparotomy. Laparotomy was preceded by pelviscopic surgery on the cyst in 94 cases. None of the pre- and intraoperative findings completely eliminated the risk of performing pelviscopic surgery on a stage Ia carcinoma; indeed, this occurred in 2% (2/1016)."}
{"id": "1829802", "title": "Laparoscopic excision of ovarian neoplasms subsequently found to be malignant.", "content": "Laparoscopic excision of ovarian neoplasms subsequently found to be malignant."}
{"id": "1829343", "title": "Pelviscopic surgery: a key for conserving fertility.", "content": "Pelviscopic surgery: a key for conserving fertility. As a result of experience with more than 16,000 pelviscopic operative procedures performed at the Kiel University Women's Clinic from 1971 to 1988 which in this time had been adapted and used around the world, it may be said that the pelviscopic operative techniques, based completely on the laparotomy techniques which employ the microscissors, needles and suture material, is superior for many of the classical gynecological indications to operation. Minimally invasive surgery reduces hospitalization for even the most difficult cases to approximately 3 days. Convalescence is also reduced to approximately 1 week. Postoperative complaints are few, particularly when the primary exudate is removed through an abdominal drain. Late complications are practically unknown. It must be said that even the most minimal of operative procedures can produce late postoperative complaints or can be ascribed as the source of late postoperative complaints. Experiences gathered from around the world with endoscopically guided intraabdominal surgery have shown that for some gynecological procedures laparotomy is now indicated only in the rare case. The leading example of this switch can be seen in the operative treatment of the ectopic pregnancy. Following closely are operations to correct sterility such as salpingolysis, ovariolysis, fimbrioplasty, and salpingostomy. Finally pelviscopic treatment is increasing for all benign ovarian tumors, and the enucleation of myomas of up to 400 grams in weight. Endoscopically guided intraabdominal surgery also has a place in the field of general abdominal surgery--that of treatment of chronic abdominal adhesions. These procedures in the future should basically commence with endoscopic adhesiolysis, the patient having had the proper preoperative bowel preparation. Because of this minimally invasive technique the surgeon will only rarely be forced to perform laparotomy. In the case of abdominal adhesions a prerequisite for pelviscopic treatment is the visually controlled perforation of the peritoneum. Endoscopic surgery, in contrast to open laparoscopy, has a large periumbilical radius of action and produces no postoperative scars. In Kiel operative pelviscopy has replaced 80% of the classic gynecological laparotomies. The recurrence rate of adhesions is 84% with laparotomy compared with a recurrence rate of less than 40% with postendoscopic adhesiolysis. Forty to sixty percent of the patients who underwent pelviscopic adhesiolysis are complaint-free; this is a result not attained with classical abdominal surgery. Adhesiolysis per laparotomy is now limited to the emergency situation, as in the cases of ileus, for example. Endoscopically guided intraabdominal surgery has now improved the quality of life for surgical patients."}
{"id": "1828651", "title": "The use of potassium-titanyl-phosphate laser for laparoscopic removal of ovarian endometrioma.", "content": "The use of potassium-titanyl-phosphate laser for laparoscopic removal of ovarian endometrioma. From January 1989 through January 1990, 31 patients thought to have ovarian endometrioma at ultrasonography were treated by operative laparoscopy and potassium-titanyl-phosphate laser. The endometriomas ranged from 2 to 9.2 cm in diameter by preoperative transvaginal ultrasonography. The operative procedure used was a three-puncture technique with a 600 micron fiber attached to a potassium-titanyl-phosphate laser. The power setting was 10 W with a continuous pulse. In all cases endometriomas were opened, drained, and irrigated, and the potassium-titanyl-phosphate laser was used to vaporize or remove the entire cyst lining. The ovarian edges were inverted with the laser at the end of the procedure. With one exception, there was no recurrence of endometrioma at 1, 3, and 6 months after the procedure, on the basis of transvaginal ultrasonography or laparoscopy. In one case, 4 months after the initial laparoscopic procedure, exploratory laparotomy was performed for resection of a large, recurrent endometrioma. The use of the potassium-titanyl-phosphate laser allows the laparoscopic surgeon an aggressive approach to ovarian endometriomas that in the past necessitated exploratory laparotomy."}
{"id": "1828481", "title": "[YAG laser contact therapy of ovarian endometriosis under laparoscopy].", "content": "[YAG laser contact therapy of ovarian endometriosis under laparoscopy]. Thirty-six patients with ovarian endometriosis were treated with Nd:YAG laser contact irradiation under laparoscopic control. Indications for laparoscopy were infertility (n = 20) and dysmenorrhea (n = 16). The laparoscopic procedures so far undertaken in our clinic include: Aspiration of chocolate cyst, removal of ovarian endometriosis, adhesion-lysis, uterine nerve ablation, coagulation of peritoneal endometriosis and irrigation. No complications were seen. After undergoing this procedure, eight of 20 patients achieved pregnancy and 15 of 16 patients obtained pain relief. Serum CA125 levels were significantly decreased postoperatively. We confirmed that contact irradiation with a cone-shaped sapphire probe provides adequate incision and lysis at lower power levels, and that this method is an effective treatment for ovarian endometriosis."}
{"id": "1827651", "title": "Surgical indications in antenatally diagnosed ovarian cysts.", "content": "Surgical indications in antenatally diagnosed ovarian cysts. The antenatal diagnosis of ovarian cysts poses a therapeutic dilemma because the natural history of these lesions is not well known. A retrospective review from 1980 to 1989 showed 29 ovarian cysts in 27 patients diagnosed by prenatal ultrasonography performed between 28 and 36 weeks of gestation. Nineteen cysts were initially observed. Eleven cysts resolved (diameter less than 2 cm), three are decreasing, three were lost to follow-up, and two underwent resection. Eight patients underwent surgical exploration immediately following birth. The diagnosis of benign ovarian cyst was confirmed histologically in all cases. A review of the literature showed an additional 230 cases of antenatally diagnosed ovarian cysts. Simple cysts of the ovary tend to resolve spontaneously and, therefore, may be treated conservatively. Serial ultrasonography allows accurate diagnosis and long-term assessment of ovarian cysts in the neonate and may prevent unnecessary oophorectomy. Patients with cysts larger than 4 cm may be candidates for percutaneous aspiration, or should undergo removal of the cyst because of a significant risk of torsion. Complex cystic masses, symptomatic ovarian cysts, and cysts that do not resolve should be removed."}
{"id": "1825976", "title": "[Laparoscopy for the diagnosis of endometriosis: analysis of 254 cases].", "content": "[Laparoscopy for the diagnosis of endometriosis: analysis of 254 cases]. Two-hundred and fifty-four cases of pelvic endometriosis were diagnosed by laparoscopy from January 1979 through December 1986 in our hospital. The diagnosis was correct in 94.5% of the cases. Biopsy of the peritoneal lesions with aspiration of the chocolate cysts under laparoscopy has improved the diagnostic accuracy. Laparoscopy is an ideal procedure not only for diagnosing and staging endometriosis, but also for predicting the reproductive potential of infertile patients and planning future treatment."}
{"id": "1825866", "title": "Laparoscopic excision of ovarian neoplasms subsequently found to be malignant.", "content": "Laparoscopic excision of ovarian neoplasms subsequently found to be malignant. One hundred fifty-six members and candidate members of the Society of Gynecologic Oncologists responded to a survey concerning the \"laparoscopic management of ovarian neoplasms subsequently found to be malignant.\" Twenty-nine responders (19%) reported a total of 42 cases of ovarian malignancy. The laparoscopic procedure was aborted or the cyst was aspirated in 38% of the cases, and partial or complete excisions were attempted in 33 and 29%, respectively. The characteristics of the masses were as follows: less than 8 cm 67%, cystic 62%, unilocular 48%, and unilateral 81%. All four \"benign\" characteristics were present in 31% of the cases found to be malignant, and three of four characteristics were present in 24%. Laparotomy was performed at the time of laparoscopy in 17% of cases, after laparoscopy in 71% with an average interval of 4.8 weeks, and not at all in 12%. Fifty-seven percent of the cases were invasive epithelial malignancies, whereas 29% were tumors of low malignant potential. At least 50% of the patients had stages II-IV. We conclude that attempted laparoscopic excisions of adnexal masses that are subsequently found to be malignant are not uncommon, and that the presence of so-called \"benign\" characteristics does not preclude malignancy. Attempts at partial or complete excision are common, as are delays in subsequent definitive surgery. The stage of disease is often advanced, and all histologic types of malignancy are encountered. We advocate careful evaluation of this practice, with development of strict guidelines to ensure optimal patient care."}
{"id": "1752488", "title": "A phase II trial of adjuvant cisplatin and doxorubicin in stage I epithelial ovarian cancer.", "content": "A phase II trial of adjuvant cisplatin and doxorubicin in stage I epithelial ovarian cancer. We have treated 26 patients with Stage I ovarian cancer with platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients received 50 mg/m2 cisplatin and 50 mg/m2 doxorubicin every 21 days for six cycles. Eighteen patients had complete surgical staging defined as total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, pelvic and aortic node sampling, omentectomy, and cytology. Eight patients had all of the above with the exception of node sampling. The overall median follow-up for the group is 43+ months. Three patients had grade 1 tumors with positive washings or capsule invasion and are disease free with a median follow-up of 53+ months. Of 23 patients with grade 2-3 tumors, 22 are alive and free of disease with a median follow-up of 42+ months. There has been 1 recurrence, at 18 months, in a patient who had complete staging and a grade 2 tumor. The patient recurred with carcinomatosis, documented by laparoscopy. There was no significant hematologic, neurologic, or renal toxicity encountered in any patient. Adjuvant combination chemotherapy is beneficial for selected patients with early-stage ovarian cancer who are at high risk for failure after surgical treatment alone."}
{"id": "1746200", "title": "[Coexistence of endometroid carcinoma of the ovary and endometrial carcinoma in a 32-year-old woman].", "content": "[Coexistence of endometroid carcinoma of the ovary and endometrial carcinoma in a 32-year-old woman]. At our hospital a 32 year old patient with a cystic ovarian had been operated. Because sonography was without pathological findings and the patient showed a sterility type, laparoscopy was indicated. Histological findings showed invasive growth of a tubulopapillary carcinoma. Laparotomy with hysterectomy, bilateral adnexa removal, omentectomy as well as pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy was examined. Histologic and immunohistochemical investigations led to coexistence of ovarian endometroid carcinoma and to an endometrial carcinoma, both tumors being of different antigenicity."}
{"id": "10150031", "title": "Contact Nd:YAG laparoscopy: a treatment for endometriosis.", "content": "Contact Nd:YAG laparoscopy: a treatment for endometriosis."}
{"id": "10150016", "title": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal cystic masses.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of adnexal cystic masses. Four hundred twenty of 481 patients with adnexal cystic masses (508 cysts) confirmed by laparoscopy were treated by translaparoscopic surgery only. The remaining 61 patients were treated by laparotomy for one of the following reasons: malignancy or suspicion of malignancy (19 cases) and dense adhesions or large cysts (42 cases)."}
{"id": "2375222", "title": "Prospective comparative cytologic study of direct peritoneal smears and lavage fluids in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer and benign gynecologic disease.", "content": "Prospective comparative cytologic study of direct peritoneal smears and lavage fluids in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer and benign gynecologic disease. Direct peritoneal samples obtained by scraping or brushing (with a Cytobrush) were compared to peritoneal lavages (washings) for the cytologic evaluation of patients with gynecologic disease. The direct samples were obtained during laparotomy or laparoscopy, following saline lavage if that was performed, and were immediately smeared on glass slides and fixed in 95% alcohol. Only 9 of the direct peritoneal samples taken from 64 patients with benign gynecologic disease were unsatisfactory for cytologic interpretation while 19 of the 33 lavage specimens simultaneously collected from these patients were considered unsuitable for analysis (P less than .001). Two direct smears from cases with benign histology were reported as suspicious. Nineteen patients with epithelial ovarian cancer also had cytologic specimens collected by direct sampling and by washing. The direct smears were positive for malignancy in 12 cases, suspicious in 4 cases and negative in 3 cases while the lavage samples were positive in 9 cases, suspicious in 4 cases, negative in 4 cases and unsatisfactory in 2 cases. These results indicate that direct peritoneal sampling is a simple and reliable alternative to peritoneal lavage and produces a significantly lower incidence of unsatisfactory specimens."}
{"id": "2351178", "title": "A prospective evaluation of OC125 and magnetic resonance imaging in patients with ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "A prospective evaluation of OC125 and magnetic resonance imaging in patients with ovarian carcinoma. Eighteen patients with suspected primary or recurrent ovarian carcinoma have been investigated in each case by the assay of serum levels of the antigen CA125, immunoscintigraphy using 131I-OC125 antibody and magnetic resonance imaging using a 0.15 Tesla system. The final diagnosis was confirmed by laparotomy or laparoscopy. Serum levels of CA125 ranged between 5 and 780 units/ml (normal range less than 35). Antibody images and MRI were truly positive in 11 patients, 2 of whom were subsequently found to have bowel tumours. MRI showed greater detail of smaller lesions whilst immunoscintigraphy was more suited to the detection of distant metastases. In 7 patients the antibody images were positive whilst the serum marker levels were normal. This pilot study provides a preliminary comparison of the more recent techniques currently being evaluated for the detection of ovarian carcinoma."}
{"id": "2288867", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of infertile women.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of infertile women. Infertility can be due to a variety of causes, ranging from genetic or endocrine disturbances to structural abnormalities. Imaging is often used in the evaluation of anatomic abnormalities. The advent of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has greatly improved diagnostic accuracy in the workup of several entities causing infertility. Developmental abnormalities of the reproductive tract are particularly well suited to diagnosis by MRI, which clearly demonstrates the zonal anatomy of the corpus, cervix, and vagina. Correct classification of an anomaly can spare the patient unnecessary laparoscopy or surgery. Leiomyomas, another cause of infertility, are optimally evaluated by MRI, since the size, number, location, and extent of degeneration can be identified. These factors are important in deciding how the leiomyomas will be treated. Adenomyosis can cause uterine enlargement and can be misconstrued as fibroids. MRI is the only noninvasive method that can prospectively diagnose adenomyosis. Ovarian masses can also give rise to infertility. MRI is particularly well suited to clarify whether a mass is uterine or ovarian. It is also much more specific than ultrasound in the differential diagnosis of a mass, especially endometriomas, dermoids, and fibromas. Polycystic ovarian disease, usually diagnosed via hormonal measurements, also has a characteristic appearance on MRI."}
{"id": "2288664", "title": "Gynecologic applications of MRI.", "content": "Gynecologic applications of MRI. Gynecologic anatomy is consistently depicted with MRI. Abnormal developmental anatomy is also well assessed. In cases of complete or partial vaginal agenesis where ultrasound is equivocal, MRI can be definitive. The various subtypes of uterine anomalies are well delineated with MRI. MRI is the optimal technique in the therapeutic evaluation of leiomyomas, because the number, size, location, and degeneration can be documented. It is particularly useful in the identification of the ovaries in the presence of an enlarged leiomyomatous uterus. Adenomyosis, an often neglected diagnosis, is distinguishable from leiomyomas. In the setting of an equivocal ultrasound, MRI is useful in discerning whether a mass is ovarian or uterine in origin. Endometriosis, a disease routinely diagnosed and staged by laparoscopy, does have a typical MR appearance and therefore can usually be differentiated from other adnexal masses. Dermoids are readily diagnosed with MRI. Other adnexal masses do not have a specific MR appearance and morphologic criteria as used with ultrasound or CT must be relied upon in suggesting whether or not the mass is benign or malignant. MRI is the procedure of choice in the staging of cervical and endometrial cancer."}
{"id": "2277165", "title": "[Ovarian cysts. The respective role of clinical examination, echography, biological markers and cytology].", "content": "[Ovarian cysts. The respective role of clinical examination, echography, biological markers and cytology]. The authors assess the value of clinical examinations and para-clinical examinations carried out when an ovarian cyst is discovered. They try to find out whether a diagnosis of the aetiology is possible before the operation and particularly whether the cystic forms of cancer can be detected pre-operatively. The study is concerned with a retrospective assessment of 358 patients. The first line of investigation was seen to be ultrasound which is effective in 91% of cases. When the level of CA-125 is above 35 U/ml that suggests that there may be a malignant neoplasm present. The test is sensitive to about 78.6% and specific at 76%. 96 cysts were considered to be benign using clinical and para-clinical examinations and were punctured under ultrasound control or laparoscopically. The cytology could not be interpreted in 15%. Only one borderline tumour of the ovary was found. 25.3% of cysts that had been aspirated recurred and this is a high figure. Given these figures, the authors suggest a diagnostic and therapeutic program for ovarian cysts."}
{"id": "2249208", "title": "Fallopian tube cancer. The Roswell Park experience.", "content": "Fallopian tube cancer. The Roswell Park experience. Sixty-four patients with primary fallopian tube cancer treated at Roswell Park Memorial Institute from 1964 to 1987 underwent retrospective clinicopathologic review. In 40 patients fallopian tube cancer was the only primary, but in 24 patients primary fallopian tube cancer was part of a multifocal upper genital tract malignancy. Of the 40 patients with unifocal fallopian disease, the median survival was 28 months. Only 15% of patients were alive and disease free with follow-up ranging from 22 to 141 months (median, 90.5 months). Survival was not associated with stage of disease, tumor histology, grade, or depth of invasion in this series. Fourteen patients who received cisplatin-based chemotherapy were evaluable for response. Three patients (21%) responded; two complete and one partial. Twelve patients without clinical evidence of disease underwent second-look procedures, ten laparotomy and two laparoscopy. Four of ten second-look laparotomies were negative. Secondary debulking was done in three of four patients with gross disease, one of which had a negative third-look laparotomy. Negative laparotomy, second-look or third-look, was associated with improved survival (P = 0.016). One of the two laparoscopies was negative, but the patient recurred. In the remaining 24 patients cancer of the fallopian tube was part of a multifocal upper genital tract malignancy. In 12 patients tubal disease was invasive, and in 12, it was in situ. Separate primaries occurred in the ovaries (n = 20); uterus (n = 7); and cervix (n = 2). This represents 1.3% of ovarian malignancies treated at Roswell Park Memorial Institute during the study period. Fallopian tube cancer seems as virulent as ovarian cancer with few long-term survivors. It is frequently associated with other sites of upper genital tract malignancy. Second-look laparotomy is an important predictor of survival. Second-look laparoscopy may be useful if positive."}
{"id": "2237158", "title": "[Tubo-ovarian actinomycosis].", "content": "[Tubo-ovarian actinomycosis]. Pelvic actinomycosis is uncommon and usually represents a complication of an intrauterine device (IUD). This organism is very difficult to culture, and most actinomyces is actually identified by histologic features in pathologic specimens or by cytologic features on Papanicolaou smears. A specific fluorescent antibody stain is also available. Tubo ovarian abscess is usually polymicrobial with a preponderance of anaerobic organisms and the exact role of actinomyces in abscess formation remains unclear. The case is described of a 43-year-old women who developed tubo-ovarian actinomycosis while using an IUD. The patient was hospitalized with right abdominal pain and fever. She had a history of appendectomy and right pulmonary lobectomy for tuberculosis. A pelvic mass about 8 cm in diameter was observed on examination. Emergency laparoscopy and laparotomy were performed. In the course of the laparotomy a voluminous, very irregular, necrotic ovarian tumor was observed. The contralateral tube was highly inflamed and had numerous adhesions. An annexectomy was performed, and the diagnosis of tubo-ovarian abscess was made during histological examination. The woman was placed on antibiotic therapy with penicillin, gentalline, and flagyl, and the postoperative course was uneventful. Bacteriological examination of the IUD showed a group of streptococci, rare colonies of a staphylococcus, and absence of strict anaerobic germs. Macroscopic examination showed the ovary to be almost destroyed by yellowish necrotic masses. The tube was swollen. Actinomycosis is a rare cause of tubo-ovarian abscess and usually is found in women using IUDs. 80% of cases of pelvic actinomycosis in IUD users have been reported in women not changing IUDs for at least 3 years. It is more common in plastic IUDs. Most cases are diagnosed histologically by identification of an actinomycotic grain in the center of the abscess or by cytologic features on Papanicolaou smears. A fluorescent antibody stain is also available. The exact role of actinomyces in tubo-ovarian abscess formation is unclear, since such abscesses are usually polymicrobial. Actinomyces should always be systematically ruled out in the event of serious genital tract infection. Treatment consists of high-dose antibiotics over a sufficiently long period."}
{"id": "2230887", "title": "Intraperitoneal yttrium-90-labeled monoclonal antibody in ovarian cancer.", "content": "Intraperitoneal yttrium-90-labeled monoclonal antibody in ovarian cancer. From March 1987 to March 1988, a phase I to II study was carried out in 25 patients with ovarian cancer. They received escalating doses of intraperitoneally (IP) administered yttrium-90 (Y-90)-labeled monoclonal antibody, HMFG1, against a tumor cell-surface antigen. Myelosuppression prevented an escalation of the administered Y-90 activity above 25 mCi. Y-90-labeled antibody was absorbed from the peritoneal cavity into the circulation. Maximum blood Y-90 activity was observed 40 hours after the IP injection with a mean of 21% of the injected activity (range, 14.2% to 26.4%) in the circulation. The radiation dose the bone marrow received from circulating Y-90-labeled antibody (the blood radiation dose) was calculated by applying the Medical Internal Radiation Dose (MIRD) formulation to the measured Y-90 activity in patients blood. Myelosuppression occurred following calculated blood radiation doses to bone marrow of only 10 to 30 cGy. The excessive myelosuppression following such modest radiation doses from circulating Y-90-labeled antibody could be explained by the uptake of Y-90 by bone. In an attempt to reduce bone absorption of Y-90, seven patients received an intravenous (IV) infusion of EDTA (Sinclair Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Godalming, United Kingdom). This increased the urinary excretion of Y-90 from a mean of 11.1% to 32.3% of the injected activity (P = .0001). Fourteen patients had assessable tumor at laparoscopy. Tumor regression was observed in one patient, and palliation of ascites in a further patient."}
{"id": "2213099", "title": "Intraperitoneal lymphokine-activated killer-cell and interleukin-2 therapy for malignancies limited to the peritoneal cavity.", "content": "Intraperitoneal lymphokine-activated killer-cell and interleukin-2 therapy for malignancies limited to the peritoneal cavity. Autologous lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells and recombinant human interleukin-2 (rIL-2) were administered intraperitoneally (IP) to 24 patients with malignancies limited to the peritoneal space. Ten patients had ovarian cancer, 12 had colorectal cancer, and one patient each had endometrial carcinoma and primary small-bowel adenocarcinoma. All ovarian cancer patients, three of twelve colorectal cancer patients, and one patient with endometrial carcinoma had received prior therapy. Patients received IL-2 100,000 U/kg every 8 hours intravenously (IV) for 3 days, and 2 days later underwent daily leukapheresis for 5 days. LAK cells were generated in vitro by incubating the peripheral blood mononuclear cells in IL-2 for 7 days and were then administered IP daily for 5 days through a Tenckhoff catheter (Davol, Inc, Cranston, RI) together with IL-2 25,000 U/kg IP every 8 hours. All but one patient completed at least one cycle of therapy. Toxic side effects included minor to moderate hypotension, fever, chills, rash, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and distension, diarrhea, oliguria, fluid retention, thrombocytopenia, and minor elevations of liver function tests; all of these rapidly improved after discontinuation of IL-2. One patient had a grand mal seizure, and one suffered a colonic perforation; these were felt to be treatment-related. IP fibrosis developed in 14 patients and limited repeated cyclic administration of this therapy in five patients. Two of 10 (20%) ovarian cancer patients and five of 12 (42%) colorectal cancer patients had laparoscopy- or laparotomy-documented partial responses. We conclude that LAK cells and rIL-2 can be administered IP to cancer patients, resulting in moderate to severe short-term toxicity and modest therapeutic efficacy. Further investigation of this form of adoptive immunotherapy modified to address the problem of IP fibrosis and with lower IP IL-2 doses is justified by these initial results."}
{"id": "2155140", "title": "Subcutaneous metastasis following laparoscopy in gastric adenocarcinoma.", "content": "Subcutaneous metastasis following laparoscopy in gastric adenocarcinoma. An 80-year-old male developed ascites as the first indication of an adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction. Laparoscopy was performed during the diagnostic study of the ascites and, 7 days later at the point of introduction of the laparoscope, a metastasis developed in skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue. This is the third case of subcutaneous neoplastic implantation following laparoscopy to appear in the literature. The two previously described cases dealt with patients with ovarian adenocarcinoma. The literature reporting cases of tumor dissemination following technical procedures is reviewed."}
{"id": "2150746", "title": "CO2 laser laparoscopy in infertile women.", "content": "CO2 laser laparoscopy in infertile women."}
{"id": "2149253", "title": "[Pelviscopic ovarian surgery. Possibilities and limitations].", "content": "[Pelviscopic ovarian surgery. Possibilities and limitations]. In analyzing 500 consecutive pelviscopies performed at the University Women's Clinic in Kiel in 1988, 310 patients had undergone either diagnostic or operative procedures on the ovary, i.e. pelviscopy in the case of an ovarian tumor. 95.5% of all procedures could be performed per pelviscopy. 4.5% of cases required therapy per laparotomy. The pelviscopic procedures were primarily organ preserving operations associated with minimally invasive surgery, for example: Ovariolysis, ovarian cyst enucleation, coagulation of ovarian endometriotic implants, follicle puncture, parovarian cyst enucleation and, salpingo-oophorectomy. Laparotomy was indicated in the case of malignant disease, borderline tumors, large tumors, extensive adhesiolysis status post previous laparotomy, and in one case uncontrollable bleeding. The results show that today most procedures on the ovary can be performed per pelviscopy. In order to prevent a pelviscopic intervention in suspicious cases, the indication for laparotomy here must be generously applied."}
{"id": "2148569", "title": "[Ovarian cysts in women over 50 years of age. A retrospective study from 1979 to 1989 at Foch Medicosurgical Center].", "content": "[Ovarian cysts in women over 50 years of age. A retrospective study from 1979 to 1989 at Foch Medicosurgical Center]. This was a retrospective study for the years 1979 to 1989 involving histological examination of ovarian cysts in women over 50 years who underwent surgery in our Department. A higher incidence of malignant tumours was found (32%), associated with a late diagnosis (70%) diagnosed stage III or IV). There was a higher incidence of fibrothecomas (10%) among benign tumours and functional cysts were only found in non menopausal or recently menopausal women taking hormone replacement therapy. There results allow a more specific therapeutic attitude in menopausal women i.e. laparoscopic surgery or laparotomy. Ultrasound puncture is very debatable, since this is inappropriate for an organic cyst. The authors review the complementary investigations performed for ovarian cyst, these include essentially ultrasound and Ca 125. Possible therapies include transparietal cystectomy, intraperitoneal cystectomy or laparotomy and excision."}
{"id": "2145780", "title": "[The role of repeated laparoscopy in the diagnosis of external genital endometriosis in infertile women].", "content": "[The role of repeated laparoscopy in the diagnosis of external genital endometriosis in infertile women]."}
{"id": "2145720", "title": "Ectopic pancreas. A cause of false-positive peritoneal cytology.", "content": "Ectopic pancreas. A cause of false-positive peritoneal cytology. A patient with a history of ovarian adenocarcinoma underwent further surgery because malignant cells were reported in peritoneal washings on two separate occasions. Subsequent laparotomy revealed an ectopic pancreas on the jejunum. Review of the peritoneal cytologies confirmed that the cells previously thought to be malignant were in fact consistent with cells detached from the ectopic pancreas."}
{"id": "2145354", "title": "[Present status of celioscopic treatment of endometriosis].", "content": "[Present status of celioscopic treatment of endometriosis]."}
{"id": "2143914", "title": "[Usefulness of laparoscopy as a second-look method in neoplasms of the ovary].", "content": "[Usefulness of laparoscopy as a second-look method in neoplasms of the ovary]. The usefulness of second-look laparoscopy in the follow-up of ovarian cancer is evaluated. This procedure has been included in the protocol for the treatment of these tumors. During the period 1980-1987 a total of 3038 laparoscopies were performed; 205 (7%) were for ovarian cancer. We present the results of 72 explorations in 52 patients; after surgery and chemotherapy all of them were in complete remission. 44 explorations were second-look laparoscopy and 28 third-look laparoscopy. All the examinations were done under local anesthesia. There were two failures due to the presence of adhesions secondary to the previous surgery which prevented the pneumoperitoneum. In 35 (48.6%) explorations a neoplasia was found and a laparotomy was avoided. There were 31% (4/13) false negative in second-look laparotomy post-laparoscopy. The correlation between gross and microscopic findings was excellent. There were no complications in spite of the previous abdominal surgery. We recommend second-look laparoscopy in patients under treatment of ovarian cancer which in our experience avoided laparotomy almost in half of the cases; no complications were observed and the procedure was well-tolerated."}
{"id": "2141643", "title": "Laparoscopic management of stage I ovarian cancer. A case report.", "content": "Laparoscopic management of stage I ovarian cancer. A case report. A woman with stage I ovarian cancer refused traditional treatment and was managed laparoscopically. Both ovaries were removed intact via a culdotomy incision. Vaginal hysterectomy, omentectomy and laparoscopic lymphadenectomy followed. With the increasing frequency of laparoscopic oophorectomy, it clearly seems prudent to remove ovaries intact through the cul-de-sac whenever ovarian pathology is in doubt. Although the laparoscopic approach is as yet unproven, it is an alternative for a select group of well-informed women with borderline or low-grade ovarian malignancy."}
{"id": "2141642", "title": "Pelviscopic surgery in women over 40.", "content": "Pelviscopic surgery in women over 40. One hundred seventy women who underwent operative laparoscopy over 67 months were evaluated. Forty-four were over 40 years old; their ages ranged up to 68, and their mean age was 45. The operations varied from simple pelviscopic lysis of adhesions to bilateral oophorectomy; 18 patients had the latter. A protocol involving CA-125 and ultrasound was introduced to decrease the risk of affecting the prognosis of potentially malignant ovarian tumors. A technique was developed that may answer possible criticisms of the endoscopic approach to surgery in women who are past childbearing."}
{"id": "2141641", "title": "Nd:YAG laser laparoscopy for ovarian endometriomas.", "content": "Nd:YAG laser laparoscopy for ovarian endometriomas. Thirty patients with ovarian endometriomas were treated with Nd:YAG laser contact irradiation via laparoscopy. The indications for laparoscopy were infertility (16) and dysmenorrhea (14). The laparoscopic procedures undertaken so far at our clinic were aspiration of chocolate cysts, removal of ovarian endometriomas, adnexal adhesiolysis, uterine nerve ablation, coagulation of peritoneal endometriosis and irrigation. No complications occurred. After undergoing this procedure, 6 of 16 patients achieved pregnancy, and 13 of 14 obtained pain relief. The serum CA-125 levels were significantly decreased postoperatively. We confirmed that contact irradiation with a cone-shaped sapphire probe provides an adequate incision and lysis at low power levels and that this method is an effective treatment for ovarian endometriomas."}
{"id": "2140995", "title": "Laparoscopic ovarian puncture for correct staging of endometriosis.", "content": "Laparoscopic ovarian puncture for correct staging of endometriosis. Small, deep ovarian endometriomas are not easily diagnosed. In 52 infertile patients, laparoscopy demonstrated enlarged ovaries (maximum diameter 3.5 to 5 cm) with a smooth whitish surface and no mature follicles, corpora lutea, or other cysts. Ovarian puncture was performed, and endometriotic material aspirated in 25 women (48.0%). Cyst diameter was calculated using the geometric formula r = 3 square root of 3V/4 pi where r = radius and V = volume of liquid aspirated. Eight patients with apparently normal pelvis had endometriosis, and 14 with apparent minimal or mild endometriotic lesions were restaged. Laparoscopic ovarian puncture of enlarged ovaries was important for correct diagnosis and staging of endometriosis."}
{"id": "2139923", "title": "[Reliability of cytodiagnosis from washings and free fluid in the staging and follow-up of ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Reliability of cytodiagnosis from washings and free fluid in the staging and follow-up of ovarian tumors]. 181 diagnostic correlations between endocelomatic free-fluid or washing cytology and histological findings during staging or follow-up of patients suffering from ovarian cancer have been assessed. On the basis of the evaluation of the sensitivity and specificity of endocelomatic cytology, its importance in diagnostic protocols for evaluating the presence or persistence of disease is reiterated."}
{"id": "2138109", "title": "[Clinical management of cystic ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Clinical management of cystic ovarian tumors]. In a prospective study at the University of G\u00f6ttingen 206 cystic ovarian tumours were examined vaginosonographically. Basing on a graduated schedule, the individual therapy of each ovarian tumour was determined. By use of this clinical management, all blastomas could be detected correctly and in 6.8% of all cases a follicle or corpus luteum cyst was operated per laparotomiam. Basing on the created data, the authors suggest a simple and effective clinical management of cystic ovarian tumours."}
{"id": "2093774", "title": "[Early diagnosis of malignant tumors of the the ovary using ultrasound].", "content": "[Early diagnosis of malignant tumors of the the ovary using ultrasound]. On Gynecology-Obstetric Clinic in Sarajevo in 100 women, aged 22-80, was made the indication for laparotomy because of the changes on ovaries and it was done according to the palpatory, ultrasound and laparoscopic examination. After the operative treatment and pathologic verification from the 100 studied tumors were found 15 (15%) carcinous cystadenoma, 2 (2%) mucinous cystadenocarcinoma, 25 (25%) serous cystadenoma, 10 (10%) serous cystadenocarcinoma, 10 (10%) adenocarcinoma, 23 (23%) teratoma and 13 (13%) tumors of the other kind, 25 (25%) of tumors were malign and 75 (75%) was benign. The predicted value of the ultrasoundly proved malignity was 80% (20 from 25 patients) and for the benign tumors it was 96% (72 from 75 patients). Malignant tumor of ovary is the third most common malignant disease of genital organs of a woman and at the same time the most often cause of death of women suffering from gynecologic malignant diseases. From all kinds of gynecologic malignant tumors 25% are carcinoma of ovaries. It is the cause of death in 47% women with the malignant diseases of genital organs. The bad prognosis of this tumor is mostly caused by the late diagnosis. Patients most often do not feel any disturbances until the illness comes to the phase of methastase and the most of patients (60-70%) at the time of diagnosis is already in the III or IV stage of illness."}
{"id": "1980666", "title": "Endometriosis-associated infertility: evaluation of preoperative use of danazol, gestrinone, and buserelin.", "content": "Endometriosis-associated infertility: evaluation of preoperative use of danazol, gestrinone, and buserelin. In order to assess adequately the effectiveness of danazol, Gestrinone, and Buserelin, a prospective nonrandomized study was initiated in 126 patients with laparoscopically confirmed ovarian endometriosis. After hormonal therapy, laparotomy with microsurgical resection of endometriotic cysts was carried out. Regression (greater than 25%) of ovarian endometriosis was noted in 30%, 34%, and 73% of cases after danazol, Gestrinone, and Buserelin, respectively. The pregnancy rate in moderate endometriosis (53%) differed significantly from the rate obtained in severe endometriosis (45%). The highest percentages were found after Buserelin therapy. In conclusion, Buserelin emerged superior to danazol or Gestrinone treatment. Nevertheless, hormonal treatment leads to an incomplete suppression of ovarian endometriotic implants and this suggests the necessity of surgically removing invasive ovarian endometriosis."}
{"id": "1980662", "title": "Comparison between laparotomy and operative laparoscopy in the treatment of moderate and severe stages of endometriosis.", "content": "Comparison between laparotomy and operative laparoscopy in the treatment of moderate and severe stages of endometriosis. A retrospective study was designed to compare the results of treatment of moderate and severe stages of endometriosis by laparotomy and by laparoscopy. Patients were divided into three groups: the first consisted of 42 patients treated by laparotomy followed immediately with danazol treatment for 6-9 months; the second, 44 patients treated by operative laparoscopy followed immediately with danazol treatment for 4-6 months; and the third, 62 patients treated by operative laparoscopy followed immediately with danazol treatment for 6-10 weeks. The cumulative pregnancy rate in the laparoscopy groups was better than that of the laparotomy group. Most patients who failed to conceive underwent a second-look laparoscopy for reevaluation. Residual endometriosis and associated adhesions were noticed least in the third group. It is concluded that operative laparoscopy could be efficiently used for the treatment of moderate or even severe endometriosis."}
{"id": "1699368", "title": "[Second-look operation or second-look laparoscopy for evaluating complete remission of ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Second-look operation or second-look laparoscopy for evaluating complete remission of ovarian cancer]. Doubtlessly the exploration of the peritoneal cavity is essential for the determination of the efficacy of cis platine chemotherapy in ovarian cancer. Second-look operation and second-look laparoscopy are established as diagnostic methods. In a follow up study containing 92 patients with CR after cis platine chemotherapy it has been evident that the remission time is independent on the kind of invasive diagnostic methods. In contrast to these results the noninvasive diagnostic methods (like CT or X ray in 19 pat.) survival time was 20 months. The difference to both other groups is significant. Therefore it is necessary in cases with complete response to secure the results invasively, but a second-look operation is not compulsary."}
{"id": "1696873", "title": "Measurement of CA125, carcinoembryonic antigen, and alpha-fetoprotein in ovarian cyst fluid: diagnostic adjunct to cytology.", "content": "Measurement of CA125, carcinoembryonic antigen, and alpha-fetoprotein in ovarian cyst fluid: diagnostic adjunct to cytology. This study used CA125, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) to classify ovarian cysts by measuring the levels of the three antigens; this information was useful when fluid obtained through laparoscopic puncture of ovarian cysts was submitted for cytologic examination from patients for whom tissue was unavailable for classification. We studied 136 consecutive cyst fluids (108 benign, 28 malignant) and correlated the findings with the tissue diagnosis. All three antigens were very low (CEA, less than 0.5 ng/ml; CA125, 55-2,143 mu/ml; and AFP, less than 4.8 ng/ml) in follicular and lutein cysts. Markedly elevated CA125 (296-1,950,000 mu/ml) and low CEA (0.5-220 ng/ml) and AFP (less than 4.8 ng/ml) levels were seen in patients with serous neoplasms, both benign and malignant. Elevated CEA (greater than 600 ng/ml) and CA125 (56-65,330 mu/ml) levels were seen in primary mucinous cystadenoma and cystadenocarcinoma. Two patients with colonic carcinoma metastatic to the ovary had an elevated CEA (greater than 600 ng/ml) and a normal CA125. Only one patient, with a malignant teratoma, had an elevated AFP. The adjunctive use of CEA and CA125 is recommended for the classification of ovarian cysts."}
{"id": "2914280", "title": "Characterization of ovarian dysplasia by interactive morphometry.", "content": "Characterization of ovarian dysplasia by interactive morphometry. This study defines, by morphometric analysis, criteria for the diagnosis of ovarian dysplasia. Areas of surface epithelium, adjacent to Stage I ovarian serous papillary adenocarcinoma, were diagnosed as dysplastic and evaluated for architectural and cytologic changes by means of two specially designed interactive morphometric procedures. Statistical evaluation was based on stepwise discriminant analysis of multiple quantitative descriptors. A data base was generated by analyzing histologic slides from eight normal (control), and 13 malignant ovarian tissues. Confirmation of the diagnosis was achieved in each case. The histologic criteria for ovarian dysplasia differ from those used for ovarian borderline malignancy. Interactive morphometric image analysis offers an objective method for delineating cancer precursors that could be used in ovarian biopsies taken by laparoscopy or during incidental abdominal surgery. It could be applied to cancer precursors in other locations."}
{"id": "2812640", "title": "Intraperitoneal 131I- and 111In-791T/36 monoclonal antibody in recurrent ovarian cancer: imaging and biodistribution.", "content": "Intraperitoneal 131I- and 111In-791T/36 monoclonal antibody in recurrent ovarian cancer: imaging and biodistribution. An examination of the biokinetics and biodistribution of i.p. administered 131I- or 111In-labelled 791T/36 antibody (1 mg) has been carried out in five patients with stage III/IV ovarian cancer. Blood kinetics and urinary excretion of the radiolabels were assayed. Scintigraphy was performed immediately following administration and before and after peritoneal lavage at 48 h. Blood levels of both preparations rose over the first 20-40 h reaching 8-14% of the administered dose in the circulation and then declined (T1/2 of 40 h). Circulating radiolabel was still attached partially to antibody as shown by precipitation with anti-mouse IgG antiserum. The rapid appearance of radiolabel in the bloodstream meant that any tumour localization could be from circulating antibody rather than local infiltration. Interpretation of the images was difficult and the distribution of the tracer was different from that previously observed using i.v. administration of antibody. In some cases the images were confusing and the uptake of activity did not fit in with the clinical knowledge of the disease or the findings from laparoscopy. Tumour specimens resected at 4-5 days showed up to 0.02% of the dose g-1."}
{"id": "2759325", "title": "Primary ovarian carcinoid tumor in combination with carcinoid heart disease; a case report.", "content": "Primary ovarian carcinoid tumor in combination with carcinoid heart disease; a case report. Primary ovarian carcinoid tumors (POCT) with secondary carcinoid heart disease are rare, only 13 cases have been reported in the literature to date. In most instances POCT can be completely removed surgically contrary to primary carcinoid tumor of the gastro-intestinal tract. Laparoscopy may be helpful in localizing the tumor. We present a case in which the carcinoid heart lesions progressed despite total eradication of the carcinoid."}
{"id": "2740713", "title": "[Benign tumors of the ovary in young girls. Apropos of 3 cases in Africa].", "content": "[Benign tumors of the ovary in young girls. Apropos of 3 cases in Africa]. From three cases of benign ovarian tumors in young African girls, the authors study the diagnostic means, among which ultrasonography is currently predominant. They finally discuss therapeutic means, with surgery permitting a histological diagnosis. Follicular cysts require a more nuanced approach; because of possible regression, one may consider repeated taps during laparoscopy, as surgery is not indicated just in the case of complications."}
{"id": "2738321", "title": "[Hysterosalpingographic aspects of ovarian and peritoneal endometriosis. Case-control study].", "content": "[Hysterosalpingographic aspects of ovarian and peritoneal endometriosis. Case-control study]. A clustering of radiologic signs is associated with the presence of ovarian and/or peritoneal endometriosis: some indicate fibrosis of utero-sacral ligaments (isthmic dissection of the uterus, fixed retroversion); others are linked to pathology of the tube (ampullar retention of dye after evacuation, sometimes inducing false aspects of hydrosalpinx); the last ones suggesting peritoneal adhesions (incomplete peritoneal diffusion). All these signs have been systematically studied, independently of the diagnosis, on 154 hysterosalpingograms of infertile patients known to have patent tubes at laparoscopy: in 107 out of these cases endometriosis was diagnosed at laparoscopy; the 47 last cases constituted the control group. The results confirm that all the signs described are significantly more frequent in cases of endometriosis, although non-specific for this condition. On the contrary, neither adenomyosis, tubal diverticulosis, nor intramural polyps are significantly linked to external endometriosis. In conclusion, some radiologic signs suggest the presence of peritoneo-ovarian endometriosis. Their detection is possible only on high quality pictures, including a last one taken after 10 to 20 minutes walking, to feature the anomalies of tubal evacuation and peritoneal diffusion. The clustering of these signs allows the clinician to propose an early laparoscopy in the work-up of an infertility case. Furthermore, some of these salpingograms provide evidence of a functional disorder of tubal motility in endometriosis, possibly responsible for the low fertility associated with the disease."}
{"id": "2722067", "title": "Posthysterectomy carcinoma of the fallopian tube presenting as vaginal adenocarcinoma: a case report.", "content": "Posthysterectomy carcinoma of the fallopian tube presenting as vaginal adenocarcinoma: a case report. The clinical and pathological features of a case of adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube with a unique presentation are described. The 68-year-old patient presented with vaginal bleeding 25 years after a vaginal hysterectomy. Pelvic examination revealed a 0.5-cm nodule of tumor involving the mucosa of the vaginal apex. At laparoscopy, the left fallopian tube was dilated and adherent to the vaginal vault. Pathological examination of the upper vaginectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy specimen revealed a primary papillary adenocarcinoma of the left fallopian tube that had invaded directly into the mucosa of the vaginal apex. Vaginal involvement, either at the time of presentation or subsequently in the course of the disease, is very rare in patients with carcinoma of the fallopian tube."}
{"id": "2717739", "title": "Pelvic endometriosis: MR imaging.", "content": "Pelvic endometriosis: MR imaging. The value of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging at 0.35 T in detecting, characterizing, and staging pelvic endometriosis was prospectively investigated in 30 consecutive women in whom this disease was clinically suspected. MR findings were correlated with the results of laparoscopy (13 women) and laparotomy (17 women). Surgical examination revealed a normal pelvis in five patients and endometriosis in 25. Three of the five normal cases and 16 of the 25 cases of endometriosis were correctly identified with MR imaging (sensitivity, 64%; specificity, 60%; accuracy, 63%). MR imaging demonstrated seven of eight endometriomas but only 14 of 29 adhesions and only six of 45 endometrial implants. While MR imaging demonstrated endometriomas, ovarian adhesions, and extraperitoneal endometrial implants, it could not accurately depict extraovarian endometrial adhesions and intraperitoneal endometrial implants. In addition, MR imaging findings did not correlate with the surgically determined severity of the disease. These limitations indicate that MR imaging cannot be used as the primary modality in the detection, characterization, and staging of endometriosis; laparoscopy remains the procedure of choice."}
{"id": "2686339", "title": "Transvaginal color Doppler for the assessment of pelvic circulation.", "content": "Transvaginal color Doppler for the assessment of pelvic circulation. Transvaginal color Doppler was used to analyse a group of 56 patients including 41 with proven pelvic masses and 15 infertility patients with normal pelvic anatomy. All patients were examined by ultrasound before laparoscopy or/and laparotomy. The ultrasonographer had not been informed of other clinical findings and indications for operative treatment. Comparison of blood flow characteristics within uterine fibromas and ovarian malignancies revealed less impedance and higher blood velocity in cases of malignancy. When predicting the malignant nature of pelvic tumors, no false-negative results were encountered, and only one false positive diagnosis of malignancy."}
{"id": "2680788", "title": "[Current views on the treatment of endometriosis].", "content": "[Current views on the treatment of endometriosis]. The authors present modern views on the therapy of endometriosis, paying much attention to pathophysiological aspects. They present both conventional methods, as hormonal therapy or surgery, and non-conventional methods as laser laparoscopy, microsurgery and fertilization in vitro. The authors stress the lack of casual treatment of endometriosis, which does not result in full effectiveness of the therapy and sometimes there is recurrence of the disease."}
{"id": "2560720", "title": "Metastatic cancer spread at the laparoscopic puncture site. Report of a case in a patient with carcinoma of the ovary. Case report.", "content": "Metastatic cancer spread at the laparoscopic puncture site. Report of a case in a patient with carcinoma of the ovary. Case report. The aim of this study is to draw attention to the possibility of the occurrence of a metastatic spread at the laparoscopic entrance site in patients suffering from a carcinoma of the ovary. This event has rarely been mentioned in medical literature before. A case is presented here in which a localized tumoral lesion appeared after a laparoscopic staging study in the abdominal wall, exactly at the site used for the introduction of the accessory laparoscopic trocar in a patient suffering from a carcinoma of the ovary."}
{"id": "2533142", "title": "Endometriosis--current concepts.", "content": "Endometriosis--current concepts. Endometriosis is a disease of unknown aetiology, multiple presentations and an enigmatic course during a woman's reproductive years. Clinical aspects of the diagnosis and the rationale for its treatment are discussed."}
{"id": "2533120", "title": "[Recurrent functional ovarian cysts following laparoscopy fenestration].", "content": "[Recurrent functional ovarian cysts following laparoscopy fenestration]. The laparoscopic fenestration of functional ovarian cysts with a benign appearance is well known. After aspiration of the contents of the cyst, a window is cut in the cyst wall for an endocystic inspection. In this way, samples for cytology as well as histopathology are obtained. A laparoscopic fenestration was performed on 104 patients. During a mean follow-up time of 20 months, we found a recurrence of 8% in 91 patients. In the presence of pelvic adhesions, the functional cysts tend to reoccur. Corpus luteum cysts have a higher recurrence-rate than follicular cysts. In our study postoperative hormon-therapy recorded no protective effect."}
{"id": "2533013", "title": "Double-optic laparoscopy. Salpingoscopy, ovarian cystoscopy and endo-ovarian surgery with the argon laser.", "content": "Double-optic laparoscopy. Salpingoscopy, ovarian cystoscopy and endo-ovarian surgery with the argon laser. Salpingoscopy gives detailed visual information on the mucosal pattern of the tubal ampulla as far as the isthmoampullary junction. With experience it takes 10 minutes to perform salpingoscopy on both sides and with an additional dye test a most complete evaluation of tubal morphology and patency can be obtained during routine diagnostic laparoscopy. Comparative studies proved the technique to be superior to HSG and the laparoscopic inspection of the tubal serosa and of the fimbriae. In some instances, like a tubocornual block, only salpingoscopy can provide additional information. Eventually, with the current techniques of operative laparoscopy salpingoscopic inspection of a phimosis or even a hydrosalpinx can be performed quite easily and these findings help us in the clinical management of patients requiring either microsurgical cuff-salpingostomy (giving a more realistic chance of a spontaneous pregnancy every month) or in vitro fertilization (avoiding laparotomy). Salpingoscopy also guides us in the selection of patients for a GIFT procedure and probably provides a better estimation of the risk of ectopic pregnancy. Ovarian cystoscopy can be applied for accurate diagnosis of non-malignant ovarian cysts at the time of laparoscopy. The wall of the cyst is inspected in detail and selective biopsies are obtained. Unnecessary surgery for non-neoplastic tumours can be avoided and endometrial and cystic tumours can be treated in situ using an argon laser with minimal surgical damage to the ovarian capsule. This laser technique is under further investigation to evaluate its place in the diagnosis and conservative surgical treatment of benign ovarian cysts occurring during reproductive life."}
{"id": "2532174", "title": "[Treatment of sterility in endometriosis].", "content": "[Treatment of sterility in endometriosis]."}
{"id": "2532173", "title": "[Treatment of endometriosis with laser laparoscopy].", "content": "[Treatment of endometriosis with laser laparoscopy]."}
{"id": "2531521", "title": "[Early diagnosis of dermoid cysts in the treatment of sterility].", "content": "[Early diagnosis of dermoid cysts in the treatment of sterility]. Two cases of occult dermoid cysts in sterility patients were reported. In one case the follicular puncture during a gamete intra fallopian transfer (GIFT) trial led to diagnosis, in the other case it has been argued by sonography. Early diagnostic and subsequent therapeutic possibilities were discussed."}
{"id": "2527175", "title": "[Malignant epithelial tumors of the ovary. Current diagnostic and therapeutic aspects].", "content": "[Malignant epithelial tumors of the ovary. Current diagnostic and therapeutic aspects]."}
{"id": "2525650", "title": "[Laparoscopic diagnosis of neoplastic diseases in ambulatory patients].", "content": "[Laparoscopic diagnosis of neoplastic diseases in ambulatory patients]. The article deals with the results of the first experience in using laparoscopy for establishing the diagnosis of neoplastic diseases of the abdominal organs in 32 patients in an out-patient clinic. The contraindications were determined and some organizational measures in conducting laparoscopy in this group of patients were mapped out. A method is suggested for closing the operative wound after laparoscopy with sutures applied through all layer under laparoscopic control. The authors consider strict selection of patients for laparoscopy in out-patient clinics to be expedient."}
{"id": "2525510", "title": "Predictive factors for long-term survival in patients with advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Predictive factors for long-term survival in patients with advanced ovarian cancer. A total of 107 patients with carcinoma of the ovary were entered in a study combining extensive primary surgery and intensive chemotherapy. Because of evidence supporting the effectiveness of both single agent platinum (P) and the combination of cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin (CA), patients were treated with alternating cycles of CA and CP. Primary surgery to remove the bulk of tumor to less than 2 cm was possible in 45% of the 85 eligible patients, and an additional 17% had similar surgery after two to four cycles of chemotherapy. Fifteen percent of patients progressed on chemotherapy. Of the 68 who were clinically and radiologically without disease at the completion of chemotherapy, 91% had second-look surgery. Forty-eight percent of these women had residual disease. All patients but one are at risk for greater than 60 months, with a median follow-up of 86 months. Overall 5-year survival is 26%, with a median survival of 33 months. Twenty patients survived over 5 years with 11 continuing to be free of disease (13% of all eligible patients). Patients with modified Broder's grade I,II tumors have not yet reached a median survival. Grade, stage, and primary mass size were the only variables with independent prognostic value in a Cox multivariate analysis."}
{"id": "2525501", "title": "[Organ-saving therapy of small ovarian cystomas and dermoids by surgical laparoscopy--a trial 1985-1987].", "content": "[Organ-saving therapy of small ovarian cystomas and dermoids by surgical laparoscopy--a trial 1985-1987]. The article reports on the results of the removal of small benign ovarian tumors (teratoma, cystic adenoma) without oophorectomy. 10 patients were treated by laparotomy and 23 patients with operative laparoscopy. The laparoscopy procedure is limited to tumors not larger than 5 cm. In this procedure it is especially difficult to recognize the difference between a luteal cyst and a cystic tumor which is a already malignant. Careful preoperative and intra-operative attention must be paid to the differential diagnosis. So far, follow up of the 14 patients with cystic adenoma and the 19 patients with teratoma, has shown no recurrence of tumor in the remaining ovary."}
{"id": "2524933", "title": "[The role of laparoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of gynecologic patients].", "content": "[The role of laparoscopy in the diagnosis and treatment of gynecologic patients]."}
{"id": "2521380", "title": "Laparoscopic removal of dermoid cysts.", "content": "Laparoscopic removal of dermoid cysts. Nine reproductive-age women underwent removal of unilateral or bilateral dermoid cysts via laparoscopy. Over a follow-up period of 12-42 months, there were no immediate or long-term complications. Four patients have had repeat laparoscopy for evaluation of possible pelvic adhesion formation; one had mild periovarian adhesions and the pelvis appeared normal in the other three."}
{"id": "2513964", "title": "Transabdominal ultrasound screening for early ovarian cancer.", "content": "Transabdominal ultrasound screening for early ovarian cancer. To assess the value of ultrasonography in a screening procedure for early ovarian cancer. Prospective study of at least 5000 self referred women without symptoms of ovarian cancer. Each woman was scheduled to undergo three annual screenings (consisting of one or more scans) to detect grossly abnormal ovaries or non-regressing masses. The ovarian screening clinic at King's College Hospital, London. 5479 Self referred women without symptoms (aged 18-78, mean age 52). Women with a positive result on screening were referred for laparoscopy or laparotomy, or both. Findings at surgery and from histology of abnormal ovaries. A total of 14,594 screenings (15,977 scans) were performed. A positive result was obtained at 338 screens (2.3%) comprising 326 subjects (5.9%). Five patients with primary ovarian cancer (four stage Ia, one stage Ib; two at first screening three at second) were identified (prevalence 0.09%). An additional four patients had metastatic ovarian cancer (three at first screening, one at second). The apparent detection rate was 100%. It was not possible to differentiate between the ultrasonic appearance of early malignant and benign tumours. The rate of false positive results for primary ovarian cancer was 3.5% at the first screening, 1.8% at the second, and 1.2% at the third. Overall the rate of false positive results was 2.3%; the specificity was 97.7% and the predictive value of a positive result on screening was 1.5%. The odds that a positive result on screening indicated the presence of an ovarian tumour, any ovarian cancer, or primary ovarian cancer were about one to two, one to 37, and one to 67 respectively. Ultrasonography can be used to screen women without symptoms for persistent ovarian masses that will include early ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "2501110", "title": "Administration of nasal Buserelin as compared with subcutaneous Buserelin implant for endometriosis.", "content": "Administration of nasal Buserelin as compared with subcutaneous Buserelin implant for endometriosis. One hundred infertile patients with laparoscopically confirmed ovarian endometriosis were treated with either intranasal (IN) Buserelin (Hoechst, AG, Frankfurt am Main, West Germany) (300 micrograms three times a day) or subcutaneous (SC) Buserelin implant (6.6 mg Buserelin). Serum estradiol was suppressed in the menopausal range in both groups, but the inhibition of the pituitary ovarian axis appeared more profound and consistent in the SC group than in the IN group. Laparoscopic findings proved that the SC Buserelin emerged superior to the IN Buserelin. Indeed, the score of endometriotic lesions and the ovarian cyst diameter were more reduced in the SC group than in the IN group. Moreover, the histologic study showed a lower incidence of active endometriosis and a lower mitotic index of ovarian endometrial epithelium in the SC group than in the IN group. In conclusion, the release of a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist by a biodegradable implant achieved better efficacy in reducing endometriotic lesions than the IN mode of administration."}
{"id": "2476410", "title": "Treatment of endometriosis with a Nd:YAG tissue-contact laser probe via laparoscopy.", "content": "Treatment of endometriosis with a Nd:YAG tissue-contact laser probe via laparoscopy. The neodymium:yttrium-aluminum garnet (Nd:YAG) laser was used via laparoscopy in 84 patients complaining of infertility and/or pelvic pain. All patients in the study had biopsy-proven or visually confirmed pelvic endometriosis. The Nd:YAG laser was used in conjunction with sapphire probes as a touch technique on tissue. Problems usually encountered, such as mirror alignment, beam focus, and smoke plume, with carbon dioxide laser systems were avoided, and use of the laser in a liquid environment was possible. Restoration of fertility was seen in 39.7% with short follow-up; pain relief was excellent, especially in conjunction with uterosacral denervation."}
{"id": "3391198", "title": "Integrated techniques in the identification of ovarian tumors.", "content": "Integrated techniques in the identification of ovarian tumors. This work is intended to be an effort to standardise the diagnostic iter of ovarian pathology. This protocol is carried out with a clinical examination and later by USG and celioscopy. It tests the management of functional and endometriosic cysts and the other ovarian pathologies."}
{"id": "3373267", "title": "The impact of aggressive debulking surgery and cisplatin-based chemotherapy on progression-free survival in stage III and IV ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "The impact of aggressive debulking surgery and cisplatin-based chemotherapy on progression-free survival in stage III and IV ovarian carcinoma. Forty consecutive patients with stage III and IV invasive ovarian carcinoma were treated on a phase II protocol consisting of optimal debulking surgery, induction cisplatin, cisplatin, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide (PAC) chemotherapy, 6-month interval laparoscopy, reinduction cisplatin, PAC chemotherapy, and second-look procedure. All 40 patients have either disease progression or have completed the 12-month protocol. Eighty-seven percent of the patients (35) underwent optimal (less than or equal to 2 cm residual) debulking surgery before chemotherapy, in spite of the fact that 50% (20) were referred to Roswell Park Memorial Institute (RPMI) as inoperable after initial surgery elsewhere. There were no postoperative deaths and chemotherapy was started in less than or equal to 14 days in 97% of the patients. Of the 40 patients, 30% (12) achieved a pathologic complete remission (11) or a clinical complete remission (one patient refused second-look surgery). The estimated 3-year survival rate was 62%, but the 3-year progression-free survival rate was only 29%. The median survival time was 48 months. The estimated 3-year progression-free survival rate was 31% for residual disease less than or equal to 2 cm. For the five patients with residual disease greater than 2 cm, four died within 3 years. The median survival time of patients with less than or equal to 2 cm residual disease was 48 months, as compared with 21 months for those with greater than 2 cm residual disease. Although the estimated 3-year survival rate of 62% is noteworthy, the 3-year progression-free survival rate of only 29% is probably indicative that in spite of extensive debulking surgery and cisplatin-based chemotherapy as used in this protocol, the long range proportion of patients \"cured\" will remain small."}
{"id": "3347414", "title": "Evaluation and management of the pelvic mass: a review of 540 cases.", "content": "Evaluation and management of the pelvic mass: a review of 540 cases. The management of 540 patients with the diagnoses of \"pelvic mass/uterine leiomyomata\" was reviewed with respect to preoperative evaluation, surgical procedures, and final pathologic diagnosis. Approximately 6170 patients were admitted to the Gynecology Service at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center from July 1984 to June 1985. During this period, 36 of 432 diagnostic laparoscopies (8.3%) and 503 of 1666 laparotomies (30.2%) were performed to evaluate or treat these women. The final diagnoses in the 249 patients admitted with the impression of leiomyomata were: leiomyomata, 235 (94.4%); benign adnexal masses, seven (2.8%); cancers, four (1.6%); and miscellaneous, three (1.2%). Of the 291 patients evaluated for pelvic mass, the findings were: benign ovarian or tubal cysts, 98 (33.7%); leiomyomata, 42 (14.4%); cancers, 40 (13.7%); benign cystic teratomas, 38 (13.1%); endometriosis, 28 (9.6%); miscellaneous, 23 (7.9%); and pelvic inflammatory disease, 22 (7.6%). Correlation between the patient's age, preoperative impression, and final diagnosis is presented with particular attention to the 44 patients (8.1%) in whom malignancy was found. All the possibilities that such masses may represent must be considered preoperatively, and the patient be informed of her risk of malignancy."}
{"id": "3342910", "title": "Prevalence of ovarian cancer found at the time of infertility microsurgery.", "content": "Prevalence of ovarian cancer found at the time of infertility microsurgery. We found the prevalence of ovarian cancer in infertile women less than 40 years at the time of planned microsurgery for infertility to be 1 in 95. This may represent a greater prevalence of ovarian cancer than that of all women less than 40 years. Importantly, laparoscopy did not find the ovarian cancer in these women. In conclusion, laparoscopists and microsurgeons need to be aware of the possibility of finding ovarian cancer in these young, infertile women, and this knowledge should be used to counsel and manage the patient appropriately."}
{"id": "3338663", "title": "Complications of Tenckhoff catheter implantation in patients with multiple previous intraabdominal procedures for ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Complications of Tenckhoff catheter implantation in patients with multiple previous intraabdominal procedures for ovarian carcinoma. In patients with minimal residual ovarian carcinoma after aggressive surgical and chemotherapeutic treatment, nephrotoxicity and/or peripheral neuropathy often prohibit continued treatment with intravenous combination cisplatin-based chemotherapy. It is attractive to continue treatment of these patients with intraperitoneal (ip) delivered chemotherapy. From 1981 through 1984 a Tenckhoff catheter was implanted in 59 women for ip chemotherapy after a staging laparoscopy or laparotomy. Minor complications occurred in 8 patients and could be treated conservatively. Ten patients suffered major complications, leading to three (re)laparotomies and catheter extraction in 7 of 10 patients. No patient died of complications, but mean hospitalization time of patients with major complications was 25 days as compared to 11 days for patients without complications. An analysis of nine factors that could lead to postoperative complications failed to reveal a statistically significant risk factor. From this study no profile of a typical high-risk patient emerges."}
{"id": "3193419", "title": "Diagnosis and management of intestinal endometriosis. A report of five cases.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of intestinal endometriosis. A report of five cases. Five cases of intestinal endometriosis presented with infertility and pelvic pain. Rectal bleeding occurred in two patients and diarrhea in one. A diagnosis was achieved with a barium enema study and colonoscopy. All the patients had pelvic endometriosis as documented by laparoscopy. Endometriosis was present in the sigmoid colon in three patients and in the cecum in one; it was pericecal in the fifth. Bowel resection and pathologic study are necessary to relieve the symptoms and avoid neglecting a malignant tumor or other lesions."}
{"id": "3177251", "title": "Five and ten year estimated survival and disease-free rates after intraperitoneal chromic phosphate; stage I ovarian adenocarcinoma.", "content": "Five and ten year estimated survival and disease-free rates after intraperitoneal chromic phosphate; stage I ovarian adenocarcinoma. From 1975 to 1982, 25 evaluable patients with FIGO Stage I ovarian cancer were treated with intraperitoneal chromic phosphate (32P). All patients underwent total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy with (28%) or without (72%) omentectomy, with no other surgical staging procedures prior to referral. Patients were restaged by laparoscopy (inspection of diaphragms, abdomen, and pelvis), biopsy of suspicious lesions, and peritoneal cytologic washings prior to intraperitoneal chromic phosphate therapy. For the 25 patients, the estimated 5- and 10-year recurrence-free rates and the 5- and 10-year survival rates are 84% and 75%, respectively. Excellent 10-year recurrence-free rates were achieved for Stages IA and IC, nonruptured cysts, and Grade I and II tumors. In contrast, very low 10-year survival rates were achieved for patients with Stage IB, ruptured cysts, or Grade III tumors."}
{"id": "2978104", "title": "Laparoscopy for screening and early diagnosis of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopy for screening and early diagnosis of ovarian cancer. Authors examined validity of laparoscopy for early diagnosis of ovarian cancer. They studied 144 cases of patients with benign neoplasia diagnosed by clinical examination and found ten cases of ovarian cancer by laparoscopy. They point out validity of laparoscopy indicated as a present day essential technique for early diagnosis of ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "2976723", "title": "[Laparoscopic therapy of cystic ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Laparoscopic therapy of cystic ovarian tumors]."}
{"id": "2974621", "title": "[Current therapeutic approach to adnexal cysts].", "content": "[Current therapeutic approach to adnexal cysts]. From a 5-year study of 481 ovarian tumors, the authors discuss their therapeutic management and try to answer two basic questions: what is the proportion of cystic tumors, that actually are carcinomas? To what extent the tapping of a cancerous \"cyst\" may cause the spreading of the tumor?"}
{"id": "2974514", "title": "[Laparoscopy and ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Laparoscopy and ovarian cancer]."}
{"id": "2971904", "title": "Excision of pelvic endometriosis with the carbon dioxide laser laparoscope.", "content": "Excision of pelvic endometriosis with the carbon dioxide laser laparoscope. Laparoscopic vaporization of peritoneal endometriosis has been reported to relieve pain and enhance fertility. However, vaporization of endometriosis, particularly large plaques and hemorrhagic areas, is associated with significant amounts of carbon deposition in the desicated tissues. Further, it is difficult to ascertain complete removal of disease in some areas. In this study, 66 patients were treated by excision of peritoneal and/or ovarian endometriosis with the carbon dioxide laser via laparoscopy. Using excisional techniques, we were able to visualize the extent of peritoneal penetration and subperitoneal spread of endometriotic nodules. Further, we obtained histologic confirmation of the disease process in all patients. No patient received postoperative hormonal therapy during follow-up. Follow-up evaluation of these patients revealed relief of the painful symptoms of endometriosis. No long-term complications were encountered."}
{"id": "2969688", "title": "[Diagnosis of tumors and tumor-like formations of the ovaries].", "content": "[Diagnosis of tumors and tumor-like formations of the ovaries]."}
{"id": "2969609", "title": "[Ovarian cysts: ultrasound-guided puncture, celioscopy or laparotomy?].", "content": "[Ovarian cysts: ultrasound-guided puncture, celioscopy or laparotomy?]. The authors report a series of 262 \"ovarian tumors\" operated on between 1982 and 1986. The place of \"primary\" laparoscopy went from 79% in 82-84 to 83% in 85 and 85% in 86 and the place of \"pure\" laparoscopic treatment went from 39% to 57% and 60%, respectively, excluding patients with an obvious cancer, patients over 40 and pregnant women over 16 weeks, in whom a primary laparotomy is indicated. The indications of the laparoscopic treatment may be carried further. And there is a place for a tap under ultrasonographic control. Various approaches are presented."}
{"id": "2968942", "title": "The treatment of advanced ovarian carcinoma (II): interval reassessment operations during chemotherapy.", "content": "The treatment of advanced ovarian carcinoma (II): interval reassessment operations during chemotherapy."}
{"id": "2967467", "title": "[Laparoscopy in oncological pediatrics].", "content": "[Laparoscopy in oncological pediatrics]. Laparoscopy permits direct inspection of the peritoneal cavity. Its role is very important in oncology both in the adult and in the pediatric patient. From 1973 to 1985, 147 laparoscopies were performed on 137 patients, aged 2-16; indications were: definition of the nature of neoplastic disease in 8 cases, staging of known neoplasia in 132, restaging in 7. On Hodgkin's disease, splenic involvement in 8/113 cases was revealed by laparoscopy with biopsy. Histological examination was positive in 4 out of 22 cases of ovarian tumors. Morbidity was 1.2%. Although a laparotomy performed after laparoscopy has shown some false negatives, in most cases the clinical and instrumental follow-up has proved reliability of laparoscopic examination."}
{"id": "3688077", "title": "The morphologic effect of short-term medical therapy of endometriosis.", "content": "The morphologic effect of short-term medical therapy of endometriosis. A clinicopathologic study of a short-term medical treatment of endometriosis with danazol or gestrinone was performed in 50 patients with endometriosis and infertility. The cellular response to the therapy was evaluated and graded according to morphologic, that is, histologic and ultrastructural, criteria. A 2-month therapy with 1.25 mg of gestrinone daily induced a degree of cellular inactivation and degeneration of the endometriotic implants that was more pronounced than after 4 months of therapy with either gestrinone (2.5 mg twice or thrice weekly) or danazol (600 mg daily). There was no correlation between the morphologic response to treatment and either the hormonal response of the foci during the menstrual cycle before therapy or the change in laparoscopic staging of endometriosis at the end of therapy. It is suggested that a short-term medical treatment should be further evaluated clinically in the treatment of endometriosis and infertility."}
{"id": "3658287", "title": "Intraperitoneal cis-platinum as salvage therapy for refractory epithelial ovarian cancer.", "content": "Intraperitoneal cis-platinum as salvage therapy for refractory epithelial ovarian cancer. Eighteen patients with residual epithelial ovarian cancer at second-look laparotomy were treated with a combined total of 210 cycles of intraperitoneal cis-platinum. Sixteen patients had previously received cis-platinum containing combination chemotherapy systemically. Seven patients had microscopic residual disease at the start of intraperitoneal therapy, eight had macroscopic disease of 5 mm in diameter or less, and three had disease of 6-10 mm in diameter. The drug was administered weekly in 2 L of Ringer's lactate solution via an indwelling Tenckhoff catheter, and the dose ranged from 30-270 mg per cycle (median 120 mg). The dwell time was 20 minutes. After 12 cycles, response was assessed by open laparoscopy (six patients), laparotomy (eight patients), or peritoneal cytology (three patients). One patient developed distant metastases. Local and systemic toxicity was mild. Delays of therapy were necessary for eight of the 210 cycles because of hematologic toxicity. Of the 15 patients available for pathologic evaluation, four (26.6%) had a complete response and two (13.3%) had a partial response. Results of this pilot study suggest a possible role for intraperitoneal cis-platinum in the management of carefully selected patients with epithelial ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "3599995", "title": "Management of apparent single foci of epithelial ovarian cancer.", "content": "Management of apparent single foci of epithelial ovarian cancer. Four patients with proven ovarian cancer were found to have single lesions in the liver parenchyma after completing chemotherapy. They otherwise appeared to be in complete clinical remission. Percutaneous needle biopsy was sometimes misleading and dangerous. Laparoscopy and laparotomy were required for optimum safe diagnosis, staging, and treatment. Definitive resection appeared to be beneficial but usually only as a palliative form of debulking. Subsequent adjuvant combination chemotherapy may sometimes improve the duration of useful remissions. Unusual sites of metastatic ovarian cancer appear to be increasing in frequency. Successful management of late recurrences in the liver is possible, provided the diagnosis is immediately suspected and one utilizes both definitive surgery and chemotherapy."}
{"id": "3576712", "title": "Adjuvant treatment with melphalan in ovarian carcinoma with no residual disease following surgery.", "content": "Adjuvant treatment with melphalan in ovarian carcinoma with no residual disease following surgery. Forty-nine patients classified after surgery and complete non-surgical restaging as \"no residual disease\" were treated with adjuvant chemotherapy. Thirty-nine patients had ovarian carcinoma and 10 borderline tumors. All patients had geographic inaccessibility. Domiciliary treatment with melphalan at the dose of 10 mg/day p.o. for 5 consecutive days every 4 weeks for 12 cycles was used. Within 6 months from the end of adjuvant treatment a second restaging with peritoneoscopy and peritoneal cytology was performed. The median administered dose of melphalan was 575 mg. No patient with a borderline tumor relapsed. Nine patients with ovarian carcinoma relapsed (23%): 4/10 at stage II-III and 5/29 (17%) at stage I. The relapse-free survival at 96 months was 77% for stage I patients and 73% for all patients. The overall survival was 87% for stage I patients and 81% for all patients. Mild myelo-depression was evident in 65% of patients. No case of acute nonlymphocytic leukemia was observed."}
{"id": "3493176", "title": "Interleukin-1: a possible role in the infertility associated with endometriosis.", "content": "Interleukin-1: a possible role in the infertility associated with endometriosis. Increased numbers of activated macrophages are associated with mild endometriosis. Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a protein produced by macrophages and is believed to be a primary mediator of host responses. IL-1 induces prostaglandin and fibrinogen synthesis and stimulates fibroblast proliferation. This study was undertaken to evaluate the role of IL-1 in the infertility associated with mild endometriosis. Peritoneal fluid (PF) was obtained at laparoscopy from 11 patients with minimal or mild endometriosis and from 7 women undergoing tubal ligation. Peritoneal macrophages were isolated and cultured for 24 hours. Peritoneal and macrophage culture fluids were studied for IL-1 activity, which was measured with the EL-4 assay. IL-1 activity was present in the PF of 10 of the 11 patients with endometriosis and 11 of the 11 macrophage culture fluids and was absent in the PF and macrophage culture fluid of the tubal ligation patients. The effect of recombinant alpha-IL-1 on the in vitro growth of 2-cell mouse embryos was also studied. IL-1 in concentrations similar to those present in the PF (greater than 1 U/ml) was toxic to mouse embryo development. We conclude that the IL-1 may play a role in the infertility associated with endometriosis."}
{"id": "3329956", "title": "Endometriosis and infertility: treatment is always necessary.", "content": "Endometriosis and infertility: treatment is always necessary. The incidence of endometriosis appears to be increasing, but is possibly due simply to the more widespread use of diagnostic laparoscopy. Whilst a clear pathogenetic role for endometriosis resulting in tubo-ovarian distortion and infertility is obvious, a causal role for mild endometriosis in infertility has not been established. Any one of several factors may result in both endometriosis and infertility. Nevertheless, endometriosis is best treated at the time of diagnosis in order to limit progression of the disease. The preferred method of treatment is medical, with surgery being reserved for those endometriotic lesions not responding to medical treatment. Conservative surgery will not eradicate microscopic foci, and it is possible that the surgery itself may result in adhesion formation. The choice of medication should be individualized, as the side-effects may not be readily tolerated by some women. Maintenance of amenorrhoea may not be essential to therapeutic efficacy, as normally sited and ectopically sited endometrial tissue may respond to hormonal manipulation in different ways."}
{"id": "3305148", "title": "[Ca 125 values in inflammatory adnexal disease and endometriosis].", "content": "[Ca 125 values in inflammatory adnexal disease and endometriosis]. The serum concentration of the tumour marker CA 125 was determined during an inflammatory adnexitis of a young woman of 22 years of age, the measured value being 478 kU/l. After the inflammation had subsided, a malignoma was largely excluded by laparoscopy; the CA 125 value had dropped to 70 kU/l. In a woman of 34 years of age who had an endometriosis that had been identified for the last ten years, as well as an acute suppurative fibrinous peritonitis, the CA 125 value was found to be 205 kU/l. On the fourth postoperative day the value was around 165 kU/l, on the 13th and 26th postoperative day 273 kU/l and 168 kU/l, respectively. There were no signs of an inflammation."}
{"id": "3111618", "title": "Ovarian neoplasms, functional ovarian cysts, and oral contraceptives.", "content": "Ovarian neoplasms, functional ovarian cysts, and oral contraceptives. The incidence of ovarian neoplasms and functional ovarian cysts diagnosed at laparotomy or laparoscopy among the 17,000 women taking part in the Oxford Family Planning Association contraceptive study was investigated. Epithelial cancer of the ovary was only 25% as common among those who had ever taken oral contraceptives as those who had never done so (95% confidence interval 8% to 67%). There was little evidence of any important association between use of oral contraceptives and benign teratoma or cystadenoma. Functional cysts of the ovary occurred much less commonly in women who had recently (in the six months preceding diagnosis) taken combined oral contraceptives (but not in those who had taken progestogen only oral contraceptives) than in those who had never taken oral contraceptives or had taken them in the past. This protective effect was more pronounced for corpus luteum cysts (78% reduction; 95% confidence interval 47% to 93%) than for follicular cysts (49% reduction; 95% confidence interval 20% to 70%). It is estimated that about 28 (95% confidence interval 16 to 35) operations for functional ovarian cysts are avoided among every 100,000 women who take oral contraceptives each year."}
{"id": "3107721", "title": "Successful treatment of asymptomatic endometriosis: does it benefit infertile women?", "content": "Successful treatment of asymptomatic endometriosis: does it benefit infertile women? The relation between asymptomatic endometriosis and infertility was investigated in a randomised double blind placebo controlled trial of the impact of treating the endometriosis with gestrinone. The 12 month cumulative conception rate in those patients treated with gestrinone was 25% (5/20) and in those given placebo 24% (4/17). These same patients were divided into those in whom no visible endometriosis was present at the second laparoscopy and those in whom residual disease was present and the 12 month cumulative conception rates were 25% (4/16) and 30% (6/20) respectively. None of these rates differed significantly, and they compared with a rate of 23% (6/26) in a control group of patients with unexplained infertility. Those patients in whom the disease was eliminated did not return to normal fertility, though all other causes of infertility were excluded. This study failed to show any impact of treatment or the absence or presence of asymptomatic endometriosis on future fertility compared with patients with unexplained infertility. The findings therefore question any causal role of the disease in infertility."}
{"id": "3033768", "title": "[Magnetic resonance tomography of ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance tomography of ovarian tumors]. The results of 64 MR examinations in 52 patients with benign, malignant and inflammatory lesions of the adnexa are presented. In each case, surgery or laparoscopy was carried out, so that it was possible to compare the findings on MRT with the histological results. Multiplanar images of gynaecological lesions provide excellent demonstration of the pathological anatomy. High soft tissue contrast makes it possible to differentiate tissues, particularly in the case of serous, mucinous and haemorrhagic fluid collections, as well as solid and fat-containing tissue. High sensitivity may be expected in the demonstration of dermoid and endometrial cysts. The distinction between benign and malignant lesions must, however, be based on morphological criteria. The combination of T1 and T2 sequences is necessary for adequate MR examinations of gynaecological lesions."}
{"id": "2972167", "title": "Placebo-controlled comparison of danazol and high-dose medroxyprogesterone acetate in the treatment of endometriosis.", "content": "Placebo-controlled comparison of danazol and high-dose medroxyprogesterone acetate in the treatment of endometriosis. A prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was designed to evaluate the clinical efficacy and tolerance of danazol and high-dose medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) in the treatment of mild-moderate endometriosis. After laparoscopical confirmation of endometriosis, 59 patients were randomized to receive danazol (200 mg 3 times daily), MPA (100 mg daily) or placebo for 6 months. Clinical examinations were done before and 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after the beginning of the study, and a 2nd laparoscopy 6 months after termination of the medication. Eighteen patients in the danazol group, 16 in the MPA group and 17 in the placebo group completed the trial. Total or partial resolution of peritoneal implants was observed in 60% of the patients receiving danazol and in 63% of the patients receiving MPA. In the placebo group, resolution was observed in 18%, while the size of the implants was estimated to be increased in 23% of the patients. In relation to placebo, danazol and MPA significantly alleviated endometriosis-associated pelvic pain, lower back pain and defecation pain, but they did not differ from each other in these actions. The appearance of acne, muscle cramps, edema, weight gain and spotting bleeding complicated MPA treatment. The present results indicate that because of good efficacy and tolerance, high-dose MPA is a useful alternative in the hormonal treatment of endometriosis."}
{"id": "2964760", "title": "[Value of laparoscopic examination in the final diagnosis of clinically unclear adnexal tumors].", "content": "[Value of laparoscopic examination in the final diagnosis of clinically unclear adnexal tumors]."}
{"id": "2962701", "title": "A critical assessment of the role of second-look surgery in ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "A critical assessment of the role of second-look surgery in ovarian carcinoma."}
{"id": "2954861", "title": "Management of unexpected ovarian dermoid cyst during laparoscopy for oocyte pickup.", "content": "Management of unexpected ovarian dermoid cyst during laparoscopy for oocyte pickup. In conclusion, management of unexpected SDT during OPU include the following therapeutic goals: (1) complete eradication of the tumor to eliminate the remote possibility of malignancy and recurrence; (2) performance of adequate peritoneal lavage to prevent chemical peritonitis; (3) conservation of the maximum amount of functional ovarian tissue; and (4) exclusion of the possibility of dermoid cyst in the contralateral ovary. If laparoscopic drainage of a SDT, marsupialization, and adequate fulguration of cystic wall provide a low incidence of recurrence, the risk of oophorectomy and the necessity of laparotomy will be avoided. The aspirate contents should be examined and histopathologic confirmation of the clinical diagnosis and exclusion of a malignant process should always be performed. The laparoscopic approach must be investigated further to determine its efficacy compared with the conventional approach."}
{"id": "2954339", "title": "[Endometriosis within the scope of sterility treatment].", "content": "[Endometriosis within the scope of sterility treatment]. Endometriosis is one of the most frequent diseases in connection with female sterility, 3.2 per cent endometriosis was diagnosed in all operative cases from 1964 to 1984 but in all cases of sterility there were 10.8 per cent. Essentially these were cases of severe endometriosis genitalis externa (78.6 per cent) according to the Acosta-classification. The rate of recoquition of endometriosis as a possible reason for sterility has been increased from 2.4 per cent to 9.9 per cent since the general introduction of laparoscopy into the diagnosis of hitherto unsolved cases of sterility in 1980. A combined laparoscopic-hormonal therapy pattern is presented here. A corrected pregnancy rate below 30% after endometriosis therapy indicates that there are much more possibilities for therapy of this diseases."}
{"id": "2950349", "title": "Treatment of endometriosis with a long-acting gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist.", "content": "Treatment of endometriosis with a long-acting gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist. Sixteen women with endometriosis were treated with daily subcutaneous injections of a potent agonist of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) for six months. Ovarian estrogen secretion was reduced to castrate levels during most of the course of treatment. Blinded evaluation of laparoscopic photographs confirmed marked suppression of visually apparent disease, but biopsy specimens showed occult, inactive endometriosis in most cases. Marked pain relief was noted by all patients. As a result of this \"medical oophorectomy,\" the women experienced severe hot flashes, and many had insomnia and emotional disturbances. Vaginal cytology showed menopausal changes but related symptoms were generally mild. Calcium excretion rose to menopausal levels. High-density lipoprotein and total cholesterol remained unchanged. These results indicate that GnRH agonist administration has impressive effects on endometriotic implants, and these actions may be enhanced with longer therapy. Further development of this new form of therapy should involve either use of lesser degrees of ovarian suppression or adjunctive therapy to counter the side effects of \"medical oophorectomy.\""}
{"id": "2950002", "title": "A laparoscopic approach to a program of gamete intrafallopian transfer.", "content": "A laparoscopic approach to a program of gamete intrafallopian transfer. Gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT) provides an effective method of achieving pregnancy in infertile women with normal fallopian tubes. Laparoscopic approach to ovum pickup and tubal catheterization provides a simple and rapid means of performing the operation. Equipment used to facilitate this process is described, and techniques of tubal catheterization are discussed. A clinical pregnancy rate of 27% is reported in a series of 71 treatment cycles. The application of GIFT in conjunction with in vitro fertilization is discussed, especially the use of excess gametes to provide embryos for freezing. The use of GIFT as a research and investigative tool may provide further insight into the causes for idiopathic infertility."}
{"id": "2949998", "title": "Argon laser therapy of endometriosis: a review of 92 consecutive patients.", "content": "Argon laser therapy of endometriosis: a review of 92 consecutive patients. The conception rate, relief of pain, and safety of argon laser photocoagulation of endometriosis were evaluated in 92 patients. All patients were treated at the time of diagnosis with the argon laser delivered through a flexible quartz fiber passed through the operating channel of a standard and unmodified laparoscope. The uncorrected pregnancy rate was 34% (19 of 56), with 64% of the pregnancies occurring within 6 months of therapy. The conception rate was slightly greater in women with infertility of 24 months or less and in women without other fertility factors. Ninety-two percent of 50 women with pelvic pain reported a reduction of their pain after treatment. The argon laser is an effective, simple, and safe alternative for the treatment of mild or moderate endometriosis."}
{"id": "2885289", "title": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy and salpingo-oophorectomy in the treatment of benign tubo-ovarian disease.", "content": "Laparoscopic oophorectomy and salpingo-oophorectomy in the treatment of benign tubo-ovarian disease. Laparoscopic oophorectomy or salpingo-oophorectomy was performed in 24 women using bipolar coagulation followed by scissors division of the infundibulopelvic ligament, the utero-ovarian ligament, and the broad ligament. Indications were pelvic pain secondary to ovarian adhesions from previous hysterectomy (nine cases, four with palpable masses), pelvic pain secondary to ovarian endometrioma (six cases, three with endometrioma greater than 10 cm); postmenopausal palpable ovary (five cases); pelvic mass secondary to dermoid cyst (one case); pelvic pain and mass secondary to large hydrosalpinx and ovarian endometrioma (two cases), and bilateral ovarian ablation for autoimmune disease (one case). There were no intraoperative or late complications. Relative safety of the procedure is acknowledged, with emphasis placed on meticulous surgical technique and knowledge of retroperitoneal anatomy."}
{"id": "2842092", "title": "Ultrasound evaluation in the follow-up of ovarian cancer today.", "content": "Ultrasound evaluation in the follow-up of ovarian cancer today. From October 1982 through December 1986, standardized abdominal-pelvic sonography was performed on 257 patients with ovarian cancer scheduled to undergo surgery (laparoscopy, laparotomy). This U.S. test was evaluated by a gynaecologist who was informed of the clinical diagnosis and the findings of physical examination. The Authors selected 110 patients with ovarian cancer, underwent a second look laparotomy, for both diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. The sensitivity (53%), the specificity (68%), the predictive value (78%) and the accuracy 71.8%) of ultrasound for detecting disease have been evaluated to assess its usefulness as a non invasive diagnostic modality in these patients."}
{"id": "2443235", "title": "Pros and cons of gynecologic tumor markers.", "content": "Pros and cons of gynecologic tumor markers. The use of a tumor marker not only depends upon its sensitivity and specificity, but also upon its ability to influence decisions between alternative plans for patient management. Use of beta human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) for monitoring gestational trophoblastic neoplasia has set the standard to which other assays must be compared. Beta hCG and alphafetoprotein have provided useful markers for ovarian germ cell tumors. Recently, a monoclonal antibody-based immunoassay for CA 125 antigen has been used to monitor the treatment of epithelial ovarian carcinomas. Persistent elevation of CA 125 in serum has generally reflected persistence of disease at second look surveillance procedures. CA 125 levels can, however, return to within normal limits and residual disease can be found at laparoscopy or laparotomy. CA 125 shows promise for distinguishing benign from malignant pelvic masses. Trials are currently underway to evaluate the potential of CA 125 in combination with other markers to facilitate earlier detection of occult ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "3945444", "title": "Endometriosis: pathogenetic implications of the anatomic distribution.", "content": "Endometriosis: pathogenetic implications of the anatomic distribution. The authors have reassessed the anatomic distribution of ectopic endometrium by the laparoscopic study of the location of implants, adhesions, and uterine position in 182 consecutive patients with infertility and endometriosis. The ovary was the most common site of implants with 54.9% having either unilateral or bilateral involvement. This was followed, in order of frequency, by the posterior broad ligament (35.2%), the anterior cul-de-sac (34.6%), the posterior cul-de-sac (34.0%), and the uterosacral ligament (28.0%). Adhesion formation followed the same anatomic distribution. No patients were noted to have endometriosis of the cervix and vagina. Endometriosis of the anterior compartment (anterior cul-de-sac, anterior broad ligament, and anterior uterine serosa) was significantly more common in patients with anterior uteri (40.7%) versus patients with posterior uteri (11.8%, P less than .0005). Exclusive anterior compartment disease was found only in patients with anterior uteri, and significantly more commonly in patients with severely anteflexed uteri (P less than .005). These data suggest that factors influencing implantation of retrograde menstrual debris include: the dependent pooling of peritoneal fluid as affected by uterine position; epithelial cell type at the site of implantation; unique ovarian susceptibility; route of entry; and mobility of the pelvic structures. The data support the Sampson hypothesis of retrograde menstruation as the primary model of development of endometriosis."}
{"id": "3943758", "title": "Stage II invasive adenocarcinoma of the ovary: results of treatment by whole abdominal radiation plus pelvic boost versus pelvic radiation plus oral melphalan chemotherapy.", "content": "Stage II invasive adenocarcinoma of the ovary: results of treatment by whole abdominal radiation plus pelvic boost versus pelvic radiation plus oral melphalan chemotherapy. Thirty-one patients with histologically confirmed FIGO Stage II adenocarcinoma of the ovary were prospectively treated in two sequential studies: 3000 rad of whole abdominal radiation therapy over 6 weeks by an open field technique followed by 2000 rad pelvic boost over 2 weeks (group 1, 16 patients, 1972-1974) or 5000 rad of pelvic radiation therapy over 5 weeks followed by a year of melphalan chemotherapy at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg/day for 5 days every 4 weeks (group 2, 15 patients, 1975-1982). Abdominal radiation included the entire peritoneal cavity and both diaphragms; the liver was not shielded. Only 2 patients had residual disease greater than 2 cm. No group 1 patients underwent pretherapy restaging laparoscopy prior to radiation or second look laparotomy after treatment. Eighty percent of group 2 patients underwent restaging laparoscopy (10) or staging laparotomy (2) prior to radiation. All group 2 patients underwent second look procedures if no evidence of disease. No patient developed intestinal complications secondary to radiation requiring surgery. Eighty-one percent of group 1 patients and to date 40% of group 2 patients developed recurrences. Size of residual disease prior to radiation, histologic grade, and substage (IIA, B, or C) did not correlate with recurrences. Five-year estimated survival was 40 and 50% for groups 1 and 2, respectively. Three thousand rad of wole abdominal radiation plus 2000 rad pelvic boost or 5000 rad pelvic radiation plus melphalan did not appear to improve survival over surgery alone. The role of radiation therapy in Stage II ovarian cancer remains unclear."}
{"id": "3513245", "title": "Ovarian carcinoma follow-up: US versus laparotomy.", "content": "Ovarian carcinoma follow-up: US versus laparotomy. Ultrasound (US) was compared with surgical findings in 98 patients with carcinoma of the ovary undergoing follow-up laparotomy after chemotherapy. US had an overall accuracy of 94% in the pelvis, with only small and sheetlike lesions escaping detection. It was more sensitive than clinical examination. Overall accuracy for the liver was 91% with very few false-positive results. For the peritoneal cavity in general, however, accuracy was low, with even large masses escaping detection. Ascites is reliably detected (accuracy of 97%) but is a poor indicator of peritoneal involvement. US is a useful noninvasive complement to laparoscopy in the follow-up of patients with carcinoma of the ovary."}
{"id": "3457709", "title": "Elevated serum concentrations of CA-125 in patients with advanced endometriosis.", "content": "Elevated serum concentrations of CA-125 in patients with advanced endometriosis. CA-125 is a high-molecular-weight glycoprotein that is expressed on the cell surface of some derivatives of embryonic coelomic epithelium. Based on results of an immunoradiometric assay developed to detect CA-125 in peripheral blood, 82% of patients with ovarian cancer and less than 1% of apparently healthy controls have elevated peripheral blood levels of CA-125. Because endometriotic lesions are likely to be derivatives of embryonic coelomic epithelium, the authors investigated serum CA-125 levels in patients with endometriosis. Preoperative serum CA-125 concentrations were measured in 147 patients undergoing diagnostic laparoscopy or laparotomy. Serum CA-125 concentrations were elevated in patients with stage III or IV endometriosis, compared with controls with negative diagnostic laparoscopies (66.5 +/- 14.5 versus 8.20 +/- 0.59 U/ml, mean +/- standard error of the mean; P less than 0.001). Fifty-four percent of patients with stage III or IV endometriosis and 0% of the controls had CA-125 levels greater than 35 U/ml. Occasional patients with stage II endometriosis (13%), leiomyomata uteri (14%), and chronic pelvic inflammatory disease (5%) also had serum CA-125 concentrations greater than 35 U/ml. Immunocytochemical techniques demonstrated the presence of CA-125 on the cell surface of endometriotic lesions."}
{"id": "2953046", "title": "[Laparoscopic control of the clinical diagnosis of grades III and IV ovarian cancer based on the FIGO classification].", "content": "[Laparoscopic control of the clinical diagnosis of grades III and IV ovarian cancer based on the FIGO classification]."}
{"id": "2950272", "title": "[Laparoscopic results in adhesion disease].", "content": "[Laparoscopic results in adhesion disease]."}
{"id": "2950008", "title": "The differences between findings at laparoscopy and at subsequent fertility surgery.", "content": "The differences between findings at laparoscopy and at subsequent fertility surgery. In a series of 42 patients, the findings during fertility microsurgery were compared to the findings at both laparoscopy performed by referring gynaecologists and re-laparoscopy performed in our regimen. Since significantly fewer discrepancies were found in the latter group, this re-laparoscopy may be considered useful and justified. The importance of meticulous laparoscopy is emphasized."}
{"id": "2948971", "title": "Use of immunocytochemical staining to identify cells in peritoneal fluid and washings at laparoscopy and laparotomy.", "content": "Use of immunocytochemical staining to identify cells in peritoneal fluid and washings at laparoscopy and laparotomy. Specimens of peritoneal fluid or peritoneal washings from a series of 106 patients who had had laparotomy or laparoscopy for gynaecological complaints were studied \"blind\" by conventional cytology and immunocytochemical staining. The antibodies used were Ca 1 or Ca 2, anti-CEA, and HMFG-2 or E29. All these are directed against epithelial antigens and are expressed on most malignant epithelial cells and weakly or not at all on mesothelial cells. It was hoped that these reactions would confirm diagnoses made by conventional cytology and possibly show malignant cells which had not already been identified. Of 28 patients with malignant disease (chosen to exclude any with frank ascites), eight gave positive immunochemical reactions, only four having been reported positive from conventional examination. Of 77 patients without malignant disease, HMFG-2 or E29 gave positive reactions in seven, Ca 1 or Ca 2 in two, and anti-CEA in two (reactions with plasma cells being disregarded). Some misleading reactions were probably due to endometrial cells. It was concluded that the antibodies used in this study are not sufficiently specific or sensitive to allow immunocytochemical staining to replace conventional cytological diagnosis but are a useful supplementary aid."}
{"id": "2948369", "title": "Ovarian cyst fenestration via the laparoscope. A laparoscopic method for treatment of non-neoplastic ovarian cysts.", "content": "Ovarian cyst fenestration via the laparoscope. A laparoscopic method for treatment of non-neoplastic ovarian cysts. A laparoscopic method of managing macroscopically benign, unilateral, unilocular, mobile, translucent, and smooth-walled ovarian cysts in women of reproductive age is described. The method requires the cutting of a window in the cyst wall through the laparoscope fenestration. In preference to aspiration at laparoscopy or removal at laparotomy, this method has the advantage of ensuring histologic material as well as permanent drainage by the use of atraumatic surgical technique. Nineteen cysts were fenestrated laparoscopically. Four cysts could not be classified, two owing to lack of histologic material, two owing to malpreparation of the selected cyst tissue. In one case an epithelial cyst--a mucinous cystadenoma, being laparoscopically unsuspected--was fenestrated. One cyst recurred. By observing the above criteria it is possible and tolerably safe to select non-neoplastic cysts, for which fenestration should be reserved."}
{"id": "2947247", "title": "Round table discussion of endometriosis and its treatment.", "content": "Round table discussion of endometriosis and its treatment."}
{"id": "2944387", "title": "Mature solid teratoma associated with gliomatosis peritonei.", "content": "Mature solid teratoma associated with gliomatosis peritonei."}
{"id": "2943896", "title": "Treatment of ovarian endometriomas using laparoscopic surgical techniques.", "content": "Treatment of ovarian endometriomas using laparoscopic surgical techniques. Seventy-nine cases of ovarian endometrioma were treated via the laparoscope. The surgical technique gradually evolved from drainage alone to fulguration and finally to excision of the endometrioma cyst wall. Indications for laparoscopy were infertility (35 cases), pain (33), hypermenorrhea (5) and pelvic mass (4); the condition was an incidental finding in 2 cases. There were no intraoperative or postoperative complications. The long-term results, especially the fertility outcome, have been promising: 12 of 20 women (60%) achieved a term pregnancy following a laparoscopic endometrioma procedure alone. Of the eight women with endometriomas who did not conceive, six had well-documented male factor infertility."}
{"id": "2942815", "title": "Tumor implantation after diagnostic laparoscopic biopsy of serous ovarian tumors of low malignant potential.", "content": "Tumor implantation after diagnostic laparoscopic biopsy of serous ovarian tumors of low malignant potential. Two cases of tumor implants occurring in the abdominal trocar sites after diagnostic laparoscopic biopsies of ovarian papillary serous tumors of low malignant potential are presented. To the authors' knowledge, there have been no previous reports to describe tumor implants in the abdominal trocar sites after diagnostic laparoscopic biopsies of ovarian tumors of low malignant potential."}
{"id": "2942812", "title": "Interval laparoscopy as predictor of response to chemotherapy in ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Interval laparoscopy as predictor of response to chemotherapy in ovarian carcinoma. Fifty-one patients with FIGO stage III and IV ovarian adenocarcinoma underwent six-month interval laparoscopy for assessment of chemotherapy response. Thirty-nine of these patients were followed by a second-look procedure at 12 months or to disease progression if it occurred earlier. A positive interval laparoscopy was predictive of disease in 91% of patients, whereas a negative interval laparoscopy showed absence of disease at second look in only 70.5% of patients. A positive laparoscopic biopsy at six months showed presence of disease at second look procedure in 100% (11 of 11) of patients. It is concluded that either an intensive initial chemotherapy or change in therapy such as intraperitoneal chemotherapy after positive interval laparoscopy is indicated in future studies."}
{"id": "2942801", "title": "[Role of cyto-histology in the surgical \"restaging\" of ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Role of cyto-histology in the surgical \"restaging\" of ovarian cancer]."}
{"id": "2941921", "title": "[Selective venous catheterization in the evaluation of androgenism].", "content": "[Selective venous catheterization in the evaluation of androgenism]. In cases of rapidly increasing androgenism, virilism and androgenetic cycle disturbances it is essential to exclude the presence of an androgen-producing tumour. Serum levels of testosterone above 1.5 ng/ml and dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate values above 6700 ng/ml are suggestive of tumour. Functional tests, laparoscopy and imaging modalities are often less efficient. Selective vein catheterisation enables the diagnosis and localisation of such hormone-producing neoplasms (Kirschner and Jacobs, 1971). This paper presents the case report of the diagnosis of a Leyding cell tumour of the right ovary by means of selective vein catheterisation. The tumour was not palpable and had not been detected on laparoscopy. The procedure is extensively described and discussed."}
{"id": "2941187", "title": "Gonadal and adrenal androgen secretion in hirsute females.", "content": "Gonadal and adrenal androgen secretion in hirsute females. The pathophysiology of glandular androgen hypersecretion must be regarded as a continuous process without sharp borderlines from normal to non-tumorous conditions, such as polycystic ovaries and hyperthecosis, to neoplastic disease. Hirsutism and related symptoms are most often caused by excess androgens of ovarian and/or adrenal origin, i.e. testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, delta 4-androstenedione, dehydroepiandrosterone and its sulphate. As demonstrated by selective catheterization of glandular effluents, combined hypersecretion occurs more frequently then either purely gonadal or adrenal overproduction. No correlation can be found between the type, frequency and extent of hormonal changes and the clinical, laparoscopic, angiographic, or histological findings. Dynamic function tests do not reliably discriminate between the various aetiological subgroups due to extremely variable and even non-specific individual responsiveness. Selective catheterization is presently the most sensitive method for the preoperative identification and localization of androgen-secreting neoplasms."}
{"id": "2940776", "title": "[Analysis of 35,013 gynecologic laparoscopies (East German survey). 2].", "content": "[Analysis of 35,013 gynecologic laparoscopies (East German survey). 2]. In 81 women's hospital, in which 35,013 gynaecological laparoscopies were made, 42.9% of the specialists are able to perform laparoscopies by themselves. 51.9% of the questioned hospital directors recommend learning how to perform laparoscopies during specialization, and 48.1% plead for laparoscopy training only for gynaecologic specialists. 64.2% of the questioned ones were in favour of laparoscopy courses. Performance of diagnostic laparoscopies was recommended for all gynaecological institutions by 82.7%. In the opinion of the majority (74.8%) operative laparoscopies should be done only in larger central hospitals. It was generally agreed that chronic diseases of the lower abdomen, sterility and suspected ectopic pregnancy are indications for laparoscopy. Other acute complaints have been diagnosed less frequently by means of laparoscopy. Second-look-laparoscopies were made by 59.3% and 55.6% of the questioned doctors, mainly for checking the situation operations because of ovarian cancer and sterility. In 61.1% of all hospitals other diagnostic and therapeutic operations per laparoscopiam are done. The rate of severe complications was 0.21%, and the mortality rate amounted to 0.057%."}
{"id": "2423378", "title": "CA-125 levels in endometriosis.", "content": "CA-125 levels in endometriosis. CA-125 is a cellular antigen detected in many patients with ovarian cancer, but it has also been detected in patients with endometriosis. Preoperative CA-125 levels were drawn from 113 patients before they underwent laparoscopy. Patients were categorized into diagnostic groups on the basis of pathologic findings. CA-125 levels in patients with evidence of intraabdominal adhesions were not statistically different from those in patients with normal pelvic anatomy. However, patients with advanced endometriosis had significantly elevated levels of CA-125 when compared with patients with normal pelvic anatomy (P less than 0.05). The clinical and immunologic implications of elevated CA-125 levels in patients with advanced endometriosis are discussed."}
{"id": "4044628", "title": "Diagnosis of primary adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube.", "content": "Diagnosis of primary adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube. Primary carcinoma of the fallopian tube is rare, but still occurs frequently enough to warrant consideration when certain specific symptoms are present. It is also possible to diagnose the tumor correctly if, in the presence of certain symptoms, the following diagnostic tools are used in addition to repeated Pap smears and dilatation and curettage: hysteroscopy, cervical biopsy, colposcopy, laparoscopy, laparotomy, and pathological examination of every tubal specimen."}
{"id": "4040673", "title": "Accuracy of the double contrast enema in evaluation of the abdominal diffusion of ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Accuracy of the double contrast enema in evaluation of the abdominal diffusion of ovarian carcinoma. The results of 103 double contrast enemas in 72 patients with ovarian carcinoma (stage III and IV) were compared with laparoscopic and/or laparotomic findings at comparable times. The evaluation of the validity of radiology in detecting the presence of abdominal disease showed an 84% overall accuracy, 75% specificity and 86% sensitivity. The accuracy in detecting signs of adhesion and parietal infiltration of the large bowel was 76.3%, due to the limited size of most of the lesions. Forty-seven of the 72 patients underwent a double contrast enema and laparoscopy during presurgical staging: accuracy in detecting lesions was the same for both examinations (80.4%). When double contrast enema and laparoscopy were used together in the evaluation of abdominal extension of the disease, the diagnostic accuracy rose to 93.6%."}
{"id": "4017325", "title": "Torsion of the adnexa.", "content": "Torsion of the adnexa. Adnexal torsion is an interesting, uncommon, and potentially lethal condition that may arise most unexpectedly in women of any age, but particularly during the reproductive years. It is generally unilateral and may involve either normal or pathologically enlarged ovary or tube, or both organs. The condition may be partial or complete, the latter often resulting in gangrene and marked exacerbation of symptoms. If untreated, it may progress to necrosis and gangrene, followed by peritonitis, which may be lethal. Prompt diagnosis, in which timely diagnostic laparoscopy and ultrasound evaluation of the pelvis may be helpful, provides the opportunity for prompt laparotomy with untwisting of the torsion and stabilization of the adnexa by suture and cystectomy, if possible, extirpation if not. Organ conservation requires a clear need to preserve reproductive or ovarian function, so cystectomy is generally preferable to oophorectomy."}
{"id": "4014339", "title": "Adnexal torsion.", "content": "Adnexal torsion. A series of 128 cases of adnexal torsion and an additional 97 cases where the preoperative diagnosis of torsion was incorrect are reviewed. The diagnosis is uncertain and surgical intervention is likely to be delayed. The adnexa are seldom salvaged despite the fact that torsion infrequently involves a malignant neoplasm. Laparoscopy is an effective means of reducing the number of necessary laparotomies when a diagnosis of torsion is uncertain."}
{"id": "3979574", "title": "Treatment of endometriosis with danazol: report of a 6-year prospective study.", "content": "Treatment of endometriosis with danazol: report of a 6-year prospective study. Presented are the results of a 6-year prospective study designed to evaluate the effectiveness of danazol for the treatment of endometriosis. Ninety-six patients completed 6 months of therapy at a dosage of 800 mg daily, and 107 patients completed therapy with 400 mg daily. No difference was reported in the incidence of side effects, regardless of dosage. Gross resolution of disease (as determined by second-look laparotomy or laparoscopy) was evaluated in 110 patients and found to be similar, regardless of dosage. Ovarian endometriosis greater than 1 cm was observed to respond significantly less well to danazol than peritoneal or ovarian disease less than 1 cm. Pregnancy rates for 157 patients with no other discernible causes of infertility were slightly higher for the 800-mg danazol regimen than for the 400-mg regimen. In patients with mild disease, the use of danazol alone resulted in pregnancy rates lower than those achieved with conservative surgery alone. Its use preoperatively for all stages of disease resulted in slightly higher pregnancy rates than when conservative surgery alone was employed. Danazol was less effective when used postoperatively. No differences were observed between three classification schemes in their ability to predict subsequent prognosis for conception."}
{"id": "3970088", "title": "A case report of primary adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube.", "content": "A case report of primary adenocarcinoma of the fallopian tube. The apparently smallest primary adenocarcinoma (2.3 mm in diameter) of the fallopian tube ever described was diagnosed by repeated blind sectioning of the surgical specimen after the preoperative finding of an abnormal cervical Papanicolaou smear and the subsequent finding of abnormal cells in fluid obtained by laparoscopic peritoneal lavage, although a survey of the patient for a primary cancer was negative."}
{"id": "3161807", "title": "Validity and limitations of ultrasonography in monitoring therapeutic response in ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Validity and limitations of ultrasonography in monitoring therapeutic response in ovarian carcinoma. The effectiveness of ultrasound in the follow-up of tumor masses during chemotherapy was investigated over a period of 3 years in 74 patients with proven ovarian cancer. 47 had stage 3 disease, and 22 showed recurrence. Two or more examinations were performed in 65% of the patient. A correlation with surgical second look showed a correct diagnosis in 67.6%. The results of ultrasonographic follow-up when compared with clinical monitoring showed 75% concordant judgments on the therapeutical tumor response. The validity and limitations of this technique are discussed."}
{"id": "3161735", "title": "CT analysis of ovarian tumors: correlations with laparoscopical and surgical findings.", "content": "CT analysis of ovarian tumors: correlations with laparoscopical and surgical findings. This study concerns a selected group of 21 patients with ovarian carcinoma in whom CT, laparotomy, and laparoscopy findings could be compared. Considering the loco-regional and distant abdominal sites of involvement, the limits and possibilities of CT in diagnosis and follow-up are outlined."}
{"id": "3160189", "title": "[Treatment of ovarian cancer with combined operative, radiologic and cytostatic therapy].", "content": "[Treatment of ovarian cancer with combined operative, radiologic and cytostatic therapy]. It is reported about significant superior results of two years of the combined ovarian cancer treatment in contrast to operation and chemotherapy. Our therapy is the combination of operation, great field radiation technique, chemotherapy and second-look-operation. The remission of two years: Stage I: 64%, stage II: 50%, stage III: 45% and stage IV: -Only in stage IV no improvement can be achieved by addition of the radiation therapy."}
{"id": "3157319", "title": "Predictive value of CA 125 antigen levels in second-look procedures for ovarian cancer.", "content": "Predictive value of CA 125 antigen levels in second-look procedures for ovarian cancer. Serum CA 125 levels were evaluated in 44 patients undergoing 56 second-look or subsequent laparoscopies (43) and laparotomies (13) for ovarian cancer. In each patient studied, a previous CA 125 level had been greater than or equal to 35 U/ml. Clinical or radiologic evidence of tumor was absent in all patients at the time of surgical evaluation. CA 125 levels were less than 35 U/ml in 36 cases (64%); 14 patients were free of tumor, while 22 were found to have tumor at surgery. CA 125 levels were greater than or equal to 35 U/ml in 20 cases; 18 had tumor at surgery, one has had recurrence of tumor, and the other remains clinically free of tumor at 3 months. A CA 125 level less than 35 U/ml was not predictive of the presence of intraperitoneal tumor; however, when tumor was present in this group of patients, the largest tumor mass did not exceed 1 cm. In contrast, a CA 125 level greater than or equal to 35 U/ml was a strong predictor of the presence of intraperitoneal tumor or future recurrence. These data suggest that second-look procedures may not be required in the select group of patients with CA 125 levels greater than or equal to 35 U/ml."}
{"id": "3156313", "title": "Clinically localized ovarian cancer. Progress in management.", "content": "Clinically localized ovarian cancer. Progress in management. A decade ago the five-year survival rate in patients with stage I ovarian carcinoma was only 60% to 70%. Significant advances in staging and treatment, however, promise an improvement. Initially, improvement will be seen because some patients with clinically localized ovarian cancer will be discovered to have subclinical or occult metastasis at initial surgical staging and thus will be upstaged and treated appropriately for more advanced disease. More encouraging are results of recent studies on adjuvant therapy, which indicate that in some patients the need for postoperative adjuvant therapy may be obviated. A major advance in diagnosis would be development of a serum test specific for ovarian cancer--a discovery that may be forthcoming."}
{"id": "3155643", "title": "Prognosis of surgically determined complete responders in advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Prognosis of surgically determined complete responders in advanced ovarian cancer. From January 1971 through December 1981, 246 patients with advanced (Stages III and IV) epithelial ovarian cancer underwent second-look laparotomy at The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute at Houston. Eighty-five of these patients had a complete response (negative second-look laparotomy) following treatment with a variety of chemotherapeutic regimens. Three patients had also received irradiation. Patients were analyzed according to pretreatment characteristics (age, FIGO stage, ascites, pleural effusion, histologic grade, tumor type, type of surgery, residual tumor diameter, initial clinical status) and by the number of biopsy specimens taken at second-look laparotomy. The probability of recurrence and the length of survival following a negative second-look laparotomy are statistically related to these characteristics. Twenty of the 85 patients (24%) developed recurrent disease 5 to 32 months after laparotomy. The estimated 2- and 5-year survival rates are 99% and 85%, respectively. Patients who achieve a surgically determined complete response have an excellent chance for long-term survival."}
{"id": "2944791", "title": "[Evaluation of the abdominal cavity using a laparofibroscope ].", "content": "[Evaluation of the abdominal cavity using a laparofibroscope ]."}
{"id": "2935446", "title": "[Preoperative laparoscopy for determination of the surgical approach].", "content": "[Preoperative laparoscopy for determination of the surgical approach]. 131 selected patients underwent preoperative laparoscopy directly before surgery and under the same anaesthesia during the period 1981-1984. In all 131 patients several findings were present in combined form that would have permitted abdominal surgery only, provided laparoscopy had not been performed. 49 patients were operated upon via the abdominal approach even though they had been subjected to laparoscopy. In 82 patients, the more favourable vaginal approach was rendered complicated by additional findings (in 22, antefixating preliminary operations on the uterus after Dol\u00e9ris or Baldy; in 29, cystic adnexal tumours; in 31, adhesions or unclear conditions of pain following known or unknown previous surgery). By preceding surgery by laparoscopy it became possible to treat these patients in such a manner that the subsequent vaginal operation was without risk and free from complications. Preoperative laparoscopy extends, enables and safeguards the indication for vaginal surgical approach if used with the necessary critical discrimination."}
{"id": "2935036", "title": "[Endoscopic diagnosis of tumor diseases of the genitalia].", "content": "[Endoscopic diagnosis of tumor diseases of the genitalia]."}
{"id": "2934291", "title": "[Dysgerminoma of the ovary in pregnancy. A case report].", "content": "[Dysgerminoma of the ovary in pregnancy. A case report]. A case of dysgerminoma of the ovary in a 36-year-old woman in her 10th week of gestation is reported. Hysterectomy, bilateral adnectomy and omentectomy was performed followed by radiation therapy of the pelvis and paraaortic region. Until now only about 60 cases of ovarian dysgerminoma during pregnancy have been described in literature. The tumour was rarely detected within the first trimester. In these cases the safety of the patient should rank higher than the pregnancy itself."}
{"id": "2578611", "title": "Common epithelial cancer of the ovary (2).", "content": "Common epithelial cancer of the ovary (2)."}
{"id": "6715399", "title": "Diagnosis and staging of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Diagnosis and staging of ovarian cancer. The diagnostic process in ovarian carcinoma is divided into the pre- and intraoperative procedures, examinations of tumor tissue, and follow-up. For preoperative diagnosis, the probability of a palpable adnexal mass being a malignant tumor should first be ascertained by sonography. This should be followed by an appropriate general examination, a search for tumor outside the abdominal cavity and in the liver parenchyma as well as by determination of markers. Intraoperative diagnosis determines the tumor stage and must be carried out all the more comprehensively when the ovarian carcinoma is more limited. Histologic subtype and degree of differentiation are in direct relation to the tumor stage, whereas the size of the primary tumor is often indirectly proportional to its extent. Besides the morphological analysis, the determination of possible chemoresistance and chemosensitivity, as well as further investigations on fresh tumor tissue are included in the tissue examination. Follow-up after a curative operation consists of gynecologic examination and Douglas lavages if tumor is still present in CT Scans and sonographs. To verify a relapse, laparoscopy can be used, but to ascertain a complete remission, a laparotomy is necessary."}
{"id": "6587710", "title": "Aspiration cytology of ovarian neoplasms. A review.", "content": "Aspiration cytology of ovarian neoplasms. A review. Unlike other gynecologic tumors, which are accessible to inspection and biopsy, ovarian neoplasms are located within the pelvis or abdomen and are reachable only by laparoscopy or exploratory laparotomy. Because of its simplicity, fine needle aspiration cytology may be used as an alternative to surgical procedures. However, because of the great variety of tumor types in the ovary, cytologic interpretation of aspirates from that organ represents one of the most challenging fields in diagnostic cytology. Nevertheless, as clinicians become more experienced in using this technique and pathologists gain confidence in their ability to evaluate samples correctly, aspiration cytology may prove to be one of the most valuable and acceptable tools in the diagnosis of tumors of the female pelvis."}
{"id": "6504419", "title": "Chromosomal complements in primary gonadal failure.", "content": "Chromosomal complements in primary gonadal failure. Twenty-nine patients underwent clinical, hormonal, endoscopic, and cytogenetic studies to determine the cause of primary amenorrhea or delayed sexual development. In 19 of them (mean age 17.6 years), the X chromosome was either missing or anomalous. In ten patients (mean age 25.5 years), the chromosomal complement was normal, 46 XX in six patients and 46 XY in four patients. Those with abnormal chromosomal complements were shorter (mean height, 141.9 cm) than patients with normal complements (158.7 cm). Somatic stigmas were observed more frequently in patients with chromosomally abnormal primary gonadal failure. In 23 patients (79.3%), the gonads were streaks, with fibrous stroma devoid of either follicles or tubules containing germ cells. In three patients the ovaries were hypoplastic, with few primordial follicles. Gonadoblastoma was present in two patients with XY and mixed XX/X/XY gonadal dysgenesis. In every patient with streak gonads and lack of germ cells, serum gonadotropin levels were elevated. Karyotype, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) assays, and eventually laparoscopy and gonadal biopsy are important in the management of patients with primary gonadal failure."}
{"id": "6485624", "title": "[Bilateral gonadoblastoma in a case of Turner syndrome with 40,XO monosomy].", "content": "[Bilateral gonadoblastoma in a case of Turner syndrome with 40,XO monosomy]. A case of bilateral gonadoblastomas in a 45,XO patient with features of Turner's syndrome is presented. The case stresses the importance of a careful laparoscopic evaluation of the pelvic cavity and a biopsy of both streak gonades is strongly recommended also in patients with 45,XO karyotype."}
{"id": "6469089", "title": "The second-look celiotomy in ovarian cancer.", "content": "The second-look celiotomy in ovarian cancer. Thirty-six patients with primary ovarian carcinoma who had 42 second-look procedures performed are reported. Twenty-three patients had no tumor found at the second-look celiotomy and were given no further treatment. Thirteen patients had tumor at the second-look procedure and were continued on therapy. Six patients have died with disease and all had a positive second-look celiotomy. Two patients have died with leukemia but with no evidence of ovarian cancer, one after a negative second-look and the other a negative third-look. No patient with a negative second-look celiotomy has died with disease. A correlation with respect to the findings at the second-look was found with respect to the stage of disease and the amount of residual tumor at the initial surgery. The use of the second-look celiotomy in patients with disease in the early stages and in patients treated with irradiation is discussed, along with the utilization of the laparoscopy."}
{"id": "6439408", "title": "Cisplatin-MECY (methotrexate-leucovorin rescue plus cyclophosphamide) versus cisplatin-CHAD (cyclophosphamide, hexamethylmelamine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin) as initial chemotherapy in stage III-IV ovarian adenocarcinoma.", "content": "Cisplatin-MECY (methotrexate-leucovorin rescue plus cyclophosphamide) versus cisplatin-CHAD (cyclophosphamide, hexamethylmelamine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin) as initial chemotherapy in stage III-IV ovarian adenocarcinoma. Thirty-three patients with advanced-stage ovarian adenocarcinomas, with no prior chemotherapy, were treated with weekly cisplatin (DDP) for four courses followed by five monthly courses of one of two randomly assigned multidrug combinations. These combinations were high-dose methotrexate-leucovorin plus cyclophosphamide (MECY) or cyclophosphamide, hexamethylmelamine, doxorubicin, and DDP (CHAD). Patients with no clinically measurable disease after 6 months of therapy were evaluated by laparoscopy. In the absence of disease progression at the time of the laparoscopy the study design called for a repeat cycle of four weekly DDP courses and another five monthly courses of the assigned multidrug combination. All patients with no evidence of disease after 1 year of treatment had a second-look laparoscopy which, if negative, was followed by a second-look laparotomy. This report includes all of the consecutively entered patients observed for a minimum of 1 year or to death. DDP-MECY and DDP-CHAD were similarly active for overall response rates and complete response rates according to laparoscopic criteria. However, DDP-MECY had a statistically significantly lower relapse rate (P less than 0.02) and a statistically significantly higher negative second-look laparotomy rate than did DDP-CHAD. Using all entered patients, with no exclusions from analysis, eight of 17 patients (47%) treated with DDP-MECY had negative second-looks after 1 year of treatment. This compares with one of 16 (6%) negative second-looks in patients treated with DDP-CHAD (P less than 0.02). The high negative second-look rate with DDP-MECY is exciting. Positive cytologic washings at the 6-month laparoscopic evaluation were highly predictive that residual disease would be found at the 1-year second-look surgery. Only one patient with positive peritoneal cytology after 6 months of treatment was found to have a negative second-look after 1 year of therapy."}
{"id": "6396538", "title": "[New advances in gynecologic diagnosis and therapy].", "content": "[New advances in gynecologic diagnosis and therapy]. Over the last 30 years, enormous advances have been made in all fields of gynecology. Gynecology made its 1st real advances in the late 1800s. The 1st uterine endoscopy goes back to the late 1800s; it used an external illumination endoscope, however, the results were not impressive until an endoscope patterned after an urethroscope was used. In 1924, the problem of visualization of the uterine cavity was resolved with hysterosalpingography. Celioscopy was introduced in the early 1900s, bringing the female genital region into view by way of endoperitoneal infusion of gas. Cytomonology came into play in 1917 for the study of hormonal variations, followed by cytodiagnosis of cancer. The examination of cervical mucus was studied as far back as 1837 and is used to determine the phases of the hormonal cycle. Hormonology goes back to the 19th century. Since its inception many advances have been made, including exploration of the entire hypothalamo-hypophysis-ovarian axis, and even metabolism. The 1st endocavitary applications of radium for adenocarcinomas of the uterus go back to 1903, which led to a much more precise technique known as cavitary curietherapy. Now other radioactive materials usually take the place of radium, but the results have been quite good. There have also been great advances regarding contraception. Among these are the oral method (the pill); IUDs, either copper or progesterone; and also more permanent techniques such as vasectomy and tubal ligation. In addition, surgical techniques have improved for the correction of malformations in the genital region and for curing vulvar cancer, malignant ovarian tumors, and uterine cancer."}
{"id": "6385256", "title": "Staging and surgical evaluation of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Staging and surgical evaluation of ovarian cancer. Ovarian carcinoma is the only female genital malignancy surgically staged. Appropriate preoperative roentgenographic, isotopic, and endoscopic studies can help define the spread of disease and the extent of surgery required. At surgery, the common sites of metastases--pelvic and para-aortic lymph nodes, diaphragm, serosal surfaces and omentum--should be examined and biopsied or excised. Total hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, and appendectomy should also be performed in patients with epithelial ovarian tumors. Evidence suggests that patients who have had optimal cytoreduction of the tumor (less than 1.5 cm) have a better outcome following chemotherapy. Patients who have no clinical or CT evidence of disease after a full course of chemotherapy should be explored to confirm disease status. Peritoneoscopy can be used as an interval procedure to assess response to treatment."}
{"id": "6239068", "title": "[Massive bleeding during laparoscopy from varicose changes in the minor pelvis].", "content": "[Massive bleeding during laparoscopy from varicose changes in the minor pelvis]. In a patient aged 53, with metastatic adenocarcinoma in lymph nodes of the neck, laparoscopy was performed on suspicion of the presence of ovarian primary carcinoma. Laparotomy revealed a bluish tumour in the region of the right adnexa. A small part of the tumour was excised, producing profuse bleeding from the varicose swelling in the mesosalpinx, the size of a fist. The bleeding was stopped only by laparotomy. Here, too, a metastatic carcinoma was diagnosed histologically."}
{"id": "6238850", "title": "The role of lasers in infertility surgery.", "content": "The role of lasers in infertility surgery."}
{"id": "6238039", "title": "Endoscopy in cancer diagnosis and management.", "content": "Endoscopy in cancer diagnosis and management."}
{"id": "6237936", "title": "Evaluation of adhesion reformation by early second-look laparoscopy following microlaser ovarian wedge resection.", "content": "Evaluation of adhesion reformation by early second-look laparoscopy following microlaser ovarian wedge resection. Early second-look laparoscopy, done 6 to 12 weeks postoperatively, was utilized to evaluate recurrent adhesion formation following microlaser ovarian wedge resection. Forty-nine ovaries in 25 consecutive infertility patients undergoing microlaser surgery for deep ovarian endometriosis or polycystic ovarian disease, refractory to medical treatment, were evaluated from October 1981 through March 1983. All patients subsequently underwent a second-look nonlaser laparoscopy to evaluate the extent of healing and to bluntly lyse any subsequent adhesions with the Olympus laparoscope (Olympus Corporation, Lake Success, NY) second-puncture probe: 36.7% of the ovaries had recurring adhesions, 83.3% of these adhesions were mild and filmy and 16.7% were moderate and dense. Additionally, four ovaries were viewed approximately 1 year postoperatively, with two ovaries that previously had mild and filmy adhesions lysed at 6 weeks having no recurrent adhesions. The actual pregnancy rate in this study is 60%, with 15 of the 25 patients conceiving at least once and 2 patients conceiving twice. The majority of pregnancies occurred within the first 6 months postoperatively, with the longest initial pregnancy occurring 22 months postoperatively. Thus, microlaser ovarian surgery, coupled with early second-look laparoscopy, appears efficacious in minimizing adhesion reformation and seems to have little adverse effect on subsequent conception."}
{"id": "6237197", "title": "Second-look laparoscopy in ovarian cancer.", "content": "Second-look laparoscopy in ovarian cancer. Forty-six patients with epithelial ovarian cancer previously treated with surgery, chemotherapy or external radiation underwent second-look laparoscopy to evaluate management. Twenty of the patients had positive laparoscopic findings and were not subjected to further laparotomy. The frequency of positive findings was related to the stage of the disease. Laparoscopic examination revealed no evidence of cancer in the remaining 26 patients. Three of the patients in this group were found to have additional disease at subsequent laparotomy. The laparoscopic procedures were not associated with major complications. Although second-look laparoscopy cannot replace repeat laparotomy, it does have a role in the follow-up of patients with ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "6237194", "title": "Laparoscopy in the diagnosis and management of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopy in the diagnosis and management of ovarian cancer. Ninety-two laparoscopies were performed for diagnosis and follow-up on 83 patients with clinical diagnoses of ovarian cancer from May 1979 to May 1981. With laparoscopy about 10% of the cases were disproven; of suspicious cases only 53% were confirmed. Laparoscopy was very helpful in clarifying the clinical diagnosis of ovarian carcinoma. Laparoscopy for follow-up evaluation of treatment was done on 44 patients. Very early recurrence, which is very difficult to detect on clinical examination, was found with second-look laparoscopy. If few adhesions are present, laparoscopy can replace second-look exploration in the majority of cases of complete remission."}
{"id": "6235465", "title": "[Follow-up and second-look in epithelial carcinoma of the ovary].", "content": "[Follow-up and second-look in epithelial carcinoma of the ovary]."}
{"id": "6235463", "title": "[Current possibilities of the timely diagnosis, preoperative staging and prevention of malignant tumors of the ovary. C) Laparoscopy].", "content": "[Current possibilities of the timely diagnosis, preoperative staging and prevention of malignant tumors of the ovary. C) Laparoscopy]."}
{"id": "6229927", "title": "[Ultrasound tomography in the topical diagnosis and evaluation of results in the treatment of patients with stage III and IV ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Ultrasound tomography in the topical diagnosis and evaluation of results in the treatment of patients with stage III and IV ovarian cancer]. The paper describes an experience with ultrasonic tomography of the abdominal cavity and small pelvis in 34 cases of stage III and IV ovarian cancer who received polychemotherapy. In application of the said procedure, the topography and size of primary and disseminated tumors were ascertained and the immediate effect of medication assessed. The results of ultrasonic tomography were analysed in combination with other methods of research."}
{"id": "6147640", "title": "Randomised trial comparing two combination chemotherapy regimens (Hexa-CAF vs CHAP-5) in advanced ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Randomised trial comparing two combination chemotherapy regimens (Hexa-CAF vs CHAP-5) in advanced ovarian carcinoma. 186 patients with advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma were treated with either a combination of hexamethylmelamine, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil (Hexa-CAF) or cyclophosphamide and hexamethylmelamine alternating with doxorubicin and a 5-day course of cisplatin (CHAP-5). Treatment with CHAP-5 resulted in more complete remissions as determined by laparatomy or peritoneoscopy (p = 0.004), better overall response (p = 0.0001), and longer overall survival and progression-free survival (p less than 0.002). Therapy, histological grade, and Karnofsky index were reliable predictors of overall response, whereas therapy, FIGO-stage, and size of residual tumour before chemotherapy were independent predictors for complete remission and for prolonged survival. Peripheral neurotoxicity was a major problem in patients assigned to the CHAP-5-group and was likely to be due to the simultaneous administration of hexamethylmelamine and cisplatin. The CHAP-5 regimen is one of the most effective regimens for the initial treatment of ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "6660923", "title": "A Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor and pregnancy. Clinical, endocrine, radiologic, and electron microscopic findings.", "content": "A Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor and pregnancy. Clinical, endocrine, radiologic, and electron microscopic findings. An extremely rare case of a conception occurring in a 26-year-old patient with a small virilizing Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor (diameter: 0.6 cm), bilateral polycystic ovaries and non-tumorous adrenal hyperandrogenism is presented. Prepregnancy findings included hirsutism, clitoromegaly, secondary amenorrhea, and elevated peripheral plasma testosterone (T; 5.7 ng/ml). Extensive basal steroid screening, dynamic function tests, conventional radiologic procedures, selective glandular vein catheterization, and laparoscopy failed to localize unequivocally the source of androgen excess, but suggested bilateral adrenal involvement. The patient conceived during the diagnostic work-up; peripheral T levels increased to 12.1 ng/ml within the first trimester. An exploratory laparotomy with left adrenalectomy, right adrenal biopsy and left ovarian wedge resection revealed an incompletely removed Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor, but normal adrenal histology. The pregnancy was terminated, a left oophorectomy and right ovarian wedge resection were performed at 14 weeks' gestation. Subsequently, peripheral androgens returned to normal, regular menses resumed, and hirsutism disappeared. Three years later the patient delivered a healthy female infant."}
{"id": "6631839", "title": "Pelvic abscess associated with a Lippes loop. An unusual case.", "content": "Pelvic abscess associated with a Lippes loop. An unusual case. An unusual case occurred of Lippes-Loop-associated pelvic abscess, characterized by a relatively mild clinical course and an unusual localization in the pelvis. This case emphasizes the importance of considering the association between intrauterine devices and pelvic abscess. An unusual case of pelvic abscess characterized by a relatively mild clinical course and unusual localization occurred in a previously healthy, married, 26-year old woman with 2 children and 1 previous abortion. The woman was admitted to the hospital for lower abdominal pain of 1 week's duration. A Lippes Loop C inserted 5 years earlier, 4 months after a term delivery, had caused no complications. The last menstrual period was 2 weeks before admission. 1 week before admission lower abdominal cramps and dysuria had started, and nitrofurantoin 400 mg daily was prescribed for suspected urinary tract infection. The patient was hospitalized when the pain worsened. The patient appeared well on admission. Abdominal examination disclosed a very tender suprapubic mass the size of a 14-week pregnancy. Vaginal examination revealed an anterior, normal-sized uterus adherent to the mass. An examination under general anesthesia revealed a 12 cm mass adherent to a normal sized uterus. Multiple adhesions prevented visualization of the pelvic organs during laparoscopy. The IUD was removed and sent for bacteriologic examination. Laparotomy revealed a mass with a diameter of 10 cm located between the bladder and the uterus and adherent to them and to the anterior abdominal wall. The tubes were hyperemic and edematous, and pus was noted in both fimbriae. Both ovaries appeared normal. The mass was excised and a frozen section examination established the diagnosis of an abscess, which was later confirmed by histopathologic examination. A course of intravenous gentamycin, ampicillin, and clindamycin was started. Polymicrobial infection with Streptococcus viridans, Staphylococcus, coagulase negative, and diptheroids was subsequently established. The postoperative course was uneventful, and physical examination a month later was normal. No explanation of the unusual location of the abscess in the visicouterine space or of the absence of most of the symptoms of an abscess was found."}
{"id": "6617038", "title": "Importance of proper staging in ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Importance of proper staging in ovarian carcinoma. Therefore, on discovery of a clinical Stage I or II ovarian carcinoma through a previously made subumbilical incision, the incision should be extended above the umbilicus to enable one to inspect the diaphragm and remove the omentum from the transverse colon. Biopsy of any raised lesion of the diaphragm can easily be done with laparoscopic biopsy forceps and is associated with minimal morbidity. Routine biopsy of a normal appearing diaphragm is not advocated. Pelvic and paracolic washings for cytological evaluation for malignant cells are obtained by instilling 100-200 cm3 of saline into the pelvis and a similar amount into the right and left paracolic spaces, respectively, and aspirating the fluid for cytological evaluation. Most women with ovarian cancers are still primarily operated on by gynaecologists who are not trained in para-aortic and pelvic lymph node sampling. Ideally, however, women with clinical Stage I or II ovarian cancers should have biopsy of any palpable para-aortic or pelvic lymph node. Such careful surgical staging will: define those patients who are apt to truly have Stage I or II ovarian cancer; improve and refine adjuvant therapy for Stage I and II ovarian cancer; and allow for adjuvant therapy for patients found to have Stage III ovarian cancer, discovered at the time of surgical staging for presumed localized ovarian cancer. The significance of the latter is seen in Table 10 and in the fact that with the subsequent increase to 61 patients evaluated by the Ovarian Cancer Study Group, the incidence of occult metastases from Stage I and II ovarian cancer remain strikingly unchanged (Young et al, 1983, unpublished observations)."}
{"id": "6358558", "title": "Staging laparotomy in early ovarian cancer.", "content": "Staging laparotomy in early ovarian cancer. Systematic restaging was performed prospectively in 100 patients referred to the Ovarian Cancer Study Group institutions with a diagnosis of \"early\" (stage Ia-IIb) ovarian cancer. Before referral, only 25% of patients had an initial surgical incision that was adequate to allow complete examination of the pelvis and abdominal cavity. In patients referred to member institutions, 31 (31%) of 100 were found to have a more advanced stage and 23 (77%) of 31 of these actually had stage III disease. Sixty-one percent of the patients had their advanced stage detected by procedures other than a second laparotomy-nine (29%) of 31 by peritoneoscopy, six (19%) of 31 by peritoneal washings, and six (19%) of 31 by lymphangiography. Sites of unsuspected disease are most likely to be pelvic peritoneum, ascites fluid, other pelvic tissue, para-aortic nodes, and the diaphragms. Based on these data, we conclude that the initial staging approaches traditionally used in clinical evaluation of patients with early ovarian cancer are often incomplete and inadequate."}
{"id": "6326088", "title": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in ovarian neoplasms in children and young girls].", "content": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in ovarian neoplasms in children and young girls]. During the period of 1950-1980, 108 case of ovarian tumors in infants and girls were treated in the Institute of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Medical Academy in L\u00f3d\u017a. Among them there in 64 girls the neoplasmatic tumors were observed. The most frequent were germinal tumors (57,8%), the second place in frequency-epithelial tumors (35,9%). Of the 64 patients under study there were (6,3%) cases of gonadal tumors. The symptoms of the disease were often secrete. 11 of young females with malignant tumors that died within a year and 6 of them were diagnosed as carcinoma embryonale . Proper diagnosis of ovarian tumor should be based on the macroscopic estimation what is possible to perform during the laparoscopy or laparotomy. In neoplasmatic tumors the extent of the surgical intervention should be individualized in dependance on the clinical course, the character of changes and the results of the emergency histopathological examination. Neoplasmatic ovary tumors positive Y-body and cariotype XY in Swyer Syndrome are occurred. The surgery prophylactic treatment in mentioned above cases should be performed."}
{"id": "6241114", "title": "[Spontaneous hemoperitoneum].", "content": "[Spontaneous hemoperitoneum]. The authors report their experience of 11 cases of hemoperitoneum due to hemorrhagic endoabdominal neoformation, diagnosed through laparoscopy, and the diagnosis of which was confirmed by the biopsy under the sight. They describe the casuistry observed: 4 hepatic neoplasms (11,9%); 4 ovary neoplasmus (12,1%); 1 neuroblastoma (10%); 2 ovary endometriosic cysts (16,6%). They, at last, emphasize the usefulness of laparoscopy as an investigating mean offering a sure diagnostical reliability."}
{"id": "6232990", "title": "[Application of a laparoscope in the diagnosis and management of ovarian carcinoma].", "content": "[Application of a laparoscope in the diagnosis and management of ovarian carcinoma]."}
{"id": "6228294", "title": "Pharmacokinetics of Ip cisplatin in refractory ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Pharmacokinetics of Ip cisplatin in refractory ovarian carcinoma. Four patients with small residual ovarian carcinoma following treatment with cisplatin, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide have subsequently received 57 courses of ip cisplatin. Cisplatin (120-270 mg in 2 L of Ringer's lactate) was administered via Tenckhoff catheter, with a dwell time of 15-20 mins. Courses were given weekly for 12 weeks, with response documented by laparoscopy or laparotomy prior to and following the trial. With a dwell time of 20 mins, 75% +/- 5% (mean +/- SD) of platinum was recovered. With 120 mg of cisplatin and a dwell time of 20 mins, total plasma platinum peaked at 1.23 +/- 0.42 microgram/ml and by 8 hrs decreased to 0.67 +/- 0.12 microgram/ml. Filterable (non-protein-bound) platinum peaked at 0.73 +/- 0.21 microgram/ml and by 8 hrs fell to 0.03 microgram/ml. Excretion rate paralleled the filterable plasma curve, peaking at 40 mins; 30% +/- 7% of absorbed drug was recovered in urine within 24 hrs. Renal clearance of filterable platinum was 106 +/- 20 ml/min. Creatinine clearance was 76 +/- 7 ml/min. Three responses, one complete and two partial, were noted. Zero to two episodes of vomiting occurred in each course. One patient had a creatinine clearance decrease to 40 ml/min, one had two episodes of thrombocytopenia, and one had mild abdominal pain with a cisplatin dose of greater than or equal to 210 mg. No neurotoxicity, catheter infection, or peritonitis was encountered."}
{"id": "6227990", "title": "[Ultrasonic diagnosis of ovarian carcinoma].", "content": "[Ultrasonic diagnosis of ovarian carcinoma]. Gray-scale ultrasonography was performed prior to surgery in 68 patients with tumors of the ovary. Thirty-four of the 38 benign tumors were considered benign by sonographic criteria. Three of 4 borderline epithelial tumors were considered malignant sonographically, as were 22 of the 26 cancers of the ovary (sensitivity 84%). Nineteen of them were malignant epithelial neoplasms and most were classified as FIGO stages III and IV (76%). In 6 of the 7 patients with stage I and II cancers the latter were considered malignant by sonographic criteria. Twenty-three of the 26 cancers were classified as having a complex structure using the classic ultrasonographic criteria. Histopathological evaluation did not correlate with the ultrasonic findings: sonography could not predict the correct stage and a particular histological type. Nevertheless, ultrasonography is a valuable diagnostic tool as a preoperative procedure in patients with a suspected ovarian neoplasm."}
{"id": "6227956", "title": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic bases of cancer of the ovary].", "content": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic bases of cancer of the ovary]."}
{"id": "6225918", "title": "The diagnosis and examination of ascitic fluid.", "content": "The diagnosis and examination of ascitic fluid."}
{"id": "6225603", "title": "Laparoscopy in the management of patients with ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Laparoscopy in the management of patients with ovarian carcinoma. Since operative evaluations of patients undergoing therapy for ovarian cancer are necessary, the laparoscope will continue to play a role in the management of these patients. However, the sensitivity of the laparoscope for detecting disease either prior to or at the completion of chemotherapy is significantly less than that of laparotomy, and therefore its utility must be more narrowly defined. The morbidity of laparoscopy is low when performed correctly and utilizing techniques to avoid bowel perforation. Most patients require only a brief hospitalization, and those who cannot medically tolerate an extensive laparotomy might be able to undergo a laparoscopy. The major limitations of laparoscopy are the inability to adequately inspect the peritoneal cavity and pelvis in at least one-quarter of patients because of extensive adhesions, to assess retroperitoneal lymph nodes in all patients, and to resect tumour masses necessary to cytoreduce the tumour prior to therapy. The successful performance of interval laparoscopy, however, is predictive of survival and can select a group of patients whose likelihood of recurrence is relatively low (30 per cent) after more than three years. The observation that the majority of patients who have a negative laparoscopy following six months of chemotherapy remain free of disease for several years, suggests that sensitive tumours are most likely to respond during the initial courses of chemotherapy, and that consideration should be given to briefer and more intensive courses of therapy prior to operative evaluation of the patients."}
{"id": "6224378", "title": "[Experiences with gynecologic laparoscopy as a routine method].", "content": "[Experiences with gynecologic laparoscopy as a routine method]. Report on 631 gynecological laparoscopies performed from January 1978 till March 1982. The main indications are ectopic pregnancy, acute and chronic pelvic inflammatory diseases and tumours of the ovaries. It is necessary to be critical against the palpation findings and the clinical diagnosis acute or chronic salpingooophoritis. There was a concordance of 51% with laparoscopic diagnosis. The importance and necessity of laparoscopic tubal sterilization is commented."}
{"id": "6220938", "title": "[Cyto-diagnosis of cystic ovarian tumours].", "content": "[Cyto-diagnosis of cystic ovarian tumours]. The value of aspiration cytology of cystic ovarian tumours was studied, as an aid to the differential diagnosis between functional ovarian cysts and cystic ovarian tumours. In 158 women age 14 age 77 the cystic ovarian tumour was aspirated by laparoscopy or at laparotomy and the contents of the cyst were centrifuged and the sediment investigated by papanicolaou cytology. The findings of the smears showed direct or indirect cytological criteria for a cystic ovarian tumour. In 47 cystic neoplasms verified by microscopic examination the cytological diagnosis showed conclusive evidence of a neoplasm in 27 cases. In 7 cases the cytology was suspicious of a neoplasm. In 36 cases the differential diagnosis between cystic tumour and functional cyst was supplemented by radio-immuno-assay for estradiol in the aspirated contents of the cysts. Values over 500 picomol/litre are suggestive of a follicle are corpus luteum cyst."}
{"id": "6193920", "title": "Current status of the second-look operation in ovarian cancer.", "content": "Current status of the second-look operation in ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "9417617", "title": "[Ultrasound diagnosis of pathologic changes of the uterine tube].", "content": "[Ultrasound diagnosis of pathologic changes of the uterine tube]. The possibilities of sonographic diagnosis of pathologic changes in the uterine tube are examined by means of a computerised automatic real-time scanner with a statistical B-scan of high resolution. It is not possible to isolate sonographically the anatomically unchanged tube or the tube obliterated as a result of salpingitis. Nevertheless, it is possible to effect an indirect diagnosis if the tube is at least unilaterally patent or if it is bilaterally occluded, by means of an extended form of sonography within the scope of a sonographically controlled hydropertubation via a phenomenon which the author describes an \"positive\" or \"negative\" \"phenomenon of Douglas\". Hence, sonographically monitored hydropertubation, together with hysterosalpingography or laparoscopic chromopertubation--with reservations--is a valuable diagnostic tool to help in clarifying the cause of sterility. Pathological changes of the tubes in the sense of a sactosalpinx of different contents (retained secretions) can be differentiated by sonography. A characteristic sonographic echo pattern is also seen if the tubes are conglutinated with an extremely low amount of liquid collected in the tube. Various pathological changes of the tube can be recognised sonographically directly and indirectly by means of sonography extended in this manner."}
{"id": "7084496", "title": "Danazol in the treatment of endometriosis: analysis of 100 cases with a 4-year follow-up.", "content": "Danazol in the treatment of endometriosis: analysis of 100 cases with a 4-year follow-up. A prospective study to evaluate the efficacy of danazol in the treatment of endometriosis was initiated in 1976. One hundred patients with endometriosis, as demonstrated by laparoscopy, were entered into the study. The mean length of patient follow-up was 49 months. All patients were treated with 800 mg of danazol per day. The mean duration of danazol therapy was 17.3 weeks. Eighty-nine percent of the patients reported symptomatic improvement, and 94% were improved, as demonstrated by repeat laparoscopy or laparatomy. After completing a course of danazol therapy, 57% of the patients underwent conservative laparotomy for fertility enhancement, pain control, or ovarian masses. Two patients underwent total abdominal hysterectomy-bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy for advanced disease poorly responsive to danazol therapy. In those patients desiring fertility (56), there were 38 pregnancies in 26 women, for an overall fertility rate of 46%. The overall recurrence rate was 33%, as determined by symptoms and physical findings. Significant side effects from danazol were reported by 85% of the patients. The major side effects were weight gain, edema, decrease in breast size, oily skin, hirsutism, and deepening of the voice. Only one patient discontinued danazol therapy due to side effects. Clinical tissues concerning the use of danazol with or without surgery and the miscarriage rate following danazol therapy are discussed."}
{"id": "7067844", "title": "Interim report a study of danazol for the treatment of endometriosis.", "content": "Interim report a study of danazol for the treatment of endometriosis. Ninety-six infertile women with laparoscopically confirmed endometriosis received danazol (800 mg daily) for 6 months. Despite their prevalence, side effects generally were tolerable and did not contraindicate use of the drug. The mean resolution of peritoneal endometriosis, measured in 44 patients, was 63%. However, individual responses varied considerably. The mean resolution of ovarian endometriosis in 28 patients was 45%. Resolution of less than 1 cm involvement (57%) was similar to that of peritoneal endometriosis, but for more extensive ovarian disease it was only 37% to 40%. Preoperative use of danazol facilitated surgical removal of disease and probably reduced the risk of postoperative adhesions. Pregnancy rates, though reported, are not analyzed because of the brevity of follow-up to date."}
{"id": "6218657", "title": "[Non-radiologic measures for the diagnosis of ovarian carcinomas].", "content": "[Non-radiologic measures for the diagnosis of ovarian carcinomas]. The ovarian carcinoma is still a problematic carcinoma. There are no early symptoms and no early diagnostics. Those carcinomas which are detected in an initial stage are generally found by chance during an operation indicated otherwise. Gynecologic palpation is the most important among the non-radiologic diagnostic means. Every ovarian tumor with a size of more than 5 cm is suspicious to be a carcinoma and has to be further investigated. Age is the most important risk factor. After the age of 35, the incidence of the ovarian carcinoma increases continuously until the age of 70. A reliable confirmation of the diagnosis \"ovarian carcinoma\" is only possible by laparoscopy and/or laparotomy. Laparotomy should be planned in such a manner that therapeutic surgery can be immediately performed if the diagnosis is confirmed."}
{"id": "6217881", "title": "[Experiences with gynecological peritoneoscopy in 340 cases].", "content": "[Experiences with gynecological peritoneoscopy in 340 cases]."}
{"id": "6216811", "title": "Intraperitoneal chromic phosphate in peritoneoscopically confirmed stage I ovarian adenocarcinoma.", "content": "Intraperitoneal chromic phosphate in peritoneoscopically confirmed stage I ovarian adenocarcinoma. From December 15, 1975 to June 16, 1980, 20 evaluable patients with International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics Stage I invasive adenocarcinoma of the ovary were entered into a prospective study, including pretherapy restaging peritoneoscopy followed by treatment with intraperitoneal chromic phosphate if there was no evidence of residual macroscopic tumor. During a follow-up of 1 1/2 to 6 years (median, 3 years and 1 month), the survival rate without evidence of recurrent ovarian carcinoma was 95%. Moreover, there was a total absence of complications with the use of the sequential steps of pretherapy peritoneoscopy, a normal preinjection peritoneogram, injection of chromic phosphate in large volumes of solution, frequent change of position of the patient after injection, and abdominal scans after injection. This method appears to be safe and is associated with a significantly high survival rate."}
{"id": "6215598", "title": "Newer diagnostic approaches to the evaluation of gynecologic malignancies.", "content": "Newer diagnostic approaches to the evaluation of gynecologic malignancies. The use of peritoneoscopy, lymphangiography, ultrasonography, computerized tomography, and thin-needle aspiration in the evaluation of gynecologic malignancies is discussed. Peritoneoscopy has made a large impact on the staging and follow-up of patients with ovarian cancer. Lymphangiography, combined more recently with ultrasonography or computerized tomography, appears to be especially useful in evaluating patients with cervical cancer for lymph node metastases outside the usual radiation treatment fields. Ultrasonography and computerized tomography are useful for evaluating masses for resectability and treatment response, planning radiation therapy, detecting metastases and ascites, and directing thin-needle aspiration of masses. Thin-needle aspiration techniques are now available which provide a means for sampling areas which were previously inaccessible except to open operative biopsy or where biopsy might result in serious complications."}
{"id": "6215265", "title": "Peritoneal flushing and biopsy in laparoscopically diagnosed endometriosis.", "content": "Peritoneal flushing and biopsy in laparoscopically diagnosed endometriosis. A series of 74 patients with endoscopically proven endometriosis were selected for evaluation of usefulness of peritoneal flushing and aspiration in the early diagnosis of pelvic endometriosis. Forty-three patients had either an ovarian or a peritoneal biopsy performed after peritoneal lavage. The results indicate that 25% of the washings performed were successful in demonstrating endometrial glands or stroma. On the other hand, 72% of the patients on whom biopsies were performed showed endometrial tissue, and biopsy failures were mainly related to the technical difficulties of the ovarian biopsy. In 46% of the histologically proven cases of endometriosis, peritoneal lavage failed to demonstrate endometrial tissue. Conversely, in 4.6% of the negative biopsy cases, peritoneal lavage showed endometrial glands. We conclude that exfoliative cytology is not a useful tool in the diagnosis of endometriosis. On the other hand, we were able to make the diagnosis by biopsy in more than 70% of the patients on whom biopsies were performed."}
{"id": "6215076", "title": "[Surgery's place in the treatment of ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Surgery's place in the treatment of ovarian cancer]. Surgery must remain in first place as it allows for: --biopsy by direct access, --the assessment of the peritoneal and visceral extensions, --a cytological pre-operative study of the liquid of the peritoneal lavage which might lead the surgeon to suspect otherwise unnoticed extensions--a frozen section examination of the lumbar nodes or of the other apparently normal ovary. But surgery is, above all, indispensable in order to achieve \"tumoral reduction\", as large as possible by total hysterectomy with the ablation of both annexae as well as of the epiploon. Nevertheless the surgeon is often obliged to leave cancerous centers impossible to remove and he also fails to recognize the mini-centers grafted on the peritoneum and the viscera; he therefore has an imperative need of the complementary actions of polychemo--or radiation therapy in order to sterilise or neutralize these centers. A routine \"second look\" after chemotherapy must be done even if laparoscopy is negative; this makes it possible to judge whether treatment can be discontinued; it seems capable of significantly increasing the chances of treatment in the case of a limited recurrence of a slightly developed tumor; it can make possible secondary exeresis of certain originally inoperable forms. Combined treatment and secondary controls, in particular by means of a re-intervention appear to be a serious hope of improving the results thanks, above all, to the recent contribution of chemotherapy."}
{"id": "6213162", "title": "[Role of diagnostic and surgical laparoscopy in treating female sterility].", "content": "[Role of diagnostic and surgical laparoscopy in treating female sterility]."}
{"id": "6213157", "title": "Natural history of dysgerminoma.", "content": "Natural history of dysgerminoma. Data on 56 patients with pure dysgerminoma are discussed. Forty-nine patients were classified as having new disease or were to have reassessment of disease, and seven cases were to be restaged (one with and six without clinical evidence of disease). Of new and reassessment cases, 44 patients underwent lymphography, 16 underwent peritoneoscopy with diaphragmatic inspection and 30 had peritoneal cytologic testing performed. Positive lymphography resulted in restaging in 31.6% of patients. Diaphragmatic inspection was always negative. Peritoneal cytologic testing was positive for malignant cells in three patients and worsened the stage in one. Pathologic staging of disease was as follows: Stage IA, 24; Stage IB, one Stage IC, one; Stage III peritoneal disease, two. Stage III retroperitoneal disease, 12; Stage III peritoneal and retroperitoneal disease; four. The 5-year relapse-free survival rates were 91% in patients with pathologic Stages IA, IB, and IC; 74% in those with Stage III retroperitoneal disease, and 24% in patients with Stage III peritoneal disease or peritoneal plus retroperitoneal disease. The results indicate that the prognosis is excellent for patients with Stage I and Stage III retroperitoneal disease whereas peritoneal involvement is associated with a poor prognosis."}
{"id": "6210902", "title": "Chylous ascites.", "content": "Chylous ascites."}
{"id": "6181837", "title": "[Ovarian cancer. Pretherapeutic evaluation and post-therapeutic follow-up].", "content": "[Ovarian cancer. Pretherapeutic evaluation and post-therapeutic follow-up]. The number, the variety and the complexity of investigations for diagnosis and follow-up of ovarian carcinoma are related to the diversity of possible involvement and the insufficiency of the reliability of each of the applied methods. Cytologic examination, sonography and CT scanning are of first line importance, as well as the different roentgenologic methods. However, none allows dispensing surgical exploration and pathological examination. Moreover, as one speaks of therapeutic strategy, diagnostic strategy lead by a homogeneous and well coordinated team, is worthy of mention as well, for it is the only guarantee for efficiency and valuable results."}
{"id": "12279356", "title": "Ectopic pregnancy in patients using intrauterine contraception.", "content": "Ectopic pregnancy in patients using intrauterine contraception. 4 cases of extrauterine pregnancy with IUDs were studied both clinically and pathologically at the Faculty of Medicine of Ain Shams University in Cairo, Egypt. In 3 cases the gestation sac was tubal, with 2 in the ampullary portion and 1 in the isthmic portion. The 4th case was a left tubo-ovarian mass, showing an embryo within an ovarian gestation sac. Microscopic examination of the tube revealed chorionic villi intermingled with areas of necrosis, hemorrhage, and inflammatory cell infiltration. The diagnosis of the ovarian pregnancy was based on the demonstration of chorionic villi in relation to the ovarian medullary portion, showing a loose connective tissue structure and prominent congested blood vessels. Case 1, a 27-year old, para 2+0, presented with pain, amenorrhea, bleeding, and fever. The clinical diagnosis was septic abortion with IUD in situ. The loop was removed and curettage was scanty. Antibiotics were administered. The fever subsided but the abdominal pain persisted and mass in the right adnexa could be felt. Laparoscopy was performed, confirming the diagnosis of right tubal pregnancy. Laparotomy and right salpingectomy were performed. The 2nd case, para 1+0, had an IUD for 1 year and was admitted as an emergency. The diagnosis was acute abdomen, mostly disturbed ectopic pregnancy. Laparotomy was performed, and ectopic pregnancy in the region of the isthmus of the right tube was diagnosed. Right salpingectomy was performed. Both cases 3 and 4 had IUDs for a period of between 1-2 years and had amenorrhea, bleeding, and tenesmus. They were treated as colitis. The amenorrhea ranged between 2-3 months. Examination revealed a mass on the left side. Laparotomy was performed. In case 3 it was ampullary pregnancy on the left side. In case 4 there was a tubo-ovarian mass with an amniotic sac protruding from this mass. Left salpingo-oophorectomy was performed. All patients had uneventful recoveries. Figures illustrate these tubal and ovarian pregnancies."}
{"id": "7461150", "title": "Endometriosis and the development of tuboperitoneal fistulas after tubal ligation.", "content": "Endometriosis and the development of tuboperitoneal fistulas after tubal ligation. The present study details gross and histologic findings of 79 previously ligated fallopian tubes from 3 groups of patients. Of 20 oviducts removed after documented sterilization failure (group I), 6 revealed a process compatible with endometriosis. Four of nine previously ligated fallopian tubes removed at the Johns Hopkins Hospital (group II) were successfully injected with India ink. In two patients histologic examination demonstrated the India ink in epithelium-lined spaces that lay beyond the muscle of the tubal wall extending from the tubal lumen to the serosal surface. Fifty oviducts were studied in twenty-five patients requesting reversal of their sterilizations (group III). A higher percentage of fistulas was demonstrated in patients with less than 4 cm of remaining proximal tubal segment. Furthermore, most of these fistulas were demonstrated in patients for whom 3 years had elapsed since the original sterilization procedure. Patients sterilzed by laparoscopic cautery methods were observed to have a higher percentage of fistula formation and histologic documentation of endometriosis at the sterilization site as compared with patients sterilized by other methods. Our observations suggest that ligation of the oviduct within 4 cm of the uterine cornu may predispose to the development of endometriosis and subsequent fistula formation in the tip of the ligated oviduct. Gross and histological findings of 79 previously removed fallopian tubes from 3 groups of patients are reported. Of 20 tubes removed after documented sterilization failure (Group 1), 6 showed endometriosis. 4 of 9 previously ligated tubes (Group 2), were injected with ink; 2 patients showed ink in epithelium-lined spaces beyond the muscle of the tubal wall from the tubal lumen to the serosal surface. Group 3 was 50 oviducts from 25 patients requesting reversal of sterilizations. In this group a higher percentage of fistulas was demonstrated in those with less than 4 cm of tube remaining in the proximal segment. Also, most of these fistulas were in patients 3 years or more away from the original procedure. Laparoscopic cautery sterilizations had higher percentages of fistula formation and endometriosis at sterilization site than sterilizations by other methods. Therefore, ligation of the fallopian tube within 4 cm of the uterine cornu may predispose development of endometriosis and subsequent fistula formation at the tip of the ligated tube."}
{"id": "7454182", "title": "Restaging of patients with ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Restaging of patients with ovarian carcinoma. Sixty-four patients, 34 with no clinical evidence of disease (NED) and 30 with clinical evidence of disease (ED), were submitted to restaging with peritoneoscopy plus diaphragmatic inspection, peritoneal cytology, and lymphography. Eleven patients (32.2%) in the NED group and 25 (83.3%) in the ED group had positive restaging findings. The 3 diagnostic procedures, in combination, are important in establishing occult disease and therefore in the planning of further treatment."}
{"id": "7254659", "title": "[On the possibility of correlation between an IUD and endometriosis].", "content": "[On the possibility of correlation between an IUD and endometriosis]. 2 women, wearers of IUD for 3 and 5 years, without antecedent bynecological pathology were examined for dysmenorrhea, pain, and galactorrhea in one case. Celioscopy revealed the presence of ovarian endometriosis in both cases. Both patients were treated with danazol at 800 mg per diem for 6 months; prolactin, follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone values were controlled at beginning of treatment and at every 2 months. Both patients were completely cured at 6 and at 8 months after beginning of treatment. It is suggested that a relationship exists between IUD presence and the development of endometriosis, since an IUD may influence all immunity through changes in the hormonal situation; both cases presented here had increased prolactin levels. Danazol, a synthetic derivative of androgen with antigonadotropic action, produces regression of endometriosis by completely suppressing ovarian activity."}
{"id": "7250403", "title": "Ultrastructural changes in endometriotic tissue during danazol treatment.", "content": "Ultrastructural changes in endometriotic tissue during danazol treatment. Electron microscopic examinations were carried out on 29 representative endometriotic glands obtained from 16 biopsies. Patients with endometriosis diagnosed by laparoscopy and confirmed by laparoscopic biopsy prior to hormonal treatment received danazol, 800 mg daily. The tissue samples were obtained after 2, 4, and 6 months of usage of the drug to study the ultrastructural effect of this treatment. The glandular epithelium appeared to be arrested in what looked like the late proliferative stage of the normal menstrual cycle. The ciliated cells remained unchanged for the most part. The findings were correlated with possible effects of danazol on the target tissue, but caution is required in the interpretation of ultrastructural effects of steroids until detailed knowledge of the metabolic pathways is available."}
{"id": "6908877", "title": "[Bilateral ovarian carcinoma during pregnancy (author's transl)].", "content": "[Bilateral ovarian carcinoma during pregnancy (author's transl)]. A case of bilateral ovarian carcinoma during pregnancy is reported. The diagnosis was obtained at 18 weeks gestation by laparoscopy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy with excision of macroscopically evident tumour was carried out. The gravid uterus was retained because of the high desire for childbearing of the 27 year old primirgravida. At 39 weeks gestation the pregnancy was terminated by Cesarean section and a small retrouterine metastasis were excised. Post-partum a single agent chemotherapy with Cyclophosphami was started. Eight years later mother and child are in good condition. The treatment of this case is compared to reports from the literature."}
{"id": "6794922", "title": "Prospective study with HEXA-CAF combination in ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Prospective study with HEXA-CAF combination in ovarian carcinoma. The value of combination chemotherapy with HEXA-CAF was analyzed in 31 patients with histologically documented epithelial ovarian cancer in advanced stages (minimal or gross disease). No patient had been previously treated with chemotherapy. Peritoneoscopy with diaphragmatic inspection, peritoneal cytology, lymphography, and chest X-ray were routinely used in staging and restaging the patients. Complete (CR) plus partial (PR) responses were obtained in 13/31 fully restaged patients (41.9%). CR was recorded in seven patients (22.5%) and PR in six patients (19.3%). Remission duration was significantly longer in patients who achieved CR (20 months) than in those who attained PR (9.5 months) (P Less Than 0.01). In all treated patients the median duration of survival was 16.5 months. Survival was significantly longer in patients with CR than in patients who did not achieve CR (P Less Than 0.05). Nevertheless, considering the rate of CR in patients with gross disease (20.6%), HEXA-CAF combination seems a useful but not yet a hopeful treatment for patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma."}
{"id": "6459037", "title": "[Laparoscopic evaluation of the operability of ovarian cancer].", "content": "[Laparoscopic evaluation of the operability of ovarian cancer]."}
{"id": "6455064", "title": "Peritoneoscopy in the management of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Peritoneoscopy in the management of ovarian cancer. The results obtained from the routine use of peritoneoscopy in the initial evaluation and follow-up of 99 patients with ovarian cancer treated at the National Cancer Institute between 1970 and 1978 have been analyzed. Prior to treatment, peritoneoscopy documented new sites of involvement undetected by conventional radiologic and isotopic procedures in 42 patients (48%) and provided the only evidence for follow-up of disease in 25 patients (28%). Twenty-one percent of patients referred with Stages I and II disease were upstaged to Stage III on the basis of diaphragmatic disease detected at peritoneoscopy. In the 66 restaging (posttreatment) peritoneoscopies, residual disease was found in 33 (50%) and peritoneoscopic findings provided the only evidence for disease in 24 cases (36%). These patients were spared an unnecessary second-look laparotomy. Twenty-two patients with negative peritoneoscopies underwent laparotomy. Residual ovarian cancer was found in 12 (55%), mainly in the pelvis and mesentery. Thus, a negative peritoneoscopy must be followed by a laparotomy before a patient with ovarian cancer can be considered disease free. Peritoneoscopy was found to be a safe and feasible procedure, even in patients who had prior laparotomies. It could not be performed for technical reasons in only 6% of the patients. There were few serious complications and in only 2.5% of the cases was medical therapy required to deal with a complication. There were no deaths or perforations of the viscus and no patient required surgical exploration because of a peritoneoscopy complication."}
{"id": "6454868", "title": "Laparoscopy for second-look evaluation in ovarian cancer.", "content": "Laparoscopy for second-look evaluation in ovarian cancer. Although second-look laparotomy to ascertain primary therapeutic effect on ovarian cancer has been generally accepted, laparoscopy for this purpose has been controversial. Between 1974 and 1978, 119 consecutive laparoscopic examinations were performed on 57 patients with ovarian cancer to monitor the effect of chemotherapy or to determine disease status. Most procedures included intraperitoneal biopsy and cytologic evaluation of peritoneal washings. Seventy-three percent of the procedures were successful. Fourteen percent of the patients had major complications requiring laparotomy, most of which involved bowel perforation. Complications were significantly reduced when routine laparoscopy was preceded by needle laparoscopy. A negative laparoscopy including biopsy and cytologic evaluation was associated with a significant increase in survival when compared with the entire patient group. Repetitive laparoscopy permitted early detection of recurrence and identified patients whose risk of recurrence after 24 months was low. With each successive negative laparoscopy, the mean duration of remission was longer and the probability of recurrence lower."}
{"id": "6454354", "title": "[Importance of laparoscopy in the diagnosis of gynecologic diseases].", "content": "[Importance of laparoscopy in the diagnosis of gynecologic diseases]."}
{"id": "6451490", "title": "The value of double-contrast enema in the assessment of ovarian carcinoma's diffusion.", "content": "The value of double-contrast enema in the assessment of ovarian carcinoma's diffusion."}
{"id": "6450907", "title": "Open laparoscopy with conventional instrumentation.", "content": "Open laparoscopy with conventional instrumentation. Forty women who had undergone previous abdominal surgical procedures were evaluated by open laparoscopy with a simple technique that required no special instrumentation. Gynecologic problems included infertility, suspected endometriosis and/or pelvic adhesions, ovarian cysts, and second-look laparoscopy after treatment for ovarian cancer. The technique was evaluated in regard to ease of performance in patients with various abdominal incisions. Conventional instrumentation was used. No significant side effects were experienced and anesthesia time was prolonged by no more than 10 to 20 minutes in most cases. Significant subincisional adhesions were found in 35% of patients. It is suggested that open laparoscopy in patients who have had previous abdominal surgery deserves reevaluation."}
{"id": "6299563", "title": "Ovarian cysts and masses: diagnosis using fine needle aspiration.", "content": "Ovarian cysts and masses: diagnosis using fine needle aspiration. The early diagnosis of ovarian tumors is hindered by the inaccessibility of the ovary by noninvasive techniques. The increasing popularity of fine needle biopsy and laparoscopy created a demand for using these techniques to diagnose ovarian masses. Ovarian masses were aspirated prior to, during, or after laparotomy and laparoscopy. The cases included a variety of nonneoplastic cysts and benign and malignant neoplasms. The nuclear and cytoplasmic features of the aspirated cells, the background material and the presence of other structures such as hair, and psammoma bodies and hyaline bodies made it possible to classify most tumors regarding their behaviors as well as their specific type. Malignant neoplasms in general produced more cellular specimens than benign tumors. It was difficult to differentiate between some types of sex cord/stroma neoplasms. Aspiration cytology, which can be performed through a laparoscope transvaginally, transrectally, or transabdominally is a safe, noninvasive, and relatively reliable technique. It should be utilized more in evaluating ovarian masses, when it is desirable to preserve ovarian function in young patients or to minimize surgical trauma to the elderly high-risk patients."}
{"id": "6215248", "title": "Laparoscopic staging of ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Laparoscopic staging of ovarian carcinoma."}
{"id": "6212328", "title": "[Diagnosis in progressive hirsutism. Catheter technique and results (author's transl)].", "content": "[Diagnosis in progressive hirsutism. Catheter technique and results (author's transl)]. Catheterization of adrenal and ovarian veins in combination with hormone concentration analyses was performed in seventy hirsute women. There was suspicion of tumor in 30 cases because of excess androgen production (plasma testosterone more than 1,5 ng/ml and/or plasma dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate more than 7000 ng/ml in peripheral blood samplings). Catheterization and blood sampling was done with a femoro-visceral catheter by the transfemoral approach. Contributary blood flows from many different venous systems were found to be more often to the right ovarian and to the left adrenal veins in comparisons to the other side. Catheterization of the wrong vessels occurred without being recognized immediately (circumaortic renal collar, inferior phrenic vein, ascending lumbar vein). These pitfalls might falsify blood samplings. There were no significant complications. Seven ovarian tumors were localized. Their size ranged from 0,5 to 2,5 cm in diameter. They were not recognized during laparoscopy. There were 10 hyperthecoses, four adrenogenital syndromes, one abortive testis, one adrenal adenoma, one Cushing's syndrome and one Cushing's disease due to an adenoma of the pituitary gland. In five patients a diagnosis could not be made. Tumor was excluded in forty patients. Their virilization was of adrenal origin in 32%, of ovarian origin in 29%, and of both adrenal and ovarian origin in 22%. In 17% a source of the excess androgen production was not found. This differential diagnosis is not important for the patient therapy."}
{"id": "7443119", "title": "Gonadoblastoma with a 45,XO karyotype.", "content": "Gonadoblastoma with a 45,XO karyotype. An otherwise asymptomatic 17-year-old phenotypic female examined because of primary amenorrhea and hypoplastic reproductive organs was found to have a 45,XO karyotype. She had some of the stigmata of Turner syndrome. Laparoscopy revealed streak ovaries and an infantile uterus. Ovarian biopsy contained gonadoblastoma that was treated by total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Rationale for laparoscopy and ovarian biopsy of this asymptomatic patient and the serendipitous discovery of a malignant neoplasm are discussed."}
{"id": "7437381", "title": "Carcinoma of the ovary--correlation of ultrasound with second look laparotomy.", "content": "Carcinoma of the ovary--correlation of ultrasound with second look laparotomy. In a series of twenty-six patients with Stage III or IV carcinoma of the ovary, results of ultrasound examination of the pelvis and abdomen were correlated with second look laparotomy. All of these patients had responded clinically to a course of chemotherapy. Elective surgery was used to restage and debulk tumour. Ultrasound examination was done before surgery. Ultrasound was sensitive in detecting ovarian tumour in the pelvis and had an 84 per cent correlation with laparotomy. It was also sensitive in detecting liver and right diaphragmatic metastases with a 92 per cent correlation with the laparotomy findings. However, it consistently failed to detect intraperitoneal spread except when disease was gross or when it could be predicted by the presence of ascites. The correlation with laparotomy in this situation was only 36 per cent. This is to be expected as the size of most peritoneal deposits is below the resolution of ultrasound. These lesions, however, are easily detected by laparoscopy. These findings suggest that ultrasound has an important role in the management of advanced carcinoma of the ovary."}
{"id": "7405477", "title": "[Cancer of the ovary].", "content": "[Cancer of the ovary]. Cancer of the ovary is a fairly rare tumor with a poor prognosis. Early diagnosis, precise clinical staging and aggressive therapy are of the greatest importance. Cytological study of cells obtained by puncture of the space of Douglas, echotomography and tomo-densitometry are of diagnostic importance. The real problem is to define the indications for laparoscopy, and more important, an exploratory laparotomy. The treatment is essentially surgical; it allows for diagnosis (biopsy), defines the extent of the disease and removes the lesion \"in toto\" or most of it if not completely resectable. Postoperative adjuvant therapy is almost always necessary; radiotherapy or chemotherapy alone or a combination of both. A trail of the OERTC (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer) tries to evaluate different treatment modalities. In cases of limited disease a comparison is being made between chemo- and radiotherapy; in extensive disease the relative value of polychemotherapy versus mono-chemotherapy is studied."}
{"id": "7394472", "title": "[Androgen-producing hilus cell tumor (Leydig cell tumor) of the ovary: case contribution to the differential diagnosis of virilization in the adult woman].", "content": "[Androgen-producing hilus cell tumor (Leydig cell tumor) of the ovary: case contribution to the differential diagnosis of virilization in the adult woman]. Severe hirsutism, deepening of the voice and enlargement of the clitoris developed in the course of two years in a 55-year old hysterectomized woman. Laboratory examinations showed markedly elevated plasma concentrations of testosterone and androstenedione and a moderately increased urinary excretion of 17-ketosteroids. Gaschromatographic analysis of the urinary steroids, revealed that she mainly excreted etiocholanolone, androsterone and pregnanetriol. Plasma androgens and urinary 17-ketosteroids were not suppressed by dexamethasone treatment. During catheterization of the vena cava blood samples were selectively taken from the ovarian veins. Androgen concentrations were the highest in the plasma from the right ovarian vein. However, phlebography as well as adrenal scanning with 131I-adosterol indicated a tumor of the right adrenal gland. During laparoscopy the right ovary was found to be enlarged, and it was subsequently removed. It contained a tumor 2.5 cm in diameter which had the histological features of a hilus cell tumor (Leydig cell adenoma). Two years later, the patient underwent surgery for suspected tumor of the left kidney. A functionless atrophic left kidney was removed. There was a complete thrombosis of the left renal and ovarian veins. Possibly, this severe lesion of the two vessels had been caused by their previous catheterization."}
{"id": "7380237", "title": "[The diagnosis of androgen producing tumours in women (author's transl)].", "content": "[The diagnosis of androgen producing tumours in women (author's transl)]. The problems of the diagnosis of an androgen producing tumour are described within the review of a case of a 37 year old woman with marked virilization. Functional endocrine tests, laparoscopy, retroperitoneal pneumography and angiography did not estabion of the ovarian and adrena veins established the pre-operative diagnostic of an androgen producing tumor of the left ovary. This permitted to limit the operative procedure to the minimum procedure necessary."}
{"id": "7205797", "title": "Gonadal dysgenesis (46,XY) and gonocytoma.", "content": "Gonadal dysgenesis (46,XY) and gonocytoma. A case of 46,XY gonadal dysgenesis with a type III Teter's gonocytoma occurred in the left ovary of a 22-year-old woman. Hormonal, genetic and laparoscopic studies were performed before the diagnosis of gonadal dysgenesis was made. Gonadal neoplasm was found after bilateral gonadectomy."}
{"id": "6773656", "title": "Treatment of advanced ovarian carcinoma with a combination of hexmethylmelamine, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorourcil (hexa-CAF) in patients with and without previous treatment.", "content": "Treatment of advanced ovarian carcinoma with a combination of hexmethylmelamine, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorourcil (hexa-CAF) in patients with and without previous treatment. Forty patients with stage III or IV epithelial ovarian tumors were treated with a combination of hexamethylmelamine, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil. Fourteen of 37 evaluable patients had recieved previous treatment. Three of these 14 previously treated patients responded; no complete remissions were achieved and more severe toxicity was seen compared with the 23 previously untreated patients. In the latter group of patients, seven partial remissions and five complete remissions documented by peritoneoscopy and laparotomy were achieved. It is concluded that the combination of hexamethylmelamine, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil is not useful as second-line chemotherapy but can be considered suitable for remission induction in previously untreated patients."}
{"id": "6766604", "title": "Retroperitoneal metastases from ovarian carcinoma: reassessment of 365 patients studied with lymphography.", "content": "Retroperitoneal metastases from ovarian carcinoma: reassessment of 365 patients studied with lymphography. From 1973 through 1978, 365 patients with ovarian carcinoma were evaluated with lymphography. The extent of disease was assessed by clinical and conventional radiologic examinations, peritoneoscopy with visualization of diaphragmatic leaves, peritoneal cytology, and, in some patients, exploratory laparotomy. The highest incidence of metastases was found in advanced stages (31.1% in stage III and 60% in stage IV) and in recurrences (75.9%). In 87 patients with early disease, the incidence was 9.2%. In 36 pretreated patients with no evidence of disease, this incidence was 11.1%. Biopsies of the nodes were performed in 96 patients: radiologic accuracy was confirmed in 33 of 33 positive and in 55 of 63 negative cases. Of the patients, 33% had metastases only in the pelvic nodes, and 7.9% only in the paraaortic nodes; in 79.1%, both chains were involved simultaneously. These data confirm the importance of lymphography in diagnosis, treatment planning, and surveillance of ovarian carcinoma."}
{"id": "6458589", "title": "Adolescent endometriosis.", "content": "Adolescent endometriosis. Endometriosis was encountered in 66 of 140 patients (47%) who underwent laparoscopy for chronic pelvic pain at Boston Children's Hospital Medical Center. Pelvic pain associated with this diagnosis was both cyclic and acyclic and typically began 2.9 years after menarche. Other symptoms included irregular menses, gastrointestinal and bladder symptoms, and increased vaginal discharge. The diagnosis of endometriosis had not been made preoperatively in the majority of patients despite repeated pelvic examinations and thorough evaluation of the gastrointestinal and urinary tracts. Psychiatric referral had been recommended for 10 patients. The most constant physical finding preoperatively was tenderness with or without cul-de-sac nodularity. Eleven patients (17%) with biopsy-proved endometriosis has normal pelvic examinations. Fifty-eight percent of patients had early and minimal disease (stage I). In the remaining patients, the disease was more extensive, involving the ovaries, tubes, and/or adjacent pelvic structures (stages II-IV). Although in most instances the implants were typical in appearance, in 13 patients (20%) the disease was not recognizable grossly, but was confirmed morphologically. The regimens utilized as primary treatment were based on the stage of the disease and consisted of either ovulation suppression alone or surgery with or without subsequent ovulation suppression. A satisfactory outcome was achieved in 47 patients (71%). The remaining 19 patients (28%) who did not respond to primary treatment were either operated on or treated symptomatically and are being carefully followed."}
{"id": "6453013", "title": "The reassessment of patients with ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "The reassessment of patients with ovarian carcinoma."}
{"id": "6451819", "title": "[Usefulness of a 2d laparotomy and laparoscopy in the follow-up of patients receiving ovarian tumor therapy].", "content": "[Usefulness of a 2d laparotomy and laparoscopy in the follow-up of patients receiving ovarian tumor therapy]."}
{"id": "6450444", "title": "[Ovarian carcinoma: new prognostic and therapeutic viewpoints].", "content": "[Ovarian carcinoma: new prognostic and therapeutic viewpoints]. Some recently developed concepts concerning the management of ovarian cancer are discussed. Cytoreductive surgery to debulk the tumor to a minimum, even in those cases which were considered inoperable in the past, improves the chances for cure. Adjuvant radiotherapy or combination chemotherapy with new drugs have proved highly effective in inducing complete remission and potential cures in these patients. The definition and better understanding of prognostic criteria play a primary role in the selection of treatment. In designing the strategy for adequate treatment, the following points are of major importance: (1) exact definition of tumor spread as determined by accurate surgical staging; (2) histologic and cytologic grading; and (3) evaluation of response."}
{"id": "6449218", "title": "Laparoscopic follow-up of patients with ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Laparoscopic follow-up of patients with ovarian carcinoma. Laparoscopy with cytology of ascitic fluid or peritoneal washings was performed on 110 occasions in 62 patients with ovarian cancer to assess response to chemotherapy. Damage to bowel occurred on three occasions and complete visualisation of the peritoneal cavity was not possible in 14 patients. When tumour was seen and/or cytology was positive, the prognosis was poor; absence of macroscopic tumour with negative cytology did not preclude continuing disease. A group of patients was identified in whom a change of therapy based on laparoscopic findings after six months of treatment, might have proven beneficial. Laparoscopy has a limited place as a second-look procedure in patients undergoing treatment for carcinoma of the ovary."}
{"id": "6448548", "title": "The treatment of endometriosis at laparoscopy for infertility.", "content": "The treatment of endometriosis at laparoscopy for infertility. Endometriosis is found in some infertile women, and treatment by laparotomy and/or hormonal therapy is associated with subsequent pregnancy. In this study, 100 consecutive patients with mild/moderate endometriosis were treated at laparoscopy. Forty of these women achieved a pregnancy within 37 months postoperatively; 73% of these pregnancies occurred within 6 months, and 88% within 12 months of operation. Although this pregnancy rate is similar to rates obtained after treatment by laparotomy and/or hormonal therapy, the pregnancies in this study population occurred significantly earlier than after laparotomy or combined therapy. The age of the women, duration of infertility, parity, extent of endometriosis, or presence of additional treatable factors of infertility did not affect the pregnancy rate. There was no significant morbidity, and the procedure can be performed on an outpatient basis with local anesthesia. Laparoscopy offers a practicable alternative for the treatment of mild/moderate endometriosis in infertile women."}
{"id": "6448405", "title": "[The management of ovarian adenocarcinoma. \"Second look\" surgical operation after chemotherapy (author's transl)].", "content": "[The management of ovarian adenocarcinoma. \"Second look\" surgical operation after chemotherapy (author's transl)]. Forty patients with adenocarcinoma of the ovary (including 34 in stages III and IV) underwent a \"second look\" surgical operation after a first course of chemotherapy. The operation, which carried negligible morbidity, demonstrated complete remission in 27,5% of the cases; whenever necessary and possible achieved complete remission by surgical excision; and helped in establishing a second course of chemotherapy or chemo-immunotherapy. This therapeutic strategy seems to have had overall favourable repercussions on the patients' short- and mid-term survical. Long-term results cannot yet be assessed, but the knowledge of late failures suggests that applying intensive chemotherapy or, preferably, chemo-immunotherapy after the \"second look\", or even reserving potent cytostatic drugs for that period, could be beneficial. From the very favourable survival rate in patients found on second look to have complete remission, one may conclude that surgically confirmed remission should be considered as the primary target of the initial treatment."}
{"id": "6448404", "title": "[Contribution of the medical oncologist to the therapeutic strategy in advanced ovarian carcinoma].", "content": "[Contribution of the medical oncologist to the therapeutic strategy in advanced ovarian carcinoma]."}
{"id": "6447404", "title": "[Laparoscopy in the diagnosis of ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Laparoscopy in the diagnosis of ovarian tumors]. The potentialities of laparoscopy, associated with instrumental palpation, intraperitoneal radiometry, aimed puncture biopsy, were assessed in females with genital tumors. Moreover, peritoneal smears obtained by a special sound-brush were assayed histologically. This enabled not only establishing the correct diagnosis (in 96.3% of cases) and the recognition of the tumor microdissemination but also a selection of the optimum therapeutic policy. In 14 patients with the ascites syndrome a laparoscopically guided drainage and infusion therapy with hyperoxygenation were performed. The preliminary results indicate the necessity to further study and elaborate the technic concerned."}
{"id": "6446793", "title": "Laparoscopy as a diagnostic aid in women with localized ureteral obstruction due to endometriosis.", "content": "Laparoscopy as a diagnostic aid in women with localized ureteral obstruction due to endometriosis. Endometriosis is a common disease which can produce localized ureteral obstruction. Many women will have significant disease without any clinical signs or symptoms until they present with distal ureteral obstruction. In the reported literature, the diagnosis of ureteral involvement by endometriosis usually has been made at surgery. It is therefore suggested that women with distal ureteral obstruction not attributable to calculous disease undergo laparoscopy in an attempt to rule out endometriosis as the cause of ureteral obstruction."}
{"id": "6445314", "title": "[Role of laparoscopy in the complex diagnosis of ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Role of laparoscopy in the complex diagnosis of ovarian tumors]."}
{"id": "6445047", "title": "Second-look laparoscopy prior to proposed second-look laparotomy.", "content": "Second-look laparoscopy prior to proposed second-look laparotomy. A prospective study was carried out to evaluate the use of second-look laparoscopy in patients in complete clinical remission after prolonged chemotherapy for advanced ovarian adenocarcinoma. Twenty-two patients with FIGO stages IIB, III, and IV ovarian adenocarcinoma underwent second-look laparoscopy after a median of 23 months of therapy. Eight (36.3%) patients had documented evidence of persistent ovarian cancer and were thus spared second-look laparotomy. Moreover, in 4 patients (18.1%), malignant cells in cytologic washings were the only laparoscopic evidence of persistent ovarian cancer. The absence of visible tumor and malignant cells in cytologic washings allows for the use of second-look laparotomy while the patient is under 1 anesthesia; the presence of tumor or malignant cells in cytologic washings spares the patient second-look laparotomy at that time."}
{"id": "6210557", "title": "New trends on evaluation of ovarian carcinoma's spread.", "content": "New trends on evaluation of ovarian carcinoma's spread."}
{"id": "12339215", "title": "Place of laparoscopy in pelvic inflammatory disease.", "content": "Place of laparoscopy in pelvic inflammatory disease. 577 laparoscopic examinations were performed in women presenting with sterility, chronic abdominal pain, primary or secondary amenorrhea, and irregular menstrual periods. 125 cases of chronic pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) of both the tuberculous and nonspecific varieties were detected through this procedure. 59 of the 125 cases were diagnosed as tuberculous. Investigations prior to laparoscopy had yielded significant results in only 12 cases. 87 of the 125 cases had no abnormal clinical findings, and only 18 of the 37 tubo-ovarian masses were diagnosed by bimanual examination. These results indicate that laparoscopy is an invaluable tool for the diagnosis of PID. It can reveal peritubal adhesions, tubercles on the tubes, small tubo-ovarian masses, and hydrosalpinx cases that cannot be detected clinically. It is considered a more suitable tool than culdoscopy, which less frequently notes adhesions to the fallopian tubes and pathological conditions in the upper pelvis. Laparoscopy can play an especially valuable role in India as a prelude to tuboplasty, given the high incidence of pelvic tuberculosis. Of the 316 cases of primary sterility examined in this study, 51 had genital tuberculosis and 39 had nonspecific PID. Laparoscopy can also be useful in disproving cases wrongly labelled as chronic pelvic disease. 15 women in this study who reported chronic lower abdominal pain had normal findings, and only 13 cases of PID were confirmed among the 33 cases preoperatively diagnosed as PID. A significant number of PID cases are attributed to operative procedures such as hysterosalpingography and ventrisuspension that are repeated unnecessarily and without proper sepsis. Thus, the possibility of a flare-up of infection during laparoscopy, especially due to hydroperturbation, should be considered. Women in this study who were found to have PID were given postoperative antibiotics. No significant postoperative complications were observed."}
{"id": "552767", "title": "Nodular salpingitis and tubal endometriosis. II. Diagnosis and differential diagnosis.", "content": "Nodular salpingitis and tubal endometriosis. II. Diagnosis and differential diagnosis. Nodular salpingitis and tubal endometriosis are dystrophic disorders (salpingioses) the clinical importance of which is mainly due to their interference with female fertility. We have studied 42 cases of women operated for tubal sterility, viz. 23 cases of nodular salpingitis (NS), 17 of endometriosis (EM) and two cases in which both lesions were present. Pre-operative x-ray and celioscopic exploration was performed in order to assess the severity of the lesions and the outlook after tubal plastic surgery. X-ray examination reveals the diverticular nature of these lesions. Both diseases may be localized in any of the tubal segments. The postoperative prognosis depends on early surgery, site of the lesion and its nature."}
{"id": "537947", "title": "Endometriosis and infertility. A review of sixty-two patients with danazol.", "content": "Endometriosis and infertility. A review of sixty-two patients with danazol. The authors present a clinical study of 62 infertile patients with endometriotic lesions diagnosed in all cases by laparoscopy. The large variety of lesions and the high incidence in this series of tumorous or tubal lesions, led in 39 cases to a combination of medical treatment with danazol with surgical intervention, i.e. excision or conservative surgery. The overall pregnancy rate was 46.7%, which proves the high efficacy of danazol in this situation."}
{"id": "456625", "title": "Ovarian ectopic pregnancy in association with a copper-7 intrauterine device in situ.", "content": "Ovarian ectopic pregnancy in association with a copper-7 intrauterine device in situ. A case is reported of a primary ovarian pregnancy in a patient with a Cu-7 intrauterine device. A brief review of the literature on this subject is exposed. As the action of intrauterine devices on the ovulatory mechanism and tubal transport of the ovum is still unknown, further studies should be carried out to explain this association. A case report of ovarian pregnancy in a young white nulligravida, with a Copper 7 IUD in situ, was presented. The patient had the IUD inserted 1 year prior to her January 1977 admittance to the hospital for abdominal pain. After the IUD was removed, laparoscopy revealed blood in the abdominal cavity. The uterus, tubes, and left ovary were normal. The right ovary had a hemorrhagic cystic mass. A corpus luteum was visible near the mass. Microscopic examination of a section of the hemorrhagic mass revealed immature chorionic villi and a corpus luteum separated from the villa by ovarian connective tissue. In the literature on ectopic pregnancy, the risk of ovarian pregnancy was defined as 1/40,000 deliveries. Several studies indicated that the risk was considerably higher for IUD users. The manner in which IUDs enhance the risk of ovarian pregnancy is unknown."}
{"id": "445502", "title": "Role of cytoreductive surgical treatment in the management of advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Role of cytoreductive surgical treatment in the management of advanced ovarian cancer. Twenty-eight abdominal operations were performed on 26 consecutive patients with stage III and IV ovarian carcinoma over a 3-year period. The goal of each operation was to excise all tumors greater than 1 cm in diameter. This goal was achieved in 12 of 15 primary operations, in seven of nine operations after induction chemotherapy, and in three of four operations performed for tumor recurrence. There were two major complications but no postoperative deaths. Analysis of survival and disease status indicated that patients having operations followed by chemotherapy fared the best. Analysis of prognostic variables suggested that the administration of combination chemotherapy was the most important determinant of survival once the surgical goal had been accomplished. In this latter group, all nine patients who were evaluable by laparoscopy had responded to adriamycin-cyclophosphamide and eight of the nine had complete responses."}
{"id": "312692", "title": "High-dose methotrexate with leucovorin rescue in ovarian cancer: a phase II study.", "content": "High-dose methotrexate with leucovorin rescue in ovarian cancer: a phase II study. Methotrexate (MTX) (1--7.6 g/m2) with leucovorin rescue was given to 19 women with stage III-IV ovarian carcinoma after induction of remission with surgical treatment and chemotherapy or after relapse. Adequate hydration with alkalinization prevented nephrotoxicity and no cumulative myelosuppression was observed. Serum MTX levels in nontoxic patients averaged 1 X 10(-6) M 24 hours following a 30-minute iv infusion of MTX at 3 g/m2. Among nontoxic women there was a 50-fold difference in the MTX level which correlated with the mean serum creatinine level. Response was assessed after 6--12 weeks of treatment by laparoscopy in patients with nonpalpable intra-abdominal tumor implants or by physical examination in patients with palpable masses. Despite the high levels of MTX achieved with the weekly schedule, only one partial response occurred among eight patients with visible or palpable metastatic lesions. Progressive disease was observed after 6--12 weeks of treatment in four of eleven women who began to receive MTX without evidence of disease or with lesions of less than 1.5 cm in diameter. MTX at the dose and schedule used in the present study appears to be of no benefit in the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "294768", "title": "Fine needle aspiration of ovarian masses. I. Correlative cytologic and histologic study of celomic epithelial neoplasms.", "content": "Fine needle aspiration of ovarian masses. I. Correlative cytologic and histologic study of celomic epithelial neoplasms. The ovary is commonly involved by a wide variety of neoplasms and nonneoplastic masses. Seventy-seven ovarian masses were aspirated using fine needles. They included 29 neoplasms classified as being of celomic epithelial origin. The study was performed in order to elucidate the cytologic features of material aspirated from these neoplasms and to correlate them with the histologic features. As expected, material aspirated from malignant neoplasms was much more cellular than material obtained from benign neoplasms. By studying the background material, nuclear and cytoplasmic features of the epithelial cells, as well as the presence of other structures such as psammoma and hyaline bodies, a fairly specific pattern can be recognized for each neoplasm. Using aspiration cytology, a conclusion can be made regarding the malignant or benign nature as well as the specific type and classification of the ovarian neoplasms. Aspiration cytology, especially with the increased use of laparoscopy, has a specific role to play in the diagnosis of celomic epithelial neoplasms of the ovary. It is a valuable method when preservation of ovarian function or minimizing surgical trauma to the patient is desirable."}
{"id": "223041", "title": "Cytology of benign ovarian lesions in connection with laparoscopy.", "content": "Cytology of benign ovarian lesions in connection with laparoscopy."}
{"id": "218874", "title": "[Clinical and urological after care in gynecologic neoplasms].", "content": "[Clinical and urological after care in gynecologic neoplasms]. Patients after operative and/or radiological therapy for cervical cancer should have gynecological follow-up examinations every two months in the first year. In cases of urological complications after irradiation therapy, radionephrography, infusion urogram, blood count, cystoscopy, and cystometry should also be carried out after two months. Depending on the clinical picture, radionephrography, blood count and urinalysis are to be repeated in regular intervals. After lymphography with positive findings, x-ray controls are necessary after two and four months. In cases of increasing hydronephrosis and hydroureter due to fibrostenosis of the ureter plastic surgery is recommended. Most urological complications are to be expected after radical operation and postoperative irradiation. In patients with endometrial uterine cancer, metastases mostly occur paraurethrally and in the lungs. Chest x-ray is to be taken every six months. Suspicious paraurethral hardening is cytologically diagnosed by needle biopsy. In ovarian carcinoma stage III and IV repeated x-ray controls of the lungs during longterm polychemotherapy are advisable. Prior to second look operations after combined treatment a second look laparoscopy is particularly important. Urological complications are more frequent after therapy of cervical cancer while ovarian carcinoma is more likely to develop complications of the small bowel."}
{"id": "161983", "title": "[The indications for laparoscopy in malignant tumours of the ovary (author's transl)].", "content": "[The indications for laparoscopy in malignant tumours of the ovary (author's transl)]. The diagnosis of a malignant ovarian tumour can be made laparoscopically. It is particularly indicated in cases of ascites occurring by itself due to a neoplasm or of undiagnosed origin, and in cases of infiltration of the pelvic nodes or when a small abdominal mass, whether it is isolated or associated with ascites, is found. This particularly of value when a cytological examination of the ascitic fluid does not indicate the diagnosis. Laparoscopy is a means by which the degree of spread of abdomino-pelvic lesions can be discerned in cases where the malignant nature of the ovary is known, but where the prognoses for its removal, either immediately or after several cures with chemotherapy, are doubtful and where the degree of spread has not been correctly and precisely determined at the first surgical intervention. Therefore laparoscopy can complete the information obtained from pelvic examinations and avoid the need for carrying out an exploratory laparotomy, but is gives less information than this latter does about the degree of spread in the pelvis and in the abdomen. So, laparoscopy is a means by which repeated control of the results of therapy which is more thorough than clinical examination can be assured, particularly because it acts as a check on peritoneal cytology. Although its interpretation can be very difficult and its reliability is a relative one, the latter is a good criterion of follow-up."}
{"id": "161980", "title": "[Laparoscopy in the diagnosis of genital adenomyosis].", "content": "[Laparoscopy in the diagnosis of genital adenomyosis]."}
{"id": "161766", "title": "[The evolution of the indications for laparoscopy between 1973 and 1977. 1,758 cases (author's transl)].", "content": "[The evolution of the indications for laparoscopy between 1973 and 1977. 1,758 cases (author's transl)]. In order to avoid the misuse of laparoscopy by an unnecessary increase in the indications for the procedure the authors have reviewed the evolution of these indications in the five years between 1973 and 1977. Certain indications have stayed stable, such as chronic pain in the pelvis, masses found in the pelvis, symptoms suggestive of upper genital tract infection or of ectopic pregnancy and tubal or unexplained sterility. Stability in these indications is correct because laparoscopy and laparoscopy alone can give a precise diagnosis of the lesion and complete the clinical findings and the other methods of investigation. There are two indications which have become less frequent and these are: ovarian sterility and amenorrhoea. This is logical since more reliance has come to be placed on biological methods. Laparoscopy should be reserved in these conditions for cases where are contradictions between biological findings or where there are therapeutic failures. An increase in the indications which is very justified is in those laparoscopies which are carried out as a control of the results of tubal surgery, because there a prognosis can be given and therapy can be carried out (such as division of adhesions) and in cases of malignant tumours of the ovary which, although the procedure will give less precise information than laparotomy, has the advantage that it can be repeated from time to time. The article presents a review of the evolution of indications for laparosocpy during the years 1973-1977. Laparoscopy is always indicated in case of chronic pelvic pains, ovarian malignant tumors, tubal infertility, adnexitis or ectopic pregnancy. In such cases the accurate inspection of the pelvic cavity can allow precise diagnosis and therapy. Laparoscopy can also be repeated to control the effectiveness of therapy, especially in the surveillance of ovarian cancers. On the other hand, laparoscopy should not be systematically performed in cases of isolated pelvic pains, in case of ovarian cyst or fibroma, or in case of amenorrhea, where clinical examinations and biological explorations are sufficient to determine diagnosis and therapy. Laparoscopy should be used only when there are contraindications among biological findings, or in cases of therapeutic failures."}
{"id": "161282", "title": "[The value of laparoscopy in gynecology].", "content": "[The value of laparoscopy in gynecology]. There is a definite place for laparoscopy in gynaecology as a diagnostic tool and for limited operative procedures. Nevertheless, the indication for laparoscopy should be subjected to the same strict criteria as any other operative procedure. The use of laparoscopy and its various indications are discussed. So-called major operative laparoscopy or pelviscopy is rejected. Greatest restraint should be employed to use laparoscopy for obtaining biopsy material from ovarian tumours for diagnostic purposes."}
{"id": "161215", "title": "Surgical treatment of epithelial ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Surgical treatment of epithelial ovarian carcinoma."}
{"id": "160100", "title": "Laparoscopy combined with peritoneal cytology in staging and restaging ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Laparoscopy combined with peritoneal cytology in staging and restaging ovarian carcinoma. The merits of laparoscopy, with inspection of the diaphragmatic leaves, and of peritoneal cytology (free fluid or washing) in staging and restaging were studied in 153 patients with ovarian carcinoma. Of 153 patients examined, 83 were new cases, 34 were restaging in patients without clinical and/or radiological signs of disease, and 36 in patients with evident disease. The conversion rate for diaphragmatic metastases alone was 6%. Information about the spread of disease (diaphragmatic metastases) was obtained in 33 new cases (39.7%). In pretreated patients, laparoscopy was positive in 4 of 34 NED restaging and in 24 of 36 ED restaging. The conversion rate for peritoneal cytology was 6.6%, but information about the cellular intraperitoneal spread of the disease was obtained in 31 new cases (37.8%). In pretreated patients, peritoneal cytology was positive in 4 of 34 NED restaging and in 13 of 36 ED restaging."}
{"id": "158917", "title": "[Importance of laparoscopy to postoperative treatment of ovarian carcinoma (author's transl)].", "content": "[Importance of laparoscopy to postoperative treatment of ovarian carcinoma (author's transl)]. Indications in favour of peritoneoscopy in postoperative after-treatment of ovarian carcinomas are proposed on the basis of the authors' own experience. Postoperative laparoscopy in combination with peritoneal cytology and histology appears to be justified in support of differentiated postoperative therapy, since it enables modification of empirical and rigid decions for high-continuity after-treatment of ovarian carcinomas."}
{"id": "158455", "title": "Screening and diagnosis in ovarian cancer.", "content": "Screening and diagnosis in ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "158165", "title": "[Evaluation of laparoscopy in early detection of ovarian tumors and gonadal dysgenesis].", "content": "[Evaluation of laparoscopy in early detection of ovarian tumors and gonadal dysgenesis]."}
{"id": "155561", "title": "Indications, advantages, and limits of laparoscopy in ovarian cancer.", "content": "Indications, advantages, and limits of laparoscopy in ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "155549", "title": "[\"Second-look laparoscopy\" (author's transl)].", "content": "[\"Second-look laparoscopy\" (author's transl)]. The authors present a report on their experience with the so-called \"second-look laparoscopy\" which they have been performing systematically since 1974. 44 (12%) second-look laparoscopies were done among a total of 383 laparoscopies during 1974--1977. Second-look laparoscopy was performed on routine basis in women treated by radiology and/or pharmacotherapy for advanced carcinoma of the genitals, especially in the case of ovarian carcinoma. The diagnostic measure represents an important contribution to establishing whether chemotherapy has been successfull, especially in ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "155218", "title": "Peritoneoscopy for staging of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Peritoneoscopy for staging of ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "686103", "title": "Adnexal malignancy detected by cervical cytology.", "content": "Adnexal malignancy detected by cervical cytology. These case presentations are submitted to focus attention on positive (Class V) cervicovaginal cytologic results compatible with adenocarcinoma in the face of benign endocervical and endometrial tissue and in the absence of clinically detectable adnexal disease. Two patients were found to have primary ovarian malignancy, and one patient had adenocarcinoma of the distal end of the right Fallopian tube. Provided that there is confidence in the cytologic diagnosis and that primary disease has been ruled out elsewhere, the clinician is encouraged to utilize additional diagnostic methods, such as laparoscopic visualization of the pelvis and peritoneal fluid studies, in an attempt to facilitate early diagnosis of nonpalpable adnexal disease."}
{"id": "634015", "title": "[Pseudomyxoma of the peritoneum (author's transl)].", "content": "[Pseudomyxoma of the peritoneum (author's transl)]. A case report is given of a peritoneal pseudomyxoma originating from pseudomucineous cystadenomata of both ovaries. The diagnosis was established by peritoneoscopy and histological examination. Both ovaries were removed surgically and cytostatic treatment initiated thereafter; hyperthermic peritoneal perfusion was done as well. The patient lives after surgery now for more than a year without recurrence of the disease."}
{"id": "156941", "title": "Laparoscopy and peritoneal cytology as markers in the follow-up of ovarian epithelial tumors.", "content": "Laparoscopy and peritoneal cytology as markers in the follow-up of ovarian epithelial tumors."}
{"id": "155115", "title": "[Future of coelioscopy tappings of ovarien cysts (author's transl)].", "content": "[Future of coelioscopy tappings of ovarien cysts (author's transl)]. In a study of 136 tapping of ovarien cysts carried out in the surgical departement of Broca Hospital from 1968 to 1971, the authors point out the diagnostic interest of such a practice, which is harmeless if the contra-indications are respected and often easily carried out (tapping needle by Mintz). The macroscopic and cytological aspect of the liquid tapped enable one to make a precise diagnostic in almost all cases and to lead the therapy in the proper direction."}
{"id": "151139", "title": "Ovarian cyst fenestration via laparoscopy.", "content": "Ovarian cyst fenestration via laparoscopy. During laparoscopy for diagnosis or sterilization a small series of ovarian cysts was managed by aspiration only or by aspiration, biopsy and fenestration. If the enumerated criteria for cyst selection are followed, the technique described safely permits aspiration and provides data for a therapeutic plan. This method suggests a lower incidence of cyst recurrence."}
{"id": "150794", "title": "Complication of laparoscopic tubal banding procedure: case report.", "content": "Complication of laparoscopic tubal banding procedure: case report."}
{"id": "150132", "title": "[Laparoscopy in the diagnosis of diseases of the internal female genitalia].", "content": "[Laparoscopy in the diagnosis of diseases of the internal female genitalia]. Cysts were found in 13, ovaries cancer in 53 and uterus myomatosus in 7 females out of 3000 patients with laparoscopy performed. A detailed description is presented in the paper of the laparoscopic changes of the organs in the abdominal cavity, particularly the changes in ovaries and uterus. Only in 33 per cent, changes in the internal genitals of the patients were found on the base of the clinical, laboratory and instrumental examinations whereas with the aid of laparoscopy--in 90 per cent. Carcinosis of peritoneum is most frequently due to ovary cancer whereas liver metastases in 39.71 per cent--due to gastric cancer, and 27.15 per cent--to ovary cancer and relatively rarely--to cancer in the rest of the organs."}
{"id": "149005", "title": "Rapid development of malignant metastases in the abdominal wall after laparoscopy.", "content": "Rapid development of malignant metastases in the abdominal wall after laparoscopy. The authors describe a case of developing local tumor metastases after laparoscopy. In the second week after laparoscopy metastases developed at the place of the penetration of the pneu-needle and the trocar by the mediation of ascites containing malignant cell groups. This form of metastatisation seems to be extremely rare."}
{"id": "148161", "title": "[Clinical evaluation of the complex diagnosis of ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Clinical evaluation of the complex diagnosis of ovarian tumors]. For earlier recognition of ovarian tumors the complex diagnosis for ovarian tumors was estimated clinically. The conception is supported concerning females that should be classified as ovarian cancer high-risk groups. A system is elaborated for active identification of patients with ovarian tumors, using the complex diagnosis, the latter in vast majority of cases enables the difficulties of the differential diagnostics to be overcome; also the indications to and sequence of application of the recommended methods of investigation are formulated, some practical recommendation are given. The system of active and early establishment of the diagnosis is to recognize, at mass prophylactic examinations, females showing high-risk factor, the former also includes their dispensarization, hospitalization and examination, using the complex of accessory methods of investigation. All this enabled in 4% clinically unsuspected ovarian tumors to be detected, 2 per cent of them being in early stages."}
{"id": "147845", "title": "[Diaphragmatic metastases in ovarian neoplasms].", "content": "[Diaphragmatic metastases in ovarian neoplasms]. Laparoscopic examination is of considerable importance for the prognosis of ovarian carcinoma, especially the detection of metastases in the diaphragm and other abdominal areas. 65 patients with ovarian carcinoma underwent laparoscopy; in 31 cases metastases in various abdominal areas were found, in 25 cases also the diaphragm was involved. This high incidence seems to be remarkable."}
{"id": "101843", "title": "Advanced ovarian adenocarcinoma. A prospective clinical trial of melphalan (L-PAM) versus combination chemotherapy.", "content": "Advanced ovarian adenocarcinoma. A prospective clinical trial of melphalan (L-PAM) versus combination chemotherapy. Eighty patients with advanced ovarian adenocarcinoma were treated in a prospective, randomized trial comparing a four-drug combination--hexamethylmelamine, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil--with the oral alkylating agent, melphalan. Treatment with the four-drug combination was associated with a significantly increased overall response rate (75 vs. 54 per cent) (P less than 0.05), more complete remissions (33 vs. 16 per cent) and longer median survival (29 vs. 17 months) (P less than 0.02) but more severe toxicity than occurred with melphalan. Patients with minimal residual disease had a significantly higher overall response rate than patients with extensive residual disease (84 vs. 53 per cent) (P less than 0.05). Patients with advanced disease who achieved a complete remission documented by peritoneoscopy or laparotomy (or both) have a median survival that will exceed three years. The four-drug regimen is more effective than melphalan in the management of advanced ovarian adenocarcinoma."}
{"id": "876539", "title": "Progesterone production by an ovarian granulosa cell carcinoma.", "content": "Progesterone production by an ovarian granulosa cell carcinoma. A patient with a progesterone-producing granulosa cell carcinoma is the basis of this report. Seven years after initial surgical therapy pelvic masses were palpated. At laparotomy the recurrence of tumor was confirmed, and many nonresectable metastases were discovered on the surface of the liver and on the mesentery of the bowel. An exceedingly high plasma progesterone level of 6270 pg/ml was obtained in the postoperative period. During 12 months of single agent chemotherapy with melphalan, serial plasma progesterone assays declined to 310 pg/ml. Complete tumor regression was subsequently confirmed by laparoscopy. Evaluation of progesterone levels in patients with granulosa cell tumors is recommended to determine the incidence of this finding and to further assess its value in following response to therapy."}
{"id": "875871", "title": "[Germ cell tumours in gonadal dysgenesis (author's transl)].", "content": "[Germ cell tumours in gonadal dysgenesis (author's transl)]. In a 17-year-old patient gonadal dysgenesis with a XY-karyotype was diagnosed by laparoscopy and chromosomal analysis. Two years later, the patient came again to the hospital because of a large tumour which proved to be a dysgerminoma. Except dysgerminomas, other germ cell tumours are also found in gonadal dysgenesis, for example gonadoblastomas, which consist of germinal cells, Sertoli-granulosa-cells and interstitial cells. In most cases of gonadal dysgenesis with a germ cell tumour a Y-chromosome is present. The risk of a gonadal tumour in such cases is estimated to be 25%. In gonadal dysgenesis with a Y-chromosome a prophylactic extirpation of the gonads is necessary, which should be combined with a hysterectomy."}
{"id": "838260", "title": "[Extreme oedema of the ovaries: a contribution to conservative surgery for ovarian \"tumours\" (author's transl)].", "content": "[Extreme oedema of the ovaries: a contribution to conservative surgery for ovarian \"tumours\" (author's transl)]. A laparotomy for a suspected cystic ovarian tumour which was thought to extent as far as the costal arch, was carried out on a 24-year-old patient with a long history of oligomenorrhea and sterility. Due to excessive oedema, both ovaries were tremendously enlarged. The right ovary was twisted 360 degrees. No haemorrhagic infarct, however, was present. Both ovaries, which were about 40% of the normal size due to pressure from the oedema, were incized. The ovaries were than sutured and left in situ. Laparoscopy 9 weeks later confirmed that the ovaries had returned to a normal size. The patient's menstrual cycle became regular. Even though the process may be unusually extensive, conservative methods should be given preference when the patient is so young."}
{"id": "187990", "title": "Serum 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone in patients with gestational trophoblastic neoplasms.", "content": "Serum 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone in patients with gestational trophoblastic neoplasms. Serum 17alpha-hydroxprogesterone (17-OHP), progesterone (P), and human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) levels were measured by specific radioimmunoassay in 19 patients undergoing laparoscopy or laparotomy with either unevacuated molar pregnancy or nonmetastatic gestational trophoblastic neoplasms (GTN), in 10 normal pregnant patients at equivalent gestational age (7-21 weeks), and in 4 patients with metastaic GTN following hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. All patients with theca lutein cysts had significantly elevated serum 17-OHP levels compared to those in 1) normal pregnancy, 2) patients with GTN and normal-size ovaries, 3) patients with metastatic GTN in the absence of ovaries (P less than 0.02). Levels of serum 17-OHP but not P correlated with the degree of ovarian enlargement (r = 0.87, P less than 0.05). Serum P concentrations in patients with theca lutein cysts, although higher than the levels in cases of GTN with normal-size ovaries, were not significantly different from the levels in normal pregnancy (P greater than 0.05). Serum hCG levels in patients with theca lutein cysts, though higher than the normal pregnancy levels (P less than 0.05), were not significantly different from those in cases of GTN with normal-size ovaries and GTN without ovaries (P greater than 0.05). Under the conditions studied, no correlation was observed between serum hCG and P levels in our cases of GTN. Increased serum 17-OHP level in a patient with GTN suggests the presence of theca lutein cysts."}
{"id": "146988", "title": "[Significance of laparoscopy in decisions on the preventive therapy of various ovarian tumors in girls].", "content": "[Significance of laparoscopy in decisions on the preventive therapy of various ovarian tumors in girls]. Of 125 laparoscopies, carried out in the Clinic of Surgical Gynaecology in the years 1972 to 1974, 12 referred to girls aged from 15 to 18 years (9,6%). As a consequence of the mentioned diagnostic-therapeutic procedure 6 girls (50%) avoided laparotomy. Laparoscopy is an excellent technique to establish diagnosis in cases of ovarian tumours especially in the developmental age."}
{"id": "142242", "title": "[Value of laparoscopy in the diagnosis of small ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Value of laparoscopy in the diagnosis of small ovarian tumors]."}
{"id": "141518", "title": "Diagnostic laparoscopy from the pathologist's viewpoint.", "content": "Diagnostic laparoscopy from the pathologist's viewpoint. In conclusion, laparoscopy provides an easy approach to the diagnosis of various intraabdominal diseases. Because biopsy specimens are often small, adequate sampling is essential for accurate diagnosis. It is important for the laparoscopist to understand the basic pathologic anatomy of the diseases under consideration in order to provide the pathologist with adequate diagnostic material. The use of special techniques, including electron microscopy, may be helpful in establishing specific diagnosis in selected difficult cases."}
{"id": "141514", "title": "The use of laparoscopy to determine the results of chemotherapy for ovarian cancer.", "content": "The use of laparoscopy to determine the results of chemotherapy for ovarian cancer. The chemotherapeutic management of patients with epithelial tumors of the ovary is hampered by a lack of diagnostic tests that are sufficiently sensitive for detecting residual or recurrent tumor. At the completion of a chemotherapy program, direct visualization of the peritoneal cavity is necessary to accurately assess the amount and location of residual tumor. Laparoscopy, with visually directed biopsies of residual tumor masses, can spare some patients a laparotomy and yet provide a safe and easy route for assessment of intraabdominal disease. If residual tumor is not seen at laparoscopy, than laparotomy with multiple peritoneal biopsies must be done so that residual tumor will not be missed and chemotherapy prematurely stopped. Laparoscopy is not an alternative to \"second look\" laparotomy but is a useful adjunct for determining the presence of resectable, unresectable or diffuse disease after chemotherapy."}
{"id": "141013", "title": "[Incidence of metastatic tumor of the abdominal wall after laparoscopy].", "content": "[Incidence of metastatic tumor of the abdominal wall after laparoscopy]."}
{"id": "140535", "title": "[Laparoscopy in the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of ascites].", "content": "[Laparoscopy in the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of ascites]. Out of 2,500 patients who underwent laparoscopy 772 (30.89%) had ascites; liver cirrhosis underlay it in 57.78%, peritoneal carcinosis in 26.29%, primary and metastatic carcinoma, respectively, in 12.95%, tuberculous peritonitis in 1.42%, more rarely other diseases. Liver cirrhosis, malignant tumours and the other hepatic affections with concomitant ascites in their course can certainly be diagnosed laparoscopically. Laparoscopy with oriented biopsy of peritoneum and liver is of decisive importance in differentiating peritoneal carcinosis from tuberculosis. In peritoneal carcinosis the diagnosis (as based in clinical and laboratory findings) coincided perfectly with the laparoscopic and histologic one in 24.5%, partially in 45.5%. In 30% there was no congruence at all. Laparoscopy and the test methods associated with it contributed to the accurate diagnosis of peritoneal carcinosis in 75.5% of the patients. Ovarian carcinoma (20.9%) and cancer of the stomach (16.3%) underlay peritoneal carcinosis most frequently, other diseases by far more seldom."}
{"id": "140241", "title": "The role of laparoscopy in the infertility work-up.", "content": "The role of laparoscopy in the infertility work-up."}
{"id": "138476", "title": "Advances in the staging and treatment of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Advances in the staging and treatment of ovarian cancer. The age adjusted death rate for ovarian cancer has remained unchanged for the past 20 years. Recent data obtained by staging ovarian cancer patients with lymphangiography and peritoneoscopy demonstrated that many patients with apparently localized disease actually have occult dissemination within the abdomen. These new staging techniques plus the determination of the histologic grade of anaplasia may permit a more precise determination of a patient's prognosis and therefore better design of therapeutic stategy. Radiotherapeutic techniques are being adapted to attempt to treat some areas of occult disease. Numerous single chemotherapeutic agents are capable of producing objective tumor responses. Preliminary data suggest that combination chemotherapy can increase the objective response rate above that seen with single agents. Longer follow-up is necessary to determine whether combination chemotherapy can prolong survival."}
{"id": "138367", "title": "The value of pre-therapy peritoneoscopy in localized ovarian cancer.", "content": "The value of pre-therapy peritoneoscopy in localized ovarian cancer. Because of the recent reports indicating the high incidence of unsuspected diaphragmatic metastases in presumed localized ovarian cancer, we have carried out peritoneoscopy on 14 consecutive patients referred with the diagnosis of Stage I or II ovarian cancer. Of the 14 women none was demonstrated to have diaphragmatic metastases, but 35 per cent were found to have cytologic washings demonstrating malignant cells. The significance of these findings is discussed."}
{"id": "1003400", "title": "Coexistance of tubal ectopic pregnancy and adenomatoid tumor.", "content": "Coexistance of tubal ectopic pregnancy and adenomatoid tumor. The first case is presented of coexistance of an ectopic pregnancy and an adenomatoid tumor in the same fallopian tube. The ectopic pregnancy was diagnosed clinically, but the tumor was only detected microscopically as a result of extensive sampling of the salpingectomy specimen. Review of the literature has not revealed another case of the coexistence of a tubal ectopic pregnancy and an adenomatoid tumor in the same fallopian tube. In this case report, a 37-year-old woman gave an obstetric history which included a normal live birth, a stillbirth at 24 weeks, and a first trimester spontaneous abortion. Examination 2 months after her last menstrual period revealed altered blood in the vagina, left abdominal tenderness, and a left adnexal mass. Tubal ectopic pregnancy was diagnosed. Laparoscopy showed intraabdominal hemorrhage. At laparotomy a swollen, hemorrhagic left tube was removed. A ruptured tubal ectopic pregnancy was confirmed histologically. Also a benign adenomatoid tumor, 6 mm in diameter, was found in the fibrovascular perisalpinx. The tumor may have been a factor in causing the ectopic pregnancy although chronic salpingitis was also present. Such small associated lesions may be easily overlooked."}
{"id": "819125", "title": "Future prospects of radiotherapy in gynecologic oncology.", "content": "Future prospects of radiotherapy in gynecologic oncology. Major areas of progress in radiotherapy over the past decade have included important refinements in equipment and treatment techniques, as well as improved and expanded training programs for radiation oncologists. In 1975, approximately 14% of all new cancers were gynecologic, representing almost 68,000 new cases. Although end results in treatment of early cervix and corpus uteri lesions are quite good, results in treatment of early cervix and corpus uteri lesions are quite good, results in treatment of the later stage lesions, as well as ovarian and vulvo-vaginal tumors, are discouraging. Progress in the future will center around five primary areas: 1) greater understanding and utilization of radiation sensitizing agents such as hyperbaric oxygen, metronidazol, and other electroaffinic agents, purine and pyrimadine analogs, and antibiotics such as Actinomycin D and Adriamycin; 2) introduction into clinical use of high LET particle beams, such as fast neutrons, pi mesons, low atomic number nuclei, and heavy accelerated nuclei; 3) combined modality therapy utilizing radiation and chemotherapy or radiation and immunotherapy for management of subclinical disease; 4) radiobiologic and clinical advances in the utilization of radiation and hyperthermia; and 5) improved understanding of the pathophysiology and natural history of the gynecologic malignancies with increasing use of staging laparotomies, lymphangiography and peritoneoscopy."}
{"id": "186349", "title": "Peritoneoscopy and guided biopsy in the diagnosis of intraabdominal disease.", "content": "Peritoneoscopy and guided biopsy in the diagnosis of intraabdominal disease. In 145 cases of intraabdominal disease, a laparotomy was considered the next diagnostic step, but peritoneoscopy was performed instead. In 37 cases with a suspicion of metatastic carcinoma, peritoneoscopy with guided biopsy demonstrated carcinoma in 29. In 32 cases, with biopsy-proven cirrhosis of the liver with high suspicion of a hepatoma, peritonescopy demonstrated the presence of hepatoma in 12. In 28 cases, protracted unexplained jaundice was present; nonsurgical causes for jaundice were found in 15. In 48 cases an exudative (protein greater than 2.5 per 100 ml) ascites was present. In 19 cases, either tuberculosis or carcinomatous implants of the peritoneum were found, and ovarian carcinoma was found in 9. Peritoneoscopy with guided biopsy obviated the need for laparotomy in 90% of these cases."}
{"id": "138991", "title": "Laparoscopy in staging and restaging of 95 patients with ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Laparoscopy in staging and restaging of 95 patients with ovarian carcinoma. The merits of laparoscopy with inspection of diaphragmatic leaves were studied in 95 patients with ovarian carcinoma. Laparoscopy was positive in 19 out of 27 new cases, 11 out of 47 patients previously treated and in apparent complete remission, and 12 out of 21 patients previously treated and with the disease. Thirty-one out of 95 patients were shown to have diaphragmatic metastases alone and/or associated with other localizations of disease. In 5 out of 27 new cases the stage was modified after laparoscopy. The histologic-endoscopic correlation was correct in 28/36 positive cases (78%) and in 31/32 negative cases (97%). In conclusionall patients with ovarian carcinoma should be subjected to laparoscopy as staging and restaging before undergoing laparotomy."}
{"id": "136834", "title": "Peritoneoscopy: its expanding role in oncology.", "content": "Peritoneoscopy: its expanding role in oncology."}
{"id": "132320", "title": "Laparoscopy.", "content": "Laparoscopy. Laproscopic sterilization techniques and the diagnostic use of laparoscopy are discussed. In a series of 1000 laparoscopic sterilizations by the 2-incision technique, there was a total failure rate, surgical and operative, of .4%. In a similar series with the 1-incision technique and electrocagulation only, the total failure rate was 1.6%, though the complication rate was considerably reduced. The high failure rate was attributed to incomplete transection resulting in recanalization. The failure rate with a single-incision, 3-burn technique was .25% in a series of 2000 patients, and complications were few. Tubal occlusion with hemoclips has produced poor results (failure rate: 8-27%). The results with silastic bands, however, have been comparable to those for electrocoagulation, but with fewer complications. Means by which the cost of laparoscopic equipment may be reduced are discussed. Laparoscopy can be helpful in the diagnosis of infertility-endocrinology, ectopic pregnancy, pelvic pain, pelvic inflammatory disease, adnexal masses, and the retrieval of foreign bodies in the pelvic region. Contraindications to laparoscopy are reviewed. It is concluded that laparoscopy is a safe and effective means of sterilization on an outpatient basis, and is of value in the diagnosis of gynecologic disorders."}
{"id": "131659", "title": "Laparoscopy at a cancer center.", "content": "Laparoscopy at a cancer center."}
{"id": "131373", "title": "Laparoscopy in the investigation of infertility.", "content": "Laparoscopy in the investigation of infertility. Gynaecological units in Great Britain are using the laparoscope increasingly frequently to investigate the infertile woman; in this paper the need for this form of investigation is emphasized. In the Professorial Unit at Glasgow Royral Infirmary, the findings (over a three years period), obtained by the laparoscopic investigation of the infertile woman, are given. It is found that laparoscopy frequently identifies a possible cause of infertility in women whose failure to conceive has remained unexplained by other methods of investigation."}
{"id": "129772", "title": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic procedures for small ovarian tumors (author's transl)].", "content": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic procedures for small ovarian tumors (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "1210862", "title": "[Localization of a small androgen-active ovarian tumor by catheterization of the femoral vein and selective vein/blood withdrawal with determination of testosterone in plasma].", "content": "[Localization of a small androgen-active ovarian tumor by catheterization of the femoral vein and selective vein/blood withdrawal with determination of testosterone in plasma]. Prove of a little hormonactive adrenal Adenoma in the ovary by katheterisation of vena femoralis and selective determination of Plasma-Testosteron in various regions of abdominal veins. Localisation of the tumor by routine diagnostic measures, even by Laparoscopy, had been impossible."}
{"id": "1162430", "title": "Primary carcinoma of the fallopian tube.", "content": "Primary carcinoma of the fallopian tube. Carcinoma of the fallopian tube is the least common of the gynecologic malignancies. Because of its rarity and the absence of typical symptoms, preoperative diagnosis is seldom made. Patient as well as physician delay in diagnosis is often considerable. There are no reliable laboratory aids available to enhance the discovery of this tumor. However, routine periodic pelvic examinations with laparoscopic examination of any significant adnexal enlargement in postmenopausal women should decrease the discovery time. Certainly, unexplained vaginal discharge or bleeding particularly when associated with a pelvic mass, should increase one's suspicion. Conventional surgical treatment can be curative if the tumor has not exceeded the confines of the tube and has not involved the serosa. Regardless, the prognosis for patients with primary carcinoma of the fallopian tube is grim."}
{"id": "179919", "title": "[Surgical treatment of ovarian tumors, especially ovarian carcinomas].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of ovarian tumors, especially ovarian carcinomas]. In every case of ovarian tumor or even if this possibility cannot be excluded by other means a diagnostic laparotomy is indicated. There are only a few exceptions to this rule. Before surgery every diagnostic step should be undertaken to determine the nature, extent and origin of the tumor. At laparotomy three situations may be found, 1. the tumor is obviously benign, 2. the nature of the tumor is doubtful and 3. the tumor is malignant. The diagnostic and therapeutic steps in all these situations and also in case of persistent or recurrent tumor are discussed. Treatment of ovarian cancer is radical surgery if possible and/or chemotherapy and radiation."}
{"id": "137528", "title": "Peritoneoscopy in the staging and follow-up of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Peritoneoscopy in the staging and follow-up of ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "136606", "title": "Use of peritoneoscopy for initial staging and posttherapy evaluation of patients with ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Use of peritoneoscopy for initial staging and posttherapy evaluation of patients with ovarian carcinoma. Forty patients with ovarian adenocarcinoma had peritoneoscopy within 1 month of their exploratory laparotomy as part of their pretreatment evaluation. Of 12 patients (58%) believed to have disease localized to the pelvis (stage 1 or II) at laparotomy staging 7 were found to have more advanced disease (stage III) at peritoneoscopy and thus required a change in therapy. Involvement of the diaphragm with metastatic ovarian carcinoma was found in 63% of all patients. This finding again necessitated a change in therapy, since the right hemidiaphragm is shielded along with the liver when abdominal radiotherapy is used. Peritoneoscopy supplied the only followable findings with which to gauge response to therapy in 40% of the patients and also supplied followable findings in 78% of all patients studied. Second-look peritoneoscopy was performed in all patients achieving an apparent clinical remission with chemotherapy. Active disease was found in 43% of these patients, which thus precluded the need for laparotomy."}
{"id": "125397", "title": "Treatment of endometriosis with an antigonadotropin, Danazol. A laparoscopic and histologic evaluation.", "content": "Treatment of endometriosis with an antigonadotropin, Danazol. A laparoscopic and histologic evaluation. Antigonadotropin (Danazol) was administered to 39 patients with endometriosis diagnosed at laparoscopy and confirmed by laparoscopic biopsy. None of the patients had surgical resection of the lesion prior to the treatment. While on the drug, all patients developed evidence of ovarian suppression both in regard to ovulation and steroidogenesis. The results were evaluated by repeat laparoscopy and biopsy. The extent of the disease was documented before and after treatment by photography and drawing. There was marked decrease in the extent of endometriosis after treatment: 59% of patients had no evidence of disease, 26% had peritoneal adhesions and hemosiderin deposits but no active endometriosis, and 15% had residual endometriosis. Histology in the latter group revealed atrophic changes in the uterine and ectopic endometrium and the evidence of a healing process."}
{"id": "125342", "title": "Unusual uses of laparoscopy.", "content": "Unusual uses of laparoscopy. The marked enthusiasum recently seen in gynecologic endoscopy has brought forth numerous anecdotes of ingenuity. Without ingenuity, medicine and surgical skills would advance slowly. This anecdotal report is presented not only as information but as a stimulus to the endoscopist to consider new approaches to today's surgical problems. The laparoscope has been used to: 1. remove ectopic pregnancies, excise paraovarian cysts and retrieve foreign objects from the abdomen. 2. explore the abdomen for suspected trauma, 3. evaluate the abdomen and pleural cavity for metastatic disease, and 4. perform lumbar sympathectomy. These and other unusual uses of the laparoscope are presented for the \"spelunkers\" of modern-day endoscopy."}
{"id": "125338", "title": "The value of laparoscopic ovarian biopsy.", "content": "The value of laparoscopic ovarian biopsy."}
{"id": "125336", "title": "Surgical laparoscopy in infertility.", "content": "Surgical laparoscopy in infertility."}
{"id": "125214", "title": "[Report on 700 gynaecologic cases in diagnostic laparoscopy (author's transl)].", "content": "[Report on 700 gynaecologic cases in diagnostic laparoscopy (author's transl)]. The clinical experience in diagnostic laparoscopy is dealt with under the conditions of the Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics at Erlangen University. Among 700 cases the indications were infertility (34,4%), pelvic pain 27,4%), suspected ectopic pregnancy (7,9%), endocrinologic cases and malformations (18,9%), pelvic mass without symptoms (8,6%) and others (2,8%). The laparoscopic findings are shown. Important diagnostic clues otherwise missed were found in about half of the patients. In 122 women a laparotomy could be disregarded. One should be aware of diagnostic errors especially in ovarian tumors. Biopsy may help in assessment of ovarian function. In tumor diagnosis, however, it is rather dangerous. Difficulties of the methos (2,9%) and complications (1%) are discussed."}
{"id": "125057", "title": "Peritoneoscopy: a valuable staging tool in ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Peritoneoscopy: a valuable staging tool in ovarian carcinoma. Peritoneoscopy was done within 1 month of exploratory laparotomy in 30 consecutive patients, with ovarian carcinoma as part of their pretreatment evaluation. Six of the 7 patients who were thought to have ovarian carcinoma localized to the pelvis (stages I and II) were found to have advanced disease (stage III) at peritoneoscopy and thus required a change in therapy. Metastatic diaphragmatic involvement in ovarian carcinoma is common and was found in 77 percent of all patients studied. The routine shielding if the liver area ordinarily used with total abdominal radiotherapy would select these patients for therapeutic failure. Peritoneoscopy supplied reevaluable finding in 2 of 7 patients having normal physical, roentgenologic, and laboratory examinations, as well as in 93 percent of all patients stuided. \"Second look\" peritoneoscopy precluded the need the laparotomy in 5 to 13 patients achieving as apparent clinical remission."}
{"id": "4376998", "title": "Chemotherapy of advanced ovarian carcinoma: a prospective randomized comparison of phenylalanine mustard and high dose cyclophosphamide.", "content": "Chemotherapy of advanced ovarian carcinoma: a prospective randomized comparison of phenylalanine mustard and high dose cyclophosphamide. Twenty-four fully staged, previously untreated patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma were prospectively randomized to either intensive intravenous cyclophosphamide or conventional oral Melphalan therapy. The median durations of initial remissions (5 and 6 mo) and the median durations of survival (15 and 14 mo) were similar for the two regimens but the toxicity of the intensive regimen was excessive. Followup indicates that long term disease free survivals are possible in those patients who achieve complete remissions on chemotherapy alone as three of the four patients achieving complete remission in the present study remain free of disease with a median survival in excess of 30 mo. High dose intensive alkylating agent therapy in the manner used in the present study fails to enhance the response to chemotherapy and produces unacceptable toxicity."}
{"id": "4361608", "title": "Surgical considerations in gynecologic endocrine disorders.", "content": "Surgical considerations in gynecologic endocrine disorders."}
{"id": "4281670", "title": "Endoscopic investigations in gynecology.", "content": "Endoscopic investigations in gynecology."}
{"id": "4280108", "title": "[Detection, diagnosis and prevention of cancer of the ovary].", "content": "[Detection, diagnosis and prevention of cancer of the ovary]."}
{"id": "4279554", "title": "Ruptured spleen as a complication of laparoscopy and pelvic laparotomy. Report of an unusual complication.", "content": "Ruptured spleen as a complication of laparoscopy and pelvic laparotomy. Report of an unusual complication."}
{"id": "4276392", "title": "Laparoscopy.", "content": "Laparoscopy. In the last five years, laparoscopy has become increasingly popular in North America. The procedure has been mainly embraced by the gynecologist and its use in this field has largely supplanted culdoscopy. Other specialties, nevertheless, have been slower in recognizing its value.The procedure has wide applications in gynecology. In pediatrics, laparoscopy proves useful in elucidation of amenorrhea, intersex and precocious puberty. In general surgery, laparoscopy has been recognized as a useful tool in the patient with multiple trauma, and in establishing the diagnosis of many intra-abdominal conditions.Numerous perlaparoscopic operative procedures which include biopsies and tubal sterilizations may be carried out by an experienced operator. Complications associated with the procedure are few, but may be severe. These can be avoided by careful adherence to proper technique."}
{"id": "4276313", "title": "Lymphatic drainage of the peritoneal cavity and its significance in ovarian cancer.", "content": "Lymphatic drainage of the peritoneal cavity and its significance in ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "4274570", "title": "Laparoscopy versus culdoscopy in the investigation of infertility.", "content": "Laparoscopy versus culdoscopy in the investigation of infertility. This retrospective analysis compares laparoscopy versus culdoscopy results in the investigation of infertility. 52 women underwent culdoscopy; 49 women underwent laparoscopy. Then a change in method was made due to the acquisition of a cold-light laparoscopy. A third group of 73 women were examined with the new instrument. Culdoscopy was done under local anesthesia; laparoscopy under general. Ages of patients, duration of infertility, and frequency of previous pregnancies were similar for each group. In the first 2 groups endometriosis was found in 13 instances by culdoscopy but in only 3 by laparoscopy. Adhesions to the fallopian tubes were more frequently seen by laparoscopy. These difference are thought to be due to the different areas of the ovaries and tubes visible through the instruments. In the third series of cases greater care in examining the under-side of the ovaries at laparoscopy increased the incidence of discovered endometriosis. A total of 26 cases of endometriosis was diagnosed by these methods. In 16 instances the diagnoses were verified at laparotomy and subsequent pathological examination. There was 1 case of incorrect diagnosis by each method. In 8 cases laparotomy was not considered necessary."}
{"id": "4277257", "title": "[Perlaparoscopic biopsy of the ovary. 130 cases and classification].", "content": "[Perlaparoscopic biopsy of the ovary. 130 cases and classification]."}
{"id": "4271805", "title": "[Experiences with diagnostic laparoscopy in gynecology].", "content": "[Experiences with diagnostic laparoscopy in gynecology]."}
{"id": "4269674", "title": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic problems of ovarian endometriosis].", "content": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic problems of ovarian endometriosis]."}
{"id": "4267636", "title": "Ovarian carcinoma metastatic to the diaphragm--frequently undiagnosed at laparotomy. A preliminary report.", "content": "Ovarian carcinoma metastatic to the diaphragm--frequently undiagnosed at laparotomy. A preliminary report."}
{"id": "4267304", "title": "On the development of gynecologic laparoscopy. A recording of human ovulation.", "content": "On the development of gynecologic laparoscopy. A recording of human ovulation. A description of a film shot with a laparoscope film setup precedes a discussion of the development and present use of laparoscopy. The film shows the rupturing of a follicle. Problems encountered in the European development of laparoscopy included need to modify the optical instruments of the gastroenterologists, inadequacy of illumination, and selection of a usable gas for the pneumoperitoneum. Operative laparoscopy is used for tubal sterilization, biopsy is suspected carcinoma or tuberculosis, aspiration of ovarian cysts, wedge resection of the ovary, resection of adhesions, cauterization of endometriotic lesions, resection of sacrouterine ligaments, ventrosuspension of the uterus, and liver biopsy. Tubal sterilization is the most common procedure. Complications due to technical failure include emphysema, gas embolism hemorrhage, hemotoma, intestinal perforation, gastric perforation, and respiratory and circulatory embarrassment. Complications occurring during operative procedures, excluding complications of tubal sterilization, include burning of skin, burning of intestines, necroses of intestines, peritonitis, late hemorrhage, and electric shock by high-frequency current."}
{"id": "4266943", "title": "[Use of laparoscopy in gynecology].", "content": "[Use of laparoscopy in gynecology]."}
{"id": "4128004", "title": "Chemotherapy in advanced ovarian cancer.", "content": "Chemotherapy in advanced ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "4267129", "title": "[Role and limitations of celioscopy in ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Role and limitations of celioscopy in ovarian tumors]."}
{"id": "4266262", "title": "Experience with gynaecological laparoscopy.", "content": "Experience with gynaecological laparoscopy."}
{"id": "4265247", "title": "[Fallopian tube adenocarcinoma].", "content": "[Fallopian tube adenocarcinoma]."}
{"id": "4262821", "title": "[Diagnosis of tumors of the ovary by pneumopelvigraphy].", "content": "[Diagnosis of tumors of the ovary by pneumopelvigraphy]."}
{"id": "4262556", "title": "The value of peritoneoscopy in gynaecology.", "content": "The value of peritoneoscopy in gynaecology."}
{"id": "5581304", "title": "Ovarian cytology. An application of cytology in an attempt at the early detection of ovarian carcinoma.", "content": "Ovarian cytology. An application of cytology in an attempt at the early detection of ovarian carcinoma. The possibility of detecting pre-clinical ovarian carcinoma by ovarian cytology taken at the time of laparotomy has been studied in 472 patients. Malignant cells have been recovered from ovarian carcinomas but never from macroscopically normal ovaries. It is suggested that this simple, inexpensive technique of sampling cells from the ovarian surface should be continued to be practised on all occasions at which ovaries present such as at laparotomy or at laparoscopy, as with further experience this technique may prove to be of help in the early diagnosis of ovarian carcinoma."}
{"id": "5121080", "title": "[What can be expected from ovarian biopsies during celioscopy?].", "content": "[What can be expected from ovarian biopsies during celioscopy?]."}
{"id": "4259875", "title": "Sexual precocity.", "content": "Sexual precocity."}
{"id": "4256596", "title": "Fibrin degradation products and ovarian tumours.", "content": "Fibrin degradation products and ovarian tumours. Fibrin degradation products (F.D.P.) were determined in the serum of 163 women in whom ovarian tumours had been suspected on palpation at gynaecological examination and who were afterwards examined by laparoscopy or subjected to laparotomy. F.D.P. were found in the serum (0.5-30 mg/100 ml) of 23 (72%) out of 32 patients with malignant tumours. Of 131 patients with benign findings F.D.P. (traces to 2 mg/100 ml) were found in six (4.5%), and in most of these the occurrence of F.D.P. could be explained on other clinical grounds. The findings suggest that the examination of F.D.P. in suspected malignant ovarian tumour may be of diagnostic value.Determination of F.D.P. in malignant ascitic fluid showed very high values, ranging between 40 and 350 mg/ 100 ml. This argues for the occurrence of F.D.P. in the blood being due to an extravascular breakdown of fibrin caused by tumour cells, but they may also be due to thromboplastic and fibrinolytic agents from the tumour entering the blood stream."}
{"id": "4253589", "title": "[Diagnostic significance and hazards of gynecologic laparoscopy].", "content": "[Diagnostic significance and hazards of gynecologic laparoscopy]."}
{"id": "4252822", "title": "[Diagnostic connection between gastroenterologic system and liver in 2400 laparoscopies].", "content": "[Diagnostic connection between gastroenterologic system and liver in 2400 laparoscopies]."}
{"id": "4252494", "title": "Laparoscopy: advances and advantages.", "content": "Laparoscopy: advances and advantages. The first 135 laparoscopic cases at the Kaiser Foundation Hospital in San Francisco are described. Laproscopy was usually performed for evaluative purposes. The techniques involved are presented in detail. The indications for laparoscopy were infertility (75), pelvic mass (22), pelvic pain(20), tubal sterilization (14), second look at treated ovarian carcinoma (2), and determination of etiology of ascites (2). No major complications occurred. 74 of the 75 infertility patients were discharged within 1 day of the procedure. In 21 infertility patients thought to have no pathologic intrapelvic involvement, laparoscopy showed substantial pelvic disease in 11(52%), endometriosis in 6 (29%), and multiple pelvic adhesions in 5 (23%). Improved visualization of the fallopian tube is a major advantage of laparoscopic investigation."}
{"id": "4256057", "title": "[Value of chemical laboratory studies in laparoscopically verified findings].", "content": "[Value of chemical laboratory studies in laparoscopically verified findings]."}
{"id": "4252070", "title": "[Mixed gonadal dysgenesis: its place among dysgenetic syndromes and its relation to gonocytoma].", "content": "[Mixed gonadal dysgenesis: its place among dysgenetic syndromes and its relation to gonocytoma]."}
{"id": "4097480", "title": "Ancillary technics with laparoscopy.", "content": "Ancillary technics with laparoscopy."}
{"id": "5819942", "title": "[The present position of laparoscopy in gynecology].", "content": "[The present position of laparoscopy in gynecology]."}
{"id": "5770584", "title": "Laparoscopy: diagnostic and therapeutic uses.", "content": "Laparoscopy: diagnostic and therapeutic uses."}
{"id": "4245673", "title": "Early diagnosis of ovarian cancer.", "content": "Early diagnosis of ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "5710047", "title": "On the diagnostic value of laparoscopy in ovarian endometriosis.", "content": "On the diagnostic value of laparoscopy in ovarian endometriosis."}
{"id": "5628972", "title": "[Laparoscopy in digestive tract pathology].", "content": "[Laparoscopy in digestive tract pathology]."}
{"id": "6003520", "title": "[Comparative evaluation of the culdo- and laparoscopy methods in the diagnosis of tumors of the female genital organs].", "content": "[Comparative evaluation of the culdo- and laparoscopy methods in the diagnosis of tumors of the female genital organs]."}
{"id": "5853882", "title": "[Diagnosis of pelvic masses detected in the course of the 1st 3 months of an intrauterine pregnancy. Value and innocuousness of celioscopy].", "content": "[Diagnosis of pelvic masses detected in the course of the 1st 3 months of an intrauterine pregnancy. Value and innocuousness of celioscopy]."}
{"id": "5842433", "title": "[Radiography and celioscopy in ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Radiography and celioscopy in ovarian tumors]."}
{"id": "4223429", "title": "[Culdoopy and laparoscopy in the diagnosis of ovarian tumors].", "content": "[Culdoopy and laparoscopy in the diagnosis of ovarian tumors]."}
{"id": "14265073", "title": "[THE USE OF CELIOSCOPY FOR THE DIAGNOSIS OF CERTAIN DISORDERS OF GENITAL FUNCTION IN WOMEN].", "content": "[THE USE OF CELIOSCOPY FOR THE DIAGNOSIS OF CERTAIN DISORDERS OF GENITAL FUNCTION IN WOMEN]."}
{"id": "13755321", "title": "Oleo-keratin granuloma in peritoneum: a rare complication of ovarian dermoid.", "content": "Oleo-keratin granuloma in peritoneum: a rare complication of ovarian dermoid."}
